POL00423568

POL00423568
Agenda
Risk and Compliance Committee Agenda @
[Date] Thursday 4 July 2019 [limes] 13.00-16.10 [[Location: I 2.18 Norwich ]
© Alisdair Cameron (Chair) © Ben Foat © David Mann {item 4)
(General Counsel) (Head of Information Security &
Supplier Risk)
Cathy Mayor ¢ Johann Appel © Ben Cooke (item 5)
(deputising for Debbie Smith) (Head of Internal Audit) (IT Director — Back Office)
© Chrysanthy Pispinis ¢ Jenny Ellwood -by telephone I ¢ Barbara Brannon (item 7)
(deputising for Owen Woodley) (Risk Director) (Purchasing Director)
Mo Kang ¢ Jonathan Hill © Tim Armit (item 8)
(Group HR Director) (Compliance Director) (Business Continuity Manager)
Rob Houghton © David Parry Mark Dixon (item 11
(Group Chief Operating Officer) (Senior Assistant Company (Head of Tax & Treasury)
Secretary)
Mark Fabes (item 3) Andy Bear (item 11)
(Interim Group ClO) (Account Manager, Locktons)
© Tony Jowett (item 4) © James Scutt (item 9.3)
(Chief Information Security Officer)) I (HO Customer Experience Strategy &
Deploy)

Debbie Smith; Owen Woodley

1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest Noting 13.00 - 13.05
Chair
2. _ I Minutes and Action Lists Approval (5 minutes)
3. I PCI-DSS Update Noting Rob Houghton/Mark I 13.05- 13.15
Fabes
(10 minutes)
4. I Security Strategy Noting & Input Rob Houghton/ 13.15 — 13.30
includes Tony Jowett/
* discussion on Cyber Risk Appetite Onward submission I Jenny Ellwood/ (15 minutes)
to the ARC. David Mann
Noting
5. IfiRRELEVANT! Back Office Transformation Update Noting & Input Ben Cooke 13.30 13.45
(15 minutes)
6. I Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update Noting & Input Jenny Ellwood/ 13.45 — 14.45
paper, includes: Jonathan Hill/
* Consolidated departmental reports Onward submission I Johann Appel (60 minutes)
* Due diligence on multiples to the ARC.
7. I Supplier Contracts out of Governance Noting & Input Barbara Brannon 14.45 - 14.55

(10 minutes)
8. _ I Business Continuity Update and Policy Noting & Input Tim Armit 14.55 — 15.10

(15 minutes)

9. __ I Policies
9.1 I Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy Approval Jonathan Hill 15.10 - 15.20
(including Gifts and Hospitality)

(10 minutes)
9.2 _I Whistleblowing Review and Policy Approval Jonathan Hill 15.20 - 15.30

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 1 of 185
Agenda

2 of 185

Risk and Compliance Committee Agenda

POL00423568
POL00423568

(10 minutes)
9.3. I Modern Slavery ‘Approval James Scutt 15.30- 15.40
(10 minutes)
10. I GDPR Update Noting & Input Jonathan Hill 15.40- 15.50
(10 minutes)
11. I Corporate Insurance Renewal Noting & Input Mark Dixon/Andy Bear I 15.50—16.05
(15 minutes)
12. I Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Discussion Chair 16.05 - 16.10
Committee meeting agenda (5 minutes)
Note: An additional ARC meeting is being organised
for w/c 22 July to approve the PwC Audit and ARA
Note: The next ordinary ARC meeting will be held on
29 July 2019
12. I Any other Business Discussion All
Note: The next ordinary RCC meeting will be held on
3 September 2019.
Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 2 Minutes and Actions Lists

POST OFFICE LIMITED RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Minutes of a Risk and Compliance (“RCC”) meeting held at
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ
on 9 May 2019 at 13.00 pm

Present: Alisdair Cameron (Chair) (AC) Interim Chief Executive Officer
Priyanka Dewan (PD) Senior Strategy Manager
(on behalf of Owen Woodley)
Ben Foat (BF) Legal Director
Rob Houghton Group Chief Information Officer
Mo Kang Group HR Director
Cathy Mayor (CM) Finance Director, Retail
(on behalf of Debbie Smith)
In Veronica Branton (VB) Head of Secretariat
Attendance: David Parry (DP) Senior Assistant Company Secretary
Johann Appel (JA) Head of Internal Audit
Jenny Ellwood (JE) Risk Director
Jonathan Hill (JH) Compliance Director
Liz Robson (LR) CIO — Retail (item 3.)
Deana Herley (DH) Senior Manager, Assurance (item 5.3)
Apologies Debbie Smith, Chief Executive Officer, Retail, Owen Woodley, Chief Executive Officer, Financial Services,
Telecoms and Identity, Group Marketing and Group Digital & Innovation.
1 Welcome and Conflicts of Interest Actions
Following introductions round the table, Alisdair Cameron opened the meeting. He remarked that the
pack needed to be streamlined and that papers should be condensed, identifying the most significant risks
and issues, what we were going to do to address these and the timeframes for doing so.
2. Minutes and Action Lists
The minutes of the RCC meeting held 14 March 2019 were APPROVED. Progress on completion of actions
as shown on the action log were NOTED.
3. PCI-DSS Update

Liz Robson provided a verbal update on PCI compliance.

She explained this update would focus on the progress made on the alternative approach to banking
services under investigation which would result in these transactions not being processed through Horizon
and therefore not being in scope for PCI compliance. The progress report requested by ARC had been
circulated for noting.

Regarding retail transactions via pin pad devices in branch, the deployment of point-to-point encryption
(P2PE) of the Pin-Pad estate remained on track to plan, with devices being shipped to enable the required
software upgrade and physical swap-out in branch.

PCI accreditation linked to the pin pad devices expired in the next 12 months and steps had been taken
with Global Payments (our acquirer) to extend this accreditation until 2023 following accreditation

testing. Accreditation cover came with the proviso that no further software changes would be made to
the pin-pad devices beyond P2PE. An update from the Branch Device and Strategy Review on the future

Strictly Confidential Page 1of5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 3 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 2 Minutes and Actions Lists

4 of 185

41

of Pin-Pad device for branches, along with other devices such as Paystations, was expected at the end of
May.

Regarding banking transactions, positive progression had been made with Ingencio and Vocalink to
process transactions directly with the banks via the Ingencio cloud. This approach removed the POL back-
end from PCI scope, helping to simplify the process of achieving PCI compliance by moving these
transactions out of scope. Design and planning sessions were in train with payment partners and a
revised timeline plan plus associated costs was expected at the end of May 2019. P2PE deployment
would not be impacted and remained crucial for PCI compliance being achieved. Work remained ongoing
in parallel.

The recent Data Audit of the systems estate was almost complete, with low instances or no instances of
PCI related data being identified. PCI data that had been identified was removed and users educated to
prevent further occurrences. Audits for Computacenter and Accenture remained outstanding and
completion dates would be confirmed with both partners.

The team had remained actively engaged with Nettitude, our Quality Security Assessor (QSA) and Global
Payments throughout this activity, and our Acquirer was also fully aware and supportive of our plans. A
full plan update would be provided at the end of May 2019.

A number of points were raised:
What challenges were associated with data encryption for banking transactions, as an alternative to
processing data through Horizon? It was reported that there were two main challenges: 1)
reconciliations and 2) banks needing to change their systems. A workshop was taking place with
Ingenico and Global Pay to assess the technical feasibility of an alternative approach.
The timescale for achieving PCI Compliance. It was reported that we would not be PCI compliant by
the end of the year and JE and LR were working on identifying the associated risks, including the
views of our partners.

The following was AGREED:

1. The Data Audit paper would include a section on how a BAU process would be implemented to LR
monitor/scan the systems estate to identify and action any appropriate remediation for any PCI-
related data. LR

2. The Branch Device Strategy paper would include an assessment of requirements of pin-pad
devices in the future if they were going to be used for data entry by customers. LR

3. Mark Siviter would provide an update on current negotiations with RMG on the solution for
International Data Capture.

Aholistic plan on achieving PCI compliance, our position on data security and management (structured
and unstructured data) and our risk controls would be presented to ARC in May.

Internal Audit (IA)
Internal Audit Report (IAR)

Johann Appel reported that apart from two change reviews, which had been deferred as part of the re-
prioritisation plan, the Audit plan for 2018/2019 had been completed. 17 reports had been finalised with
seven cleared by management. There was no outstanding fieldwork required for completion, and at 30
April 2019, there were no overdue actions.

‘AC requested that JA pass on his thanks to the team.

The RCC discussed the contents of the reports and noted that whilst there were no significant areas for Todo:
concern, the message(s) conveyed could be more clearly identified. It was felt the reports should be JA
focussed so that ARC members were fully aware of the key risks, the expected impacts, whether there

Strictly Confidential Page 20f5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

Tab 2 Minutes and Actions Lists

a1

5.2

5.3

were any shortcomings and the mitigating actions. Where appropriate, reports should be benchmarked
against other industries and we should indicate where lessons from one report could be applied to other
parts of the business.

It was suggested that the Internal Audit Report on Cyber Security needed to bring out the extent of our
vulnerability, how long it would take to reach an acceptable position with reference to industry
benchmarks, the prime drivers of weaknesses (e.g. not having strong passwords) and the activities we
were undertaking such as tightening of controls around critical data assets.

It was noted that the security issues with some Payzone devices was not within the scope of the audit but
Jenny Ellwood would reference this in her risk report.

JA was asked whether he had any concerns in relation to future audit reports planned or any other issues
he wished to flag. He reported that terms of reference have not been agreed with process owners yet.
The ToRs were in place for the Pensions Internal Audit. The Telco Internal Audit was at an early stage of
planning. JA and RH would discuss the proposed change assurance work for the payment technology
programme.

The reports would be circulated to the ARC for noting.

Risk

Consolidated Risk Report

Jenny Ellwood presented the consolidated risk report.

She reported that PCI, Information Security, Litigation and Change workforce remained the key risks but
that there had been positive progress in relation to Information Security, including piloting some testing of
third party supplier information security arrangements.

Emerging risks included uncertainty around the stability of the Government; people risk because of
measures in the pipeline such as the introduction of a redundancy cap and because there had been
significant people changes in critical roles recently and further organisational design changes were
planned; and, the risk of the regulator taking action to address loyal customers’ potential disadvantage
vis-&-vis new customers. It was suggested that we should include what our mitigating actions would be in

response to the loyalty super complaint.

It was AGREED that we would:
* Check whether RMG was affected by LINK ceasing to settle for partner banks from 1 July 2019.
* Include an update on the Fit and Proper compliance risk.
Litigation Update
The second trial relating to the Horizon system was pending direction from the Court of Appeal following
our application to recuse the managing judge, which had been denied. The trial was due to resume on 4
June 2019 until early July.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018/19 — key risks
Deana Hurley presented the Risk Report for the Annual Report and Accounts 2018/19.

The principal risks and top risks were noted.

DH commented that since the publication of the last Risk Report there had been two main changes.
Firstly the risk of increased likelihood of litigation had been amended from unlikely to possible, and

Strictly Confidential Page 30f 5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 2 Minutes and Actions Lists

6 of 185

6.1

6.2

secondly, the risk related to Technology and Business Interruption had increased in impact as a result of
being unable to automatically failover the second datacentre.

AC requested a review of the wording of the report. RH remarked that the cyber security risk had reduced
as control effectiveness had improved; we were still not within risk appetite but we would be providing
more information on additional risk mitigations.

The Executive Declarations were noted. The following was AGREED:

© Mitigating actions should be included.

* The GLO litigation should be included under the risk section and should be expanded to include
details of the risk(s) involved, timings, costs involved (where available) and any operational
changes that may be required.

© Health and Safety had not previously been included as a risk but should be referred to.

An updated paper would be presented to ARC in May.
Compliance

Compliance Report

Jonathan Hill presented the consolidated compliance report.
The following key points were noted.

Ofcom would investigate the text relay breach and assistance was being provided to respond to
information requests from Ofcom. Difficulty had arisen in that Ofcom wished to understand the position
dating back to 2002. JH believed the potential penalty was likely to be hundreds of thousands of pounds,
but it was noted that the self-declaration and wish to settle early had been well received by the regulator
and was likely be taken into consideration. The regulator had also recognised the mitigating actions we
had completed to date.

Fit and Proper: Compliance with HMRC June 2019 Deadline

Since the last RCC meeting, the project team had focused on completing fit and proper returns. A large
backlog of responses had been cleared and HMRC had agreed to extend the June 2019 deadline to
September 2019 for MI data gathering purposes.

The RCC noted the improved and accelerated position but requested that the risks and how they would be
tracked were identified.

HMRC had increased branch registration fees from £130 per annum to £300 per annum from 1 May 2019.
Fees would be in the region of £1.3 million and the plan was to stagger payments. Around 4,000
registered branches processed a limited number of transactions. Work was being undertaken on the
implications of not providing a Forex service in those locations; however it was not thought that we
should remove the service during the course of the litigation except where there were no transactions in a
branch.

Appointed Representatives
Work remained ongoing with CAP ONE on the Appointed Representative appointment. Any new
arrangement would need to be consistent with the current approach taken with our existing regulatory
principals.

Approved person forms would need to be filed at Companies House once completed.

Vulnerable Customers’ Policy
Strictly Confidential Page 40f5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

DH

To do:
JH
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 2 Minutes and Actions Lists

10.

1.

11.1

An external assessor had provided positive feedback on our vulnerable customers’ policy and the
associated training in branches.

Whistleblowing Policy

‘A question was raised about whether our whistleblowing policy was being used as we would hope. JH
advised the whistleblowing hotline would become a Freephone number and that work was being
undertaken by HR to encourage a culture which encouraged employees to raise issues of concern.

Cyber Security

RH advised that the main update of note was the work that had taken place on penetration testing of
Payzone devices and the work now underway with the IT Security team to formulate a risk treatment plan
to remediate vulnerabilities identified.

Business Continuity Plan and Policy

The paper and policy were NOTED but the item was deferred.

The POL policy template needed to be used and the risks and mitigating actions need to be clearer.

It was AGREED that with assistance from RH and JH, an updated paper and policy would be presented to
the RCC and ARC in July 2019. TA/RH/JH

GDPR Update
The paper was NOTED.
AC felt that the paper should use less technical language and be simplified to bring out the key challenges
and the next steps. We also needed to provide a complete picture of data and not just the personal data
covered by GDPR to provide the ARC with a holistic view. Further work required on data should also be
set out.
The RCC noted that some contract remediation was outstanding and that before the GDPR programme
could be signed off, the transition from programme to BAU needed to be clarified. It was also proposed
that privacy/GDPR champions should be established group wide.
It was AGREED that:
1. Arevised paper would be presented to ARC showing the work completed to date, and the areas JH
of outstanding work.
2. An Internal Audit would be completed in Spring 2020. JA
Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda
The draft ARC agenda for 29 May 2019 was NOTED and discussed.
A consolidated report for Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit would be presented to ARC.
Any other Business

Meeting dates

It was noted that the next scheduled RCC meeting was on 4 July 2019.

Strictly Confidential Page 5of5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 7 of 185
sel soe

GI/LO/P0-2enIWWOD eoue!IdWOD PUE ¥SI4 - PaIILUI eOUJO 1SOq

®
Post Office Limited Risk and Compliance Committee Actions
Updated: 26.06.19
IREFERENCE ACTION OWNER DUE DATE STATUS OPEN/CLOSED

3. PCI-DSS

ta Audit paper:
he Data Audit paper would include a section
n how a BAU process would be
implemented to monitor/scan the systems
state to identify and action any appropriate
‘emediation for any PCI-related data.

Liz Robson

July 2019

Ben Cooke:
[The PCI Program team have
blready scanned our vendor
estates taken remedial action.
IThey are working through the
juture operating model, which
ill include setting up regular
canning with our vendors.

ranch Device Strategy paper:
he Branch Device Strategy paper would
include an assessment of requirements

f pin-pad devices in the future if they were
joing to be used for data entry by customers.

Liz Robson

July 2019

ichael Austin:
in hand. But to set expectations,
have not seen any requirement
jor data entry over and above
energy payments related to
paystation which are being
eplaced by ICT 250s this year
nd with PZ Gen 3 devices over
he subsequent 2 years or

0. Both of these support data
entry through App upgrades.

Bo if pin pads = PED (i.e.
payment terminal) then there is
hho view on changing these until
FY 22/23 and maybe as late as
4/25. This replacement will be
largely driven by a payment
trategy and any P2PE related
tuff with Ingenico.

POL00423568
POL00423568

s]SI] suonoy pue saynulw Z qeL

POL00423568

POL00423568

“4

&

Post Office Limited Risk and Compliance Committee Action Log g

Updated: 14.02.19 ®

lark Siviter would provide an update on Liz Robson July 2019 Update to follow from Mark 2
current negotiations with RMG on the iviter. FA
‘olution for International Data Capture. =

PCI Compliance: Liz Robson May 2019 Presented to ARC in May Closed
JA holistic plan on achieving PCI compliance,
bur position on data security and
jnanagement (structured and unstructured
ata) and our risk controls would be
presented to ARC in May.

Py

5. Risk

5.3 Annual Report and fe — Mitigating actions should be included. Deana Hurley May 2019 _ Presented to ARC in May. Closed

Accounts 2018/2019-key } The GLO litigation should be included

fisks under the risk section and should be
expanded to include details of the risk(s)
involved, timings, costs involved (where
available) and any operational changes
that may be required.

* Health and Safety had not previously
been included as a risk but should be
referred to.

) souetIdwoD pue ¥shy - PayWT 2

An updated paper would be presented to ARCI
in May.

g 8. Business Continuity Plan
Ss land Policy

eS it was AGREED that with assistance from RH Tim Armit July 2019 fin July’s RCC agenda. Closed
and JH, an updated paper and policy would
be presented to the RCC and ARC in July
R019.

9. GDPR Update

9. li. A revised paper would be presented to Jonathan Hill July 2019 Presented to ARC in May Closed
ARC showing the work completed to
date, and the areas of outstanding work.

Strictly Confidential Page 2
of 3

&

) souelIdwiog pue ysIy -

Post Office Limited Risk and Compliance Committee Action Log

Updated: 14.02.19

R. An Internal Audit would be completed in
Spring 2020.

Johann Appel

Spring 2020

Strictly Confidential

Page 3
of 3

POL00423568
POL00423568

SOINUIN Z GEL.

s]sr] suonoy pue

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 3 PCI-DSS Update

POST OFFICE Noting
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

PCI Compliance Status Update

Author: Phey Rasulian Sponsor: Rob Houghton
Date: 28" June 2019

Executive Summary
Context

The PCI Programme issued an update to RCC on the 17" May 2019, this paper provides
a progress update, specifically progress made with the improved approach to the
banking and retail transactions processing capability, the progress of the Point-to-Point
Encryption (P2PE) deployment across the pin-pad estate and the overall plan timeline
to achieve full PCI compliance.

Questions this paper addresses

1. What is the progress of the technical solution to simplify processing of banking and
retail transactions from the pin-pad?

2. What other routes technical/commercial are being explored to improve Post Office’s
PCI stance?

3. The outcome of the data audit?

4. How will we change our operating model to ensure process/procedures are in place
to maintain PCI compliance?

5. What is the overall timeline for achieving full PCI compliance, including progress of
the Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE) deployment?

Conclusion

1. VocaLink and Fujitsu have provided resources to commence design activities;

however, Ingenico has stated that they do not have the right individuals available
until late August/early September this has resulted in an escalation into their senior
executive team to explore reordering their priorities. Multiple communications have
been exchanged to progress the situation, and Ingenico has reassured Post Office
that this is a high priority.
In parallel Post Office are exploring two other routes to improve Post Office’s PCI
compliance stance: The applicability of PCI regulation to banking transactions and
the possibility of engaging alternative partners to compliment or replace Ingenico
should the need arise.

2. The data audit is complete. The low number of occurrences were found and will be
remediated by the programme either by removal or storage in accordance with PCI
regulations. A schedule and scope of ongoing scanning will be developed to identify

3. Our continuing operating model improvements identified multiple products and
processes that need assessing as to their PCI compliance. The identified items are
being analysed, and a plan will be formulated to remediate the ones that are non-
compliant.

Strictly Confidential Page 1 of 3 ARC PCI-DSS Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 11 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 3 PCI-DSS Update

12 of 185

4. Due to the lack of engagement from Ingenico, this has delayed the detailed design
planning, and subsequently to improve the ability to forecast date for completion.
The current plan continues to show 2Q/2020 to 4Q/2020. Once a delivery
commitment has been received from Ingenico, the forecast will be revised.

Current status

2 Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE) & Banking Transaction Processing
Solution

2.1 Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE) at the point of entry into our estate: the pin-
pad devices in branch. The rollout of P2PE enabled pin pads is underway with
the agreed plan for collection, shipment, firmware upgrade and in-branch device
swap-out. The pilot is scheduled for the end of August, and if proven successful,
the full rollout will commence the beginning of September.

2.2 The joint solution with Ingenico, Vocalink (Santander/POca), Global Payments
and Fujitsu has stalled due to the delay of Ingenico’s engagement. Whilst the
escalation is being progressed with Ingenico; the programme team are exploring
secondary technical and commercial/regulatory options to overcome the
potential delay.

2.2.1.1 Technical options: Exploring if Global Payments can process the banking

transactions rather than Ingenico, therefore, lessening the reliance on
Ingenico and shifting it to Global Payments, subject to the resultant
conversation this may be a quicker route to resolution.

2.2.1.2 Commercial/Regulatory options: Exploring if banking transactions can be

excluded from PCI-DSS regulation. The Post Office legal and banking team
have engaged external lawyers CMS and Payment Service Regulator (PSR)
respectively to seek guidance on the applicability of PCI regulations on
banking transactions. The resultant output is due early July. A favourable
outcome will improve the conversation that can be had with the banks.

The delivery of these solutions will enable POL to achieve the Reports of
Compliance required as Merchant and Banking Services provider.

2. The Data Audit of our systems estate has now complete. There no additional finding
reported; the full report is due to be issued by the end of the month. The remedial
activities will be incorporated into the target operating model activities.

3 The PCI Programme Target Operating Model is looking at all routes for non-
compliance and improving the vetting of those activities. These will include but are
not limited to, training, change process changes to incorporate PCI compliance
checkpoints and card data scans. One hundred and three products and seventeen
processes are being analysed to establish their PCI compliance status, the analysis
will be available in a month; however, with the adoption of agile method progressing
remediation will run in parallel with ongoing investigation.

3. The overall timeline to regain PCI Compliance - that is, receiving Reports of
Compliance for both Merchant and Banking services - is forecast between Q2-Q4
2020. While the deployment of pin pad refresh element of P2Pe is understood, and

Strictly Confidential Page 2 of 3 ARC PCI-DSS Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 3 PCI-DSS Update

underway, Post Office is reliant on Ingenico providing a plan - this is an entirely new
development for Ingenico, and we are working with their senior executive team to
influence their prioritisation and allocation of critical resources to the development

of this solution.

Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 3 ARC PCI-DSS Paper

13 of 185

- Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 4 Security Strategy includes Cyber Risk Appetite

POST OFFICE LIMITED PAGE 1 OF 4
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Cyber Security Update

Author: Tony Jowett Sponsor: Rob Houghton —_Meeting date: 4" July 2019

Executive Summary

Context

In this paper we outline the progress we have made across the Cyber Security team covering changes to the
team, progress on identification of critical assets, progress on the Security Transformation Programme and
highlights of the recent Business Continuity Management test in Finsbury Dials.

Questions this paper addresses

© How has the scope and organisation of the Cyber Security team changed?

© Where are we in understanding the POL critical assets and data (crown jewels) and what are we doing
to plug any gaps in our knowledge

What progress have we made on implementing the Security strategy through the IT Security
Transformation Programme?

© What are we doing to reduce Business Continuity Management (BCM) related risks?

Conclusion

1. The new CISO function will cover all facets of Cyber Security including Information Security, IT
Security and Business Continuity Management (BCM). This will enable a more end to end
governance approach to Cyber security across the domains highlighted by the recent Deloitte Report
and aligns with industry best practice.

2. We have an agreed list of crown jewel data assets across all 3” parties. We are aligning our list of
crown jewels with a list of critical business assets held by the business continuity team to achieve a
single view of the truth. We are hiring a data analyst and procuring a data analysis tool to further
assess and discover data assets.

3. The IT Security Transformation Programme (ITSTP) has developed further to encompass all Cyber-
related change covering the Deloitte Audit recommendations, including further maturity and
implementation of Data loss prevention (DLP) tools , improving our 3"? (and 4"") party security
assurance, and increasing the maturity and reach of the Security Operations Centre (SOC). An initial
drawdown of funds has been requested with a further funding submission scheduled for end of Q2
2019/20. The investment articulated above will ensure that the most pressing Cyber risks will be
mitigated in the next 12 months, aligning with Deloitte report recommendations.

4, The Cyber team has been working closely with colleagues across the business to understand and
mitigate the risks associated with Information Security and Business Continuity Management (BCM).

Input Sought

The RCC is requested to note the progress made and provide feedback on the report.

Strictly Confidential Page 1 of 4 RCC Security Update Paper

14 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 4 Security Strategy includes Cyber Risk Appetite

Report

How has the scope and organisation of the Cyber Security team
changed?

a; In line with the Deloitte Review and industry best practice the scope of the Cyber Security Team has
been expanded to cover not only IT Security but also Business Continuity Management and
Information Protection. The scope of the organisation will continue to adapt over the coming months
in line with the requirement to manage the Cyber risks associated with the whole of POL
organisation, 3rd parties (and indeed their 3rd parties).

2. Asa result the team now consists of Tony Jowett as CISO, David Meldrum as Head of IT Security, Jules
Harris as Head of Information Protection and Tim Armit as Head of Business Continuity Management.

3. The team are working with the project teams and the Third-Party Supplier teams to ensure the
delivery of all aspects of the Security Strategy through the IT Security Transformation Programme.

4. Tony is prioritising meetings with the key 3” parties to understand and align on security provision. A
review of cyber governance across the organisation and 3” parties has been instigated to ensure
rapid identification and resolution of issues.

Where are we in understanding the POL critical assets and data
(crown jewels) and what are we doing to plug any gaps in our
knowledge

a Post Office has been undertaking several initiatives over the last year, in order to determine what its
critical data and systems are, where critical data is located, and what controls are in place around
these. This piece of work has been named the Crown Jewels initiative. The initiative took as its input
the definition of Data Owners by the Data Centre of Excellence (DCoE), details of systems which hold
personal data from the GDPR programme, details of the criticality of systems as defined by the
Business Continuity Business Impact Analysis (BIA) exercise run in 2017 and increased scrutiny of the
security applied by our suppliers (who hold and process our Crown Jewels and data) through a
significantly improved Information Security Supplier Management Framework.

6. A comprehensive list of Crown Jewel systems has been identified based on the information already
available within IT. These are all managed by suppliers who are already part of the Information
Security Supplier Management Framework. The controls in-place are deemed suitable for the data
that is held after a review of the evidence surrounding these controls.

7. The next step is to check these outputs against the business view of criticality contained within the
Business Impact Assessments from the Business Continuity Management team. These contain a view
of criticality from a different perspective than that already covered by the analysis to date.

8. The consolidation of data from all sources will inevitably change this list of suppliers who hold Crown
Jewels. Any additional suppliers will be brought into the Supplier Management Framework over the
coming months.

9. On data, we mentioned in the previous report that we were investigating unstructured data across
the POL administration estate. We have done an initial scan of a sample of the data and found no
issues. However, recognising the importance of this area and needing to complete the analysis, we
have taken the following further actions:

Strictly Confidential Page 2 of 4 RCC Security Update Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 15 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 4 Security Strategy includes Cyber Risk Appetite

16 of 185

a. We have employed a data analyst who started work on 10" June with the aim of discovering
the unknown unknowns connected with our data

b. We are shortly to make the decision on the selection of a tool for scanning, classifying and
ultimately blocking unstructured data as appropriate as part of our Data Loss Prevention
(DLP) project mentioned in the IT Security Transformation Programme update below.

What progress have we made on implementing the Security
strategy through the IT Security Transformation Programme
(ITSTP)?

10.

11.

12.

13.

14,

15.

16.

17.

Since the previous report the scope of the ITSTP has confirmed as:

a. All recommendations from the recent Deloitte Audit Reports both Maturity and IPA

b. DLP

c. Increasing the reach and Maturity of the SOC including exploiting RSA Archer for increased
Governance, risk and controls

d. Increased 3" party assessments

A Programme plan with milestones and reports is in place with all projects on the plan with exception
of those that have yet to start (e.g. DLP and further exploitation of Archer)

Work is progressing on all recommendations of the Deloitte Audit Reports activity. With regards to
the Deloitte Maturity Assessment, seven out of the ten key recommendations have now been agreed
to be completed by POL Internal Audit.

The remaining key Deloitte Maturity Assessment activities are

a. Toconfirm cyber risks and appetite — in progress with a targeted board sign off in September
2019

b. To agree and implement a Cyber Threat Intelligence (CT!) framework — in flight and expected
to complete Q3 2019

c. To fully document BCM process and procedures — in flight expected to complete Q2 2019

The ITSTP team are tracking progress on all of the detailed recommendations from the Deloitte
Maturity Assessment. In addition to achievement of tasks the team are also tracking the perceived
impact on maturity over time. The team have developed their own assessment method based on
the values presented in the report and the number of tasks required to go from current to target
maturity so that we are able to link the programme to expected maturity level increases.

Based on this assessment the gap between the current and target maturity levels of POL has been
reduced by 23% since the start of the programme in March 2019. Key areas where improvements
have been made include incident and crisis management, patch and vulnerability management and
processes around secure software development.

For the Deloitte Information Protection and Assurance Audit then the gap between current and
target maturity levels of POL has been reduced by 25% since the start of the programme. Key areas
contributing to this improvement are in identity lifecycle management and user access control

On DLP, platform selection and initial commercials are in progress having performed pilot tests with
two short-listed technologies.

On SOC maturity RSA Archer initial commercials are in progress. We have continued to improve the
coverage and capability of the SOC. Work is ongoing with Payzone, Post Office Insurance, Accenture
CDP, Branch Hub and Fujitsu to plan and design the integration of their security logs with the Post
Office SOC. These areas will increase the visibility for the Post Office Security team across the Post

Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 4 RCC Security Update Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 4 Security Strategy includes Cyber Risk Appetite

18.

19.

Office estate. Security alerts will be managed and co-ordinated through the Post Office SOC invoking
the CSIRT (Cyber Security Incident Response Team) process where required.

We have commenced regular Security reviews with our major suppliers to assure they are governing
themselves in line with our Cyber Security policy and Standards. In addition we will be implementing
the RSA Archer Third-Party Risk modules in June to improve the overall visibility of our Third-Party
vendor risks. The questionnaires that were completed initially in OneTrust by the suppliers and the
manual reporting that has been used to date will be ported into RSA Archer to ensure one source of
the truth for the Third-Party security risks.

We have also recently implemented Recorded Futures as our Threat Intelligence partner which
provides additional Third-Party Risk scores that can be used within RSA Archer.

What are we doing to reduce the BCM-related risks?

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

2s.

We implemented a Business Continuity Management test using “Text blast” communication to all
Finsbury Dials staff.

In most major cities security services have advised that large groups or personnel gathering post
building evacuation presents a more obvious and accessible target than the building itself does. As
such implementing a “starburst” approach to evacuation is the new recommended approach. This
enables staff to disperse safely in all directions on evacuation and does not present a simple
secondary target. It essentially reduces risk to life of those evacuating the building.

Before the test we arranged for staff mobile phone details, with their consent, to be loaded to
Grapevine, our external security company, who set up text blast lists. All staff were briefed to ensure
they must move at least 100m away after an alert and await the text instructions. This approach is
in place for Finsbury Dials, Chesterfield, Supply Chain and the branches and will be rolled out to other
locations.

The benefits of such an approach are that It reduces the secondary risk, ensuring that we can contact
all staff who are included on the lists, and also to ensure staff can report back they are safe. For
example In the recent fire test at FD over 400 staff reported back they were safe very soon after the
evacuation. Ina real incident this would mean we only had to follow up on the smaller number who
had not replied. Floor clearing by marshals is a good tool but cannot be fully relied upon, for example
when the building itself is unsafe for whatever reason. Also, it does not positively report on staff
safety, rather it reports on the building being empty.

Overall the results showed that this is a simple, easy to manage approach which is proven around
the world to support staff in a crisis.

Next steps to continually improve this approach include:

a. There is further need to ensure staff instinctively understand how to respond to an
evacuation and to trust that the texts will arrive as there was some chatter from staff
regarding what they needed to do why they hadn't received a text etc.

b. Some detailed technical lessons were learnt in this exercise which are being resolved

c. The need to be able to simply know who has come into our buildings requires further work

d. The need to implement an “invacuation” solution (building lockdown and securing when
there is a major incident outside) is being worked on.

Strictly Confidential Page 4 of 4 RCC Security Update Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

17 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 4 Security Strategy includes Cyber Risk Appetite

POST OFFICE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 1 of 7

Cyber Risk Appetite Report

Author: Jenny Ellwood/David Mann Sponsor: Alistair Cameron Meeting date: 4 July 2019

Executive Summary

Context

This paper provides an update on the review of the risk appetite for Cyber/Data
Security Risk and to seek approval of the refreshed and enhanced statements,
methodology and plans to further pilot this approach.

Questions this paper addresses
. What is the need/opportunity?

. What has been the approach?

. What is the revised proposal?

. What are the next steps?

Conclusion

. A review of the existing Data Risk Appetite Statement has been carried out
and a recommendation is made to introduce a new Cyber Risk/Data Security
statement.

. A new approach has been developed which helps operationalise the Board’s
appetite statements. It sets a simple method for managers to assess the
risks they face against agreed Likelihood and Impact scores.

. Existing MI/KPI and KRIs have been identified and a dashboard has been
created to monitor performance against appetite.

° We believe this approach provides a simpler way to identify, manage and
report to the Board on our risk exposure.

. Once approved we will move to pilot further risk appetite statements. We
propose ‘Technology’ and ‘People’.

Input Sought
Approval is sought to the revised risk statement, the supporting methodology and
continuation to pilot this approach with two further risk appetite statements.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

18 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 4 Security Strategy includes Cyber Risk Appetite

POST OFFICE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 2 of 7

The Report

What is the need/opportunity?

The Need

1.

The Risk Appetite Statements (RAS) approved in 2015 have been reviewed.
Whilst broadly accurate, the statements are very high level, difficult for the
business to interpret in their decision making process and to monitor whether
they remain ‘within’ or ‘outside’ of risk appetite.

The Risk and Compliance and the Audit & Risk Committees have asked that
the RAS are reviewed and refreshed. Whilst a recent Cyber Security Internal
Audit review also recommended a revalidation of the Cyber RAS to ensure it
mirrors Board expectations and can be translated into operational activities.

The Opportunity

3s

A review of the RAS not only provides an opportunity to validate and
recommunicate the Board’s appetite expectations but also helps drive risk-
based discussions and decision making across the business.

Through the use of agreed MI/KPI/KRIs, risk appetite can be quantified and
allow senior management to assess risk and determine if they are ‘within’ or
‘outside of risk appetite’ and take appropriate action.

When fully reviewed, refreshed and embedded RAS will help provide a more
‘metric’ driven view of how we are performing against risk appetite enabling
the Post Office and its Board to focus attention on areas deviating from the
agreed appetite and direct/intervene if required.

What has been the Approach?

6. Areview of the Cyber Risk/Data Security RAS has been undertaken with IT
to align the current threat landscape. Multiple workshops and challenge
sessions resulted in:

. A proposed new Cyber Risk/Data Security RAS
. A new Risk approach which ‘operationalises’ the Board’s appetite
statements
. A simpler method for managers to assess the risks they face against an
agreed Likelihood and Impact score
. Faster and more accurate identification of where a risk may be ‘outside’
appetite’ and requires further mitigation
. Identification of when a risk requires escalation
. Simpler reporting within functional risk management meeting (i.e. ITLB)
7. The steps taken were as follows:
Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

19 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 4 Security Strategy includes Cyber Risk Appetite

20 of 185

POST OFFICE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 3 of 7

(~eiew te 2035 Technolgy) (orshops wth rteedershipto)

statement, which included + Identify Teams that can

Cyber Risk. See Fig 1
Recommend a refreshed
form of words, that
supported an ‘averse’
position; and
Provide more dire:

identity:

+The level of risk currently
being managed

+ The level of risk was
considered
acceptable/unacceptable

support accurate risk
assessment

Identify KPI/KRI that supports
decision making for managers
Develop communicati
resource and trai

+ Identify a risk score that

manegers.ln order's LL translates ‘unacceptable’

+ Revised Cyber Risk + Revised Risk Appetite ‘Target’

+ Cyber KPI/KRI developed to
support decision making

explanation and appetite score, highlighting when + IT Risk for Mangers Training
statement to support decision managers should mitigate Sessions
making further or escalate + New resource and guidance

material to support risk
management and accurate
assessment and reporting

See fig 2 (**Statement) ee fig 3 (**Score chart)

Figure 1: 2015 Relevant Risk Appetite Statements

Principle Risk Appetite
‘Averse risk appetite for any serious impact to the
Technology

confidentiality, integrity and availability of
information, leading to financial loss, business
disruption, public embarrassment or legal
consequences

Systems and IT related risk; stability, design,
implementation. This also includes IT Security,
hacking, and unauthorised use of data.

NB: The 2015 statement was positioned to include areas such as, stability, design and outages and was not
Cyber/Data Security specific.

Figure 2: Revised Cyber/Data Security Appetite Statement

Cyber/Data Sec
Financial loss and/or reputational damage due to a data breach or technology disruption caused by internal/external attack.

Appetite
Post Office has an appetite for the loss of, or unauthor
Post Office also has an

josure of, customer or other sensitive information
appetite for any technology disruption caused by an internal/external cyber attack.

Local service I Moderate concern from stakeholder/ 10-25%
disruption at several I customers/ colleagues/ 3rd party

significant impact on alll locations or business support, or

objectives functions for - some local media coverage, or
>3 days ~ informal regulatory convers

‘Moderate
Unlikely

Due to the motivations and skillset of those who would attempt to do us harm, it is possible that incidents could impact our
business. Also, due to the complexity of our IT systems and vendor/contractual relationships, it is not always possible to
guarantee that we are at the cutting-edge of security practices.

Wwe to invest in ensuring activities do not place our data in harms way and work to prevent/mitigate the impact of any
attack through effective security defences. in managing these complexities, IT continue to create an environment where itis
unlikely that any decision or activity will present more than a moderate impact.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 4 Security Strategy includes Cyber Risk Appetite

POST OFFICE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 4 of 7

What is the revised Proposal?
8. We propose that the 2015 RAS (see Figure 1) is replaced with a more specific
Cyber/Data Security RAS (see Figure 2).

9. We have considered the harm table and what the regulator would consider
to be the correct ‘target’ impact/probability score. This enables the business
to understand what the term ‘averse’ translates into (see Figure 3).

10. This has been expanded to include a statement of intent. This confirms that
whilst it is possible that an incident could impact our business, IT will continue
to invest in ensuring activities do not place our data in ‘harm’s way’. It then
confirms that IT will continue to create an environment where it is unlikely
that any decision or activity will present more than a moderate impact. This
should help prioritise business change decisions.

11. Whilst a preferred Cyber Risk score would be very low, we do not believe a
1 by 1 is reasonable due to the nature of cyber risk and the ever changing
threat landscape. That said, a regulator, such as the ICO, may not accept an
‘Amber’ target. Given these competing perspectives the CISO/DPO’s
collective view is that whilst a ‘Green’ position may be hard to achieve, it
presents a clear statement of intent to protect data and ensures that risk
remains high-profile within the organisation.

12. Therefore, the recommendation is that we maintain a ‘Green’ target and an
‘averse’ appetite for compromise or loss of data. In real terms the
Cyber/Data Security journey looks like this:

. Our position with the Our appetite for data

Itis gereraity acmupted controls we are currently loss/compromise and the
that organisations face a ; fi nae

‘High’ risk from Cyber applying across POL and position we are aiming to

criminality or the impact of linked with IT’s Security achieve to protect our
Transformation customers, colleagues and

Data Loss. ‘
Programme. business.

13. A scorecard has been developed to track how Post Office is performing
against Risk Appetite for Cyber and Data Security (see Appendix 2)

What are the next steps?

14. If approved the next steps with Cyber/Data Security RAS is to communicate
it across IT and Information Security to ensure colleagues who either manage
Cyber / Data Security or who make business decision around it are aware of
the revised statement and what it means to them.

15. The Post Office’s Information Security Committee (ISC) will use the new RAS
and supporting process to assess new/existing risks and recommend
remediating actions as appropriate.

16. In terms of the wider business, the Cyber and Information Security policy,
existing communications and training material already make clear we have

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 21 of 185
Tab 4 Security Strategy includes

22 of 185

er Risk Appetite

POST OFFICE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 5 of 7

17.

18.

a low risk appetite for data loss and we will continue to communicate this
message across the business and with 3" Parties.

The policy confirms: ‘Post Office’s Board and Group Executive (GE) recognise
that cyber and information security threats present significant financial and
operational risk to Post Office its, subsidiaries and associated entities. The
GE are committed to developing a strategic response to current and
emerging threats to enable Post Office to achieve its objectives, whilst
preserving Post Office’s brand, commercial image, reputation, competitive
advantage, revenues, profitability, legal, regulatory and contractual
compliance’.

The Central Risk team will follow the steps/methodology shown in paragraph
7 to review the Technology and People RAS and again bring the results and
recommendations to RCC and ARC for validation and approval. If this
approach works for those appetite statements a plan will be developed to
review all remaining appetite statements so that a full set of approved
revised statements with supporting metrics are in place for the Post Office.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 4 Security Strategy includes Cyber Risk Appetite

POST OFFICE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Appendix 1: Risk Appetite Descriptions

Post Office is willing to take
sreater than normal risks

Post Office takes a balanced
approach to risk taking

Page 6 of 7

Post Office actively discourages
risktaking

Post Office actively encourages
risk taking
Objectve/negative I Wilng to accept significant
impact negative impact inorder to
relationship pursue objective

Willing to accept some negative
impact in order to pursue
objective

Potential negative impact and
objective given equal
considerations

‘Not willing to accept any
negative impact

Impact on residual I Post Office will accept high
risk levels of residual rik n pursuit
of ts objectives

Post Office wil accept some
residual risk

Residual sk willbe balanced
against potential business
benefits

Post Office wil mitigate/treat
risks in order to minimise
residual risk

Strictly Confidential

RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

23 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

x a
2 c
S S
POST OFFICE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 7 of 7 §.

B

: . 3

Appendix 1: IT Security KRI Scorecard &

&

=

Target Criteria Cn a ia) eee =

8

Lack of POL Security Improvement Plan Sign off by ARC Approval I Approved Approved Approved Effective °

Inadequate security review/signoff All Change Requests reviewed 100% 100% 100% 100% Effective 3

Outages generated through inadequate security controls Number of outages ° ° ° 0 Effective a

= Lack of Compliance to Security Policies & Standards ‘Compliance dip sample via ISMF's (no of vendors) 2 N/A N/A N/A a
g Compliance with Third Party Vendor Management Framework ISMF's completed as per schedule (% completed) 100% 100% 100% 100% >
a 3
Q Lack of ML Process (Quarterly AD Reconciliation with Success Factors Completed I N/A N/A N/A Not Started 3
Fa Lack of JML Process Quarterly reviews of critical systems Completed I N/A N/A N/A Not Started fd

Cc Inadequate Identification & Remec ion of IT Vulnerabilities Vulnerabilities remec d within Policy Yes No No No Challenged
2 ITC Management Quarterly compliance check completed (Apr/Jul/Oct/Jan) I Completed S Yes = Effective

Es Compliance to GDPR Training Internal GDPR trainingcompletion(% of nominatedstaff) I  >95% Yes Yes 98% Effective
2 Compliance to Information Security & Data Protection Training Internal compliance training completion (%) 295% Yes Yes 98% Effective

gz Compliance to 1S027001 Certification - Surveillance Visit Passed Bi-Annual Surveillance Visit (2 per annum) Pass Pass : 1 Minor Effective

3 Compliance to PCI-DSS V3.2 Certification Internal Internal quarterly review completed Yes Yes = = Effective
9 Compliance to PCI-DSS V3.2 Certification - Annual Certification Passed Annual certification passed Pass N/A N/A N/A Report Not Due
3 Remediation of Deloitte security audit findings % of findings completed by due date in quarter 100% N/A N/A N/A Not Started
Fa Identification of internal Accidental/Malicious Actors Ironscales Phishing Reporting (% failures) 0% 0% 0% 0% Effective

3 Inadequate Threat Intelligence, Scanning & Analytics Monthly Review of Threat Intelligence/ASOC Alerts 2 2 2 1 Effective

9 Lack of ASOC Capability Monthly Review of ASOC Reporting 2) 2 1 Effective

3 Identification of External Malicious Actors Bi-Monthly review and ASOC fine tune completed 2 2 2 1 Report Not Due
2 Inadequate CSIRT Capability Playbook design completed 1 ° 1 NA Effective

8 Inadequate CSIRT Capability Desktop exercises completed (2 per annum) - ° ° a Effective
& ITDR testing of Cri I Post Office systems Number of ITDR tests completed againsttarget 100% 62.50% 37.50% 83.30% Challenged
s

oe

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 5 Transtrack, Back Office Transformation Update

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Cash Management System Upgrade - review

Author: Benjamin Cooke, Russell Hancock Sponsor: Rob Houghton Meeting date: 4" July 2019

Executive Summary

Context

lare a software company who licence and support the application Post Office
uses for cash logistics and processing operations. It is a critical application for Post
Office. If the system was unavailable for 2 hours in the morning, cash deliveries and
collections from/to Post Office branches would have to run through manual contingency
processes. We would struggle to forecast expected branch cash requirements and cash
holdings would be calculated based on last recorded amounts, plus manual
adjustments.

The application implementation contributed to Back Office
Transformation project delays. The decision to Go-Live was taken knowing that not
every cash transaction recorded in depots was flowing through to the finance system.
Their delivery capability is limited and continues to constrain project delivery. We are
architecture and delivery capability. This paper outlines the
residual risks with [i and the steps management are taking to mitigate
operational, financial or branch risk.

Questions addressed in this report

1. Who are/IRRELEVANT!and what do they do for Post Office?

2. Could Post Office have applied more rigour to key decisions? What lessons can
we learn?

3. What are the current risks to Post Office and what are our mitigations?

4. Why do we believe it’s worthwhile continuing to invest in Transtrack?

Conclusion

is a critical application for Post Office supporting our Supply Chain
cash and logistics capability.

¢ The decision in 15/16 to use I rather than POLSAP could have
had more scrutiny. This was potentially due to the urgency of migrating away
from POLSAP and lack of technical skills _ capaci nichts Post Office. The

due diligence may have mitigated operational and development risks.

e The financial reconciliation issue is still not resolved, albeit improved significantly
since Go-Live. Our teams are ensuring that our financials are robust and that
there is no impact on branches. Concurrently controls are being put in place to

@BCL@CCOC79A0 Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 25 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 5 Transtrack, Back Office Transformation Update

prevent similar issues, but also spot and remediate in the case future technical
issues did arrive.

« The Supply Chain teams’ efficiency using is improving as they become
more familiar with the application. Provided we continue to see progress in
mitigating the downsides, we see remaining a critical application
partner.

The Report

approved high speed note counters. Post Office first procured ;,
in-Transit (CiT) system in 2005 and it has been used by Supply Chain ever since
to track pouches of cash (and other valuables) on our secure van routes from
depots to branches and back.

2. In November 2016 the board approved Back Office Transformation, which
proposed to design out POLSAP, rather than upgrading. POLSAP was used to
manage cash logistics in Supply Chain counting centres. Rather than migrate to
another heavily customised SAP solution, the decision was taken to adopt
functionality from! imodule designed for
this purpose. From February 2019 Post Office's entire Supply Chain cash
processing and logistics has operated entirely using 1
timeline of key events is provided in the appendix.

Could Post Office have applied more rigour to key decisions?

What lessons can we learn?

3. This paper focuses on the two more recent decision points, firstly the decision to
select is the application for cash processing, and secondly the
decision to develop further forecasting capability, rather than go to market for a
best of breed forecasting solution.

Cash Processing Application

4. POLSAP was a critical part of Post Office. Without it clients could not be paid and
the cash supply chain would have ceased to function. Failures had already
occurred, SAP extended support was ending and Fujitsu were unable provide any
SLAs around infrastructure. The cost of upgrade was estimated at £6m and would
have left Post Office continuing with unsatisfactory processes. In November 2016
the board approved an approach that proposed to design POLSAP out, migrating
processes to other systems. A key early deliverable was a Supply Chain strategy
and application options review, the options being considered were using a SAP
technical service to migrate POLSAP custom code into our SAP CFS financial

@BCL@CCOC79A0 Strictly Confidential

26 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 5 Transtrack, Back Office Transformation Update

system, migrating to {
procurement.

5. Technical SAP Migration - Post Office and Accenture worked with SAP’s technical
team to assess options to segregate POLSAP’s cash supply chain processes from
the financial and migrate the custom supply chain code into CFS. A study
document was provided laying out technical options and effort costs for the SAP
technical work. The project team then assessed the additional work required from
Accenture and Post Office and risks with the approach.

jor starting a 3rd party application

6.1 invested a couple of months to create a “quick scan
rep 9 ly Supply Chain processes fit to the!
application. The project created a “rraca! High Level System Assessment” and

visited tw iclient sites to see the system in operation.

7. 3rd Party Procurement - The timeline required for a 3" party procurement prior
to starting migration was deemed too long to seriously consider with the state of
POLSAP.

8. The team report a decision was made to select
Committee or Project Delivery Group meeting, however
document was drafted and requirement gathering began wit!
recorded formally in any meeting.

9. There were a number of lessons learned on technical due diligence, partner
management and governance.

10.Technical Due Diligence - Post Office’s largest cash counting sites are 5x larger
than [ next largest customer. Whilst the Cash in Transit (CiT)
application had performing at Post Office scale for some time the application
architecture of entirely different. A new vendor would have been asked
to confirm performance metrics and been subject to a more thorough set of
technical questions. The IT architecture team has increased significantly since
2016 and is now engaged in all major technical change decisions and we have
improved architecture governance reviewing all technology aspects during the
procurement process.

11.Working with smaller partners - eam within the project were
treated similarly to those from large consulting organisations. However, based
on the size of the organisation more oversight was required. With larger
organisations/vendors A) the product and delivery capability has been tested
more thoroughly and B) in the case of issues talent can be re-prioritised by
management to assist. When started to struggle it took the project
team too long to realise, there was not the strength and depth within the project
team to cover gaps, and it belatedly fell on Post Office to assist in helping improve
7 internal capability. Under the revised Change Excellence Framework
we have re-introduced periodic independent health-check assurance reviews for
the largest programmes, these are being undertaken by the Change Risk &
Assurance Team. The Strategic Portfolio Office are also reviewing progress of
major programmes monthly and commissioning health-check assurance reviews
as required. This central oversight should help identify problems earlier.

in a Steering
hist a decision

@BCL@CCOC79A0 Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 27 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 5 Transtrack, Back Office Transformation Update

12.Formal decision documentation - Although a decision was made within the Back
Office Transformation programme it had a significant impact on IT, Finance and
Supply chain and should have been better documented and likely noted to the
GE.

Cash Forecasting Application

13.Having evaluated the basic forecasting capability within :_ was
clear that additional features were required, yet Post Office’s requirements were
relatively basic compared to most retailers. Two options were considered:
procuring a best of breed forecasting solution, or co-developing additional
features within

14.Post Office worked with a specialist supply chain consulting firm to evaluate
options and get to a recommendation that the Supply Chain team supported.

15.The decision was recommended by the Cash Processing Project Delivery Group
(PDG) then approved at Steering Committee.

16.In this case the decision making process was robust, and due consideration was
given to working with a smaller firm. Issues and lessons learned relating to the
design, build and attempted deployment are covered in the programme lessons
learned.

17. It should be noted that PO instructed I to pause its development in
order to focus on getting the core elements live, with a combination of manual
forecasting and an interim solution using Power BI being developed in-house.

18.Since go-live forecasting has been performed manually, with Power BI interim
solutions going live in May.

19.The inventory management team have brought stock holdings down to levels
prior to {migration successfully using manual forecasting. This is however
labour intensive

20.An options paper is currently being written looking at options for the future of
forecasting. Transtrack being one of the options.

What are the current risks to Post Office and what are our
mitigations?

21.The key risks being monitored relating tol.
table below.

Risk Title Likelihood) Impact

There is a risk of i
depots recorded in

inancial reporting due to cash movements in
ot always being sent to our financial system.

@BCL@CCOC79A0 Strictly Confidential

28 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

Tab 5 Transtrack, Back Office Transformation Update

POL00423568

POL00423568

Risk

Likelihood) Impact

Description

Since February 2019 the {msc
system has not been sending all
financial transactions to CFS. At
year end CFS was understated by

. The project team and
i educed the daily failure
rate to ~ 20 missing transactions a
day from May, and have re-
processed the bulk of missing
historical transactions. Currently
CFS is overstated by approximately
“i, with the figure continuing to
ice as the project clean-up
continues.

Even with 20 missing transactions a
day, a fairly significant manual
overhead is required from the Post
Office business to ensure no impact
to Post masters or financials.

application architecture allowing the t

There is a risk of future inaccurate financial reporting, due to [i
ypes of errors causing the issue above.

Mitigating Action

Technical progress is being made on solving this issue after
Go-Live aroun of transactions were missing every day,
this figure is now {= around 20 transactions).

Supply Chain conduct physical cash counts weekly to ensure
actual cash matches /: depot cash-on-hand

The BOT project team remain in place running regular
reconciliations and tracking all missing transactions. This
activity is being handed over to BAU.

The re-processing of historical missing transactions has cleaed
the bulk of the with around remaining. These remain
stuck due to a number of underlying root causes. These are
now each being investigated with plans created to tackle
each.

There is a risk that once the initial
issues have been fixed, fi

Hin future fails to send all
transactions to SAP CFS leading to
our financials again being out of
sync.

application I
diagnose and fix due to issues with i.
delivery capability

There is a risk that Post Office Supply Chain operat

An on-going process for financial reconciliation is being put in
place to ensure this issue would be spotted.

Financial reconciliation is being handed over to BAU along
with tools to automate as much as possible, quickly pin-
pointing any missing transactions.

ns are interrupted in
d fi are unable to quickly
application architecture and

Challenges through back office
transformation have exposed flaws
application
architecture, their development
capacity, deployment approach and
skills. There is a risk of future
service disruption, possible
performance degradation as
Banking Framework increases and
that Transtrack will struggle to
resolve issues in a timely fashion.

Small issues already exist and are being resolved slowly,
interrupting supply chain. Any larger issues faced (outside of
the financial reconciliation issues) have received high focus
from {i nd been resolved quickly by the support
team.

Accenture technical specialists have been engaged to conduct
an architectural review. {1 are actively supporting the
exercise.

Following report delivery a set of improvement actions are
being agreed with Transtrack that will continue to be reported
against over time in monthly service reviews

@BCL@CCOC79A0

Post Office Limited - Risk and Complia

Strictly Confidential

Committee-04/07/19

29 of 185
Tab 5 Transtrack, Back Office Transformation Update

30 of 185

POL00423568
POL00423568

Risk Title

Likelihood

Impact

It is also worth noting thi
may impact their ability to delivery. This is an opportunity as much as a threat
and is being closely watched with the Post Office Supply Chain Director and Back
Office IT Director engaging closely with the Ht
through the process.

Why do we believe it’s worthwhile continuing to invest in

22.Whilst

t delays have been frustrating Supply Chain did entirely cut-over to

(“IRRELEVANT _} at the end of January 2019. All cash depots, coin stores,
inventory management and CViT drivers have been successfully operating on this
single integrated platform since that point with no major operational issues. The
teams are fully trained with the scrutiny brought by the financial reconciliation
challenge helping to force all units to have a deep understanding of how the

application works.

23.Technical performance has recently been re-checked under live environment and

other than a couple of known issues soon to be fixed, the system meets our
expectations.

24. Inbound processing at our Supply Chain depot in Belfast - the first to Go-Live on

— has stabilised at around 14 pouches per hour. Higher than the
it pouches per hour recorded when they used POLSAP, a 27% productivity
improvement. As other sites become used to the system we are seeing
performance steadily improve and they are now approximately equal to their
POLSAP pouches per hour.

i recognise that where their application has not met the quality
standards they set, their effort to resolve performance issues or bugs is covered
under application warrantee and hence they are not charging Post Office. Their
team is motivated to work for Post Office — their largest customer - and they do
So proactively and with passion.

@BCL@CCOC79A0 Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 5 Transtrack, Back Office Transformation Update

Appendix

POL00423568
POL00423568

Timeline of Events: I IRRELEVANT
Year I Event Description
aS SSS SSS
2005 I Post Office! IRRELEVANT] CVIT Post Office tenders for a CViT application for Supply Chain and
bought i Flwins
Post Office IT moves to a SIAM is defined as a back office application. Accenture wins
2015 I ower model is planned to novate
rj into the Accenture Back Office Tower.
In June a project goes live upgrading { CViT moving
. away from a distributed hardware at dep’ jel, to a central
2016 ‘I CViT Upgrade instance. This stops all the site failures due to old hardware
plaguing supply chain. The upgraded, stable system is well
received.
In August a decision was taken not to migrate fii
novate to Accenture as:
i paused fromion= 1. the project had barely started engagement,
11S pi 2. the system had only just stabilized for Supply Chain
2016 I boarding to the Accenture back
office tower 3. Accenture raised a number of concerns about novating the
contract as it didn’t meet the standards Post Office required
from Accenture and the contracted scope was wrong, leading
to significant additional cost.
Decision taken to migrate In early 2017 the Back Office Transformation program team and
2017 ieieachalrrilal Supply Chain recommended migrating from POLSAP onto
functionality t Supply. grating
Decision taken to custom build I Crimson assisted with a piece of work reviewing the proposed
additional forecasting forecasting solution. They indicated that there was a gap - that
2017 I functionality infi ri could be filled by a best of breed, or some custom development.
(rather than 3” party best of _I A follow-on piece of work evaluated these options and in the end
breed) (mid-November) recommended proceeding wit
Forecasting implernentation As the forecasting functionality could not be demonstrated to
2ois I Fr cahold PI work using Post Office data, any effort to deploy has been put on
Pp hold since Sept 2018
@BCL@CCOC79A0 Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

31 of 185
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

32 of 185

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 1 of 30

Risk, Compliance and Audit Report
Author: J Ellwood, J Hill, ] Appel Sponsor: Al Cameron/Ben Foat Meeting date: 04 July 2019

Executive Summary

Context
This paper provides an update on the key and emerging risks and issues that Post
Office is managing and an update on the latest Audit position.

Questions this paper addresses

What are the key risks and compliance issues and what is the business being
done to address these?

What are the emerging risks we face in both the short and medium term and
what are we doing to address these?

What is the status of the Change Portfolio and its current top portfolio risks
and key delivery challenges?

What is the forward-looking regulatory agenda and key policy updates?
What progress has been made with the internal audit plan and what key
messages have been reported?

Conclusion

.

The paper provides an update on the following top risks PCI, Information
Security, GLO, People, Brexit and Payzone Payment Device vulnerabilities.
There have been exceptions approved this month for Branch Hub and
Parcelshop. The number and type of significant incidents continue to follow
a similar trend as previous months.

System requirements for Archer (GRC tool) have been scoped and shared
with 2MC (implementation provider). A prototype will be built and used to
test, along with a roadmap and implementation plan.

The Compliance heat map is provided in Appendix 5. Key points to note are
that Data Protection has reverted to Amber from green due to remedial work
identified from the GDPR Gap Analysis. A separate paper is provided on this.
Additionally, the status of Financial Services Compliance and Conduct has
also moved to Amber due to the instances of non-conformance identified
through mystery shopping.

Eight internal audits were finalised since the May RCC, none of which have
adverse report ratings. Reports summaries are provided from paragraph 66.
The 2018/2019 internal audit programme has now been delivered in full.
Observations from all reviews have been analysed and recurring control
themes are reported from paragraph 59.

Input Sought
There are no decisions required at this time. The Committee is requested to note
this paper.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 2 of 30

The Report

Risk Author: Jenny Ellwood
What are the key risks facing the business and what is being done to
address these?

i.

The heatmap has been updated to reflect recent business structure changes
within Legal, Compliance and Governance, CISO (incorporating Info Security
risks) and CFO to include Risk and Audit risks (see Appendix 1). Legal and
Regulatory and Strategic are the principal risk categories which continue to
report red and where there is continued focus on actions.

Since May, risk descriptions and mitigations have been reviewed and
marginal changes have been made to the Top Risk profile (see Appendix 2),
scores for the period remain stable.

The PCI risk continues to report red (4:4) and a separate update from Rob
Houghton will be provided in July’s meeting. There are challenges with
Ingenico regarding timeline and cost of the new solution. However, the pin-
pad preparation and rollout activities are on schedule with the first refreshed
pin-pads arriving in branch at the beginning of September.

Work continues on the IT Security Transformation Programme (ITSTP) the
scope has been further developed to encompass all Cyber-related change
covering the Deloitte Audit recommendations, including further maturity and
implementation of Data loss prevention (DLP) tools, improving our 3rd (and
4th) party security assurance, and increasing the maturity and reach of the
Security Operations Centre (SOC). 7 of 10 ‘high-rated’ recommendations
have been closed. The other 3 remain on track.

The second High Court trial relating to Horizon is due to conclude week
commencing 1 July. Deloitte are supporting our preparations and workshops
are underway to record the risks, mitigations and owners. Central Risk will
review the outputs from these sessions.

The activities to remediate the security vulnerabilities identified within the
Payzone Payment Device Penetration Test are continuing and are on-track.
A Post Office review of the risk position has concluded and we believe that
the overall position is Amber. This will be ratified in the Cyber Risk Workshop
taking place on 1 July. Risk exposure will decrease over time as the
remediation activities conclude. On the basis the plan remains on-track, all
security vulnerabilities will be resolved by October.

A wider risk workshop to consider other risk areas i.e. strategic, operational
and financial is being arranged.

What are the emerging risks we face in both the short and medium term and what
are we doing to address these?

8. In terms of risk incidents for June, ATM gas attacks, branch robberies and
Information Security breaches continue to trend. ATM crimes have increased
Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

33 of 185
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

34 of 185

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 3 of 30

10.

11.

12.

13.

14,

nationally by over 200% since last year. The Security Operations team use
a risk model to identify high/medium/low risk branches for all offence types
and a monthly report is tabled at Operations Board, covering the trends /
spikes for these incidents. Mandatory training on Information Security and
Data Protection was rolled out in June which should increase the awareness
of employees, mitigating data privacy breach incidents.

Exceptions were approved for the Branch Hub and Parcelshop programmes.
For Branch Hub an approval for a reduced user registration has been agreed
which takes us outside of the IT Security Policy for a period of 3 months. A
solution which aligns to our policy is in development. Parcel Shop has a small
number of vulnerabilities with the hand held device used to deliver the parcel
returns and collections services. The exception is for a 4 week period, interim
controls have been put in place and will be reviewed regularly.

In terms of the commercial risk called out in May regarding Fit and Proper,
the business have accepted that it may be necessary to switch off some
independent branches from selling foreign currency. As work is still
underway, a verbal update will be brought to the RCC meeting.

In response to significant people changes in critical roles and further planned
organisational design changes, the review to assess the capability required
of senior positions including the identification of critical roles continues. A
review of career progression for staff members is also ongoing to understand
current and future requirements for talent development.

In May, the Banking Director flagged that there has been heightened interest
from the banks regarding cash withdrawal card transactions relating to a risk
that transactions are not being processed correctly by the Postmaster in all
cases. A system solution fix has been developed to remediate, which is
currently planned to be implemented by August/September.

Brexit planning continues and we remain in regular dialogue with BEIS. BEIS
have confirmed that ‘No Deal’ Plans’ should be ‘shrink wrapped’ and
businesses should plan for a ‘Deal’. However, Post Office are continuing to
work on some remediation activities for a ‘No Deal’, particularly the ongoing
engagement with third parties who have not yet responded to our
questionnaires. We do not believe the risk of a ‘No Deal’ has reduced and it
is proposed the Operations Working Group is re-established to review our
original contingency plans and ensure they are still appropriate. We need to
also consider if there are any other major ‘IT’ releases or significant activities
planned such as marketing campaigns during the lead up to the 31 October
and the immediate time after which may create additional pressures.

Back in January’s ARC, Risk were asked to work with Retail to consider
whether we could further develop the monitoring process in place for our key
multiple partners. A visit was arranged to BEIS to review their process and
Karl Oliver has been working on this. Retail have developed MI, which is
refreshed and reviewed on a monthly basis with the Retail Director. The
multiples currently monitored are: McColls, Cooperative, WH Smiths, AF

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568

POL00423568

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 4 of 30

Blakemore, One Stop and Tesco and additional partners can be added based
on size or risk. An example of the MI metrics is included in Appendix 3.

What is the status of the Change Portfolio, its current top portfolio risks
and key delivery challenges?

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

The overall status of the portfolio remains Amber. Work to address some long
standing issues has resulted in a reduction of programmes which reported
one or multiple Red statuses from 7 to 4. However, there still remain a
number of significant projects (such as Belfast Exit and Data Analytics) where
re-baselining work is required due to re-prioritisation.

The portfolio continues to be prioritised to ensure 3YP benefits are achieved.
Financial analysis has now been made available to all project managers to
enable self-serve and improved awareness.

Appendix 4 provides a summary of the current key ‘Platinum and Gold’
change programmes and their current reporting status. 4 projects are
reporting Red RAG statuses. The key ones are as follows:

« PCI Compliance (Costs, Delivery and Risk Red RAGs).

e Data Analytics Excellence (Risk Red RAG): The programme has now
been restructured with some activities under the Data Governance and
Data Visualisation workstreams moving into BAU. The Business Case to
build the new Data Platform and complete Credence decommissioning
will be presented at PRB in July. Supplier costs and plans remain
outstanding hence reporting red against risk.

e POCA Implementation (Delivery and Overall Red RAGs): The WAN
implementation continues behind schedule due to issues with Vodafone
(a DXC subcontractor). We are waiting for an updated schedule for when
the new WAN connections will go live. DXC have also confirmed the de-
scoping of the mobile app. This is driven by DXC underestimating the
complexity and cost of implementing the app and the short amount of
time left remaining on the contract to recover their investment. The
financial benefits from delivering the app are already committed in the
contract so POL are not adversely impacted. The cost of delay has a
small impact on POL as we will likely need to fund our project manager
for additional months. This will be confirmed once an updated schedule
is received. No impact expected for customer or postmasters.

The June Change Risk Management Group (CRMG) considered the existing 8
strategic portfolio risks. The People risk remains key (3:4) around change
programmes not having appropriate resource (skills and or experience)
assigned, adversely impacting effective change delivery.

The work to mitigate this continues with the goal of matching resources with
the relevant competencies to projects which are now classified as being
platinum, gold, silver and bronze. SPO is also establishing ‘Practices’ (for
Portfolio, Programme, Project and Agile professionals) with the objective of
enhancing the competency levels of both our permanent and contactor
Change staff this includes implementing a best in class competency
framework for assessing and developing competency level.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

35 of 185
36 of 185

bined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 5 of 30

Compliance Author: Jonathan Hill
Telecoms
Text Relay
20. Ofcom has issued a draft Section 135 notice to support its investigation

21.

22.

into the text relay issue. On 21°t June we provided the second part of
the response. Ofcom has recognised the actions we have taken to fix
the billing system for text relay calls, our commitment to reimbursing
impacted customers and that we have self-reported, which is
anticipated to help reduce any penalty the regulator may seek to impose.

Ofcom has indicated that it may be prepared to enter into early
settlement discussions, and we have responded saying that we would
be interested to explore this approach.

We will be compensating customers where we have data. Fujitsu is
producing the data extract to enable us to identify impacted
customers. Where we do not have data we will make an estimate and
then make a contribution to our charity - Action for Hearing Loss.

Age Verification

23.

On Thursday 20'" June the Secretary of State for BEIS announced that
the Age Verification has been delayed by at least 6 months due to
essential documents not being put to the European Commission. This
was due to have come into effect on 15" July 2019.

Data Protection

24.

25.

26.

The GDPR programme was formally closed at the end of Q1. There is a
separate paper to be discussed at RCC.

This year’s Data Protection training has gone live for all employees,
contractors and agents. The Data Protection team are monitoring
progress, reminders will be sent to Line Managers to ensure that
completion targets are met within the set timeframes. Further focussed
training is being developed in conjunction with Learning and
Development. This additional mandatory training is aimed at those
employees that use or have access to bulk and/or sensitive personal
data in their day to day activities such as HR, Marketing and the IT.

In the last quarter there have been two Privacy and Electronic
Communications Regulations notifications that have been made
outside of the statutory 24hr reporting period. These are likely to result
in a fixed penalty notice (£1,000) being issued against Post Office Ltd.
Investigations found that these were isolated incidents due to agent
error within the Telecoms Call Centre. Additional training has been
given to relevant personnel and awareness raised for all staff to be
vigilant with reporting. Additional controls have been deployed and
these controls are due to be tested in the first week of July by the Data
Protection team.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

POL00423568
POL00423568

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 6 of 30

Financial Crime

Compliance with Money Laundering Regulations

27. Between 24' April and 19 June 2019, 66 new Bureau de Change non-
conformance cases were identified. During the same period 65 open
cases were resolved, of which 10 related to customers who had
purchased in excess of €15k in 90 days, which breached the regulatory
limit and mitigating actions have been taken. There was one material
breach in May where £29k was purchased at different locations by a
boxing promoter.

28. Resource provided by the Data Centre of Excellence to resolve the
outstanding issues with the Bureau de Change transaction monitoring
system has designed and developed a number of the additional reports
that had been agreed with HMRC. The Financial Crime Team are
piloting these and have identified some branches where high levels of
cash purchases just below £1,000 are indicating deliberate avoidance
of the customer data and ID capture requirement for £1,000 and
above. The reports remain operationally inefficient (this cannot be
fixed in the current Credence/Business Objects solution) and will be
tested over the next 6 months and implemented gradually to measure
the operational resource requirements v. benefits of the new reports.

29. There is still an outstanding Credence system issue that is causing
transaction record errors that is with Accenture to scope a fix.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) update
30. See separate report.

Whistleblowing update
31. See separate report.

Fit and Proper
32. There remains a focus on gathering full F&P returns and we continue to share
data with HMRC fortnightly to evidence our progress:

e The latest metrics suggest full compliance among our Commercial
Partners will occur during July, although some chasing is still required.
We currently have 29 of 43 fully complete and are actively engaged with
the remainder.

e Among the non-commercial partners, 64% are already fully compliant
and another 21% have submitted responses which need work but are
expected to achieve compliance during June and July. New responses
are continuing to come in from the remaining 15%, albeit in small
numbers. We are planning a concerted final push (via Network Area
Management) on that remaining group in late June / early July.

e — Itis likely that despite the efforts of Network Area Management, for some
Agents it will only be formal notification of their BDC capability being
revoked, or the capability actually being revoked, which stimulates
engagement.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 37 of 185
38 of 185

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 7 of 30

33.

e With that in mind, the revoke functionality (MDM and Horizon) is being
adjusted so that it can operate quickly and accurately in either direction
- i.e. revoke and reinstate - which has not hitherto been the case.

The project is now also designing the processes/supporting systems changes
required for F&P declaration to operate annually from January 2020, with
agents divided into cohorts with declaration anniversaries spread throughout
the year.

Regulatory updates

34.

Post Office submitted a response on 10th June to the HMT consultation
on the transposition of 5th Money Laundering Directive into UK law.
Whether customer due diligence is required as a distributor of third
party manufacturing pre-paid cards, we have raised concerns:

e about the inclusion in the UK Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs)
definition of “Board members of for-profit enterprises in which the state
has an ownership of 50% of more, or where reasonably available
information points to the state having control over the activities of the
enterprise”, which would bring Post Office Board members into scope for
PEP due diligence in their personal financial dealings.

e on the extension of the regulatory definition of ‘officer’ to ‘managers’,
and that this should be ‘senior managers’ to align with the FCAs Senior
Manager Regime

e we are also asking the Government recognise GOV.UK Verify scheme
under the provisions

External Threats

35.

We continue to see a number of high value and complex cases relating
to business banking deposits and are currently liaising with a number
of Banking Framework Services banks to investigate. There is
anecdotal evidence that some of these cash deposits are linked to the
onward purchase of crypto currencies.

Internal Threats

36.

Financial Crime risk assessments and re-assessments across 36
products and services have not identified any major internal threats,
and the outcomes have been shared with the Risk team to ensure that
any risks are identified and reflected in functional RACMs. The Partner
Banking Framework Services reassessment has commenced and is
expected to be completed by early July, and a number of low risk
product re-assessments are currently overdue. However, two new
Financial Crime Managers join the team at the end of June which will
ensure that remaining outstanding re-assessments can be brought up
to date by the autumn. All new product and service assessment and
support is being completed.

Supply Chain Compliance

37. One audit was completed in May and 3 Improvement Needs were
identified, with an audit score of 5 which is in line with the national
average. Two further audits were completed in June but at the time of

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

POL00423568
POL00423568

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 8 of 30

writing this paper, the reports had not been finalised. No significant
or recurring issue identified.

Financial Services

Credit Cards

38. The Marketing Services Agreement (which has Compliance
requirements) and the Appointed Representative Agreement (ARA) is
close to agreement with Capital One. This will also entail changes to
the existing ARAs with Bol as well as a new multi principal agreement
(MPA) between all the Principals. The MPA is to ensure that boundaries
of regulatory responsibility are clear between Principals and are largely
dividing responsibility along product lines.

39. Any new Principal agreement needs to be consistent with the approach
taken with our existing regulatory Principals to ensure consistency of
application and purpose. Following the agreement on the ARA we will
need to put in place a Regulator Guidance Manual that outlines the key
responsibilities PO has to put in place to maintain compliance. We also
need to agree financial promotions and sales material approval
processes with Capital One.

Current Account Withdrawal
40. Weare monitoring this with Bol, there are 21,500 current account customers
and as at the end of May:
e 3,181 customers have switched their accounts to another provider
e 3,927 customers have closed their accounts
e 7,108 customers in total which is 33% of the all customers

41. Around 1,000 customers have withdrawn the majority of their money
through an ATM and these customers will be asked if they would like
assistance closing through a bespoke mailing.

42. There were 50 complaints last month regarding delays in the closure
process. BOI have conducted root cause analysis and identified
incorrect details provided by customers on forms, delays in
authenticating customers for higher value transactions and stretched
resources in their closure department as key constraints.

43. Customers taking action from the most recent mailing has not been as
high as expected. There is a more direct mailing scheduled for early
July and PO will seek to understand Bol plans to ensure we are
comfortable that we get as many customers as possible to take action
whilst protecting customers and our brand.

Mystery Shopping Results

44. Branch Mystery Shopping results for May show poor conformance to the
Travel Insurance sales process, where colleagues are not giving the
Eligibility and Medical Laminate to customers so they can confirm
medical condition status. Training is being provided in Q2 to align with
the summer

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 39 of 185
40 of 185

bined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 9 of 30

45.

Video Mystery Shopping results have dipped since April when we had no reds
to 8 reds in May, 4 Savings and 4 Life Insurance. The decline can be
attributed to the restructure and re-focus of the Area Manager team with less
time available for support of CRMs. Communication is ongoing with the CRM
and lead teams.

Network Management changes

46.

We are working with the Network teams on the changes they are
making to their branch management approach, including CRMs. The
aim being to maintain appropriate oversight and conduct management
but to reduce the burden on the network teams. We are under
particular pressure particularly from Bol to ensure we articulate our
proposed controls.

Vulnerable Customers

47.

48.

The Vulnerable Customer Module and test was launched on Success
Factors on the 20th May. A wider network awareness initiative was
supported by Network Team Talks and awareness packs for Area
Managers to brief Postmasters. This was preceded with a talk on the
Alzheimer’s Friends initiative at Finsbury Dials led by the Graduates
and the NFSP.

An external accessibility expert Kate Nash Associates has completed the
review of our PO Vulnerable Customer Policy. This has concluded that
it meets all the requirements expected. She is proposing some
introductions with leading firms in the vulnerability space, including
Barclays and Sainsbury’s on how they meet vulnerability challenges
and ideas on how we can further improve.

Citizens’ Advice (CA) Super Complaints to Competition and Markets Authority
(CMA) relating to the ‘loyalty penalty’

49.

50.

51.

52.

The Secertary of State for BEIS wrote to the Chief Executive of the CMA
on 19' June strongly supporting the findings of the super complaint
(reported at previous Committee).

The Government has already committed to legislate in order to give
consumer enforcers the power to impose fines on companies for
breaches of consumer law by applying to the courts.

BEIS propose to follow this through empowering the CMA to decide for
itself whether consumer protection law has been broken and then
impose fines for wrongdoing directly. CMA will consult on how best to
achieve this although it would be a surprising outcome if it decided to
intervene in areas already regulated by Ofcom and FCA.

BEIS also announced on 17'” June a related Smart Data Consultation.
The paper sees huge potential for data-driven services (smart data) to
enter consumer markets and stimulate competition. BEIS want
consumer markets in the UK to be at the forefront of the Artificial
Intelligence (AI) and data sharing revolution.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 10 of 30

53.

54.

55.

There are potentially significant issues mainly for Telco which we are
assessing and will respond if appropriate by 6‘ August.

This includes a proposal that Ofcom supported by new legislation,
should lead the implementation of Open Communications requiring
communications providers to share customer and product data to aid
switching.

For the Financial Services Areas impacted by the super complaint,
(mortgages, cash savings and general insurance). There has been no
further substantive news since the last Committee although updates
are expected sometime this year.

Internal Audit Author: Johann Appel

Progress against plan (2018/19)

56.

57.

We have delivered 24 of the 26 reviews on the 2018/19 internal audit
programme. The remaining two reviews are change assurance reviews,
which were delayed due to the change portfolio being reprioritised. These
two programmes have been included in the 2019/20 change assurance plan.
Seven reviews have been finalised since the May ARC, with summaries
included in paragraph 61. Below is the final position for 2018/19:

2018/19 Combined Plan Status -Total Audits = 26 “”

uw = Completed

26

= Postponed

(ARC approved baseline plan for 2018/19 (16 core internal audit reviews & 10 change assurance reviews). A
full summary of the 2018/19 audit plan status is included in appendix 6.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

41 of 185
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 11 of 30

Progress against plan (2019/20)

58. We have finalised one review, with a further 2 in fieldwork and 5 being
planned for delivery in Q2:

2019/20 Combined Plan Status -Total Audits = 28

i. = Completed

= Fieldwork
28 = Planning

= Not Started

(ARC approved baseline plan for 2019/20 (18 core internal audit reviews & 10 change assurance reviews). A
full summary of the 2019/20 audit plan status is included in appendix 6.

Reporting on Control Themes for 2018/19

59. In 2018/19 Internal Audit raised a total of 271 audit actions to remediate
identified control weaknesses (2017/18 = 165). All internal audit findings
were analysed to identify recurring control themes and root causes. The top
four control themes were as follows, with full results included in Appendix 7.

Control Theme 18/19 17/18

Internal controls are not deployed through policies,
procedures and systems and/or internal controls are
not designed or operating effectively.

36% 40%

Ineffective identification and/or management of
operational, fraud and change risk (including unclear
expression of risk appetite).

8% 13%

Unavailability (or ineffective communication) of
relevant, quality information to support the internal
control function and decision making.

17% 10%

Lack of clarity of structure, authority andI/ 12% 10%
responsibility.

=I > «=e

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

42 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

POL00423568
POL00423568

bined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 12 of 30

Report turnaround

60. In May 2017 the ARC requested an internal service level agreement for
clearing of audit reports. The target was set at 20 working days (10 days for
Internal Audit to produce a draft report and 10 days for management to review
and comment). Actual time to clear audit reports has been considerably more
and has further deteriorated in 2018/19.

61. Average report turnaround in working days was as follows:

18/19 17/18

IA to prepare draft report 16 15 t
(target = 10 days)

Management to review and comment 25 21 t
(target = 10 days)

Total (target = 20 days) 41 36 t

62. We have taken steps to make the report clearance process more effective.
This includes the introduction of formal audit close meetings with both
operational management and the executive sponsor. In addition, the Interim
Chief Executive has established a clear escalation process to help address any
significant delays. Our co-source auditors have agreed to the new process and
we have the full support of the GE to improve the report turnaround.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 43 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 13 of 30

Internal Audit reviews in progress and planned for delivery in Q2

63. The following reviews are being planned for delivery in Q2 (A full summary
of the 2019/20 audit plan status is included in appendix 6):

Review Status Timing

1 I Procure to Pay Fieldwork 24/06 - 19/07
Data Analytics Excellence (Change) Fieldwork 12/06 - 28/06
Effectiveness of Gating - Design Effectiveness Planning 08/07 - 26/07
(Change)

4 I Effectiveness of Second Line Assurance — Planning 08/07 - 26/07
Design Effectiveness (Change)

5 I Benefits Realisation - Design Effectiveness Planning 08/07 - 26/07
(Change)

6 I Investment Funding Follow-up (Change) Planning August

7 I Payment Technology Upgrade (Change) Planning Sept

8 I Telco Billing Process Planning July

9 I Employee Expenses Follow-up Planning August

10 I Payzone Internal Controls ‘Health Check’ Planning August

11 I POI - Change Capacity Planning July

12 I POI - AR Oversight (Operating Effectiveness) Fieldwork 17/06 - 05/07

13 I POI - Nemesis Follow-up Planning August

Status of Audit Actions

64. A total of 271 audit action were raised in 2018/19 (2017/18 = 165). During
the same period management completed 163 audit actions (2017/18 = 134).
Audit actions are generally being completed on time. As at 26 June 2019
there were 106 open actions, 4 of which were overdue.

Audit Action Status:

Open (not yet due) 102
Overdue (<60 days) 4
Overdue (>60 days) ie}
Total 106

Changes to plan since March ARC meeting

65. There were no changes made to the 2019/20 audit plan, which was
approved at the March ARC meeting and is included in appendix 6.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

44 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POL00423568
POL00423568

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 14 of 30

Internal audit reviews completed
66. Since the May ARC meeting we have finalised the following eight reviews:

Contract Management (IT)
IT Control Framework

Payroll

P2C Belfast Exit
FS Training

Payzone Integration (Panther)
Change Excellence (Follow-up)

Pensions Follow-up (2019/20 plan)

Our findings and observations from these reviews are summarised below, with
the full reports circulated to the committee separately:

Payroll Process (Ref.

2018/19-18)

Needs Improvement

Sponsor:
Mo Kang

Audit actions:

Payroll processing was found to be effective and well managed,
however, the audit has identified some shortcomings that require
remediation. Key findings are:

The Payroll team spend a considerable amount of time correcting
poorly submitted payroll data on behalf of the business units, which
adversely impacts their core processing work. The current level of
overpayments to employees due to late or incorrect submissions of
data (annualised at approximately £240k) is largely avoidable. Line
managers will be reminded of their responsibility to submit timely and
accurate payroll data to enable the payroll to be processed efficiently.

There is inadequate segregation of duties, which are partly caused by
the overlapping of role based permissions. This could be efficiently
and securely addressed by introducing a supervisory level between
the Payroll manager and the Payroll assistants.

There is a lack of visibility of configuration changes by Accenture and
inappropriate access to the file transfer server (SFTP) where the BACS
payment files are saved. These weaknesses, combined with limited
reconciliation of BACS payments and reconciliation issues between
SuccessFactors and CFS give rise to a risk of inappropriate payments
being made.

Despite the control deficiencies noted above, we highlight that the risk
was mitigated by effective compensating controls and no irregularities
were identified during the audit. This conclusion was confirmed by the
application of extensive data analytics, which enabled us to provide
assurance, with a high level of confidence, over the completeness,
validity and integrity of the payroll, and the quality of data, over the
12 months sampled.

Management Comment provided by Mo Kang

“Firstly, thank you to the Audit team for their collaborative and supportive way in which they have
continued to work with the team and help improve our ways of working, processes and systems.

The is the first payroll audit that has been carried out since the implementation of Success Factors
and the audit has highlighted some areas which we need to address, which the team were largely

Strictly Confidential

RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

45 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 15 of 30

aware of and have been working on, particularly the education of line managers and the role they
play across all the processes which impact on payroll, how and when data needs to be submitted to
the HRSC and we will continue to educate and support our line managers. This will be addressed
through holding open day surgeries to help educate and upskill line managers, which the Systems
Team will carry out in Bolton, Chesterfield and Finsbury Dials. The Business Partnering function will
also continue to support line managers and use their monthly operational meetings to address and
educate the business on Success Factors.

The HRSC is already on a journey to codify, simplify and automate processes and implementing
these actions will help us towards achieving that. There has been considerable progress made since
the implementation of Success Factors and the team have learned how to operate the system
effectively as they have progressed. There are still controls to be refined and issues to be addressed
but there are agreed actions to ensure these are covered off.”

IT Contract Management (Ref. 2018/19-15)

This internal audit was done at the request of IT management, following
an independent maturity assessment performed by ISG in Q1 2018.
The audit assessed the progress made since the 2018 review and will
also inform a review of Post Office wide contract management
processes, which is planned for 2020/21.

Needs Improvement We conclude that the IT Contract Management (CM) team is in the
process of embedding a number of positive changes with examples of
good practice and mature processes observed. We highlight that the
Sponsor: strategic direction taken and the actions set following the ISG review in
Rob Houghton Qi 2018, are driving significant improvement in the operating
effectiveness of the contract management processes and its maturity
as operated by the IT CM team. Some recommendations were made to

Audit actions: further enhance IT CM processes and maturity.

1
6 The review highlighted the lack of a Post Office wide owner at GE level
$ for the contract management process. There is also no overarching

contract management policy and controls framework on which
12 processes and minimum controls are established. This is key to enable
effective and consistent management of CVM activities within a defined
minimum requirements framework and a defined risk appetite.

Management Comment provided by Catherine Hamilton

“The CM team has demonstrated its significantly increased maturity and the discipline and rigour
demanded by the large and complex contracts that collectively deliver technology to Post Office.
The P2 and P3 actions identified by IA will further enhance our processes and maturity. To address
the P1 action across Post Office, I am preparing a proposal for the COO and General Counsel to
extend the discipline and best practice across Post Office, with outcomes including a documented
Contract Management Policy and Strategy, Supplier Tiering standards, Community of Practice and
Governance standards.”

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

46 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POL00423568
POL00423568

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 16 of 30

IT Control Framework (Ref. 2018/19-24)

Sponsor:

Needs Improvement

Rob Houghton

Audit actions:

i}
6
3

[rota [3

Post Office has established an IT Controls Framework (ITCF) based on
ISACA'‘s COBIT 5 model. The framework has been live since January
2018, with multiple processes added in December 2018.

The introduction of the ITCF was a fundamental step in providing
management with the ability to identify and address control deficiencies
effectively. Our review confirmed that the framework is generally
operating effectively, however, we recommend that the ITCF be
enhanced by:

Introducing a formal activity to develop and refine processes and
controls.

Improving understanding of the ITCF through enhanced
communications and training.

Implementing a more fully featured tool to support the ITCF.
Developing management information to provide improved
feedback to senior management, process owners and control
owners.

Defining roles and responsibilities for ITCF governance and
assurance.

Management Comment provided by Catherine Hamilton

“The ITCF has been shown to be operating effectively with clear opportunities to further optimise
and increase maturity over time. We will assess the technology and consider whether any further
investment will enhance our ability to identify and measure IT operational risk.”

Strictly Confidential

RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

47 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 17 of 30

Payzone Integration (Change Assurance Review) (Ref. 2018/19-29)

The shortcomings noted in this audit are balanced by observations of
good practice as well as management and workstreams leads’
commitment and strategic focus on the delivery of the business case,
which reduced the risk and limited the impact on the business.
Observations were separated between pre- and post-acquisition
activities:

Pre-acquisition: We noted that management has adopted a pragmatic
approach towards the delivery of the Payzone acquisition and has
sought external support when needed. This enabled a successful
completion following CMA approval and a smooth day one transition.

Needs Improvement

Sponsor: . However, we have observed some weaknesses in the pre-acquisition

Debbie Smith activities and integration planning that should be recorded as lessons
to be learned for future M&A activities. Specifically:

Audit actions: * An upfront, clearly defined scope and well-articulated set of
1 questions to be answered during due diligence.

6 * Greater formalisation and clarity over roles and responsibilities.
ie} * The completion of a thorough assessment and prioritisation of the
Total 7 tasks to be completed in the first 100 days post acquisition,

tailoring to Post Office needs and business priorities, as to drive
an integrated Day 1-100 execution.

Post-acquisition: Shortcomings in the Day 1-100 plan (being only a
subset of all transition activities), combined with insufficient resource
planning, resulted in the plan not achieving its objectives. The plan
was not appropriately re-assessed in light of scope, strategy and
priority changes, and as knowledge of the acquired business
increased. The pursuit of commercial opportunities and remediation
of issues noted post-acquisition also added pressure on the delivery
of the plan and the activities directly driven by the workstream leads.

As such full execution of the plan has been delayed with 460 of the
planned 1,056 activities not being completed. Failure to adequately
execute the key transition activities may lead to an overall erosion of
the business case (by adding costs and elongating the time to
integrate Payzone). Management has concurred with our view that a
comprehensive re-plan and re-prioritisation exercise should be
completed in light of the transition activities pending completion. The
outcome of this work should be a standard ‘Day 100+ Second Wave’
Post-Merger Integration (PMI) process, consolidating the tasks from
the Day 1-100 plan still outstanding, TSA exit and the wider
integration activities.

We have also noted weaknesses in governance arrangements,
monitoring of progress with integration activities and mechanisms to
track benefits - these are now being addressed.

Management Comment provided by Andrew Goddard

We found this audit to reflect a fair and reasonable assessment of the pre and post-acquisition
activity. There are a series of valuable learnings and improvements for future acquisitions,
specifically in the due diligence, planning, and resourcing of an M&A structure. There are also a
range of valuable recommendations to manage through the Second Wave plan of work. We have
already actioned a series of these by disbanding the PMO in favour of an internal programme team
to re-calibrate the separation, integration, and business as usual workload in a more compact and
integrated team structure. This will enhance the reporting and overall governance.”

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

48 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POL00423568

POL00423568

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 18 of 30

Belfast Exit (Change Assurance Review) (Ref. 2018/19-27)

Needs Improvement

Sponsor:
Rob Houghton

Audit actions:
ie}

6
3

Total 9
[Total]

The Belfast Exit programme aims to migrate Horizon from the Belfast
data centres (managed by Fujitsu) onto a Fujitsu managed cloud
platform, hosted in Microsoft's Azure.

We found the programme set-up and delivery processes to be broadly
appropriate with evidence of good practice across the scope areas
reviewed. An area particularly strong was the management of Fujitsu
with the team adopting an active pragmatic approach and addressing
issues by working collaboratively and following Agile principles.

The review highlighted some areas of improvement, most notably a
requirement to re-assess the Data Privacy Impact Assessment
(DPIA); inaccuracies or uncertainties in the migration cost estimates;
and a need to improve communication of the change freezes and its
impacts across Post Office.

The programme carried a high inherent risk, being a complex
migration; involving Post Office’s crown system, Horizon; and
competing both in terms of time and resources with other Post Office
key initiatives, particularly in Retail.

As we finalised this audit report, we were made aware of the decision
to pause and postpone the migration for twelve months. The decision,
while allowing the business to focus on other significant initiatives
and address risks with the migration plan, also allows management
more time to address observations from this audit.

Management Comment provided by Rob Houghton

Strictly Confidential

“The decision to defer the transfer of Horizon into cloud was made due to change window impact,
impact on Horizon specialist skills and the benefit of a longer time window to mitigate migration risks
before a major operational risk of an Horizon move. This timing enables the resolution of the findings
of the audit report as the remediation actions will be built into the revised timeline. Accordingly the
paper is for noting and I would propose that the actions and rating are postponed and the programme
is re-audited upon re-initiation.”

RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

49 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 19 of 30

Change Excellence Follow-up (Change Assurance) (Ref. 2018/19-26)

The Change Excellence programme (CEX) (previously Project
Trafalgar) aims to enhance Post Office’s Change delivery capabilities.

CEX was divided into four Programme Increments (PI), implementing
incremental capabilities to increase Change maturity from 1 out of 5,
as assessed at the start of the programme to a target maturity of 3.
Needs Improvement Our review assessed the effectiveness of the processes, controls and
governance as it delivers these programme increments. We also
assessed progress with actions from the previous CEX advisory

Sponsor: review.

Rob Houghton
The programme believes that PO’s Change maturity has increased to a
Audit actions: level of 2.5 at the end of PI3. Whilst we have not performed a formal
maturity assessment, the audit has found that significant progress
was made. However, we noted areas of improvement and work still

4 outstanding and highlight that governance needs to be improved,

2 particularly:

6 « SPO's mandate is not clear. At present it does not enable in full
the driving of the implementation and bedding-in of delivery
processes and the incremental improvements.

« SPO also needs to agree with GE the sanctions for not delivering
in accordance with the revised framework.

« Greater clarity is needed in regards to the roles of the Design
Authority (DA), Enterprise Architecture Group (EAG) and the
Change Approvals Group (CAG).

ie}

The revised governance is key to assist with bedding in of key
capabilities, controls, and tools deployed, including Service Now
(SNOW), Anaplan, SAP Project Accounting, and the Competency
Framework, and to continue to drive a shift to Agile principles (70% of
programmes are still waterfall in nature). While finalising this review,
we were made aware of imminent governance changes driven by the
McKinsey report. As these are not yet final and formally
communicated across Post Office, we have maintained the detailed
observations as-is and will (when appropriate) amend the agreed
actions in line with the pending changes.

Management Comment provided by Kevin McKay

“We note the recognition of improvement in change process and tooling and accept that there remains
further work to ensure these improvements are embedded so as to deliver the outcome of improved
change delivery performance. Whilst we have sought to trial SAFe Agile from a tooling perspective,
which we completed in March, we have not yet trialled SAFe at a portfolio level across Post Office
which is anticipated to require some organisational change. This is intended to be part of the
Organisational Effectiveness work originating from the McKinsey Blueprint. The Design Authority
forum has been reviewed and merged with CAG to form the Portfolio Review Board, starting mid-May.
Other items identified here are in hand though not all being addressed by Change Excellence
Programme.”

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

50 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POL00423568
POL00423568

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 20 of 30

FS Training (Branch Sales) (Ref. 2018/19-04)

Satisfactory

Sponsor:
Debbie Smith/ Owen
Woodley

Audit actions:
0

1
1
3

POL has a regulatory responsibility, via its AR agreements, to put
effective systems and controls in place by which colleagues involved in
the introduction and sale of POL’s FS products receive appropriate
training and oversight.

POL maintains governance mechanisms to align its training
obligations and objectives with those of its Principals. Governance
committees are properly set up and operate effectively, providing
forums for approval, challenge and escalation of FS training and
related matters.

The rollout of Smart IDs represents a move towards a system-based
preventative approach to controlling the delivery, completion and
monitoring of training activities across the network, and early
indications are that it is working well and delivering the expected
benefits. This change, combined with the removal of higher risk
product sales such as mortgages from branches, has enabled POL to
streamline its approach to training into two streams (for CRMs and
non-CRMs), which are well understood across the business functions
that contribute to training delivery. We note that there is no overall
documented training policy, the existence of which would allow POL
to easily demonstrate to stakeholders that the current approach to
training is appropriate and would provide a clear benchmark against
which future reviews and refreshes can be made. We recommend
that action is taken to capture the overall approach.

Management Comment provided by Cathy Mayor

end of September 2019”

“We take POLs responsibilities as an AR very seriously and are therefore pleased to be rated
Green, Satisfactory. The two improvements recommended will be implemented before the

Strictly Confidential

RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

51 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 21 of 30

Pensions Process (Follow-up review) (Ref. 2019/20-01)

The 2018/19 audit concluded that controls over the Pensions process
needed significant improvement. Management agreed to implement a
total of 23 remedial actions.

The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARC) requested that
Internal Audit perform a follow-up audit to validate the implementation
Satisfactory status of the 23 actions raised in the 2018/19 audit.

Salary sacrifice was introduced in November 2018 which led to process
changes. Management asked us to review this area more broadly, in

Si r
Mo Kang addition to following up on the prior year audit.
Since the last audit the management of the pension scheme and
Audit actions: collaboration across both the Pensions and HRSC teams is much
0 improved. There were no regulatory issues or control failures identified
3 and the salary sacrifice scheme is working as intended.
3 The work done by both the interim team in London and the Payroll
6 team in HRSC has seen the number of reportable errors significantly

reduced.

Management Comment provided by Mo Kang

“The findings of the audit compared to the previous pensions audit in September 2018 are
a significant marked improvement in what has been a relatively short period of time, a
fantastic achievement and thankyou to the Audit Team for their support throughout this
piece of work. The HR target Operating Model implementation, changes of personnel
within the Reward team and the teams working much closer together have been
significant enablers for the HR function overall.

Further improvements are being made within our processes and systems, regularly
reviewing our ways of working and establishing the Pensions Governance meetings with
the HRSC, Reward Team, AON & Scottish Widows are evidence of the progress and
achievements made.

However, I acknowledge & understand that there is more work to do on how our payroll
team is structured in the HRSC to align with our operational needs, role based
permissions and segregation of duties and plans to address this issue are being developed
by the HRSC.

In summary, great progress has been made and I have every confidence that we will
continue to build on this with the right people, structure, skills and experience in place
within the function.”

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

52 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 22 of 30

Appendix 1. Risk Heatmap

Trend / Risk Fer, Clone! HR
Principal CFO. Ops a
Maks I Sreensewtus I Rell) Marty leases I (050) I OF I CHOITBCI ne. July-"19 Comments,

Red - There is one ongoing red rik relating to cheque clearence process Work
continues on mitigations through negotiations with Boland longer term the

N/A plan is to move Cheque Deposit envelopes for PO Money deposits.

Key amber points - The Safety Compliance Top Risk remains "Amber as

improvements to H&S training and compliance remains ongoing including

<eveloping guidance for Agents In COO work continues to improve support to

agents balancing and resolving pay queries. T experienced a couple of major

incidents in une (Agents peyroland loss of MS Teams and Office 365) als

rezolved pomp

Red - Whist info Security isnot called out os red Cyber Theat wil em

May-19 1a focus aren and forms pat oout top sk prot. Update om ISO m RCE pack
fecued Key amber points - For LCG are reviewing resourcing for DP activities. Work is
ey n/a. continuing on GOPR and data processes to ensure compliance and effective

management.
Red - No business area is currently reporting high concerns.
Key amber points - Work is underway to assess whether the Fujitsu campus
lover should take place at the end of August. A risk workshop has been
ranged with key stakeholders to ensure the risks are identified and mitigated
appropriately. Additionally Verizon have postponed 9 scheduled DR tests to
‘date. This has been escalated within Verizon, Vendor Management and the
19/2 service team. Itis 8 concern that the tests will not be performed within the
agreed 12 month period.
Red - For LCG, Contract Mgt and Poor Contract Design remain an ongoing
‘focus. Work to remediate has been primarily around the high value contracts. A
‘new procurement too! will help fix. which is currently being procured and due to
be in place by Nov 2020.
Key amber points ~ No new issues called out.

[Technology

May-'19

Third Party

Red ~PCTremaine a kay concern (RCC pack confirms tet postion), BO
reports two re rit eating to insider treat and failure to nce secury and
data privacy contr in contact with suppliers. Work fe undersay to ree
‘which include; training LED programmes, and controls implemented via the
ML programme. For Rta he Tp risk around Cash Withdrawal Card
transactions updates within the risk, Telco have identied and ae working onI
potential changes required to mest the requirerrents fr PSOIL and the full
‘utcome ofthe text rely sues is oustanding, Update expected bythe end of

Nov-20 Nov-20. Nov-20 sun
Key amber points - No new issues called out
Red - There a ky ak over Oeom ping erent review tat male a
concern hiss focused onthe over 6S which acounts asa lange volume of

May-19 the POs customer base, ommercialy we have decided to take a reactive

Financial approach to thi. An update from Ofcom i expected in September 201

Key amber points ~ For LCG ‘Demand Management is being rolled out to.
en improve forecasting, Ops loss prevention team snow in place and continues to

vworkon process improvernents.

Red = No new red risks, Retail Properiion and Brevik remain and updater ae

within the Top Risk Profile

Key amber points - sent remains Amber, however has moved to@

worsening pesition as the increasing potential of competitive forces i the

rraret hae started to grow Our plans could be sted the major banks/ tech

stan-upe move int this space

Red - The digital competency people risk which remains rated as Red (building

in/a_ teams with right skils and capabilties) has been redefined as Talent Acquisition.
Key amber points - There are several risks around the lack of resource support
the Back office Transformation and Cloud enablement both with the Service
area, the risks are within appetite asa result of colleagues within I supporting
the low resourced areas,

People

‘The overall satus ofthe portfolio continues to be Amber, Refer to main body oF
the report.

WY rreving # worsening - Stable

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 53 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 23 of 30

Appendix 2: Top Group Risks (Included in the reading room)

Appendix 3: Metrics reviewed for Multiple Partners

Finance (RAG)

Number of Company operated POs within

Listed estate
Number of Symbol operated Pos within
Exchange estate

Market Cap (£)

Total of whole estate

Current Share Price (£)

Acquisitions Company operated (LTM)

Share price high (LTM)(£)

Disposals Company operated (LTM)

Share price low (LTM) (£)

Disposals of PO with retail retained CO (LTM)

Share price % change (LTM)
Share price % change (L3M)

Remuneration (£) YTD
Remuneration variance YoY (%)

S&P Long-Term Company Rating

Reported PO P&L (if applicable)

S&P Outlook/Credit Watch

Additional supporting information

Stock on loan %

Relationship Manager Feedback

Net Debt/EBITDA

CEO Feedback (date)

Total Debt/Equity

Notes

Interest cover (Earnings/int.exp)

Post Office (RAG)

Recent Announcements/upcoming events

Comments

Strictly Confidential

RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 24 of 30

Appendix 4: Change Portfolio: Gold & Platinum
programme/projects dashboard+

Service
Bock Office Transformation Programme I Service
Data & Analycs Excelence = DAE Strategie
(errow) nabler
Future of stock Cost Reduction
Post Office Business Opportunty-Agent I End-User
On boarding Experience
Process & Contact Centre Cost Reduction
Self Service Portal (Branch Hub) Cost Reduction
Source to Sette Cost Reduction
SF EUM Common services Seategic
Home Phone and Broadband Nuance I Cost Avoldance
Blueprint Cost Reduction
success Factors - Phase Buategs
= Liscseidithileaadil Enabler
Strategic
105 Digital Identity sri
east Ext Cost Reduction
on Tegal and
PCI Compliance Tod
ivan scurit rations: jetratege
‘Savenced Sealnty Qperats Enabler
vojact Evere Tegal and
Project i Regulatory
Tegal and
‘General Data Protection Regulation mae
Legal Entity Optimisation - LEO Satay
Tegal and
Fit end Proper fequatory
ome Insurance Transformation (FOr I — Strategie
Nemesis) cnabier
. Home 8 Travel Insurance Pang & Swategic
Date Analytes POL = Morpheus) enabler
Revere
Digitsing Malis aired
Horizon Integration Hub Sratage
Tevenve
‘Akomated Locals 4
‘Cheque image In-dearing and Oo ‘Legal and
searing fequatory
nhanc ser Management Easel end
Eriirtead Uses Mensimiient Regulatory
Revenue
Future of Pc —
Service
Network Development oe.
Tevenve
Faisal Shor Generating
Service
Poca implementation 17/38 a
SSK Procurement Cost Avoidance
End User
55K Simpifieation aia
Stetegic
SK Tnal Strotgic

1 Data taken from Strategic Portfolio Office Change Monthly Executive Summary (P2) - June 2019

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 55 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 25 of 30

Appendix 5: Compliance Status Heat map

Current Previous

Cony Assessment I Assessment

Comment/Action

Ofcom has confirmed it is to investigate the Text Relay issue and we
are supporting it with its information requests. We have signalled
that we are open to exploring an early settlement, which was
proposed by the regulator may be offered

The status has reverted to Amber due to the remedial work identified
through the GDPR Gap analysis. A separate paper outlining action
steps and timeframes is being presented to the RCC for consideration.

Telecoms
Compliance

Data
Protection

We have received annual invoice from HMRC for £3.2m and have
raised with BEIS but it is likely Post Office will have to pay this invoice.
Progress is being made collecting the agents fit and proper data, butI
there are issues with resolving partial/non-responses

No material issues to report. See separate annual Whistleblowing
report and policy review.

AML/CTF

Whistleblowing

No material issues to report. See separate ABC annual policy review

Anti-Bribery sind report

and Corruption

Supply Chain 14 improvement needs from 4 audits in the 3 months to April. No
Compliance material issues - satisfactory overall

Financial We are working with PO Money on strategic product change initiatives
Services for credit card new providers and current account closure. This
Compliance includes new Appointed Representative agreement and management
and Conduct of new regulatory Principal. Status has moved to Amber due to the
Risk instances of non-conformance identified through mystery shopping.
Vulnerable Alternative format literature provision-we are currently at the final
Customers stage of contract negotiation with an external provider. When
complete this metric should move to green (expected end July)
Policy governance and accountabilities are being reviewed and
effective controls established.

Policy
Governance

KEY:
Material items of concern that require focussed remediation to ensure we stay within our risk appetite ]

[ST Some items of concern that could breach appetite if they crystallise or are not managed ]

HE Within overall appetite ]

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

56 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 26 of 30

Appendix 6: Internal Audit Plan Status

2018/19 Internal Audit Plan — Re-prioritised (ARC approved 30 Oct 2018) - Status at 26 June 2019
No. I Title/Subject Sponsor read Timing I Status / Rating
Internal Control Reviews

1 _ I Product Risk Review (Postal Orders) 0. Woodley _I Original April

2 I Employee Expenses Remeron / Original April

3 I Procurement Fraud Investigation A.Cameron I Addition May INotRated =I
4 I Month-end Close Process A.Cameron I Addition I Nov

5 I MoneyGram Compliance 0.Woodley I Addition I Sept

6 I Contract Management (IT) R. Houghton I Original Oct

7__I Whistle-blower Process J. Macleod _ I Original Oct

8 I Opening of Bank Accounts A.Cameron I Addition I Nov

9 I FS Training & Competence 0. Woodley I Original May

10 I Cyber Security R. Houghton I Original Jan

11_I IT Control Framework R. Houghton I Original March

12 I Financial Control Framework A.Cameron I Original Jan

13. I Payroll M. Kang Original Feb

14 I Client Settlements Process A.Cameron I Original Jan

15 I Agents Remuneration A.Cameron I Original Jan

16 I Network and SGEI Reporting D. Smith Addition I Feb

17 I Procure to Pay A.Cameron I Original a4/Q1 I Postpone

18 I Branch Cash Forecasting & Management A. Cameron _I Original a1 19/20 I Postpone!

19 I Supply Chain Management A.Cameron _I Original a1 19/20 I Postponel

20 I Digital Strategy & Capability 0. Woodley _I Original 2019/20 _I Postpone

21 I Online Sales 0. Woodley _I Original 2019/20 _ I Postpone!

22 I Data Privacy (GDPR Follow-up) J.Macleod I Addition —_I qi 19/20 I Postpone

Change Assurance")

1__I Change Excellence (Trafalgar) R. Houghton I Governance I May Advisory Report

2 __I DMB Strategy D. Smith Programme I July

3 I Branch Hub (Agents Portal) D. Smith Programme I October

4 _I Investment Funding Controls R. Houghton I Governance I November

5 I Payzone Integration (Panther) D. Smith Programme I Jan

6 _I Digital Identity Services M. Edwards I Programme I Feb

7__I Change Excellence (Follow-up) R. Houghton I Governance I March

8 I P2C Belfast Exit R. Houghton I Programme I March

9 _ I Digitising Mails D. Smith Programme I TBC Postponed to 19/20
10 I Payment Technology Upgrade (PC!) D. Smith Programme I TBC Postponed to 19/20

‘) Delay until after BOT programme is complete and new controls embedded.
2) postpone due to process still bedding down and maturing (GDPR) / restructuring (Digital & Online) / remediation (P2P).

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 57 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update
POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 27 of 30
the list of Change Assurance reviews was approved by the ARC on the basis of being the highest risk programmes
planned for 2018/19 at the time. The list is being reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis to reflect the programmes
most deserving of independent assurance, predominantly ‘Platinum’ projects.
2019/20 Internal Audit Plan - Status as at 26 June 2019
No. I Title/Subject Sponsor Source Timing Status / Rating
Internal Control Reviews
1__I Procure to Pay Interim CFO Original June Fieldwork
2 _I Branch Cash Forecasting Rob Houghton Original Aug Not started
3 _I Supply Chain (CviT) Rob Houghton Original Aug Not started
4 I Accounts Receivable Interim CFO Original Flex Not started
Debbie Smith & — I Original Not started
5 I Agent On-boarding ob Houghton a4
6 I Pensions Follow-up Mo Kang Original May [Satisfactory I
7 _ I Employee Expenses Follow-up Mo Kang Original August Planning
8 _ I Branch Banking Framework Debbie Smith Original a3 Not started
9 I Sales (Savings Accounts) Owen Woodley Original a3 Not started
oe BenFoat &Rob I Original Not started
10 I Vetting / Fit & Proper Houghton Flex
11 I Effectiveness of Risk Management interim CFO Original Flax Not started
Framework
12. I CFS Controls (Post BOT) Interim CFO Original a2 Not started
13 I Effectiveness of Compliance Function Ben Foat Original Flex Not started
14 I Telecoms Customer Billing Owen Woodley _I Original July Planning
15 I Data Privacy (incl. follow-up of GDPR) Ben Foat Original a4 Not started
16 I Cyber Security Follow-up Rob Houghton —_I Original a2 nddanheaa
17 I Payzone Control Framework Debbie Smith Original a2 Planning
Owen Woodley & I Original
18 I FS Branch Sales Delbsesrath Flex Not started
Change Assurance")
1 Investment Funding Controls follow-up Rob Houghton Governance I Jul / Aug Not started
2 _I Effectiveness of 2nd line Programme tere EFS Governance I JUV Not started
Assurance
3 Benefits Realisation (Product Realisation) I Rob Houghton Governance I July Not started
4 _ I Portfolio Level Operational effectiveness I pos Houghton Governance I t4 Not started
(excl. assurance, and gating process)
5 I Effectiveness of the Gating Process Rob Houghton Governance I July Planning
6 _I Belfast Exit (phase 2) Rob Houghton Programme I Sept Not started
7 _I Data Analytics Excellence Rob Houghton Programme I June Fieldwork
8 _ I PTU (PCI Compliance) Rob Houghton Programme I September Planning
9 _ I Digitising Mails Debbie Smith Governance I tbd Not started
10 I Identity Services (Follow-up) Owen Woodley I Programme I thd Not started

‘The list of Change Assurance reviews was approved by the ARC on the basis of being the highest risk programmes
planned for 2019/20 at the time. The list is being reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis to reflect the programmes
most deserving of independent assurance, predominantly ‘Platinum’ projects.

Strictly Confidential RCC 04 July 2019

58 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

POL00423568
POL00423568

Page 28 of 30

Appendix 7: Audit findings mapped against COSO control

principles (+)

Audit findings - Total number - FY19 vs FY18

Internal controls are not effectively designed and/or
deployed through policies, procedures and systems

Ineffective identification and/or management of risk
Unavailability of relevant, quality information

Lack of clarity of structure, authority and responsibility
Insufficient staff / Staff lack skills and competencies

Oversight and governance groups are not effective

a”
66
a 2
s
EY

45
7
32
16
19
2
1

L
10

Direction of travel and strategy is not clear / Business 24
case, project plan and scope not clear =

Non-compliance with laws and regulations

9
8

Lack of accountability J

Colleague behaviours not aligned with PO values

20 40 60 80 100 120

=2018/19 ™2017/18

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

RCC 04 July 2019

59 of 185
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

POL00423568

Audit Findings - % of total - FY19 vs FY18

Internal controls are not effectively designed and/or
deployed through policies, procedures and systems

Ineffective identification and/or management of risk
Unavailability of relevant, quality information

Lack of clarity of structure, authority and responsibilty
Insufficient staff / Staff lack skills and competencies

Oversight and governance groups are not effective

Direction of travel and strategy is not clear / Business
case, project plan and scope not clear

Non-compliance with laws and regulations
Lack of accountability

Colleague behaviours not aligned with PO values

POL00423568
Page 29 of 30
el 40.0
eis 127

ade

5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 25.0 30.0 35.0 40.0 45.0

2018/19 2017/18

Commentary:

« The percentage of audit findings relating to ineffective control activities has reduced
by almost 4 percentage points, indicating that operational controls are improving /

maturing.

« Likewise, risk management appears to be more effective, with findings reducing by 5

percentage points.

« However, there appears to be a deterioration in the control components ‘control
environment’ and ‘information & communication’, as the number of findings around
availability of information, clarity of structure and direction of travel (unclear
strategy) have in total increased by almost 12 percentage points.

Strictly Confidential

60 of 185

RCC 04 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

POL00423568

POL00423568

Page 30 of 30

Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) Internal Control Framework mapped to Post Office control themes

[control Component Control Principles

(Control environment
2. Exercise oversights responsibilities
3. Establish structure, authority and responsibility
4, Demonstrate commitment to competence

5. Enforce accountability

Risk assessment 6. Specific suitable objectives
7. Identifies and analyses risks
8. Assesses fraud risk

9. Identifies and analyses significant change

Control activities 10, Selects and develops control activities

11. Selects and develops general controls over technology
2. Deploys through policies and procedures

Information and communication: 13, Uses relevant information
114, Communicates internally
15, Communicates externally

(Monitoring activities 416. Conducts ongoing and/or separate evaluators

17. Evaluates and communicates deficiencies

‘L Demonstrate commitment to integrity and ethical values 1. Colleague behaviours not aligned with PO values,

Office Audit Themes / Root Cau:

2. Lackof darity of structure, authority and responsibility
3. Insufficient staff / Staff lack skills and competencies (Insufficient training and
‘commitment to continuous development of colleagues)

4, Accountability is not enforced; management style does not encourage a culture ofI
being accountable

5. Direction of travel and strategy isnot clear

6. Ineffective identification and/or management of operational, fraud and change
risk this could include unclear expression of risk appetite)

7. Internal controls are not effectively deployed through policies, procedures and
‘systems and/or internal controls are not designed or operating effectively. Includes
lack of up to date process documentation.

‘8. Non-compliance with laws and regulations,

9, Unavailability of relevant, quality information to support the internal control
{unetion and decision making (or ineffective communication of such information)

10. Oversight and governance groups are not effective in identifying and correcting
control weaknesses.

(N) COSO has established a common internal contro! model against which companies and
organisations may assess their control systems. The COSO control model is underwritten by the
Institute of Internal Auditors. The above table shows how the Post Office control themes map to

COSO control components and principles.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

RCC 04 July 2019

61 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 7 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance
POST OFFICE Page 1 of 10
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE POLICY REVIEW

6.2 Procurement Compliance
Reporting

Author: Barbara Brannon Sponsor: Al Cameron Meeting Date: 4 July 019

Executive Summary

Context

As a business in receipt of public funds POL is bound by the Public Contract
Regulations (2015). PCR 2015 oblige POL to behave in a fair, objective & transparent
way when contracting with 3” party suppliers. Additionally, set procedures must be
followed for spend above £25k and £181,302.

Failure to abide by the legislation or "slicing and dicing” contracts exposes POL to risk,
both as far the commercial outcomes of the contracts as well as the reputational
damage, legal remedies, censure & fines that can follow the discovery of a breach.
Our compliance to PCR can be requested under a Freedom of Information request at
any time.

The PCR Compliance Register allows for the tracking of breaches to PCR regulations at
the Post Office and internal governance processes. One aim of collating this
information is to drive improvement in awareness and compliance behaviour across
the organisation. The second and primary aim is to work with GE and Business Units
to commence commercial reviews in a more timely way ensuring POL obtains value,
commercial and contractual flexibility fitting the requirements and business strategy
of the organisation.

Questions addressed in this paper

1. How many and what types of procurement non-compliance have occurred in the
past quarter?
Since the last RCC report in January there have been a total of 37 non-
compliant PCR incidents with a total value of {
A list of these awards is set out at the end of Appendix A.

2. What are we doing about it?

INTERNAL Page 1 of 10 RCC 4 July 2019

62 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 7 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance

Active reviews continue with Business Units with the highest values relating to
non-compliance. A number of tenders with material values attached were
completed on schedule by the financial year end.

Approved business strategies and therefore associated Sourcing [buying]
activities and associated timetables to resolve non-compliance within Identity
Services and, Brands/Rapp are outstanding.

Our overall non-compliance value has dropped slightly from firrevevanriin January

This was primarily driven by closure of some material risks through compliant
procurement awards and contracts reaching a statute of limitation on a

challenge period. New risks of Tinnevevanr} for Marketing [aggregated] and £10m for
Globalpay were entered into between January 2018 and July 2019.

Open non-compliant awards since January 2017 are outlined below and a
detailed list of high value open items is within Appendix B.

Non Compliance Value by Business Function.

Jan-19 Jul-19
Function _Sum of Value

Sum of Value

Comment
I New direct award for GLO. Legacy risks closed
{ Customer Hub Support + misc small contracts

Corporate Comms
Financial Services

HR I { successfactors, SAP, Recruitment [partial]
IT H I SSK Support & Service Now
Marketing { { Brands, Ensighten, Caci, Aggregator renewals
Retail H i
Network / IRRELEVANT I
Travel H I Award Pending in August
Identity Services ! { Digi-identity
Retail i I Globalpay, Oliver Wyman, Egremont, Smith & Ouzman
Supply Chain ; I
Post Office Insurance i I
Grand Total i ;
INTERNAL Page 2 of 10 RCC 4 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 63 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 7 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance
Risk Status(Open/Closed) __.Y’ Breach Type 1- PCR Threshold Bid Function 7
‘Sum of Value/ = Corporate Comms

Total
= Financial Services

= HR

= Identity Services

IT

= Marketing

= Retail

= Travel

ey

3. What is in the current Procurement pipeline which is high value and at risk of
being awarded or extended non-compliantly?

= Supply Chain

Update on previously advised:
a) £10m pa. A 1yr extension for our Payments provider to complete a
technology upgrade programme with the business actively working on its
replacement strategy has been completed,
£1.2m pa. Successfactors - Enterprise HR software system SaaS contract
renewal. Paper submitted to GE, December 2018. Non-compliant 12
month renewal executed April 2019, paying for only what we use. This
has taken our SF costs from a budgeted £1.2m in 2018/19 to £539k in
2019/20 a saving of £711k. Work will commence in July to identify route
to compliance/replacement when new G-Cloud framework is published.
c) £800k. SSK support with NCR for 2019 pending an agreed sourcing
solution. Business requirements not ready for market as yet. Discussions
and quote processes ongoing with IT suppliers on required software
development.

b

d) £1m Brands/Rapp - this has been extended again in April 2019. A
business strategy, funding and sourcing plan needs to be agreed.
INTERNAL Page 3 of 10 RCC 4 July 2019

64 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 7 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance

Discussions are continuing with Marketing and IT on their key upcoming
renewals to identify the sourcing options which are appropriate for the
required operating models/cost drivers/business strategy.

An agreed strategy to bring POL recruitment services/agencies into
compliance is outstanding along with Staff and Agent Vetting, the latter
moving to Network Operations but with continuing HR requirements to be
built in. HR have appointed a Recruitment Manager who is working with
Procurement to update options presented in 2018. As recruitment budgets
are decentralised, a briefing paper will be prepared by HR and Procurement
for GE and L40 for discussion.

Conclusion

Non-compliant awards of contracts are already subject to extensive internal
governance, legal and risk review, in line with POL governance guidance on value and
risk.

Individually, all large value non-compliant contracts have been reviewed by appropriate
Post Office governance forums with agreement on next steps and actions towards
remediation allocated where appropriate.

Executive support towards moving POL towards a more compliant footing is very strong,
but equally as important there is extensive support towards the cultural change required
to ensure that Procurement activities and outcomes will support longer term business

strategies and we reduce commercial risk making our 3 party arrangements fit for
purpose.

Input Sought

None - for discussion and further action if required.

INTERNAL Page 4 of 10 RCC 4 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 65 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 7 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance

Appendix A

1. What are the potential consequences of non-compliant awards?

a) Pre-contractual remedies overview: During a Procurement, an aggrieved
party can seek an interim injunction suspending the tender or the
implementation until the court decides on an outcome.

b) Post-contractual remedies: The court can order an ‘ineffectiveness order’
rendering the contract void &/or can award damages.

2. Why are these incidents of non-compliance occurring, and what can be done
about it?

Non-compliant awards are made for a variety of reasons at the Post Office.

a) Low value, time constrained or highly sensitive/specialist engagements are
common. For example, a number of expedited reviews since the New Year
on a short turn-around time.

b) Large commercial arrangements cannot often be easily competed or
unravelled without operational impact, and re-procurement may be subject
to a pending evolution of a supporting Business Strategy.

c) The contractual arrangements may pre-date PCR 2015 regulations or the
contract novated during separation from RMG, automatically becoming non-
compliant at the renewal point. Non-compliant awards are frequently made
on a tactical basis to extend contractual services while public tender
processes are executed.

d) Delays to public sector panels of suppliers becoming available. The Post
office makes extensive use of this low cost route to market and
new/refreshed panels are subject to frequent delays from Crown
Commercial Services. Single interim extensions [of periods under 12
months] while tender processes are run are considered to be low risk
legally.

e) Changes in scope or value over the term of a contract may render the
extension or renewal of services non-compliant. Material changes to the
scope of a contract may render the whole contract non-compliant.

f) Disregard for, or lack of understanding of the regulations.

3. Why are we receiving this report?
A decision to collate this information into a single location was taken in the
Autumn of 2016. The aim is to track and improve our overall compliance and
commercial results as an organisation, while also ensuring perceptions are
accurate. However it should be noted that it will facilitate timely responses to

INTERNAL Page 5 of 10 RCC 4 July 2019

66 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 7 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance

Freedom of Information requests which adds risk to the Post Office commercial
landscape.

4. Are any of these breaches arguable on regulatory grounds or are they all
breaches?

A full explanation of the individual compliance breaches for direct awards over
£181k [previously £164k] threshold is attached in Appendix A. Each entry details
the nature of, and the value of the breach. The threshold is altered annually
based on the FX rate between GBP and the Euro.

The Procurement Compliance Register does not at present give an indicative risk
level attached to the award. This information is provided to the accountable
executives under internal governance processes in the form of a PCR risk note
before a contract above threshold is entered into, and if necessary under Legal
Privilege. In addition, all signatories to a contract have sight of the Risk note as
part of the Contract Authorisation Form [CAF].

All entries are compliance breaches. A period of challenge applies to each PCR
breach once an aggrieved party becomes aware or ought to have become aware.
This risk finally expires at 6 years from the date of breach. The defensibility of a
legal challenge is outlined within a Risk Note.

5. How many of the breaches were approved in advance and how many
retrospectively?
All contracts entered into during this period were compliant with internal
governance processes on contract and commercial review. All were for awards of
between £0 and £4,000,000 with the exception of the Globalpay extension which
was the subject of a Board report.

6. Why were the approvals given?
The rationale for approval is relevant to the individual service and is detailed
within Appendix A.

7. What were the unapproved, material breaches?
There were no unapproved, material breaches during this period.

8. Describe what you are doing about the breaches. Where we are in breach, do we
have a plan to come back into compliance and over what time period will that

plan take effect?

a

A forward view of material contracts falling under each Business Unit is
currently prepared by the relevant Procurement Manager for discussions with

INTERNAL Page 6 of 10 RCC 4 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 67 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 7 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance

b

°)

d)

e)

9g

h

id

k)

their key stakeholders. The maturity of this look ahead view does vary currently
and is consistently a high priority activity within the team.

Sourcing options papers are prepared for review by contract managers and key
stakeholders [risk, legal, security] with routes to market agreed. In many cases
these are dependent on evolving business and operating model strategies and
the Procurement team are now actively involved with some units helping to
advise and review options as thinking evolves.

Where a non-compliant award is proposed due to time pressure, Procurement
are actively working on long term mitigation with awards made on an interim
basis to meet urgent operational needs.

Each RCC member now receives a regular report on compliance within their
business unit[s].

A new Risk & Governance process requires a Risk Exception report to be
created for non-compliant direct awards with SLT or GE sign off.

All Professional Services engagements must be approved in writing in advance
by the COO. A compliant panel of preferred consulting partners has been
appointed and proposed engagements outside of this panel are subject to
additional review and challenge.

Procurement provides training as part of the revised Induction process for new
staff. Training packs are being updated for existing staff and a new training
module made available on Successfactors. Ad hoc training sessions for
interested Business Units are also run.

A new Intranet site has been launched for Procurement to improve visibility of
process, regulation, and the panels of approved compliant suppliers available to
POL business units.

A revised POL Procurement Policy and supporting processes is in progress
giving more granular guidance.

Using Crown Commercial Services frameworks, panels of Preferred Suppliers
are being refreshed and updated across a wide range of spend categories to
reduce time to market, improve compliance and greatly improve commercial
outcomes and legal risk.

A planned change to operational systems will, once live, give Procurement
earlier visibility of potential compliance issues eg: contractual value thresholds.

INTERNAL Page 7 of 10 RCC 4 July 2019

68 of 185

Post Office Limited - Risk and

ompliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 7 Supplier Contracts Out of Governance

New Incidents [PCR & Internal Governance] over Reporting Period - Open Risks only.

Supplier N
23/01/2019 [Management lTom Moran ohn Dineen
Jconsuitaney
[2 [aa70272018 [creative Services _IHR i rama Campbell
3 [28/02/2019 [Marketing Marketing [Owen Woodley [Emma Springham _[Plers Langendon
[28/02/2019 [Marketing [Financial Services IOwen Woodley Ichrysanthy Pspinis [Frankie Amul!
5 [01/03/2018 IGoods for Resale Reta [Debbie Smith [Andrew Goddard _ [Nick Spicer
I 6 [03/03/2019 IMarketing PO Insurance (no [Owen Woodley IRuss Taverner [Paul Dashwood
PCR)
7 [08/03/2019I[creative Services [Finance [Alistair Cambell [Steph Ball
[a 05/03/2019 I Marketing [Marketing IDebbie Smith [Katharine Challinor I Steve Kirby
g _I24/03/2019 [Marketing Marketing [Owen Woodley Emma Springham [Piers Langendoen
[F107 ]23/03/2019 [Marketing [Marketing [Owen Woodley [Henk Van Hulle [Sephora Jenks
41 [25/03/2019] Professional Services [Retail Debbie Smith [Mark Siviter lndsay Allan
qq _ [25/03/2019 [Recruitment & Agency, [Retail [Debbie Smith [Roger Gale lindsay Alan
13 I 26/03/2019 [Recruitment & Agency HR [MoKang [Emma Campbell
434 I26/03/2019]Recruitment & Agency [HR [MoKang [steve o Reilly
45 _I26/03/2019)[Professional Services [Finance Alistair liohn Flood
Icameron
[16 [27/03/2019 IGoods for Resale Retail [Debbie Smith [Mark Siviter lLaura.APlunkett I}
17 04/08/2019 IRecruitment & Agency [Financial Services [Owen Woodley ISean Leahy Sean teahy I}
18 {10/04/2019 IIrsaas THR IMo Kang [Rob Houghton i
13 22/05/2019 sas Tavkang [Owen Woodey ethan tate —frervabona I IRRELEVANT
23/05/2019 IPR ‘Marketing [Owen Woodley Joanne Leahy [Caroline Keany
20
21__ [23/05/2019 [Courses Retail [Debbie smith [Pamela Heap
22 [23/05/2019 Telecoms PO Telecoms (no [Owen Woodley [Meredith sharples Matt Keeffe
PCR)
33 [23/05/2019 [Public Affairs (Corporate [Mark Davies [Patrick Bourne
‘comms
EEOC [Marketing Owen Woodley [GarolineKeany
25 _ [23/05/2019 IMarketing Marketing [Owen Woodley [Mic di Stazio
[26 [23/05/2019 Recruitment & Agency _IMarketing [Owen Woodley [Henk Van Hulle [Balla Slade
27 [08/06/2019] Hardware ‘Supply Chain [Alistair [Andrew Preston [Darren Mullen
[Cameron
28 13/06/2019 ICoaching/mentoring [Corporate [Mark Davies [lane Hill [Alistair Cameron’
‘comms
29__I13/06/2019 [Recruitment & Agency [HR IMoKang __ISean Leahy [Sean Leahy
30 _I13/06/2019] Recruitment & Agency HR IMoKang Caroline Donnell ICarolineO
Donnell
31 /13/06/2019 Recruitment & Agency [AR IMoKang Caroline Donnell ICarolineO
Donel!
[32 [4370672018 ICash Handing i [Rob Houghton [John Flood john Flood
33 15/06/2019 [Marketing Marketing Owen Woodley [Emma Springham _IGrant Balle
[34 [15/06/2019 [Retail [Debbie Smith
INTERNAL Page 8 of 10 RCC 4 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 69 of 185
SL JO OL

6L/20/¥0-2anIWWED eoUe!IdiOD PUE YS! - PAIILUIT BOMJO 1S0q

Appendix B

ETO Function GE Member Supplier Name
Category

23/03/2017 I Professional HR Mo Kang

Services
10/01/2018 I Travel Travel [Alisdair

Cameron

10/01/2018 I Professional HR Mo Kang

Services
10/01/2018 IT Software iT Rob Houghton
15/02/2017 IComms, R&l& PR ICorporate Mark Davies

Comms: [

04/07/2018 I IT Software Marketing Owen Woodley
04/07/2018 IT Software Retail Debbie Smith
28/08/2018 IMarketing Retail Debbie Smith

Professional ServicesIRetail Debbie Smith

INTERNAL Page 9 of 10 ~ ° ~ RCC 4 July 2019

POL00423568
POL00423568

BOURWIAAOD Jo INO s}9eMUOD Jaliddng {4 qeL
Appendix B

IRRELEVANT

04/01/2019 Goods for Resale __ Financial Services [Owen Woodley I;
29/01/2019 IManagement Retail Debbie Smith
consultancy

28/02/2019 [Marketing Marketing ‘Owen Woodley
01/03/2019 Goods for Resale Retail Debbie Smith

5 14/03/2019 IMarketing Marketing ‘Owen Woodley I}
10/04/2019 IT SaaS HR Mo Kang
22/05/2019 IT SaaS Marketing Owen Woodley
23/05/2019 I Marketing Marketing ‘Owen Woodley I}
15/06/2019 IMarketing Marketing Owen Woodley I:
15/06/2019 Retail Debbie Smith I}

INTERNAL

Page 10 of 10 RCC 4 July 2019

POL00423568
POL00423568

POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 8.1 Business Continuity Update
POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 4
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE UPDATE

Resilience, Business Continuity & Crisis Management
update

Author: Tim Armit Sponsor: Tony Jowett Meeting date: July 2019

Executive Summary

Context

Operational Resilience and Business Continuity is in place across key areas which meets
business requirements. The 2018 audit report of business continuity capability identified
gaps in the documentation and governance which needed to be addressed. This paper
reports on progress against the audit findings and the current resilience and continuity
position across Post Office.

There is a need to sign off the Business Continuity Policy annually which is due now.

Risks this paper addresses

e The progress against the business continuity audit report of December 2018. 8.1
e The status of resilience and business continuity across Post Office.
e The requirement for annual sign off of the Business Continuity Policy.

Input Sought

The Committee is requested to sign off the policy and note the report.

Conclusion

1. Audit responses are on schedule. This report focusses on responses for December
2018, earlier responses were reported to RCC and ARC on time in 2018.

2. The attached Risk Appetite report covers the Risk Appetite for Business Continuity
across Post Office and the Strategies adopted for resilience and business continuity.

3. The attached Business Continuity Policy requires sign off.

72 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.1 Business Continuity Update

The Report
What is the status of progress against the audit report findings due in December2018?

e The business continuity audit report found “a lack of strategic plan and consideration of risk
appetite for BCM”.

e To demonstrate progress against the audit report the attached document presents the
Business Continuity Risk Appetite. This details the appetite for all key areas where
continuity and resilience solutions are implemented across Post Office. The report focusses
on:

* Locations
* Systems
* Business Functions
¢ Suppliers

¢ The risk appetite document has been created following interviews and reviews across all
areas. It has been validated by key business areas and there is some work ongoing, some
areas are shown red as we do not have a confirmed position.

e IT have their own controls in place for Disaster Recovery of systems and their own
compliance measures. The appetite shown in the Business Continuity document is that of
the business to the loss of systems. 8.1

e Contractual requirements are key in confirming the appetites ensuring Post Office recovery
requirement meet contractual agreements. This review is ongoing across all business areas.
Work continues to identify who owns and is responsible for each contract to ensure business
areas take full responsibility.

e The risk appetite report attached presents the appetite for all areas and the current situation
for each area and how confident Post Office should be that the strategies in place meet the
appetites requirements.

e From the report a plan will now be developed that allocates owners and people to action to
reduce the level of exposure from unknown or red.

¢ The report will continue to grow as more business functions and suppliers are brought on
board and as levels of resilience improve thus reducing the exposure.

What is the status of resilience and business continuity across Post Office?

1. Background - In 2016 Post Office had no planned recovery capability for its key locations
or operations. It had a dysfunctional response to crisis and escalation with no clear
reporting lines. There were no documented impacts of a failure and no plans per business
area to be used in an incident. The historic Royal Mail group documentation in place across
Supply Chain had become unfit for purpose. Controlled and manageable communication to
staff and branches had not been possible.

2. Current position - The table below shows the current status across Post Office with regards
to crisis communication and business continuity capability.

It is key that all staff can be communicated with in and out of working hours and that we
can track staff safety in an evacuation. Post Office now has that capability in key offices
and operations.

Post Office has never had the capability to simply communicate to all branches in the event
of a Horizon failure and a solution for this has now been implemented.

Business continuity recovery strategies are now in place and tested for all location incidents.

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 73 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 8.1 Business Continuity Update
PAGE 3
3. Communication Status
Area Capability Status
Finsbury Dials 650 people via Grapevine single text blast Tested
Chesterfield 350 people via Grapevine single text blast Tested
Business Protection Team I all areas via Grapevine single test blast Tested
GE Gold Team all areas via Grapevine single test blast Tested
Supply Chain all depots, cash centres and trucks via Grapevine I Tested
single text blast
Branches every branch via Grapevine single text blast Tested
4. Business Continuity Status
Location Plans Impacts Strategy Status
Finsbury Dials I In place Known Work from home Tested 8.1
Chesterfield In place Known Sungard Site Tested
Bolton In place Known Sungard Site Tested
Bristol In place Known Sungard Site Tested
Supply Chain In place Known Mutual Support BAU
Swindon In place Known Swansea IT tested
IT systems In place Known DR solutions Partially tested

e Resilience in building design is being improved across key locations and resilience in
contracts and IT is under constant review.

e Business Continuity is now established, embedded and moving from a development and
implementation stage to a business as usual state that can be easily maintained and
monitored. This changes the status of the role going forward.

e Future Challenges -The scope of business continuity covers all risks that may impact the
reputation, income, customer service and operational capability of Post Office. As such all
risks must be robustly challenged to ensure management have considered them and have
responses in hand should they unfold. Areas being challenged:

a. Horizon failure across all branches for an extended period

b. Brexit

c. Political changes to Post Office and its operations including its role as a bank
d. Succession planning and key role risks

74 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.1 Business Continuity Update

PAGE 4

On-boarding new companies and roles of directors
Horizon trial and contingency responses
Risks of success across business functions

zo >o

Cyber risks and the changes as we go forward

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 75 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.1 Business Continuity Update

Business Continuity Risk Appetite

8.1

Author Tim Armit
Date June 2019
Version 0.1

76 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.1 Business Continuity Update

Introduction

This report details the risk appetite within the Post Office business areas for the loss of key business
locations, functions, systems and suppliers.

It considers the “pain” the business would suffer if each of these areas was impacted by an incident and
identifies when this would become intolerable.

The report is divided into four sections:
1. An overview of the approach, the terms used and the assumptions that were used.

2. The risk appetite for key areas currently included within the business continuity programme.

3. Areas and risks which are not currently at a level that meets the desired risk appetite and a work
status of the current strategies in place and assesses the adequacy of these to meet the desired
appetite. This enables the reader to focus on only the key risks to Post Office.

4. Areas and risks which currently meet the desired risk appetite and presents how this is achieved and
any further work that is required to continually improve this.

8.1
Assumptions:
1. Asystems analysis review was completed across the business and IT in 2017 which identified the key
IT systems and the required recovery times the business needed for these. This report identified
Horizon and the networks as the only critical system within Post Office at that time. The impact of
all other systems being down can be mitigated for two days with minimal affect.

2. The report focusses on business operations and appetite is considered from this standpoint. The
business continuity and resilience team focusses on maintaining business services as such all
assumptions are with this in mind.

3. It is acknowledge that with change and development this report will have to continually develop and
change. Currently not in the report but being challenged for inclusion are:

The digital CDP layer
¢ Branch finder

Apps (Travel, Customer Hub)

¢ IT Self service

¢ Parcel Shop

Fujitsu homephone and broadband

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 77 of 185
Tab 8.1 Business Continuity Update

78 of 185

POL00423568
POL00423568

Appetite Summary

The over arching simplistic assumption on risk appetite that underpins business continuity is that if
the branches are open and the customers are being served then Post Office is operational.

All other services which underpin the business and keep it functioning are seen as secondary if the
primary objective is achieved.

The table below details the risk appetite for each key aspect of Post Office operations. The scope covers

all aspects of Post Office for which continuity solutions are considered and will be updated and
amended as the scope changes.

Areas considered within the report (the lists within these tables will continue to grow as more detail is
gleaned during the work programmes):

Key locations which support Post Office operations directly. Most are within the
direct control of Post Office some are covered by contracts. The dependency on the

Locations i et + ji alias
location and the resilience in design and recovery capability in place are all
considered.

Spstense Key IT systems which support business operations are considered in terms of their

significance and the disaster recovery solutions in place.

Business Functions

Key business functions which deliver or support Post Office operations.

Suppliers

External suppliers which deliver key services to support Post Office operations.

Risk Appetite is
measured as:

Appetite

Strategy Status is
measured as:

Impact and Tolerance Requirement

Post Office has a low level of tolerance to any impact or outage. I 1 day recovery or

A solution to maintain the service is required. less

Post Office can tolerate some downtime and the outage has 204 days

tolerable impact. A solution is required but a longer period to ‘i
recovery

recover is acceptable.

Post Office can tolerate the service being non operational for an I Over 4 day’s
extended period of time with minimal impact. recovery.

Summary

Definition

A solution is in place, it has been tested and meets business needs.

A solution has been identified that meets business needs but has not been tested.

No solution is in place

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

8.1
POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a
@
o
3
°

Business Continuity Risk Appetite Where Strategy Status is Red

The table below details the risk appetite for each key aspect of Post Office operations which do not have resilience or continuity
solutions in place that would meet business needs in a crisis. The scope covers all aspects of Post Office for which continuity solutions

are considered and will be updated and amended as the scope changes. This report is a live document and is ongoing as work is §
completed in areas and as areas are strengthened with solutions implemented and tested. =
G

Risk Appetite

¢ Tables
Locations Appetite I Risk Requirement Contingency Strategies in place ee

8

c i , Moving data centres to increase resilience. Planning in

5 . Resilient design across

2 Payzone Data Centres Loss of Payzone operations place to move to an outsourced provider and infrastructure

5 two data centres. .

a requirements will form part of this move.

a Swansea identified as potential recovery area but not

: teteden Lass off stock supply to branches Alternate warehouse I tested, systems to be made resilient and recovery proven.

2 provision and systems I Systems are green but building is red (no business

9 continuity)

g

3

8
Business Functions Appetite I Risk Requirement Contingency Strategies in place ae
NONE RED

&

S
8

re
&

The Systems table appetite is the impact on the business not on IT operations and as such there is work required to ensure the IT assumptions align

with the business needs.

IT have confirmed there is a varying level of disaster recovery testing in place across all suppliers and a regular monthly review of progress. BC team
is working with IT on the detailed level of this and how it meets business needs. This item will be broken down into each supplier as the information

is confirmed.

POL00423568
POL00423568

id 8 qeL

FA
a

all other business operations.

Systems Appetite I Risk Requirement Contingency Strategies in place eee,
TBC. Many failures with Verizon across 2018 which have
, Loss of all branch operations. Loss of , stablised recently. IT to confirm the resilience in the Verizon
Verizon Zero down time

network for continual service and to confirm the disaster
recovery time should key component areas of Verizon be lost.

Call Centre ACD/IVR

Loss of ability to manage calls to NBSC

2 hour recovery time

TBC. Will be picked up in the Verizon / Puzzel resilience review.

Call Centre systems
(Dynamics)

Loss of ability to respond ina
coordinated manner to incoming NBSC
calls

2 hour recovery time

TBC. Working with NBSC and IT to confirm.

Fujitsu Belfast
Horizon

Loss of Key critical IT systems including
Horizon, MDM, Credence

Resilient design with
zero down time and
disaster recovery
solutions

Full datacentre test has not been carried out for five years.
Secondary datacentre is within the same region.

Horizon branch data base has been successfully recovered in
an alternative datacentre.

Component tests of systems have been carried out
successfully. MDM and Credence have been switched to an
alternate site.

Site is an N#1 site,

There is a contracted 2 hour recovery time for POCA / Banking
/Vocalink and debit card payments which can be met.

All other Horizon services are contracted for a 5 hour recovery.
Moving some to the Cloud which will improve resilience but
not change contractual recovery times. Work to be done with
IT to confirm each Data Centre has resilience in its design
(infrastructure, power etc). The exit from Belfast will improve
the levels resilience levels.

APOP

Loss of payments out system

Recovery within 2
working days

The system remains a stand PC in Chesterfield.

POL00423568
POL00423568

The supplier risk is the risk of a supplier failing that provides services to Post Office business areas.

JOD sseulsng Ig qe

The levels business continuity capability within suppliers own operations are key to Post Office. Post Office needs to know that services and
operations completed by suppliers can be continued should a supplier suffer a major incident. This has not been challenged before and is now being
completed. Most large organisations will have proven continuity in place, but Post Office is not currently aware of this, as such suppliers are in the
main shown as amber / red but will be changed as responses are received. Requests for this information are with suppliers.

c
7]
Ee
S
o

Strategy

Suppliers Appetite I Risk Requirement Contingency Strategies in place een

Unable to deliver system support to Post

Office systems Zero down time TBC.

Fujitsu

Unable to deliver system support to Post

5
8
o
a
Ea
8
a
°
g

3
3
8
fe}
8

Computacenter Office systems Zero downtime I TBC.
ATOS Unable to deliver system support to Post I 7.5 downtime I TBC.
Office systems
3 Accenture Unable to deliver system support to Post I 735 sown time I TBC.
5 Office systems
5 . 2hour recovery I The Contract states there is recovery capability in place but
= baci Unable to process card payments time further evidence that this meets business needs is required.
Page One (underlying system) failed in late 2018 and was
Veabia ta peatdeencutty mxppertter down for over 2 hours which presented a problem to Post
branches. Unable to I Zerodowntime, I Office. Other resilience is in place but further testing of the
Grapevine support all crisis response toolsin place _I resilient systems, I SYStemsis required. Working with Grapevine to liaise with
P for Post Office. alternative office I Page One over resilience levels.
Unable to support evacuation process. space.
Unable to communicate to all branches.
Ss
e
oe
&

) souelIdwiog pue ysIy -

POL00423568
POL00423568

Suppliers Appetite I Risk Requirement Contingency Strategies in place
Inti
CBRE Unable to respond to building issues intra day recovery I Tac working with facilities team
beeen Unable to support the management of key I Intra day recovery I r5¢ working with facilities tea
locations times
Unable to deliver support to operations I 1a. secover
Banks externally to support the Banking y iv

Framework

times

Strategy
Status

seulsng 19 qe

unuo!

c
3
=
GI/LO/P0-2enIWWOD eoue!IdWOD PUE ¥SI4 - PaIILUI eOUJO 1SOq

Sel Joeg

Business Continuity Risk Appetite Where Strategy Status is Green / Amber

Risk Appetite Table

POL00423568

POL00423568

Locations Appetite I Risk

Requirement

Contingency Strategies in place

Loss of Insurance call centre

POMS Glasgow support

Recovery Office

Webhelp have plans in place, and tested, to restore the call centre
at their alternative offices. This works well unless there is extreme
weather in Scotland and they are all closed, as happened last time
it was needed. POI have accepted this risk.

Preston Call Centre Loss of POCA call centre support.

Recovery Office

Plans and strategy in place, annual testing takes place

Loss of depot or cash centre, loss of
supply or collection of cash to
branches.

Supply Chain Depots

Alternate depots and cash
centre processing
equipment

Resilient depots and identified third party depots. This is amber
due to no physical testing of the capability to stand up Hemel
spare machines or testing of how the two main cash centres would
support each other.

Loss of Call Centre and head office

Payzone Offices funtion

Recovery Office

Agreement to share old Payzone offices for a period of time.
Planning in place to implement a Sungard solution to meet
business needs and to increase the operational resilience within
the office.

Loss of Branch support Call Centre,

Recovery Office

Sungard solution in place and tested

Chesterfield Treasury and Finance Service
Centre
Bristol Loss of cash ordering process

Recovery Office

Sungard solution in place and tested

Computacenter DC Loss of key systems

Resilient design with zero
down time and disaster
recovery solutions

Full datacentre test run in 2018 successfully.
Regular and ongoing component tests undertaken.

Accenture DC Loss of key systems

Resilient design with zero
down time and disaster
recovery solutions

Datacentre test run in 2017 successfully.
Regular and ongoing component tests undertaken.

Loss of network and Puzzel ACD IVR

Resilient design with zero
down time and disaster
recovery solutions

Datacentre test run in 2017 successfully.
Regular and ongoing component tests undertaken.

Home working capability
and recovery office

Home working solution proven and Sungard solution in place.

Merzonibe Call Centre systems
Finsbury Dials Loss of head office functions and
Vv strategic leadership
Loss of internal human resources
Bolton

support services

Recovery Office

Sungard solution in place and tested

Strategy
Status

arepde Aynuquog sseuisng Ig qeL
S81 JO 8

OD soUeIIdWOD PUE ¥SIY - PAIL! BONO 1S0d

6L/LO/v0->%

Key central systems have a 4 hour contracted recovery time which is required to be tested annually. Manual work arounds are in
place and proven for all key systems except Horizon.

POL00423568
POL00423568

Systems Appetite I Risk Requirement Contingency Strategies in place
CFS is in Azure. It moved recently so although
Azure tested last year with Credence/MDM (Sept
Loss of systems to;support the finance . 18) it hasn’t been tested with the new systems in
crs operation and the supply chain 4 hour recovery time ; ,
operation. it. A test is proposed for the beginning of Sept.
The recovery time (RTO) Is 4 hours as per the
SLA,
Technology is in place to provide robust email.
Use of webmail in extremis is possible. Testing of
Email Loss of key communication tool. Intra day recovery time this has not been undertaken. Mimecast can
deliver a solution to this and testing of this
should be undertaken.
Computacenter have run a full datacentre
Office Systems Loss of day to day work tools Intra day recovery times recovery test and restored systems to meet
business needs.
MDM Loss of key central system Recovery within 2 working days I Successful test in 2018 met business needs
Credence Loss of key central system Recovery within 2 working days I Successful test in 2018 met business needs

‘Swindon Stock systems

Loss of warehouse stock control

Recovery within 2 working days

‘Systems are located in offisite data centres and
the recovery capability has been tested and
meets business needs.

Strategy
Status

arepdn Aunuquog sseuisng 1" geL
POL00423568
POL00423568

“1
a
&
@
2
Strategy $
Business Functions Appetite I Risk Requirement Contingency Strategies in place Sea 8
8
Unable to collect monies from g
branches Multiple depots across the UK can provide mutual z
Unable to deliver monies to Alternate Depots, vehicles and cash support, as can alternative cash centres. Utilising =
Supply Chain branches processing capabilities within a working I third parties is also within current planning. Loss c
Unable to replenish branch stock. I day. of Swindon is a single point of failure and plans for g
Unable to fulfil Banking this are not tested. °
Framework
Proven ability to recover all operations at the
g NBSC Unable to support branch Sungard solution in place alternative site has been tested.
a operations nan 1
° Limited home working has also been tested.
c If not operational for up to 4 days th i
5 ro operational Tor up to 8 eye Mere I Proven capability to work at home. Small
2 oo Unable to respond to any would be minimal operational impact. adh :
a Communications hs is Sungard solution in place for meetings to support.
a challenges Capability to work at an alternative bore workin
2 location, be this home or another office. al
a
3
8
a
2 If not tional f to 4 days thi
g eee or uP tO 8 ees Mere I Proven capability to work at home. Small
3 would be minimal operational impact. _ :
Es IT Management Unable to support contracts a. i Sungard solution in place for meetings to support
5 Capability to work at an alternative ibome working
3 location, be this home or another office. F
fe}
g
3
2 Proven ability to recover all operations at the
8 / . Unable to make payments or a alternative site has been tested. Home
a Finance Service Centre tO ; Sungard solution in place n
g reconcile incoming monies working has also been tested. Manual
g work around for IT system failure in place.
ca
Unable to confirm funding Proven ability to recover all operations at the
Treasury Sungard solution in place alternative site has been tested.
requirements
Home working has also been tested.
Unable to manage Incomin All systems are in DataCentres in France (Brexit
POI Call Centre 8 8 Alternative recovery site challenge to be reviewed) and are resilient across
customer calls
two datacentres.
2
&
2
a
&

S81 JO 98

7 BOLO 180d

ry
a
a
g
2
8
a
Lo}
8
3
2
5
8
3
8
°
8
FA
3.
o
id
é
=
Ss
x
oe

POL00423568

POL00423568

Business Functions Appetite I Risk

Requirement

Contingency Strategies in place

Mails Management

Team Unable to support contract

If not operational for up to 4 days there
would be minimal operational impact.
Capability to work at an alternative

location, be this home or another office.

Proven capability to work at home.
Small Sungard solution in place for meetings to
support home working.

Retail Management Unable to support branch
Team strategy

If not operational for up to 4 days there
would be minimal operational impact.
Capability to work at an alternative

location, be this home or another office.

Proven capability to work at home. Small
Sungard solution in place for meetings to support
home working.

Banking Framework

Management Team Unable to support contract

If not operational for up to 4 days there
would be minimal operational impact.
Capability to work at an alternative

location, be this home or another office.

Proven capability to work at home.
Small Sungard solution in place for meetings to
support home working.

Telco Management

‘Team Unable to support contract

If not operational for up to 4 days there
would be minimal operational impact.
Capability to work at an alternative

location, be this home or another office.

Proven capability to work at home.
Small Sungard solution in place for meetings to
support home working.

Bureau Management

‘Team Unable to support contract

If not operational for up to 4 days there
would be minimal operational impact.
Capability to work at an alternative

location, be this home or another office.

Proven capability to work at home.
Small Sungard solution in place for meetings to
support home working.

Strategy
Status

arepdn Aunuquog sseuisng 1" geL
7 BOLO 180d

ry
a
a
g
2
8
a
Lo}
8
3
2
5
8
3
8
°
8
FA
3.
o
id
é
=
Ss
x
oe

S81 4018

POL00423568

POL00423568

Business Functions

Appetite

Risk

Requirement

Contingency Strategies in place

Unable to support outlets using

Contract in place with Sungard for the provision of
office space to meet business needs. IT link to the

P Iternati ice.
—_= Payzone technology Alternative recovery cfiles Sungard solution in place. To be tested later in
2019
“de tinanci If not operational for up to 4 days there I 5 oen capability to work at home.
, Unable to provide financial would be minimal operational impact. wor /
Finance updates Capability to work at an sitemative Small Sungard solution in place for meetings to
location, be this home or another office, I SUPPOrt home working.
If not operational for up to4 days there I pen capability to work at home.
would be minimal operational impact. wor ’
PO! Unable to support contract Capability to work at an alternative Small Sungard solution in place for meetings to
king.
location, be this home or another office. I SUPPOrt home working,
Paienaese Unable to respond to internalHR I <4 ciution in place Proven ability to recover all operations at the
queries 8 Le alternative site has been tested.
HR Unable to support staffingneeds I Cr ttm work ne ‘iternatine * I small Sungard solution in place for meetings to
location, be this home or another office, I SUPPOrt home working.
Unable to provide internal woulé be a fle tonal ne Prenien capability te: work at homes
LRG er Ps pact. I small Sungard solution in place for meetings to

operational support

Capability to work at an alternative

location, be this home or another office.

support home working.

Strategy
Status

arepdn Aunuquog sseuisng 1" geL
POL00423568

POL00423568
8 a
S &
g @
= 2
& @
Strategy $
Suppliers Appetite I Risk Requirement Contingency Strategies in place ant 3
8
g
Greatest risk is strike for which Post Office and 3
Unable to collect from branches. Royal Mail have worked together on identifying FI
Royal Mail Group Unable to deliver support to Intra day recovery times contingency solutions. Short term this would meet <
operations Post Office needs, within 3 days it would be g
difficult a
®
ji if
Unable to provide ATM Three datacentres running continuously with load
2 ° ; sharing. Zero down time tests run regularly.
8 VocaLink operations. Unable to provide 2 hour recovery time ‘ n
& fctor parmente Observed testing and understanding has been
g Pay! " shared with Post Office.
3
8
= Unable to meet Bureau / Some small stock holding within Supply Chain
2 FRES Recovery within 2 working days would mitigate a short down time. Recovery
a requirements Tecslh
a capability is tested but on the same campus.
2 DWP Unable to deliver POCA support _I 2 hour recovery time Strategies in place and proven via testing annually
3 Unable to meat aria / ATM failures can be coped with for two days but
a Cardtronics Recovery within 2 working days after this repair and catch up of time lost would be
° maintenance requirements ,
g essential.
3 ; Unable to provide external legal ; Contractual recovery times and evidenced
Legal Advisors advice Recovery within 2 working days documentation meet Post Office needs.

OD souk!

POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

[GROUP POLICY]

[Business Continuity
Management]

Version — V2.4

Chief Executive Endorsement

“Business continuity means we can continue to support Postmasters and serve customers
when thing go wrong. It is therefore essential and we should support the policy at all times.”

Alisdair Cameron, Chief Executive Officer, May 2019

INTERNAL Page 2 of 179.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Group Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 89 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

contents

1 Overview......

1.1__ Introduction by the Policy Owner.
1.2 Purpose...

1.3 Core Principles...

1.4 ___ Business Continuity Objectives ......

1.5 Application ...........
1.6 The Risk
1.7___Legislation.........
1.8 Industry Guidance
2___Risk Appetite and Minimum Control Standards.
} I Risk Appetite........
2.2 Policy Framework.
2.3 __Who must comply?............

2.4 Minimum Control Standards
2.4.1 Threats.
2.4.2 Approach.

2.5 Implementation... er a
2.5.1 Satisfying BCMS Requirements.

3__ Tools & Definitions ......
3.1___ Tools...
3.2___ Definitions

4 Where to go for help.
4.1___ Additional Policies ....
4.2 How to raise a concern...

4.3 Who to contact for more information

5___Governance....

5.1___ Governance Responsibilities .
6 Control ..

6.1 _ Policy Version......
6.2 Policy Approval...

INTERNAL Page 3 of 179.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Group Policy

90 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

8.2
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

1.Overview

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner

The Business Continuity Manager has overall accountability to the Board of Directors for
the design and implementation of controls to prevent or deter failures in normal operations.
The Business Continuity Management Policy details the approach to implementing
strategies and plans to minimise the impact to operations and restore operations in a time
to meet business requirements. This approach ensures the risks to operations are known,
the impact to operations of failure are understood and recovery priorities are based
upon the tolerance to impact. The Policy is an agenda item for the Audit and Risk
Committee and the Post Office board is updated as required.

1.2 Purpose

This Policy has been established to set the minimum operating standards relating to the
management of the Business Continuity risks. It is one of a set of policies which provide a
clear risk and governance framework and an effective system of internal control for the
management of risk and continuity of operations across the group. Compliance with these
policies supports the Group in meeting its business objectives and to balance the needs of
shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.

1.3 Core Principles

Post Office adopts the Business Continuity Institute’s Good Practice Guidelines definition
of business continuity as: “A holistic management process that identifies potential threats
to an organisation, and the impacts to business operation those threats, if realised, might
cause, and provides a framework for building organisational resilience with the capability
of an effective response that safeguards the interests of its key stakeholders, reputation,
brand and value- creating activities.”

This Policy is consistent with “ISO22301”, which is the Business Continuity International
Standard. The purpose is to define the Group’s policy with regard to business continuity
management that is appropriate to its aims and objectives. This includes a framework
for:

e Setting business continuity objectives;

e Satisfying appropriate legal, regulatory and contractual requirements;

e Continual improvement of the Business Continuity Management System (‘BCMS’);
and

e Key controls in respect of business continuity.

This policy should also be read in conjunction with other Post Office resilience, health &
safety, and physical security related policies and procedures.

INTERNAL Page 4 0f 179.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Group Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 91 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

92 of 185

The following areas of Post Office’s business are within the scope of the policy:

e All customer support centres including but not limited to, Finsbury Dials,
Chesterfield and Bolton office

e All Supply Chain Locations

e All Directly Managed Branches

e All other Post Office Operational centres

e All external/outsourced Supply Chain Capability.

Out of Scope of this Policy:
e All IT systems - these are covered within the Information Disaster Recovery Policy

This policy's effective date will be determined by the date on which final approval is given
by the appropriate governance forum

1.4 Business Continuity Objectives
Based on the requirements and factors set out in this document, the following major
objectives are set for business continuity:
e Objective 1 - Comply with health and safety legislation at all times
Objective 2 - Maintain stakeholder confidence

Objective 3 - Maintain customer service levels
e Objective 4 - Minimise loss of revenue

The success of the BCMS will be judged on its ability to meet these overall
objectives.

1.5 Application

This Policy is applicable to all areas within the Group and defines the minimum standards
to control financial loss, customer impact, regulatory breaches and reputational damage
in line with the Group’s Risk Appetite.

The Policy should be considered within Change and Procurement and onboarding of new
services, suppliers or business units.

The Policy applies to all business units and operations and should ensure plans, strategies
and requirements are known for all areas to minimise the impact of any interruption.
The risk to the Group from Business Continuity is reviewed by the board annually.

1.6 The Risk

The Business Continuity Policy is designed to help mitigate the risk that normal operations
are interrupted and not restored in a controlled and timely manner with the consequence
that:

e Staff and Customers safety is at risk;

e Customers are unable to be served;

e Regulatory requirements are not met;

e Legal and contractual breaches occur;

e Income is affected; and

e Confidence in the Post Office’s reputation is harmed.

INTERNAL Page 5 of 179.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Group Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

1.7 Legislation

The Group is subject to a variety of legal and regulatory requirements which either apply
directly or are imposed through contractual arrangements with key clients. These include,
but are not limited to:

e Health and Safety legislation;

e Payment Card Industry - Data Security Standard compliance;

e Financial Services legislation;

e National and international standards e.g. IS09001; IS0270001; and
e Consumer protection legislation.

1.8 Industry Guidance

1S022301 is the accepted International Standard for Business Continuity. There are other
Standards on Operational Risk, Information Security, Crisis Management and IT Disaster
Recovery.

The Business Continuity Institute issues good practice guidelines The FCA
issues best practice guidelines

INTERNAL Page 6 of 179.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Group Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 93 of 185
Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

94 of 185

2 Risk Appetite and Minimum Control Standards

POL00423568
POL00423568

2.2 Risk Appetite

« The following risk appetite statements are relevant to Business Continuity:

Averse appetite for taking risks which might result in failure to maintain the service
commitment in respect of customers in line with our social purpose and

Government's policy on subsidy.

Neutral risk appetite for dissatisfaction related to BAU services recognising that in
a complex business there will be a level of dissatisfaction as part of the normal

course of business of achieving our commercial objectives.

Averse appetite for risk taking which would alienate or lose significant groups

of profitable customers

Tolerant risk appetite for customer dissatisfaction caused by transformation,

innovation and customer selection/profitability decisions.

Neutral appetite for risk taking which would have a detrimental impact on
vulnerable customers. Post Office will take a balanced view, reflecting
commercial implications of introducing safeguards and controls to protect

vulnerable customers and the needs of those customers.

« Post Office takes its legal and regulatory
responsibilities seriously and consequently has:

Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited circumstances
where there are significant conflicting imperatives between conformance and

commercial practicality

Averse risk appetite for not complying with law and regulations or deviation from

business’ conduct standards

Averse risk appetite for unethical behavior including staff Misfeasance, failure of,
governance and control processes, critical financial reporting processes, and

critical supply chain and business continuity processes.

¢ Post Office is committed to safeguarding the wellbeing of its people and therefore

has:

Averse risk appetite associated to the health, safety and wellbeing of POL
customers and colleagues in everything we do. This is paramount to every aspect
of POL operation. This includes; loss of life, serious injury and non- compliance to

regulation and policy

INTERNAL Page 7 of 179.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management

Group Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

Post Office is committed to exploiting technological benefits to achieve market
advantage. In recognition of this, Post Office has:

Averse appetite for data loss/leakage that can lead to customer, commercial or
reputational damage

Neutral appetite for operational IT services

Averse risk appetite for any serious impact to the confidentiality, integrity and
availability of information, leading to financial loss, business disruption, public
embarrassment or legal consequences.

Post Office recognises that it cannot completely eliminate business continuity risks. However,
this policy sets out controls to reduce and/ or mitigate suchrisks.

This level of risk appetite will be applied to the risk assessments that are carried out as
part of the BCMS and will determine the actions that need to be taken to mitigate risk to
an acceptable degree.

2.3 Policy Framework

Post Office has established a suite of resilience and risk policies, on a risk sensitive approach
which are subject to regular review. Other policies which may be relevant to business
continuity include the following:

e IT Disaster Recovery

e Information Security

e Data protection

2.4 Who must comply?

Compliance with this Policy is mandatory for all Post Office employees and applies
wherever the Group’s business is undertaken. All third parties who do business with the
Group, including consultants, suppliers and business and franchise partners, will be
required to agree contractually to this Policy with their own equivalent Policy.

Where non-compliance is identified the matter must be referred to the Director of Risk
and Compliance and the Group Legal Director. Any investigations will be carried out in
accordance with the Investigations Policy. Where is it identified that that an instance of
non-compliance is caused through willful disregard or negligence, this will be treated as
a disciplinary offence.

The next page sets out the minimum control standards that the Group has implemented to
control these risks.

INTERNAL Page 8 of 179.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Group Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 95 of 185
BL 40.96

si

GL/LO/PO-BEnIWIWOD aoUe!IdWOD pUe ¥SRY - PAW BONO 1S0d

2.5 Minimum Control Standards

A minimum control standard is an activity which must be in place in order to manage the risks so they remain within the defined Risk
Appetite statements. There must be mechanisms in place within each business unit to demonstrate compliance. The minimum control
standards can cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks are
managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a
ca
2
iv
a
g
&
9°

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required minimum control standards in consideration of the stated
risk appetite:

Risk Area_I Description of Risk Preventative Controls Corrective Controls Who is responsible When
All BCMS is not fit for purpose. Annual review of the BCMS Updated on change of Business Continuity Annually
May lead to inadequate content and effectiveness. approach or discovery of Manager
strategies and plans being Internal Audit review gaps. Audit Manager
implemented that do not meet
business needs.
All Risks the business and 15022301 defines managing As risks are identified or Business Continuity Annually
locations are exposed to are Business Continuity risks to occur and root cause Manager.
not known or are inadequately include an sosessrvent of: analysis is completed risks I IT DR Manager.
mitigated. . and threats are added to Facilities Manager.
« Threats; the assessment matrix to Location PICS.
* Vulnerabilities; ensure business areas Business Leads.
continually challenge their
« Impact & likelihood before risk I strategies against new
treatment; risks.
e Risk treatment (e.g.
reduction, removal, transfer);
« Function responsible/ owner;
and
« Timescale and review
frequency.
INTERNAL Page 9 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management Policy

Wg eoUe!IdWIOD pUe YI - Parl! eD1YJ0 IS0q

L/Z0/b0-221)

S81 40 16

POL00423568

POL00423568

Risk Area _I Description of Risk Preventative Controls Corrective Controls Who is responsible When
All The impact on operations of aI Impact is measured against Impacts are challenged Business Continuity Every two
business continuity incident is I agreed metrics and agreed times and after any incident or Manager. years or
not clearly understood. to ensure business areas can be exercise reviewed to Business Leads on
compared and strategies ensure the assumed impact change.
implemented which are compatible meets the actual impact
with the risk and impact the observed.
operational area is exposed to.
Recovery strategies do not Annual tests of strategies in place Strategies updated after Business Continuity Annually
All meet business needs to ensure business has confidence tests or actual incidents to I Manager
and understanding in the capability ensure they meet business I All business leads
needs.
All Contingency plans are not in Plans in place must be assessed by Plans updated after tests or I All business leads Annually
place or available. internal audit and annually the actual incidents to ensure Business Continuity
status presented to the RCC. Plans they meet business needs. Manager
must be held by all managers and
available in a single accessible
repository.
BPT does not know the All BPT members are contacted BPT lists reviewed regularly I Business Continuity Twice
BPT process to respond to accrisis_ I and involved in crisis conference and updated on change of I Manager yearly
calls and undergo training. roles or personnel. BPT members
All Staff are unaware of how to All staff are briefed and made Standard communications I Business Continuity Ongoing
respond to a crisis aware of their responsibilities tools to brief staff, staff Manager
involved in testing, All business leads
managers required to
challenge their own plans
and update them.
Any key operational site may I Risk assessments of sites are Facilities and CBRE review I Business Lead. Annually.
Building become unavailable for its I carried out annually by CBRE and I risks regularly and provide I Facilities Manager. Upon
unavailab purpose. POL. Strategies for the recovery of options to enhance Business Continuity movingin.
le key operations per site are in place I resilience levels to Manager.
and annually tested. management.
INTERNAL Page 10 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management Policy

sng Z°8 GEL

POL00423568

POL00423568
a &
s ©
a iv
- @
2
Risk Area _ I Description of Risk Preventative Controls Corrective Controls Who is responsible When a
IT system I Any IT system can fail at any I This is managed under the IT DR I Managed within the ITSCM I CIO Annually 2
failure time. policy and the IT COBIT process. I role and covered in the IT DR lead Upon
All systems are documented and Disaster Recovery Policy Business Leads Change.
the impact of them failing Business Continuity Upon
documented. Resilient and DR Manager impleme-
capability isin place and managed ntation
by IT. This is tested annually.
x
a Supply Depots, Vans and operations I Plans and strategies to mitigate Strategies updated after Supply Chain lead Annually
2 Chain may fail leading to routes and I failures are in place and tested. I tests or actual incidents to I Depot Leads
3 distribution I deliveries and collections not I Contingency planning for the loss ensure they meet Supply Business Continuity
c failures meeting business needs. of all forms of assets are tested. Chain needs. Manager
g Outsourced I Post Office relies heavily on I Part of the contract allocation and Contracts challenged if gaps) Contract owner. Annually
a or supplier I suppliers and outsourcing toI contract management covers I are found, suppliers Area dependent on
ra failure achieve its day to day I business continuity. All suppliers required to demonstrate contract.
2 operations. Any of these could I commit to meet business I their capability and Business Continuity
a fail or go out of business. continuity requirements and to contracts reviewed if gaps I Manager.
g test these. Contracts must contain I identified. Business areas I IT DR manager
3 appropriate BC and DR capability required to implement plansI
8 statements. Suppliers should I to cover gaps in suppliers
8 demonstrate their —_ recovery recovery capability.
9 capability before a contract is
signed, on review of the contract
and if necessarily post any incident
that affects them. Capability to
restore operations in stated
timeframes must be tested
oe annually by all key suppliers.
Suppliers to be categorised
according to the risk their failure
presents to Post Office.
Many key suppliers will be within
IT and the business consequence
of an IT supplier failing must be
shown to be mitigated by IT DR
tests within these suppliers.

INTERNAL Page 11 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management Policy

109 aouelIdWOD pue ySIY - PAIL! BO4JO 180g

POL00423568

POL00423568
FI
&
©
iv
@ :
Risk Area _I Description of Risk Preventative Controls Corrective Controls Who is responsible When ao
Staff Post Office staff are key to the I Identification of single point of Key roles must be All business leads Ongoing 2
unavailable I success of day to day I failure staff is undertaken within documented and where HR leads
operations. At any time due to I the contingency planning. possible dual role training Business Continuity
weather, health or any undertaken. As a working Manager
scenario staff may be unable example the dependency
to work. on skilled drivers is key
to supply chain and this
is mitigated by the Rapid
Response Team when
required.
INTERNAL Page 12 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management Policy

POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

100 of 185

2.

5.1 Threats

Post Office plans for the worst case scenario and does not work to specific threats unless
they are beyond the scope of the risks planned for. Threats continue to vary and these
will be used to define scenarios for exercises. Threats include:

2.

Weather related events « Environmental disasters
Infrastructure failure ¢ Terrorism

Pandemic ¢ Industrial Action
Cybercrime

5.2 Approach

In the approach to implementing, managing and reviewing business continuity
capability the Post Office will:

Create a Business Continuity Management System in line with ISO Standards
showing the detailed approach to implementing and managing business
continuity;

Complete Risk and Impact assessments of tangible and intangible losses. To
include an understanding of contractual and regulatory obligations, potential
causes of risks, and impact of events both in terms of direct financial loss,
cash flow interruption, customer impact, operational consequences,
reputational impact and legal/regulatory impact. These assessments allow
prioritisation of time and resource to implement recovery solutions;

Develop and document strategies and plans to address key risks;

Implement plans and recovery strategies (eg resilient IT, offsite recovery
locations etc);

Manage the central and local storage of plans;

Annually (or more frequently) review plans;

Consider impact of change activity on plans as part of major change activity;
Create, manage and facilitate Post Office crisis response;

Report all incidents and their impact;

Test all strategies to ensure they meet business requirements;

Integrate with IT recovery capability to ensure it meets business
requirements;

Train staff in the contingency plans and their roles and responsibilities;
Complete root cause analysis when there is a (material) incident and review
the control framework to include ‘lessons learned’;

Embed appropriate and proportionate contractual requirements in contracts
with suppliers and outsourcers including reporting, audit and rectification
rights;

Ensure there is regular oversight/testing of supplier and outsourcer
obligations;

Report twice yearly on progress against these approach steps.

INTERNAL Page 11 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

2.6 Implementation

The approach to implement business continuity within Post Office are defined within
this Policy. These are the fundamental steps required which are led by business areas,
facilitated by the Business Continuity Manager and are not subject to frequent
change. The Post Office GE will ensure that adequate funding is available for activities
identified in the implementation and ongoing support of the business continuity process.

Amendments to the Business Continuity objectives will be managed through the
standard Post Office change management process if required.

2.6.1 Satisfying BCMS Requirements

Senior Managers commit to the provision of the appropriate resources to establish and
maintain the BCMS and its outputs.

Regular review of the BCMS. This is conducted by the Business Continuity Manager
on an annual basis, ensuring that objectives are being met. Evaluation of the current
capability is undertaken and any issues identified through this audit programme and
management processes are reported to the RCC. Management review includes
departmental and other management meetings and document review.

Role definition and responsibilities are defined in the BCMS and reviewed by the
Business Continuity Manager to ensure that colleagues understand the roles they are
required to fulfil, and that they have the appropriate skills and competences to do so.
These controls are necessary to ensure the continued BCMP success and to mitigate
risk. Training will be provided where gaps in competency are identified and regular
reviews of staff capability will be undertaken within departmental exercises.

Use of third parties. Post Office uses third parties, both internal and external, in the
delivery of products and services. The ability to continue to provide these services or
restore them should a supplier fail is key to Post Office operations and part of all contracts.
This supplier capability will be evidenced by documentation and records, including
contracts, meeting minutes and IT DR and BC test reports.

Continual improvement:

To ensure the approach to implementing and managing the BCMS is enhanced in an
ongoing manner Post Office will:

. Consider effectiveness of the BCMS across all business areas and end to
end systems, processes within scope;

. Enhance current processes to bring them in to line with best practice (as
defined within ISO 22301);

. Increase the level of proactive continuity planning across Post Office;

INTERNAL Page 12 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 101 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

. Achieve an enhanced understanding of and relationship with the business
units to which the BCMS applies;

. Review relevant metrics (impacts, risk etc) on an annual basis to assess
their appropriateness, or to make changes to them based on
collected historical data and feedback or in response to
incidents;

. Obtain ideas for improvement via regular review meetings with
stakeholders.

Ideas for improvement may be obtained from any source, including but not
restricted to: Customers; Suppliers; Colleagues; Risk Assessments &Audits.

In order to evaluate any proposed improvements to the BCMP, the following criteria
would be applied:

. Cost;

. Business benefit;

. Risk;

. Implementation timescale; and

. Resource requirement.

Accepted improvement proposals will be prioritised, and planned according to
standard project management principals.
INTERNAL Page 13 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management

Policy

102 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy
3 Tools & Definitions
3.2 Tools
None in place
3.3 Definitions
Term or Acronym Description
BCMS Business Continuity Management System, the set of
controls in line with ISO22301 to implement and
manage business continuity
BC Business Continuity
ITDR IT Disaster Recovery, the recovery of IT systems and
data
IsO 22301 The International Standard for Societal Security
(Business Continuity).
INTERNAL Page 14 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 103 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

104 of 185

4 Where to go for help

4.2 Additional Policies
This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found at:

https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/postoffice/Pages/policies.aspx

4.3 How to raise a concern

Any Post Office employee who has concerns about a failure to comply with this policy
has a duty to:

e discuss the matter fully with their Line Manager; or,
e discuss it directly with their Head of Business Unit; or,
e Report their suspicions by telephoning Grapevine on

e If either or both are not available, staff can contact the Post
Counsel, who can be contacted by email at: whistleblowingf
or by telephone o

e Alternatively staff can use the Speak Up service available o:
e or via a secure on-line web portal: http://www.intouchfeedback.com/postoffice

Post Office encourages members of the public or people not employed by us who suspect.
[activity in breach of policy] to write, in confidence, to the Chief Executive's Office,
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury St, London EC29AQ.

4.4 Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this policy or wish to report an issue
in relation to this policy, please contact Tim Armit - Business Continuity
Manager by email at tim.armit:

INTERNAL Page 15 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

5 Governance

5.1 Governance Responsibilities

Post Office’s Board of Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that Post Office has
a framework to ensure compliance with legal, regulatory and contractual requirements.
The Board is kept abreast of relevant matters relating to the management of business
continuity by reports from its committees including its ARC Committee. The key individuals
and their specific responsibilities in relation to this policy are:

« The General Counsel is a member of the Post Office Executive team and isthe
Group Executive Owner and Policy Sponsor, accountable to the Board.
e The Group Business Continuity Manager is the Policy Owner who is responsible
for:
o Day to day implementation of and compliance with this policy and
is accountable in this regard to the General Counsel;
o Ensuring that there is an annual review of this Policy and tests
compliance across the Group.
o Providing appropriate and timely reporting to the Risk and Compliance
Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.

Post Office’s internal systems of business continuity risk control ensure that controls

are regularly independently assessed for effectiveness, suitability and adequacy. In
addition, Internal Audit will periodically test compliance with this policy.

INTERNAL Page 16 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 105 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 8.2 Business Continuity Management Policy

106 of 185

6 Control

6.1 Policy Version

Date Version I Updated by Change Details

19" May 2016 1.0 Jon Waples First signed version

25" Feb 2018 2.0 Tim Armit For review and signature
8th March 2018 2.2 Tim Armit Typo changes

6.2 Policy Approval

Group Oversight Committee: Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit and Risk Committee

Committee Date Approved
POL R&CC 43 March 2018
POMS R&CC 27" March 2018
POL ARC
POMS ARC

Policy Sponsor: Group Director of Legal, Compliance & Governance
Policy Owner: Business Continuity Manager
Policy Author: Business Continuity Manager

Next review: date of next review 01 02 2019

Company Details

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers
2154540 and 08459718 respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its
Information Commissioners Office registration number is ZA090585.

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is 24866081.

INTERNAL Page 17 of 17 9.5 (ii) Business Continuity Management
Policy

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)
POST OFFICE Page 1 of 4
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE POLICY REVIEW
Author: Sally Smith Sponsor: Ben Foat Meeting Date: 4' July 2019

Executive Summary

Context

As part of our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABC) obligations, this report provides
an overview of Gifts & Hospitality reporting for the financial year 2018/19 and
provides a summary of changes as part of the annual policy review.

Questions addressed in this paper

« What issues have been highlighted based upon the review?
* What actions need to be undertaken to address any issues?
« What changes to the Policy do we propose and why?

e What are the implications of these changes?

Conclusion

1. The reporting and approval of gifts and hospitality have continued to improve, albeit
some common errors do recur and it is likely that there is still under-reporting.
Quarterly checks of adherence to the minimum control standards set out in the ABC 9.1
policy have not highlighted any material issues.
2. Further communications and awareness are planned for 2019/20, and the annual
ABC training is being enhanced
3. Anew appendix has been added to the ABC policy to summarise the policy relating
to Gifts and Hospitality to help improve reporting and approval
4. There are no significant changes that impact the business

Input Sought
The committee is asked to review the contents of this report, approve the updated ABC

Policy and Corporate website statement and consider whether any further actions
should be taken to improve gifts and hospitality reporting.

INTERNAL Page 1 of 4 @BCL@040218E3

Post Office Limited - Risk a

Sompliance Committee-04/07/19 107 of 185
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including C

108 of 185

POL00423568

POL00423568

and Hospitality)

The Report

Summary of ABC activities 2018-19

5.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

The House of Lords set up an ad hoc Select Committee in 2018 to conduct a post-
legislative review of the Bribery Act 2010. They published their findings in March
2019 confirming that the Bribery Act 2010 is “an exemplary piece of legislation”
which sets the global benchmark for anti-bribery and corruption legislation.

No change to the existing law is anticipated, although some recommendations
relating to law enforcement investigations, MOJ guidance and penalties/deferred
prosecution agreements were made

The importance of a risk assessment was emphasised, stating that all businesses,
must conduct a properly documented risk assessment to ensure they make an
informed decision about the level of risk their business faces to determine whether
they require any safeguards.

Externally, there have been a number of high profile bribery and corruption cases
both in the media and presented to the Joint Money Laundering Intelligence
Taskforce, highlighting law enforcement and regulatory focus on this area.

Annual training was delivered to all employees in September 2018 and on-going
completion is tracked on a monthly basis to ensure that new joiners are completing.
Quarterly reporting is provided to all GE members summarising overall Post Office
Gifts & Hospitality reporting and highlighting any breaches or concerns for each GE
There have been 4 communications issued relating specifically to Gifts and
Hospitality reporting.

The Gifts & Hospitality tool homepage has been updated with detailed user guides
for each stage of reporting and approval and the Selenity Expenses portal has been
updated to require claimants to capture the Gifts & Hospitality approval reference
when they are making expense claims for gifts or hospitality offered.

Work is being undertaken with the People and Culture Director in relation to raising
awareness of ethical behaviour in business and promoting the importance of
compliance with Post Office’s ABC policy.

The Corporate website ABC statement has been reviewed as per Appendix A.

Summary of Gifts & Hospitality received and offered 2018-19

15.

16.

17.

Analysis of the 2018-19 Gifts & Hospitality Register has highlighted that the quantity

and quality of submissions compared to 2017/18 has continued to improve (please

see Appendix B & C for data), although it is still believed that some gifts and
hospitality are not being reported by recipients/offerors:

« In 2017/18 there were 27 gift reports totalling £1,521 and 195 hospitality reports
totalling £33,673.07

e In 2018/19 there were 47 gift reports totalling £4,918.64 and 188 hospitality
reports totalling £38,703.54

An occasional delay between the user uploading a request and it appearing on their

submission page has led to some individuals re-submitting resulting in duplicated

reports. A warning message has been included on the tool advising employees to
contact the Gifts and Hospitality mailbox and the issue has been communicated to
the business though One Comms and escalated to IT to resolve.

In the reporting period, the following common breaches were identified:

« As reported last year, we are still identifying instances of employees accepting
gifts of cash or cash equivalent (e.g. gift cards). Further Intranet articles were
published January 2019 reminding staff about not accepting cash.

« Whilst there has been a decrease in users submitting retrospective requests,
instances remain where individuals are reporting hospitality either on the day of,
or following the event they are attending. A number of communications have

INTERNAL Page 2 of 4 @BCL@040218E3

Post Office Limited - Risk and

Sompliance Committee-04/07/19

9.1
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery

18.

POL00423568

POL00423568

and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

been cascaded to the business reminding employees they must not attend or
accept hospitality until the offer has been reported and accepted by their Line
Manager.

« Colleagues continue to provide insufficient information within the title description.
Additional examples have been added alongside the title description field to help
reduce these errors. Submitters have also been contacted in order to provide
more detailed descriptions where required.

A review of the external companies that have offered hospitality to Post Office in

2018/19has not identified any significant issues, and the top 8 are detailed below:

External Party Name Volume Volume of People Total Value
Womble Bond Dickinson 5 24 £4,870.00
FRES* 18 1s £3,729.60
Trethowans LLP 3 30 £3,000.00
ISF 2 2 £2,510.00
Fujitsu Telecoms 4 12 £2,190.00
AT Kearney 3 5 £1,800.00
DUCK CREEK 1 1 £1,500.00
Fujitsu 9 19 £1,095.00

*Note in 2017/18 FRES were the largest donor with 22 offers totalling £2,580

Planned actions to address issues:

19.

The following activities are planned to improve the quality and effectiveness of gifts

and hospitality reporting and approval:

« 2019/20 ABC Communications Plan has scheduled Gifts & Hospitality reminders
to Back Office and DMBs in April, July and November to target the busiest periods
for offering and receiving gifts and hospitality.

« The ABC annual compliance training for 2019/20 will be delivered in September
- the content is being enhanced and improved

e The Gifts & Hospitality policy appendix (see para 22 below) will be posted on the
reporting tool homepage to assist reporters and approvers

e The Financial Crime team are working with Executive Assistants, as they are
frequent users, to review functionality and identify possible improvements that
could reduce common breaches and errors.

Why do we need to review this Policy?

20.

The Policy was last reviewed and approved by the R&CC in July 2018.

What changes to the Policy do we propose and why?
What are the key features that we propose and why?

21.
22.

There have been no legislation changes in the past year although
Minor amends have been made:

An appendix has been created to summarise and clarify the Gifts & Hospitality
policy requirements and help reduce reporting and approval errors.

Following queries received through the year and review of industry best practice
and to ensure transparency, an enhanced control has been introduced in respect
of donations and sponsorship.

How did we develop these recommendations?

INTERNAL Page 3 of 4 @BCL@040218E3

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

9.1

109 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

110 of 185

23.

A review of bribery and corruption cases and penalties publicly reported over the
last 12 months and cases that the Financial Crime team has been involved in via
the Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce, together with policy queries and
issues that have arisen over the previous 12 months.

What are the implications of these changes?
What will we need to do and by when, to implement and embed these Policy changes?

24.
25.

26.

27.
28.

No material changes are required to comply with this updated Policy.

The Financial Crime Team are developing a central donations and sponsorship
process and register and incorporating into the ABC training to be delivered in
September.

The Financial Crime Team monitor adherence to the minimum control standards set
out in the Policy on an on-going basis through their review of the Gifts and
Hospitality Tool and any other reported issues. Any control gaps identified will be
reported to the RCC as required (see Appendix D for latest assurance status).

The Financial Crime Team provide quarterly reports to Group Executive members.
Every six months, as part of the Group Executive declaration the members are
required to confirm that the Policy has been correctly applied in their business area.

What will the impact be on our wider business?

29.

30.

Increased transparency of the ABC framework and commitment to maintaining
visible compliance with the applicable legislation.

Reinforcement that the failure to comply with the requirements of ABC Policy by
any employee will be regarded as a significant breach impacting on the Post Office’s
risk and control management environment and may lead to disciplinary action up
to and including dismissal and possible prosecution.

What would the impact be of delaying approval?

31.

32.

33.

Risk that the group breaches the Bribery Act 2010 by not having up to date policies
and procedures to prevent bribery by any person or company who operates on our
behalf.

Post Office Limited is required to maintain up to date policies to support contractual

requirements with clients and suppliers (e.g. MoneyGram and the Partner Banking
Framework) and failure to do so may result in a breach of contract, and whilst not
material, could have commercial and reputational impacts.

Post Office Limited provides Post Office Management Services (POMS) with its
policies suite in the form of “Group Policies”. POMS is required under its regulatory
responsibility to the Financial Conduct Authority to have up to date policies and
failure to do so may lead to regulatory sanctions or penalties.

Sally Smith
MLRO & Head of Financial Crime
27% June 2019

INTERNAL Page 4 of 4 @BCL@040218E3

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

9.1
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

GROUP POLICIES
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy

Version - V3.1

Chief Executive’s Endorsement

The Post Office Group is committed to doing things correctly. Our Values
and Behaviours represent the conduct we expect. This Policy supports these
to help us ensure the highest standards of financial crime prevention,
detection and management are maintained.

Internal Page 10f22 I @BCL@AQO77ESDABC Poliey-43-4 July
2019-00

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.1

111 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)
®

1. __ Overview... a 3
1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner. 3
1.2. Purpose. 3
1.3. Core Principles... 3
1.4. Application 4
1.5. Types of Bribery and Corruption RISK ....12. us 4
1.6. Legislation. 5
1.7. FCA Rules 6
2. Risk Appetite and Minimum Control Standards... Z
Zu. Risk Appetite cscs iz
2.2. Policy Framework Z
2.3. Who Must Comply? 8
2.4. Gifts and Hospitality Tool... 8
2.5. Minimum Control Standards. 9

3.__Definitions.... = poeuscrannatones 1746 9.1
3.1. Definitions. 1746
4. Where to go for help 1842
4.1, Additional Policies... 1817
4.2. How to raise a concern 18147
4.3. Who to contact for more information... 1842
Governance 1918
5.1. Governance Responsibilities 1918
6. Control 2019
6.1. Policy Version 2019
6.2. Policy Approval... 12.2019
Company Details 2019
Internal Page 2 of 22 @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy 3-4 July

2019-00

112 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

1 = Overview

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner

The General Counsel has overall accountability to the Board of Directors for the design and
implementation of controls to prevent or deter Bribery and Corruption. Anti-Bribery and
Corruption is an agenda items for the Audit and Risk Committee and the Post Office board

is updated as required.

1.2. Purpose

This Policy has been established to set the minimum operating standards relating to the
management of our Bribery and Corruption risks throughout the Group!. It is one of a set
of policies which provide a clear risk and governance framework and an effective system
of internal control for the management of risk across the Group. Compliance with these
policies supports the Group in meeting its business objectives and to balance the needs of

shareholders, employees® and other stakeholders.

1.3. Core Principles

To offer a bribe is a criminal offence; bribery is an offer, promise, payment, request, or
agreement to receive anything of value from any person or entity in order to induce that

person to perform their roles improperly.

In order to prevent Bribery and Corruption the governance arrangements described in this

Policy are based upon the following core principles:

* The Group is committed to and oversees the implementation of a Policy of zero
tolerance, recognising that bribery is contrary to fundamental values of integrity,

transparency and accountability and undermines the Group's effectiveness;

+ Post Office has devised a robust Policy and associated procedures (set out in this
document) which are proportionate to the risks and complexity of the Group;

+ Abribery risk assessment is an integral part of our Group's overall and ongoing risk

management process;
* Post Office must assess the risk associated with entering

procedures;

* The Group undertakes a training and awareness program to ensure employees are
aware of the potential risks, how bribery might affect them, what they should do if
they are offered a bribe, and the consequences should they be found to have made or

received a bribe;

+ The interests of Policyholders and other stakeholders are protected by ensuring that

excessive powers are not delegated to individuals;

+ In this Policy “Post Office" and “Group mean Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited

2 In this Policy "employee" means permanent staf, temporary including agency staff, contractors, consultants and anyone else

Working for or on behalf of Post Ortce

Internal Page 30f22 @BCL@AQO77ESDABC Policy 43-4 July

2019-00

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

to joint ventures,
partnerships or contracting arrangements with other entities and must carry out
periodic due diligence based on that risk assessment. This includes ensuring that these
organisations have policies and procedures which are equivalent to the Group's own

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.1

113 of 185
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

+ Decisions taken by management are consistent with the Group's strategic objectives

and risk appetite, which are approved by the Board;

* Appropriate conduct is demonstrated in executing the requirements contained within

the Policy;

* Every member of staff is responsible for understanding and managing the risk they
take on behalf of the Group and for ensuring that they act within accordance to them;

+ All employees are required to comply with Group Policies.

1.4. Application

This Policy is applicable to all areas within the Group and defines the minimum standards
to control financial loss, customer impact, regulatory breaches and reputational damage

in line with the Group's Risk Appetite.

In exceptional circumstances, where risk sits outside of the Group's accepted Risk Appetite
a Risk Exception can be granted. Further information in relation to the risk exception

process, together with a template can be found here.

While Post Office does not tolerate events that are criminal in nature and which may give
rise to unacceptable and illegal behaviour, it recognises that despite its many endeavours,
it is not possible to eliminate all risks of internal and external Bribery and Corruption. As
a result Post Office may incur losses, and therefore takes a risk based approach to Bribery

and Corruption

For definitions please see section 3.1

The risk to the Group in relation to Bribery and Corruption is reviewed by the board on a

regular basis.

1.5. Types of Bribery and Corruption Risk

Post Office is exposed to a number of the above risks relating to Bribery or Corruption.

These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:

1, Payment Risks -for example, facilitation payments, gifts & hospitality, client
training programmes, charitable or political donations, ex-gratia payments/ legal

settlements. This would also include the offer of sponsorships or grants.

2. Third Party/Associated Party Risks -third parties who provide services on
behalf of the Post Office Group engaging in bribery or corruption while performing
such services. The scope of this could include agency operators within the Post
Office network and suppliers procured through the business or through the
Procurement Team. Examples of Associated Parties include agents, consultants,

suppliers, introducers, and intermediaries.

Internal Page 40f22 @BCL@AQO77ESDABC Policy 3-4 July

2019-00

114 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.1
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

3. Employment Risks -Post Office employees requesting or receiving something of
value from a third party in exchange for providing employment or work
opportunities at the Post Office or offering or providing work opportunities, paid or
unpaid, to Connected Individuals?, or otherwise using employee connections to
improperly obtain business or secure an advantage for Post Office. Employment
opportunities (including work experience, secondments, etc.) have a value to the
recipient and/or their close family members and may be considered to be bribes if
used to improperly obtain or retain business or secure an advantage for Post Office.

4. Inducement Risks - Post Office must take reasonable steps to ensure that it, and
any person acting on its behalf, does not:
© Offer, give, solicit or accept an inducement; or
© Direct or refer any actual or potential business in relation to another person
on its own initiative or on the instructions of an associate; if it is likely to
conflict to a material extent with any duty that Post Office Management
Services owes to its customers in connection with an insurance mediation
activity or any duty which such a recipient firm owes to its customers in
connection with an insurance mediation activity.

5. Gifts & Hospitality -The offer of Gifts & Hospitality by or to third parties
represents a clear risk of inducement or facilitation and Post Office therefore has
clearly defined minimum control standards and Group-has-a-process_procedures
for reporting_and approving Gifts & Hospitality (both received and offered).
Appendix A sets out the specific policy requirements and details of the process to

lowed ef-this-can be found on the Gifts & Hospitality reporting homepage
here.

1.6. Legislation

The Group seeks to comply with all relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements
including (but not limited to):

The Bribery Act 2010

The Criminal Finances Act 2017

Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Rules and Guidance (to the extent that these apply
~ see 1.8 below)

Under the Bribery Act, it is an offence to

Directly, or indirectly offer, promise or give a financial or other advantage with the
intention of inducing any person to perform a business activity improperly or to reward
any person for doing so;

Request, agree to receive or accept a bribe, i.e. to receive a financial or other
advantage with the intention of performing a business activity improperly;

Bribe a foreign public official;

Fail to prevent bribery by any person who perform services for or on behalf of a

company (“corporate offence”).

Post Office is subject to the Bribery Act 2010 (Bribery Act) and could become criminally
liable as a result of an act of bribery or corruption by its employees or a third party
operating on our behalf.

The Bribery Act has extra-territorial effect which means that the actions of Post Office or
a third party operating on our behalf outside of the UK may fall within the scope of the

> Connected Individuals means those individuals who are known to have close connections to existing or prospective clients or
suppliers, Public Officials, Politically Exposed Persons (PEP) or using employees’ connections to improperly obtain business or
secure an advantage for Post Office

Internal Page §0f22 @BCL@AQO77ESDABC Policy 3-4 July
2019-00

POL00423568
POL00423568

‘Commented [SS1]: Updated to reinforce requirements
Jaid out in minimum control standards and reduce

reporting and approval errors

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

115 of 185
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

Act. In the context of Post Office, this could apply in scenarios such as where a Post Office

I contractor or supplier resides outside the UK.

Post Office can be held liable unless it can demonstrate that it has in place “adequate
procedures” designed to prevent this type of misconduct. The controls outlined in this
Policy, including appendices, assist Post Office in preventing and detecting corrupt conduct

and form an essential component of Post Office’s adequate procedures.

1.7. FCA Rules

Post Office Limited is an Appointed Representative of the Bank of Ireland and Post Office
Management Services Limited (POMS) and is contractually required to comply with certain
regulatory requirements. As such the Group as a whole is obliged to ensure there are

adequate systems and controls are in place to mitigate Financial Crime risks.

POMS is a directly regulated firm with the FCA is directly exposed to regulatory fines and
censure if the FCA determine that the systems and controls associated with this Policy are

not effectively implemented.

This Policy contributes to Post Office's compliance with these regulatory and contractual

obligations
Internal Page 6 of 22 @BCL@AQO77ESDABC Poliey-v3-4 July
2019-00x

116 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.1
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

2. Risk Appetite and Minimum _ Control

Standards

2.1. Risk Appetite

Risk Appetite is the extent to which the Group will accept that a risk might happen in
pursuit of day to day businesses transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of

activity and levels of exposure that the Group are willing and able to tolerate.

The Group takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and consequently has‘:
+ Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited circumstances
where there are significant conflicting imperatives between conformance and

commercial practicality
+ Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to high profile cases/issues
+ Averse risk appetite for ligation in relation to Financial Services matters

+ Averse risk appetite for not complying with law and regulations or deviation from
business’ conduct standards for financial crime to occur within any part of the

organisation
+ Averse Risk Appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by our staff.

‘The Group acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls
have been implemented a product or transaction may still sit outside the agreed Risk

Appetite. In this situation, a risk exception waiver will be required’.

2.2. Policy Framework

Post Office has established a suite of financial crime policies and procedures, on a risk
sensitive approach which are subject to an annual review. The Policy suite is designed to
combat money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption and adhere to
relevant Sanctions regimes. These have been developed to comply with applicable

legislation and regulation and covers the following specifically:

+ The identification of potential financial crime risks

* Ona risk sensitive approach, performing due diligence at on-boarding, periodic
basis and payment on third parties who perform services for or on behalf of us.

+ Maintaining appropriate records for at least the minimum UK prescribed periods.

* Completing compliance oversight monitoring to test the Group's controls and

confirming effectiveness and adherence to financial crime policies.

+ Establishing and maintaining Standards for Management Information on Financial
Crime. This includes, but is not limited to, record keeping, reporting of suspicious

activity and details of staff training.

The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy is a key Policy under the Financial Crime Policy
framework and should be considered and read in conjunction with the overarching

Financial Crime Policy where relevant.

‘The Risk appetite was agreed by the Groups Board January 2015
* For more information in elation to Risk Exception waivers please see section 1.4

Internal Page 7 of22 I @BCL@AQO77ESDABC Policy 3-4 July

2019-00

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.1

117 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

2.3. Who Must Comply?

Compliance with this Policy is mandatory for all Post Office employees and applies
wherever in the world the Group's business is undertaken. All third parties who do business
with the Group, including consultants, suppliers and business and franchise partners, will
be required to agree contractually to this Policy with their own equivalent Policy.

Where non-compliance is identified the matter must be referred to the Director of
Compliance and the Group Legal Director. Any investigations will be carried out in
accordance with the Investigations Policy. Where is it identified that that an instance of
non-compliance is caused through wilful disregard or negligence, this will be treated as a
disciplinary offence.

All Post Office employees are required to report any knowledge or suspicions in relation to
Bribery or Corruption’ to Grapevine. Asvsuch ail business ants are required to have a
r reporting Bribery or Corruption incidents to Grapevine by telephone

For more information in relation to reporting knowledge or suspicions
ja

The next page sets out the minimum control standards that the Group has implemented
to control these risks.

2.4. Gifts and Hospitality Tool

The purpose of the Gifts and Hospitality Tool is to make it easy for our employees to
accurately record the offering and acceptance of gifts and hospitality throughout the
Group. For more information in relation to the tool and how to use this, please see the
below links:

Commented (S52): Update links

‘The Gifts and Hospitality Tool can be found here.
Instructions on how to complete the tool can be found here.

The procedure for completing the Gifts and Hospitality Tool can be found here.

Internal Page 8of 22 @BCL@AQO77ESDABC Policy 3-4 July
2019-00

118 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Jdwog pue yshy - Parl! e010 1S0d

L/LO/PO-SenIWIWOD 2

6

SBLJO6LL

2.5. Minimum Control Standards

A minimum control standard is an activity which must be in place in order to manage the risks so they remain within the defined Risk
Appetite statements. There must be mechanisms in place within each business unit to demonstrate compliance. The minimum control
standards can cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks are

managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required minimum control standards in consideration of the stated

risk appetite. The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
Appointment and Failure to ensure that Preventative Contr
Activities of Consultants and Contractors I Our contracts require Procurement Ongoing where
Consultants and comply with the Group's Consultants and Contractors to required
Contractors anti-bribery and corruption I comply with the Group's anti-
policy may lead to criminal _I bribery and corruption policy.
prosecution and damage to
the Post Office brand or A clause is included within
reputation. Consultants and Contractors
contracts requiring them to
comply with the Group's anti-
bribery and corruption policy.
Charity Donations and I Insufficient controls may Preventative Control:
Sponsorship lead to the donation of Where the Group, a team or an I All employees Ongoing
money to an unregistered _I individual has selected a
charity, or the acceptance of I particular charity to support,
a donation by Post Office they are required to validate
which could be interpreted _I that charity against the Charity
as bribery and result in Commissions website. More
reputational damage. information can be found here.
Where a supplier or third party I All employees
requests that Post Office makes
a charitable donation, or offers
to make a donation to Post
Intemal Page 9 of 22 @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy v3.4 July 2049-06x

6

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a
ca
©
>

mainay UoNdnuOg pue A1@q)

Q
2
a
Fd
rj
B
g

POL00423568

POL00423568
8 z
& 2
R >

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When

I Office, Post Office ensures that Ongoing
the donation is not linked to any
business or services provided to
or by that supplier or third

party.
Any eash-donations or GE are responsible for
sponsorship (cash or otherwise) I approval of eash-donations
should be approved by the and sponsorship

foljod pue mamay UoNdn0g pue Aiaqh

relevant GE member to ensure
appropriateness and the details I The Financial Crime team

back office staff and contractors I incidents where further
receive adequate training. Staff I action is required and
and contractors are required to I ensuring completion of
complete training within 30 days I mandatory training

Jdwog pue yshy - Parl! e010 1S0d

recorded on the central maintain the donations =
donations FegisterI ‘Commented [S53]: Control amended to ensure there I >
is a central record of all donations and sponsorship. a

Post Office has a Group wide Q
training programme to ensure I Human Resources is. e
that all customer facing staff, I responsible for any 2
a

x

Fy

g

8 of joining Post Office and

° annually.

g

3

z Outsource providers, clients &

g suppliers must maintain records

g to evidence that staff have

s received adequate and regular

= training.

e
Detective Controls:
Pass rate and number of test Financial Crime Team is
attempts is monitored to identify I responsible for reviewing
risk areas and any additional training effectiveness

training or guidance required.

Intemal Page 10 of 22 (@BCL@AOO77ESDABC Policy ¥3.4-July 2049-06x

6
a
g
i}
Ss
8

- pay

N
°

a
&

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards I Who is responsible When
Conflicts of Interest I The acceptance of Preventative Control:
hospitality or gifts from third I The Group operates a procedure I All employees Ongoing
parties could lead to bias or I to ensure Gifts and Hospitality
undue influence, or the may not be offered or accepted
perception of such, in how _ I where they could bias or
individuals exercise their influence how individuals
duties and responsibilities. I exercise their duties and
responsibilities.
All employees are made aware
of and are expected to comply
with the gifts and hospitality
procedures.
Employment Risks Failure to identify Preventative Control:
employees requesting or _I Any form of employment or All employees Ongoing
receiving something of value I work opportunities (paid or
from a third party in unpaid) must be reviewed and
exchange for providing approved in accordance with HR
employment or work policies and procedures prior to
opportunities may result in I employment.
the loss of Group
stakeholder support.
Gifts Inadequate controls may Preventative Control:
lead to employees accepting I All employees must report Each employee is Ongoing
gifts that are not correctly all gifts of £20 and responsible for ensuring
appropriate, proportionate I over which they receive or offer I that all gifts offered or
or within policy resulting in I using the Gifts & Hospitality received are recorded.
reputational damage or tool, whether accepted or
criminal prosecution. declined. Ongoing
Internal Page 11 of 22 @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy v3.4 July 2049-06x

6

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a
ca
©
>

ay uondni0g pue Auaqh

Q
2
a
Fd
rj
B
g

S8LJOZZL

Jdwog pue yshy - Parl! e010 1S0d

L/LO/PO-SenIWIWOD 2

6

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards I Who is responsible When
No employee may accept cash __I Line managers are
(or cash equivalent) gifts. responsible for ensuring —_I Ongoing
the gift complies with
Post Office has a Group wide policy and is reasonable
training programme to ensure _I and for approving or
that all customer facing staff, I declining the acceptance of
back office staff and contractors I a gift Ongoing
receive adequate training. Staff
and contractors are required to I Group Executive are
complete training within 30 days I responsible for approving
of joining Post Office and or declining any offers over
annually. £100 Ongoing
Financial Crime Team is
responsible for reviewing
Corrective Control: and monitoring the Gifts
Where discrepancies of non- and Hospitality register.
conformance with gifts and
hospitality reporting are Human Resources is
identified, line management responsible for any
should consider action under the I incidents where further
Conduct Codel action is required and
ensuring completion of
mandatory training
Hospitality Inadequate controls may Preventative Control:
lead to employees accepting I All employees must report Each employee is Ongoing
hospitality that is not correctly any hospitality which _I responsible for ensuring
appropriate, proportionate _I they receive or offer using the _I that all hospitality
or within policy resulting in I Gifts & Hospitality tool, whether I offered/received are
reputational damage or accepted or declined. recorded
criminal prosecution.
Before accepting or giving Line managers are Ongoing
hospitality an employee must _I responsible for ensuring
receive written approval from —_I the gift complies with
their line manager. policy and is reasonable
Internal Page 12 of 22 @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy v3.4 July 2049-06x

6

POL00423568

POL00423568

(

‘Commented [SS4]: Control added in line with HR
policies.

4
a
ca
©
>

mainay UoNdnuOg pue A1@q)

Q
2
a
Fd
rj
B
g

Jdwog pue yshy - Parl! e010 1S0d

L/LO/PO-SenIWIWOD 2

6

SB JOezL

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards I Who is responsible When
and for approving or ‘Ongoing
The hospitality must be declining the acceptance of
reasonable (not lavish or hospitality
extravagant), proportionate to
its purpose and must ordinarily I Group Executive are
be below £200 per person in responsible for the
value. approving or declining of — I Ongoing
any offers of hospitality
Post Office has a Group wide over £200
training programme to ensure
that all customer facing staff, Financial Crime Team is
back office staff and contractors I responsible for reviewing _I Ongoing
receive adequate training. Staff I and monitoring the Gifts
and contractors are required to I and Hospitality register
complete training within 30 days
of joining Post Office and Human Resources is
annually. responsible for any
incidents where further
Corrective Control action is required and
Where discrepancies of non- ensuring completion of
conformance with gifts and mandatory training
hospitality reporting are
identified, line management
should consider action under the
Conduct Code
Payment Risks Offering facilitation Preventative Control:
payments, gifts & All employees are required to Each employee is Ongoing
entertainment, client comply with the conflicts of responsible for ensuring
training programmes, interest policy which can be that all hospitality and gifts
charitable or political found here. offered or received are
donations, ex-gratia recorded
payments or legal All employees are required to
settlements that are not comply with the Gifts and Ongoing

Intemal

Page 13 of 22

6

(@BCL@AOO77ESDABC Policy ¥3.4-July 2049-06x

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a
ca
©
>

mainay UoNdnuOg pue A1@q)

Q
2
a
Fd
rj
B
g

2
4
oe
&

dog pue ¥SRy - pa}

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
justifiable or proportionate I Hospitality procedure which can I Line managers are
may result in reputational _I be found here. responsible for approving
damage or criminal or declining the acceptance
prosecution. The acceptance of discounted or I of a gift or hospitality.
complimentary training courses Ongoing
which would usually incur a cost I Group Executive are
are classified as Gifts and responsible for the
Hospitality and employees are I approving or declining of
required to report these using __I any offers of gifts or
the Gifts & Hospitality Tool. hospitality over the agreed
amounts
The payment of ex-gratia
payments or legal settlements I Financial Crime Team is __I Ongoing
are strictly controlled and must _I responsible for reviewing
be submitted to the Group Legal I and monitoring the Gifts
Director for approval. and Hospitality register
Post Office has a Group wide Group Legal Director is Ongoing
training programme to ensure _I responsible for reviewing
that all customer facing staff, I and signing off as required
back office staff and contractors I any ex-gratia payments or
receive adequate training. Staff I legal settlements as
and contractors are required to I requested from the
complete training within 30 days I Business.
of joining Post Office and
annually. Human Resources is
responsible for any
incidents where further
action is required and
ensuring completion of
mandatory training
Political Employees making or Preventative Control:
Donations/Lobbying _I soliciting political donations I Before giving or offering Each employee is Ongoing
on behalf of Post Office may I Hospitality to or from a political I responsible for ensuring
that all Gifts & Hospitality
Internal Page 14 of 22 @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy v3.4 July 2049-06x

6

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a
ca
©
>

INdy UONNUIOD pue Aueque

a
g
i}
Ss
8

- pay

nD
&
cy
a
&

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
result in criminal party, approval must be offered or received is
prosecution. obtained from a GE Member. recorded
The giving of political donations I Group Executive are Ongoing
or gifts on behalf of the group to I responsible for the
a Politician or a Political Party is I approving or declining of
strictly prohibited. any offers of hospitality by
a political party
Post Office has a Group wide
training programme to ensure I Financial Crime Team is __I Ongoing
that all customer facing staff, _I responsible for reviewing
back office staff and contractors I the Gifts and Hospitality
receive adequate training. Staff I register
and contractors are required to
complete training within 30 days I Human Resources is
of joining Post Office and responsible for any
annually. incidents where further
action is required and
ensuring completion of
mandatory training
Procurement/Third Inadequate monitoring may_I Preventative Control:
Party Risk lead to third parties Post Office ensures that any fees I Chief Financial Officer Ongoing
engaging in bribery or paid are proportional to the
corruption while performing I services being rendered or
services on behalf of the consistent with the market.
Post Office Group. This
could result in criminal New and existing contracts are I Procurement
prosecution, loss of key reviewed on an ongoing basis to Ongoing
contracts or reputational ensure that there is no risk of
damage. conflicts of interest. This
includes ensuring that all parties
Internal Page 15 of 22 @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy v3.4 July 2049-06x

6

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a

ca
©
>

ay uondni0g pue Auaqh

Q
2
a
Fd
rj
B

g

BL JO OZL

ss

0 180q

47] 801

0 eouelIdwiog pue ¥sIe - pa

Risk Area

Description of Risk

Minimum Control Standards
involved are aware of
Procurement Lockdowns.

Who is responsible

When

The Group completes Annual Risk Assessments reviewing its bribery and corruption exposure and its compliance with the above key risk

areas.

Internal

Page 16 of 22

6

(@BCL@AOO77ESDABC Policy ¥3.4-July 2049-06x

POL00423568
POL00423568

6

4
Fs
S
©
>

ey
&
8
a
°
g
3
s
a
g
a
9
a
0
So
5
Q
9
Fy
&
3

Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

3 = Definitions

3.1. Definitions

Bribery

Bribery is defined as the offer, promise, payment, request, agreement to receive anything
of value whether directly or indirectly to or from any person or entity in order to induce
that person or entity to perform their roles improperly or, in the case of a Public Official,
in order to influence them with the intention of obtaining or retaining business or an

advantage in the conduct of business.

Examples include an offer or promise to give anything of value to anyone to obtain or
retain business for or on behalf of the Post Office or to obtain or fulfil a legal or regulatory
requirement in furtherance of the Group's business. A bribe can take the form of a “reward”

and be paid after the improper performance of the relevant duty or obligation.

Corruption

Corruption is defined as the misuse of entrusted power or public office for private gain.

Educational courses/conferences

Events that are offered by third parties without charge do not amount to hospitality.
However, free places to attend courses or conferences that would otherwise attract a

charge are covered by this procedure.

Facilitation Payment

A Facilitation Payment is a type of bribe and should be seen as such. A common example
is where a government official is given money or goods to perform (or speed up the

performance of) an existing duty. Within the UK these are strictly prohibited

Gifts

Gifts refers to a physical gift and includes the offer to a specific individual or team with the
exception of low value promotional items costing under £20 each, such as pens, calendars,

diaries, notepads and paperweights.

Hospitality

Invitations to attend events which have a social element (whether or not they are at the
same time as or linked to a business meeting) and where the cost of a ‘ticket’
(participation) is free of charge or reduced in price when otherwise there would be cost
attached to it. This would include things such as tickets to a sporting event, tickets to a

concert or a corporate dinner.

Inducement

An inducement is a benefit offered to a firm or any person acting on its behalf, with a view
to that firm, or that person, adopting a particular course of action. This can include, but is
not limited to, cash, cash equivalents, commission, goods, hospitality or training

programmes.

Third Party funded trips

Travel/accommodation that is funded by third parties is covered by this procedure as a

form of ‘hospitality’.

Internal Page 17 of 22, @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy v3 Sept

2018.doox

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.1

127 of 185
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

128 of 185

4. Where to go for help

4.1. Additional Policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies, The full set of policies can be found at:

https:

oluk.sharepoint.com/sites/thehub/SitePages/Key%20policies.aspx?web:

4.2. How to raise a concern

Any Post Office employee who suspects that there is a breach in this Policy should report
this without any undue delay.

In case of bribery or corruption concerns or whistleblowing, staff may contact:

their line manager,

a senior member of the HR Team, or

if either or both are not available, staff can contact thi
Counsel, who can be contacted by email at: whistleblowing!
telephone on:f

Alternatively staff an use tHe Speak Up service available on :

or via a secure on-line web portal: http://www. intouchfeedback.com/postoffice

Post Office encourages members of the public or people not employed by us who suspect
bribery or corruption to write, in confidence, to the Chief Executive's Office, Finsbury

Dials,

20 Finsbury St, London EC2 9AQ.

4.3. Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this Policy or wish to report an issue in relation to
this Policy, please contact the Policy sponsor or Policy owner.

Internal

Page 18 of 22 @BCL@A077ESDABC Policy 3 Sept

2018.doox

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.1
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

5 Governance

5.1. Governance Responsibilities

The Policy sponsor, responsible for overseeing this Policy is the General Counsel of Post
Office Limited.

The Policy owner is the Director of Compliance who is responsible for ensuring that the
Financial Crime Team conducts an annual review of this Policy and tests compliance across
the Group. Additionally the Director of Compliance and the Financial Crime Team are
responsible for providing appropriate and timely reporting to the Risk and Compliance
Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.

The Audit and Risk Committee are responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing
compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting the Group's risk appetite.

9.1

Internal Page 19 of 22 © @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy 3 Sept
2018.doox

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 129 of 185
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

130 of 185

6. Control

6.1. Policy Version

Date _ Version Updated by Change Details I

November 2016 I 1 Georgina Blair Roll out of Final version

Date Version I Updated by Change Delails

November 2016 I 1 Georgina Blair Roll out of Final version

June 2017 12 Thomas Richmond I Updated in line with comments from
stakeholders

July 2017 13 Sally Smith POL R&CC approval

September 2017 [2 Sally Smith Final Version approved by ARC

June 2018 21 Sally Smith Annual revisions

July 2018 2.2 Sally Smith POL R&CC approval

‘July 2018 23 Sally Smith POL ARC approval

September 2018 I 2.4 Sally Smith POMS ARC approval

September 2018 [3 Thomas Richmond I Final Version approved by ARC's

July 2019 34 Sally Smith ‘Annual review

6.2. Policy Approval

Group Oversight Committee: Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit and Risk Committee

Committee I Date Approved
POL R&CC 10" July 2018

POL ARC 31% July 2018

POMS ARC 20" September 2018

Policy Sponsor: — Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance
Policy Owner
Policy Author:
Next review: July 2019

Director of Compliance

Head of Financial Crime

Company Details

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Weles. Registered numbers
2154540 and 084597 18 respectively. Registered Office: Finbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 94Q.

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its
Information Commissioners Office registration number is ZAOSOSES.

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is 24866081

Internal Page 20 of 22 @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy v3 Sept
2018.docx

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.1
Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

Appendix A
GIFTS AND HOSPITALITY POLICY

and offered across the business.

within 30 days of joining Post Office and annually.
fer

All gifts and hospitality received and offered by Post Office employees must be reported
on the central register and pre-approved prior to acceptance*. This to ensure that
Post Office is transparent in its dealings with third parties and suppliers and to enable
senior management and the GE to monitor the level of gifts and hospitality both received

All employ ceive annual training as f the Anti-Bribery & Corruption mi

All employees are responsible for ensuring that full details of gifts are accurate!

recorded including the recipients details and a description of the gift, dates of offer and

the amount — if a gift is received by a Post Office employee, then an approximate value
can be recorded, if known, or the offeror must be contacted and asked the amount so

that this can be properly recorded.

‘& Hospitality tool, whether accepted or declined by the receiver.

his must al: reviewed and approve he GE member for that ar

+All gifts of £20 and over which are received or offered must be recorded using the Gifts
Line managers must review and approve all gifts over £20. If a gift is over £100, then

+ Before any aift is offered by a Post Office employee, they must refer to the relevant

cost centre budget holder for approval before proceeding

+ No employee may accept cash (or cash equivalent) gifts (including gift cards).

©The value of the

must_be appropriate and proportionate for the roles and

relationship with the client

Office.

via gifts hospitality’

Any offer must have a clear and demonstrable link with a legitimate business purpose,
gifts must never be accepted from a third party who is tendering for business with Post

+ Recipients or offerors must consider if an offer could be viewed by an external party
inappropriate. Gi ght from line management or by raising a query

Hospitality:

+All employees are responsible for ensuring that full details of hospitality are recorded
including the recipients details and a description of the hospitality, details of
venue/event, dates of offer and event and the amount - if the amount is not known

the offeror must be contacted and asked the amount so that this can be proper!

recorded

Hospitality tool, whether accepted or declined by the receiver.

+All hospitality which is received or offered must be recorded using the Gifts &

+ Line managers must review and approve all hospitality. If hospitality is over £100,

relevant cost centre budget holder for approval before proceeding
+The value of the hospitalit riate ani jonate for thi

relationship with the client

then this must also be reviewed and approved by the GE member for that area
+ Before any hospitality is offered by a Post Office employee, they must refer to the

Any offer must have a clear and demonstrable link with a legitimate business purpose,

i

hospitality must never be accepted from a third party who is tendering for business
fi

with Post Office.
+ Recipients or offerors must consider if an offer could be viewed by an external part

2018.docx

I Internal Page 21 of 22. @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy v3 Sept

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

as inappropriate. Guidance can be sought from line management or by raising a query

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.1

131 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review and Policy (including Gifts and Hospitality)

+ Small offers of hospitality such as tea, coffee, sandwiches, etc. do not need to be
recorded via the gifts and hospitality tool, but the recipients details must be recorded

fully on the expenses claim via Selenity Expense reporting tool

* Where it is not possible to record gifts and hospitality received prior to receipt, for

example where a gift is received unexpectedly, or where a client offers to pay for lunch,
then this must be recorded on the next available day and the reasons for late approval
should be added in the comments box. For offers of hospitality verbal approval from a
more senior manager should be obtained.

9.1

Internal Page 22 of 22. @BCL@A0077ESDABC Policy v3 Sept
2018.docx

132 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy
POST OFFICE Page 1 of 9
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE POLICY REVIEW
Author: Sally Smith Sponsor: Ben Foat Meeting Date: 4" July 2019

Executive Summary

Context

This report provides an overview of the financial year 2018/19 as part of our
obligations to protect whistleblowers and support individuals who raise genuine
concerns under the Whistleblowing Policy. The report also provides a summary of the
changes as part of the annual policy review.

Questions addressed in this paper

« What issues have been highlighted based on the review?

« What actions need to be undertaken to mitigate any issues identified?
« What changes to the Policy do we propose and why?

« What are the implications of these changes?

Conclusion

1. The whistleblowing process within Post Office is robust and the volume of
whistleblowing reports received continues to rise year on year. Monthly MI is
produced to track and monitor reports and investigations.

2. Further work is required to raise staff awareness, and this is being undertaken in
conjunction with the People and Culture Director and a continuous awareness and
improvement programme being delivered by the Financial Crime team.

3. The policy has been updated to reflect best practice recommended by Internal Audit,
Legal review and feedback received from the staff survey conducted in March 2019.

4. Policy changes are minor and require no additional actions

Input Sought

The committee is asked to review the contents of this report, approve the updated
Whistleblowing Policy and advise any further actions required.

INTERNALPage 1 of 4 @BCL@44040142Whistleblowing Review v1.0 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 133 of 185
Tab

134 of 185

POL00423568

POL00423568

Nhistleblowing Review and Policy

The Report

Summary of activities relating to Whistleblowing reporting 2018-19

5. An internal audit of Whistleblowing was undertaken at the end of 2018 and
concluded that “The Whistleblowing process is well managed by the Financial Crime
Team and monitoring and reporting has been improved since they assumed
responsibility a year ago. The further improvements, both in progress and
highlighted here, will help ensure that Post Office colleagues have confidence to use
the process when appropriate”. There were three P2 and two P3 recommendations:
e Minor amends and clarifications in the Whistleblowing Policy (para 10 below)

e —Expolink contract had not been renewed due to queries relating to GDPR clauses

e A mechanism is needed to confirm staff awareness of whistleblowing
arrangements and inform future awareness campaigns (para 3 and 18 below)

e The Whistleblowing Policy states that investigations should be conducted in
accordance with the Investigations Policy, however this had not been reviewed
or updated since September 2016. Once the policy is updated, targeted training
and guidance is needed for whistleblowing investigations.

« Root cause analysis and action plans to address recurring cases was not fully
evident — monthly MI and commentary has now been updated and implemented.

6. An online survey was undertaken in March 2019 to review staff awareness of
Whistleblowing policy and reporting methods, and the findings from this are being
incorporated into on-going training and awareness activity.

7. Monthly whistleblowing MI is produced and shared at regular meetings with HR
representatives (Employee Relations and the People and Culture Director) to ensure
consistent messages are being promoted. Additionally work is being undertaken
with the People and Culture Director in relation to raising awareness of ethical
behaviour in business.

8. The Financial Crime Team have attended various industry forums and Expolink Client
Forums to understand industry best practice and enhancements that Post Office can
introduce.

9. Whistleblowing reporting and investigation processes within the Financial Crime
Team have been reviewed and enhanced.

Summary of Whistleblowing reports received 2018-19
10.Please see Appendix A for full reporting MI:
« Year on year comparison shows that there has been an increase in whistleblowing
reports from 37 in 2017/18 to 43 in 2018/19.
« Most reports relate to individuals in our network - Postmasters and Agent
Assistants as well as Post Office employees.
« The most popular reporting channel continues to be the Speak Up line
« The most common complaint relates to fraud and financial mismanagement. In
most cases the allegations are against Postmasters or Agent Assistants
« In 2018/19, there was an increase of reports with allegations of unethical
behaviour or conduct and breach of internal policies and procedures

INTERNALPage 2 of 4 @BCL@44040142Whistleblowing Review v1.0 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

« A number of reports have been received from employees at one non-customer
facing location, and HR are investigating if there are any underlying route causes
or issues at this location.

Why do we need to review the Whistleblowing Policy?

11. The Policy was last reviewed and approved by the RCC in July 2018. The terms of
the Policy require it be reviewed annually.

What changes to the Policy do we propose and why?
What are the key features that we propose and why?

12.There have been no legislation changes in the past year, but see Appendix B for a
summary of the EU Whistleblowing Directive that the UK is expected to adopt by
May 2021. Key impacts for Post Office include:

e Expansion of the definition of a whistleblower to encompass not only employees
but also shareholders, volunteers, job applicants, non-executive directors, self-
employed workers and contractors.

e Atiered reporting mechanism across all industry sectors and within both private
companies and public institutions with 3 or 6 month response timeframes.

e A framework for protection against dismissal and other forms of retaliation from
an employer against a whistleblowing employee

13. Minor policy amends have been made in relation to:

e Re-ordering content to provide clarity to readers in line with feedback received
and incorporating clarification provided from legal review

e Updated contact details for external reporting and change of name of Public
Concern at Work (PCAW) to ‘Protect’

e Clarification that any so-called ‘gagging clauses’ in settlement agreements do not
prevent colleagues from making disclosures in the public interest

* Method and type of feedback that a whistleblower can expect to receive

e Explanation that anonymous whistleblowers will not ordinarily be able to receive
feedback and that any action taken to look into a report could be limited

e An indication of the time frame for investigating and responding to reports raised

¢ Clarification that the whistleblower does not need to provide evidence in order
for the report to be investigated.

How did we develop these recommendations?

14. Reviewing policy queries and issues that have arisen over the previous 12 months
and the internal audit recommendations.

What are the implications of these changes?

What will we need to do and by when, to implement and embed these Policy changes?

15. No material changes are required to comply with this updated Policy.

16.The Financial Crime Team monitor adherence to the minimum control standards
set out in the Policy on an on-going basis through their whistleblowing reports and
issues. Any control gaps identified will be reported to the RCC as required (see
Appendix C for latest assurance status).

What will the impact be on our wider business?

17. Transparency of Post Office’s adherence and commitment to the Employment Rights
Act 1996 and the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998

INTERNALPage 3 of 4 @BCL@44040142Whistleblowing Review v1.0 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 135 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Nhistleblowing Review and Policy

What would the impact be of delaying approval?

18. Risk that the group breaches the Employment Rights Act 1996 and the Public
Interest Disclosure Act 1998 by not having up to date policies and procedures to
provide protections to whistleblowers.

19. Post Office Limited is required to maintain up to date policies to support contractual
requirements with clients and suppliers (e.g. MoneyGram and the Partner Banking
Framework) and failure to do so may result in a breach of contract, and whilst not
material, could have commercial and reputational impacts.

20. Post Office Limited provides Post Office Management Services (POMS) with its
policies suite in the form of “Group Policies”. POMS is required under its regulatory
responsibility to the Financial Conduct Authority to have up to date policies and
failure to do so may lead to regulatory sanctions or penalties.

Activities planned for 2019-20:

21.In 2018-19, we shared posters, 3 intranet articles and a whistleblowing survey
with employees.

22.The following activity is planned:

«Explore running awareness campaigns via screen savers.

e Review current employee induction process

e Publish FAQs on the intranet and promote through One news article.

« Promoting success stories, where possible.

e Explore development of a short animation about Whistleblowing.

«Enhance investigation training and procedures to include when and how
whistleblowers are contacted

« NAVEX Global (formerly Expolink Europe Ltd) contract renewal to be finalised.

« Continuous collaboration with HR representatives (Employee Relations and the
People and Culture Director) to ensure a consistent messages are being
promoted and support the development of Post Office Ethical Values.

« Conduct research into the possibility of rebranding the Speak
Up/Whistleblowing service and alternative ways of promoting the service (e.g.
short animations or videos).

23. On approval of the Policy amends, there will be a One communication to advise all

employees of the changes and provide a link to the updated document on the Post
Office Intranet.

Sally Smith
MLRO & Head of Financial Crime
27' June 2019

INTERNALPage 4 of 4 @BCL@44040142Whistleblowing Review v1.0 July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

GROUP POLICIES
Whistleblowing Policy

Version - V3.2

Chief Executive’s Endorsement

The Post Office Group is committed to doing things correctly. Our Values
and Behaviours represent the conduct we expect. This Policy supports these
to help us ensure that colleagues know how to report concerns regarding
wrongdoing or dangerous practices and that they can do so without fear of
recrimination.

Intemal Page 1 of 18 @BCL@6COCFOSBWhistiebiowing Policy
¥3.2-June 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 137 of 185
Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

1. Overview... — 3
1.1. Introduction by the Policy Qwner.. 3
1.2. Purpose... 3
1.3. Core Principles 3
1.4. Application 43
1.5. Legislation 4
1.6. What is Whistleblowing. 4

Error! Bookmark not defined.4

1.7. Protecting the whistleblower.
1.8. Whistleblowing Officer and ‘Speak Up’ Error! Bookmark not defined.5
1.9. External Disclosures... a 65
2. Risk Appetite and Minimum Control Standards Bz
2.1, Risk Appetite 2a BT.
2.2. Policy Framework. 87
2.3. Who Must Comply? 87
2.4. Minimum Control Standards. 98
Definitions 1413
3.1, Definitions... 1413
4. Where to go for help 1514
4.1, Additional Policies... 2514
4.2. How to raise a concern. 1514
4.3. Who to contact for more information. 1514,
5. Govemance....... 1615
5.1, Governance Responsibilities. 1615
6. Control 21716
6.1. Policy Version 1746
6.2. Policy Approval... 21746
Company Details. 1716
Internal Page 2 of 18 @BCL@SCOCFOSBWhistleblowing Policy

v3.2June-2019

138 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

9.2
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner

The General Counsel has overali\accountability to the Board of Directors for the
implementation of controls ensuring\Post Office meets it Whistleblowing obligations.
Whistleblowing is an agenda item for the Audit and Risk Committee and the Post Office
board is updated as required.

1.2. Purpose

This Policy has been established to set the minimdm operating standards relating to the

management of Whistleblowing throughout the Groupt. It is one of a set of policies which

provide a clear risk and governance framework and an effective system of internal control

for the management of risk across the Group. Compliance with these policies supports the

Group in meeting its business objectives and to balance the needs of shareholders,

I employeesstaff? and other btakeholders, ‘Commented [SS2]: Definition amended following legal ]
review see footnote 2

‘Commented [SS1]: Definition amended following legal
review ~ see footnote 1

1.3. Core Principles
“Whistleblowing” refers to the act of exposing potential or actual wrongdoing and/or

dangerous practices by reporting it either internally within an organisation, or to an
external party. A whistleblower is a person who raises a genuine concern in relation to
any wrongdoing, this includes criminal activity, regulatory breaches, miscarriages of
justice, damage to the environment, financial impropriety, reputational damage, any
breach of legal or professional obligations, dangers to health and safety and the deliberate 9.2
attempt to conceal it, is porting: p it
é Posh Oitibas This woul clue sen acter

r 7 propriety, reput page y

In order to encourage Whistleblowing and provide appropriate protections to
whistleblowers, the governance arrangements described in this Policy are based upon the
following core principles:

* To encourage the reporting of any concerns as soon as possible in the knowledge that
Post Office will take all concerns wilt-be-takenraised seriously and investigate fullyd,
and that the confidentiality of all individuals will be respected;

* To provide guidance as to how to raise those concerns;

+ To provide whistleblowers reassurance that all genuine concerns are raised without
fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken;

"In this Policy “Post Office” and “Group mean Post Office Limited and any wholly owned subsidiaryPost Office Management
Services Limited,

2 An this Policy “employee" means permanent staf, temporary including agency staff contractors, consultants-and anyone.0lse

inthis Paley ‘sa’ means POL o Groups permanent lemgorrvand ixediermn = +f, 5 5 5
‘employees, workers including temporary workers, agency workers (where the terms on which they are engaged are not rommatteds. indent bert. C.sgitig. JO )

substantially determined by tnem), contractors, consullanis and anyone else working under a contract wih Post Office, in all
‘cases having regard fo $230(3) and =. 43K ERA 1996,

Intemal Page 3 of 18 © @BCL@6COCFOSBWhistisblowing Policy
v3.2. June 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 139 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

* Post Office is committed to and oversees the implementation of the Policy in line with

the Group's risk appetite. The Policy and associated procedures (set out or referred to

in this document) are proportionate to the risks and complexity of the Group;
+ Post Office undertakes a training and awareness program to ensure employees are

aware of the Whistleblowing policy and procedure.
1.4. IApplicationI ‘Commented [SS3]: Section amended following legal

review, particularly in relation to reports from non-

This Policy is applicable to all empleyees-staff within the Group and outlines the manner employees:
in which Post Of will encourage, receive and investigate incidents of whistleblowing

and the protections provided for whistleblowers by law.

In order to encourage reporting of wrongdoing, Post Office will, where appropriate, and.
to the extent possible, followexten¢ equivalent principles to encourage, receive and
investigate incidents of whistleblowing byprotection-te Post masters, Agent Assistants,
and members of the public_and will not subject any such persons to any detriment
(including the termination of any contract or relationship with Post Office) for raising a
genuine whistleblowing concern in an appropriate manner.

1.5. Legislation

The Group seeks to comply with all relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements
including (but not limited to) the following legislation as amended or supplemented from
time to time:

+ Employment Rights Act 1996
* Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998

‘Commented [$S4]: Section amended generally
following legal review and recommendations from
Post Office has a statutory obligation to protect whistleblowers and will support any peer AT
individual person who raises genuine concerns under this Policy in an appropriate

manner, even if they turn out to be mistaken. In respect of a certain class of person

(broadly “staff” as defined under this policy) Post Office has a statutory obligation not to

subject such persons to detriment or to dismiss them for whistleblowing.

Where a member of staff is subject to a Post Office settlement agreement, any clauses
within it will not prevent the member of staff from whistleblowing. This should in any
event be made clear by the terms of the settlement agreement itself and staff should
receive independent advice in relation to those terms when entering into a settlement
agreement.

Post Office will, at all times, respect the confidentiality and protecte the whistleblower’s

identity, however:

+ It may be necessary in the course of an investigation to share this information with a
relevant stakeholder (e.g. an investigator)

+ There is no requirement for a whistleblower to provide personal contact information,
but not providing this information may reduce Post Office's ability to undertake a
thorough investigation into the concerns raised

Post Office will take all reasonable steps to ensure that whistleblowers do not suffer any
detrimental treatment as a result of raising a genuine concern in an appropriate manner.
Detrimental treatment includes disciplinary action, dismissal, threats or other
unfavourable treatment connected with raising a concern, Serious action, typically

Intemal Page 4 of 18 @BCL@6COCFOSBWhistisblowing Policy
v3.2. June 2019

140 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

disciplinary action, is likely to be be taken against any individual who threatens or
retaliates against whistleblowers in any way.

Ifa whistleblower believes that they have suffered any such treatment, they should
inform the Whistleblowing Officer immediately. The Whistleblowing Officer shoul:

steps to address any victimisation, which may include working with the HR team to put
appropriate measures in place. If the matter is not addressed the whistleblower (where
they are staff) should raise it formally using Post Office’s Grievance procedure,

1.7 The Whistleblowing Officer

r 1 stl i it
contacted on whistleblowing! ‘GRO i

‘The role of the Whistleblowing Officer is to receive all internal reports raised, regardless
of the channel used, review any concerns raised and determine the best course of
action, if any. They may ask for further information in order to make this decision.

‘The Whistleblowing Officer is also responsible for ensuring that reports are investigated

and responded to in a timely manner, They are responsible for determining the
ropriate parties, idto investigate the allegations raised, taking into account

the sensitivities and seriousness of the report and the need to protect the whistleblower.

‘The Whistleblowing Officer is also responsible for id is or issues, and

lentifying ke\
ng assurance to the Board that the policy is complied with.

1.8 How to Report Whistleblowing 9.2

Post Office supports and promotes a number of ways to provide reporting mechanisms:
* Direct to the Whistleblowing Officer{ GRO, i

+ Via a complaint to a front line team, e.g. customer complaints, NBSC and Grapevine.
‘These may be verbal or written communications.

* Contacting the “Speak Up” line, a confidential reporting service which is run by an
independent company NAVEX Global (formerly Expolink Europe Ltd)

Con!

je Speak Up line are:

/wrs.expolink.co.uk/postoffice which is a secure on-line web portal

What should be rReported?
Whistleblowers should raise a concern if they are aware of, or suspect, certain wrongdoing
which affects others (e.g. customers, members of the public, colleagues or the Post Office)
The following lists some examples (this is a non-exhaustive list) of situations where an
i i I rai ncern:
2 Where Post Office or the Group is in breach of any legal obligation to which it i:
‘subject (usually a statutory rather than a contractual legal bbligation)) _-—(Commented [S55]: Added following legalreview _)
» Financial Crime including Fraud, Money Laundering and financing of terrorism,
* Giving, offering or taking of bribes,
+ Financial mismanagement, Tax evasion and Misreporting
+ Racial, sexual, disability or other discrimination (Improper Behaviour)
+ Practices that could put individuals or the environment at risk
* Breach of Post Office internal policies and procedures

Intemal Page 6 of 18 @BCL@6COCFOSBWhistisbiowing Policy
v3.2 June 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 141 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

\

\

+ Concerns about slavery or human trafficking, and
‘Any conduct likely to damage Post Office’s reputation

This holicy should not be used by staff wishing to raise complaints relating to their own
rsohal circumstances, such as the way they have been treated at work. Grievan: id

persohal circumstances, such as the way they have been treated at work. Grievances and
matters such as bullying and harassment should be raised in accordance with the
roceduires set out in the appropriate HR policy.

If.an individual is uncertain about whether something is within the scope of this Policy they
should seek advice from the Whistleblowing Officer, whose contact details are set out in

hi vice from the Whistleblowing Officer, wh nt ils are in
this Policy, \

1.9 Resodndina to Whistleblowing Reports

In all instances 4ny whistleblowing reports, regardless of reporting method, will be
iz i rki istleblowi r.
\

All reports will be full reviewed and investigated and any information, including emails,
or records of telephone calls, letters, or any other form of communication stored
securely and confidehtiallyL

‘The time frame for investigating the reports raised is dependent on the nature of the
report and the investightion required, however, the whistleblower will be given feedback
via the reporting channel they have used, or have given the Whistleblowing Officer
yermission to use (Speak\Up line, e-mail or phone call) during the investigation and once

it has been concluded. \\

‘Commented [SS6}: Added for clarity from Internal
‘Audit recommendation

\
‘The whistleblower may be kept informed of any action taken, however, this information

may be limited if it is require to keep the confidence of other people.
\

Where a report received is anohymous, whistleblowers will not ordinarily be able to
receive feedback and details of taken by
Post Office may be limited.

9.2

1.10 External Disclosures \

\
The aim of this Policy is to provide an Internal mechanism for reporting, investigating
and remedying any wrongdoing in the workplace. In most cases individuals should not
find it necessary to alert anyone externally.

However, the law recognises that in some\circumstances it may be appropriate for

individuals to report their concerns to an eXternal body such as a regulator. It will rarely,

ifever, be appropriate to alert the media at \east without informing Post Office or an

external agency first and usually in that prde} _—{ Commented [SS7]: Added following legal review )

We strongly encourage individuals to seek advice before reporting a concern to anyone
external. The independent Whistleblowing charity, Protect (formerly Public Concern at
Work) have a list of prescribed regulators for reporting certain types of concerns. Their
contact details are as follows:

1 3 More information in relation to Modem Slavery can be found here -hitp corporate postottice co ukislaverystatement
Intemal Page 6 of 18 @BCL@6COCFOBBWhistieblowing Policy
V3.2. June 2019

142 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

_— (Commented [550] Updo cones doa i)

Public WorkProtect operates free, confidential advice to people concerned
about crime, dahger or wrongdoing in the workplace. -All Protect advisors are leaally
confidential and

‘Commented [SS9]: Updated information from Protect, J
website
cs (POMS) is directly regulated by the Financial Conduct

Post Office Money Servi

Authority (FCA), Post Office Limited is an appointed representative of Bank of Ireland

a
Address: Intelligence Department (Ref PIDA), Financial Conduct Authority, 12 Endeavour
Square, London, E20 1JNintelli ry Ref-IDA),-Financial-Cond: noel

: _—( Commented [510} Updated contact detate }
Whistleblowing concerns usually relate to the conduct of our staff, but they ma
sometimes relate to the actions of a third party, such as a customer, supplier, agent,
ror i jider. ire ul individuals if
they raise the matter with the third party directly. However, we encourage individuals to
report such concerns internally in the first instance. _—{ Commented [SS11}: Added following legal review}

9.2

Intemal Page 7 of 18 @BCL@6COCFOBBWhistisblowing Potioy
v3.2. June 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 143 of 185
Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

144 of 185

2. Risk Appetite and Minimum Control
Standards

2.1. Risk Appetite

Risk Appetite is the extent to which the Group will accept that a risk might happen in
pursuit of day to day businesses transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of
activity and levels of exposure that the Group are willing and able to tolerate.

The Group takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and consequently has‘:

+ Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited circumstances
Where there are significant conflicting imperatives between conformance and
commercial practicality

+ Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to high profile cases/issues

+ Averse risk appetite for ligation in relation to Financial Services matters

+ Averse risk appetite for not complying with law and regulations or deviation from
business’ conduct standards for financial crime to occur within any part of the
organisation

+ Averse Risk Appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by our staff.

The Group acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls
have been implemented an action may still sit outside the agreed Risk Appetite.

2.2. Policy Framework

Post Office has established a suite of policies and procedures, on a risk sensitive approach
which are subject to an annual review. The policy suite is designed to comply with
applicable legislation and regulation. The Whistleblowing Policy should be considered and
read in conjunction with other policies where relevant. These may include the Financial
Crime Policy, the Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy, Health & Safety Policies and HR Policies
where relevant,

2.3. Who Must Comply?

All third parties who do business with the Group, including consultants, suppliers and
business and franchise partners, will be required to agree contractually to this policy or
have their own equivalent policy.

Any investigations will be carried out in accordance with the Investigations Policy which is
available on the Post Office Intranet

“The Risk appetite was agreed by the Groups Board January 2015

Intemal Page 8 of 18 @BCL@6COCFOSBWhistisbiowing Policy
¥3.2-June 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568
Jdwog pue yshy - Parl! e010 1S0d

L/LO/PO-SenIWIWOD 2

6

S81 JOSbL

2.4. Minimum Control Standards

A minimum control standard is an activity which must be in place in order to manage the risks so they remain within the defined Risk
Appetite statements. There must be mechanisms in place within each impacted business unit to demonstrate compliance. The minimum
control standards can cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks
are managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required minimum control standards in consideration of the stated
risk appetite. The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk Area

Description of Risk

Minimum Control Standards

Who is responsible

When

Receipt and
investigation of
whistleblowing reports

Failure to meet legal and
regulatory requirements

Directive Control:
Post Office must nominate a
Whistleblowing Officer to receive
reports, ensure that all reports
are fully investigated and that
any appropriate corrective
action is undertaken.

The Whistleblowing Officer must
provide a whistleblowing report
to the R&CC and ARC at least
annually.

Any serious whistleblowing
concerns must be promptly
escalated to the Chairman of the
Post Office Audit and Risk
Committee.

Preventative Control:
All employees are trained and
the policy is available to them

Post Office CEO and Board

Whistleblowing Officer

Whistleblowing Officer

Whistleblowing Officer

Ongoing

Annually

Ongoing

Training must
be provided at
least annually

Internal

Page 9 of 18 @BCL@SCOCFOSBWhistleblowing Policy v3.2 June-2049

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a

ca
©
id

foljog pue mainay Bumo}
S81 JO ObL

BOWO 1SOd

Idwoo pue ysRy - p

GL/LOIO-CayIWWOD @

Risk Area

Description of Risk

Minimum Control Standards

Who is responsible

When

The Whistleblowing Officer must
ensure that appropriate
arrangements are in place to
ensure that whistleblowing
reports are addressed promptly
including during absences

Communications and awareness
provided to all employees and
Policy document published on
the Intranet.

Whistleblowing Officer

Head of Financial Crime

Ongoing

Annually

Breach of
confidentiality

Failure to ensure
confidentiality for the
whistleblower

Preventative Control:
Whistleblowing Policy

Confidential Speak Up line
reports are shared only with the
Whistleblowing Officer and
nominated deputies

Whistleblowing email inbox-with
accessinbox access is restricted
to the Whistleblowing Officer
and nominated deputies

Whistleblowing Officer must put
arrangement in place to protect
the confidentiality of the
whistleblower during
investigations

Corrective Control:

All incidents of breaches are
escalated to the Whistleblowing
Officer to review and take
necessary actions.

Whistleblowing Officer

Whistleblowing Officer

Whistleblowing Officer

Whistleblowing Officer

Whistleblowing Officer

Ongoing

Ongoing

Ongoing

Ongoing

Ongoing

Internal

Page 10 of 18 @BCL@6COCFOSBWhistleblowing Policy v3.2 June 2049

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a

ca
©
id

follog pue mainay Bulmo
Jdwog pue yshy - Parl! e010 1S0d

L/LO/PO-SenIWIWOD 2

6

SL JO LbL

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards __I Who is responsible When
Incorrect handling of _ I An individual may raisea __I Preventative Control:
whistleblowing report I whistleblowing report with _I Training provided to contact Whistleblowing Officer Annually
other individuals in the teams to identify potential
Group. Details may then be I whistleblowing reports and
shared with various ensure these are correctly
stakeholders before being _I handled, e.g.:
passed onto the + Grapevine,
Whistleblowing Officer + NBSC,
* Customer Support, and
* Executive Correspondence
Team.
Head of Financial Crime —_I Annually
Communications and awareness
provided to all employees and
Policy document published on
the Intranet.
Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
Corrective Control:
All incidents of breaches are
escalated to the Whistleblowing
Officer to investigate and take
appropriate actions.
Insufficient Failure to capture/report Directive Control:
Information sufficient information about I Individuals are encouraged to _I Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
the issue may mean that report issues and provide full
the underlying issue cannot I information and their contact
be properly investigated and I details, where they feel able to
resolved do so
Corrective Control:
All reports, including those Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing

where insufficient information
has been provided and no
further action was taken are
recorded on the Whistleblowing

Internal

Page 11 of 18

26

@BCL@SCOCFOSBWhistleblowing Policy v3.2 June-2049

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a

ca
©
id

foljog pue mainay Bumo}
S81 JO SbL

2
a
Q
3
3
8
3
s
g
2
Ea
2
a
9
g

a

6L/L0/v0-221

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards __I Who is responsible When
database, which is reviewed for
trends and issues.
The ‘Speak Up’ Service I Failure to effectively record I Preventative Control:
whistleblowing reports and The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer Annually
pass onto the review the effectiveness of the
Whistleblowing Officer, due _ service provided by NAVEX
to factors such as resource I Global=xpolink Europe-ttd
or IT failure. (formerly known as Entouch
MCS-LtdExpolink Europe Ltd) at
least annually,
Whistleblowing Officer Annually
The Whistleblowing Officer must
review the effectiveness of the
processes operated by each of
Grapevine, NBSC, Customer
Support, and The Executive
Complaints Team at least
annually to ensure that
whistleblowing reports are
identified and communicated
promptly.
Treatment of Breach of whistleblowing Preventative Control
Whistleblowers guidelines such that a Training must be provided to all_I Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing
whistleblower suffers people managers as part of their I HR Training Manager
prejudice, detriment or induction process as a manager
dismissal as a result of and on appointment to Post
making a whistle blowing _I Office
report
Annual training must be Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing
provided to all Post Office staff I HR Training Manager
to remind them of the
protections available to
whistleblowers and the
Internal Page 12 of 18 (@BCL@6COCFOSBWhistleblowing Policy v3.2 June-2049

POL00423568

POL00423568

4
a

ca
©
id

foljog pue mainay BUIMOIC

—{ Commented [5512]: Reflects change of name

BOWO 1SOd

Idwoo pue ysRy - p

GL/LOIO-CayIWWOD @

S81 JO 6bL

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards __I Who is responsible When

importance of identifying and
reporting wrongdoing
The Code of Business Standards
must refer to the whistleblowing I Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing
policy and must be provided to I HR Training Manager
all new joiners as part of their
induction programme.

Internal Page 13 of 18 (@BCL@6COCFOSBWhistleblowing Policy v3.2 June-2049

POL00423568
POL00423568

4
a

ca
©
id

follog pue mainay Bulmo
Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

150 of 185

3 = Definitions

3.1. Definitions

Grapevine
24/7 Security Support Centre provided by Kings Ltd. Grapevine provide security advice
and record all security incidents across the business, this includes burglaries, robberies
and the reporting of suspicious activity.

Telephone Number{
E-mail: grapevine.admint

NBSC
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) is a helpline and the first port of call for Post
Office branches if they have any operational query or require assistance

Telephone Number:
E-mail: nbscenquiriesi”

Customer Support Team
Complaints handling team based in Chesterfield. The team address complaints reported
into Post Office via various channels, including post and telephone.

E-mail: customercaref” 3
Executive Comptaints-Correspondence Team

This team handles all complaints addressed directly to the Group Executives. The team
liaise with various stakeholders within the business in order to resolve complaints,

E-mail: flagcaseadvisor

Intemal Page 140f 18 @BCL@6COCFOSBWhistieblowing Rolioy
V3.2 July 2049

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568
Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

4. Where to go for help

4.1. Additional Policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found at:

https:

4.2. How to raise a concerhI

poluk. sharepoint.com/sites/thehub/SitePages/Key%20policies.aspx?web=1

POL00423568
POL00423568

Any Post Office employee who suspects that there is a breach of this Policy should report
this without any undue delay. Whistleblowing can be reported via the following channels:

Their line manager,

A senior member of the HR Team, or
If either or both are not available, staff can contact the Post Offi
Officer, who can by email at: whistleblowingi
telephone on: _ i
Alternatively staf 1@ Speak Up service available on’

the secure on-line web portal: https://wrs.expolink.co.uk/postofice

In some instances it may be appropriate for the individual to report in the form of a
complaint to Grapevine, the Customer Support Team or the Executive Correspondence

Team.

4.3. Who to contact for more information

If you

need further information about this Policy or wish to report an issue in relation to

this Policy, please contact the Policy sponsor or Policy owner.

Internal

Page 16 of 18 @BCL@S6COCFOSBWhistieblowing Rolioy

v3.2-July 2019

‘Commented [VC13]: Should we rename this section
as its fairly similar to “1.8 How to Report
\Whistleblowing’. Possible "How to report policy
breaches?”

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 151 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

5 Governance

5.1. Governance Responsibilities

As at the date of approval of this Policy, the General Counsel is both the Policy Sponsor
and Policy Owner, responsible for oversight of the Policy.

The Audit and Risk Committee are responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing
compliance.

‘The Board is responsible for setting the Group's risk appetite.

Intemal Page 16 of 18 @BCL@S6COCFOSBWhistieblowing Rolioy
V3.2 July 2049

152 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

6. Cont

rol

6.1. Policy Version

Date Version I Updated by Change Details

April 2016 14 Jane MacLeod Sponsors review and sing-off
‘August 2017 15 Vitor Camara Annual Review and update.
September 2017 1.6 Thomas Richmond I POL R&CC approval

September 2017 2 Thomas Richmond I Final version approved

June 2018 24 Vitor Camara Annual review and update

July 2018 2.2 Sally Smith I POL R&CC approval I
July 2018 23 Sally Smith POL ARC approval

September 2018 24 Sally Smith I POMS ARC approval

September 2018 3 Vitor Camara Final Version approved

June 2019 3A Sally Smith Annual review and update

June 2019 aa Sally Smith Incorporating legal review comments

6.2. Policy Approval

Group Oversight Committee:

Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit and Risk Committee

I Committee I Date v. 3.0 Approved
POL R&CC 10" July 2018
POL ARC 31% July 2018
POMS ARC I 20 September 2018
[Date Approved
POL R&CC
POL ARC
POMS ARC

Policy Sponsor:

Policy Owner:
Policy Author:

Next revie

Whistleblowing Officer

Head of Financial Crime

July 2020

Company Details

Group Director of Legal, Risk-Compliance & Governance

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers
2154540 and 08459718 respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2¥ 9AQ.

Internal
v3.2-July 2019

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

Page 17 of 18 @BCL@S6COCFOSBWhistieblowing Rolioy

POL00423568
POL00423568

153 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.2 Whistleblowing Review and Policy

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Autharity (FCA), FRN 630318. Its
Information Commissioners Office registration number Is ZAOSOS85.

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number Is 24866081

Intemal Page 18 of 18 @BCL@6COCFOSBWhistieblowing Rolioy
V3.2 July 2049

154 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery
POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 11
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE UPDATED MSA STATEMENT
PROPOSAL
Author: James Scutt Sponsor: Amanda Jones Meeting date: 4th July 2019

Executive Summary

Context

The Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the Act) challenges slavery, domestic servitude, forced
and compulsory labour and human trafficking. Post Office is required to produce an
annual slavery and human trafficking statement (Statement) setting out what steps
have been taken to ensure its business and supply chains are mitigating the risks of
modern slavery. This paper attaches the third Statement which documents progress on
our previous year’s commitments and outlines the actions that we commit to take in
the year ahead.

Questions addressed in this paper

1. Why do we need an updated Statement?

2. What are the key points to note about our Statement?

3. What are the implications for the board and the business?
4. Is the Post Office compliant with the Act?

; 9.3
Conclusion
In order to give Post Office an independent and balanced view of its compliance to the
requirements of the Modern Slavery Act, we employed the services of an external body
of expert consultants with particular skill and knowledge in Modern Slavery.

Overall the Post Office is compliant with the MS ACT 2015 in terms of its legal
obligations. It has made progress in defining what needs to be done across the business
and is beginning the longer term task of robust implementation.

e Post Office has prepared a new Statement for 2019/2020 in line with the Act. The
Statement must be published on Post Office’s website within 6 months of financial
year end.

e The steering group has been meeting monthly, has made progress and will
continue to evolve with a full review of its terms of reference going forward.

« Due to the lack of control over operations in this area, the highest level of risk
continues to be within our Agency Network but we have also identified several
more areas where proximity of brand also poses a risk for Post Office. (When the
Post Office branding appears on retail packaging, sourced by one of its suppliers)

« Published company statements on modern slavery face scrutiny from the media,
pressure groups and the public. As an organisation with a reputation of trust and

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 155 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery

156 of 185

POST OFFICE PAGE 2 OF 10

a stated social purpose, we consider it important for Post Office to demonstrate
a clear commitment. Civil society would expect the Post Office to be a champion
in this area because of this trust legacy.

« To be able to implement robust monitoring and due diligence, Post Office needs to
increase the resources (people and budget) from what has been allocated to
Modern Slavery to date and have someone sufficiently dedicated to overseeing
the implementation across the business.

Proposed actions for 2019/20:

« Implement a new IT system to track and monitor the on-boarding of new suppliers,
ensuring a robust assessment and oversight of their ways of working and risk
profile around Modern Slavery.

« Review our supply base retrospectively by applying the focus of our new IT tracking
system.

« Raise awareness of Modern Slavery across our existing suppliers where they are
found to be lacking focus.

« Continue to raise awareness of Modern Slavery across Post Office supply chain and
branch network in both directly managed and agency branches.

« Deploy specific MS awareness training to our field teams to enable them to robustly
spot signs of Modern Slavery.

e Review the guidance given to Postmasters to ensure alignment with wider business
activity and network support teams.

Input Sought Input Received

The RCC IS asked to approve the We consulted all members of the MSA

2018/2019 Statement and endorse the Steering Group which comprises of

Proposed actions for the business to take representatives across functions including

forward in the 2019/2020 financial year. Legal, Procurement, Risk, Employee
Relations and Learning and Development
as well as independent consultants.

The Report

Why do we need Modern Slavery Act Statement?

The requirement to publish a Statement applies to “commercial organisations” which
(a) supply goods or services and (b) have a total turnover of not less than £36 million.
It will therefore not apply directly to Postmasters if their annual turnover is less than
£36 million. As Postmasters are part of the Post Office supply chain, Post Office must
state what steps it has taken to ensure that it mitigates the risk of slavery and human
trafficking in any of its supply chains or its business. Payzone has a turnover of just
under the threshold so is not legally required to produce a separate MS Statement, best
practice would be to do so and this is something we may want to consider. PZ will still
be included as a business owned by the Post Office.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

9.3
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery

POST OFFICE PAGE 3 OF 10

Post Office is required under s.54 of the Act to produce an annual slavery and human
trafficking statement listing the steps taken to ensure its business and supply chains
are slavery free. This paper attaches the third Statement (Appendix 1) which records
what steps we have taken in 2018/2019 and outlines the actions we commit to take in
2019/2020. The Statement must be approved by the Post Office Board and signed by a
Director.

What are the key points to note about our updated Modern Slavery Act Statement?
Our 2018/2019 statement records the progress we have made against those
commitments and lists our commitments to tackle modern slavery across POL and POI
for the financial year 2019/2020. The commitments were developed by the MSA
Steering Group which includes representatives from Legal, Procurement, Risk,
Employee Relations and Learning and Development. Our commitments are:

e Raise awareness of Modern Slavery across our supply base.
e Improve the due diligence assessment for onboarding new suppliers to our
systems.

e Raise awareness of Modern Slavery across Post Office, its suppliers and within the
agency network.

Educate field teams out in the agency network on spotting the signs of Modern
Slavery.

e Review our supply base and revise our supplier management processes.

In formulating our commitments for 2019/2020 we engaged subject matter experts, 9.3
“Good Values” to fully review Post Office’s exposure to risk and approach to MS. .

Good Values are a leading corporate responsibility and sustainability consultancy with
over 10 years’ experience working globally with corporates, NGOs and government
departments. They help organisations manage the risks and exploit the opportunities
from social and sustainability issues.

The main areas of risk are highlighted as:

Public perception that where a Post Office fascia is in place that the facility is a Post
Office and not an independent retailer that “includes” a Post Office service.

Risk by association that those working with a Post Office fascia but also operating
other businesses, directly and indirectly associated with retail.

Challenging dialogue to have with consumers about trust and control of Postmasters
if something goes wrong. Given the public perception is that the Post Office controls all
places where there is a Post Office facia, stating in defence that: “We do not control
them”, “We did not know about this”, “We have T&Cs that prohibit this”, would not be
good enough in the public domain, and there would be reputational damage.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and

ompliance Committee-04/07/19 157 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery

158 of 185

POST OFFICE PAGE 4 OF 10

Lack of Resource to be able to implement robust monitoring and due diligence,
dedicated resources (people and budget) would need to be allocated to Modern Slavery
to oversee the implementation across the business.

What are the implications for the board and the business?

A potential consequence of failing to show adequate progress on tackling modern
slavery within the company statement is damage to reputation and brand.

Latest Government guidance on the Modern Slavery Act and expectations from civil
society is for companies to show year on year progress on how they are tackling the
risks of modern slavery within their operations and supply chain.

Our annual statement therefore has to show more than just a tick-box exercise and
must demonstrate a material commitment to tackling the potential risk of modern
slavery within the organisation.

We are confident that the detail in our 2018/2019 statement recording our progress on
last year and our proposed actions for the financial year 2019/2020 are appropriate.
We will monitor developments, and keep the adequacy of the Statement under review.

Is the Post Office compliant with the Act?
Overall the PO is compliant with the legal obligations of the MS Act.

To establish the level of monitoring and due diligence within the Post Office that would
be expected by civil society and stand up to public scrutiny, further focus and resource
is required. Overall the Post Office is compliant with the legal obligations of the MS ACT
2015. It has started to make progress within the business, but it has yet to: embed
training with employees; address the risk evaluation of our Postmasters and Agency
businesses; conduct the required level of mapping and risk assessment with suppliers
as set out in the Statement.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

9.3
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery

POST OFFICE PAGE 5 OF 10

Appendix 1

1. Modern Slavery Statement 2019/2020

MODERN SLAVERY ACT TRANSPARENCY STATEMENT 2019/20

Post Office Limited (Post Office) & Post Office Management Services Limited (POMS).

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Act. It sets out the steps taken
by Post Office & POMS during year ending 31%t March 2019 to mitigate the risks of
modern slavery and human trafficking in its business and supply chains.

Post Office and POMS are committed to combating the risk of modern slavery or human
trafficking in our supply chain and business operations. We are committed to taking
appropriate steps to ensure that everyone who works for Post Office in any capacity,
benefits from a working environment in which their fundamental rights and freedoms
are respected.

This is the third statement in which we report on our efforts to mitigate the risks of
modern slavery in line with the requirements of the Act. Our history has seen us focus
on the rights and wellbeing of the people who work for Post Office and for our suppliers
for many years. Our statement provides details of our policies, our approach and the
actions we have taken in the 2018/19 financial year to strengthen our programme and
commitment to respect and uphold people’s fundamental rights and freedoms. 9.3

OUR BUSINESS AND SUPPLY CHAIN

Post Office is the UK’s largest retail network and the largest financial services chain in
the UK. We have provided services for more than 370 years and currently supply a
range of essential products and services to communities right across the UK.

Our UK Government mandate is to provide at least 11,500 Post Offices, some within
certain geographical, demographic and social criteria that provide a unique operational
challenge for Post Office compared to other wholly commercial retail or financial
institutions. We are often at the heart of the local communities, some of which can be
challenging environments to operate in.

Post Office directly controls around 2% of the Network of branches which consumers
will generally recognise as the larger branches often situated in the centre of towns and
cities across the UK. The remainder of the branches are managed on an agency basis
by independent small retailers and shop owners operating Post Office services within
their own store. Business owners may own more than one shop operating Post Office
services and have a range of other non connected business interests. We also have
agent managed facilities within some larger high street commercial partners, who like
the smaller independent retailers, provide their own trained and friendly staff to provide
our Post Office services to consumers.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 159 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery

POST OFFICE PAGE 6 OF 10
Banking services

Post Office banking services are provided in Post Office branches on behalf of the
customers of UK banks.

Postmasters

Postmasters can operate one or more branches. As agents they have full control over
how their branches within their retail premises are run on a daily basis. All those working
in an agency Post Office branch are employed directly by the retailer. The Retailer is
self-employed and typically takes on a Post Office as a valuable community service
provided within their own retail business. Post office has no direct control over the
operation of these independent SME businesses but does have the ability to influence
and inform. Post Office aims to support Postmasters with their Post Office operations
and influence their behaviours.

Commercial partners

A large proportion of the agency network is managed by commercial partners -
corporate retail organisations with familiar fascia brands who themselves have a
multiple number of high street stores.

Trade Unions

In our directly managed branch network, we work closely with the Communications
Workers Union (CWU) and Unite (CMA) Communications Managers Association.

9.3

Third Party Suppliers

We also procure products and services from a range of managed suppliers, ranging from
small and medium enterprises to large multinationals. Purchasing for our own managed
Post Offices is controlled centrally by the Procurement team who also set the Supplier
Relationship Management standards to ensure our teams maintain a consistent
approach to supplier management.

OUR BELIEFS AND PRINCIPLES

Respect for the dignity of the individual and the importance of each individual’s human
rights form the basis of the behaviours we expect in every workplace and are
communicated through our Code of Business Standards. We will not accept any form of
discrimination, bullying or harassment. We require all our managers to implement
policies designed to ensure equality of opportunity and inclusion for all Post Office
employees.

Strictly Confidential

160 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery

POST OFFICE PAGE 7 OF 10

OUR POLICIES

We operate a number of policies to ensure we are conducting business in an ethical and
transparent manner. These include:

CODE OF BUSINESS STANDARDS

We have a Code of Business Standards which underpins everything we do. The Code is
mandatory and extends to everyone directly employed by Post Office. It requires all of
us to act ethically and comply with legal requirements at all times, putting our principles
into practice in everything we do. The Code of Business Standards was updated during
the 2017 financial year to include references to Modern Slavery.

WHISTLEBLOWING

We operate a Whistleblowing Policy so that all Post Office employees know how to raise
concerns regarding wrongdoing or dangerous practices. The policy was updated during
the 2017 financial year to include references to concerns about Modern Slavery.

There are a number of ways people can report any concerns regarding slavery or human
trafficking within Post Office, by either contacting the Whistleblowing Officer or via our
anonymous external confidential reporting service ‘Speak Up’ which is regularly
communicated to all employees, suppliers and contractors. This is overseen by our
General Counsel (Whistleblowing Officer). Every report submitted is assessed and
investigated.

9.3
RECRUITMENT & ONBOARDING POLICY

Our recruitment and on-boarding policy for Post Office employees sets out the
overarching principles and controls to be followed and applied to ensure that personnel
resourcing is conducted in a fair, open and transparent manner, including conducting
eligibility to work in the UK checks for all employees.

DUE DILLIGENCE PROCEDURES IN RELATION TO SLAVERY AND HUMAN
TRAFFICKING IN OUR BUSINESS AND SUPPLY CHAIN.

Post Office/POMS employs solely within the UK.

Our recruitment procedures ensure that all prospective employees are legally entitled
to work in the UK. All successful applicants must produce, on their first day, one of the
following: their original passport, driving license or birth certificate. Additionally, to
comply with the Asylum and Immigration Act 1996 requirements, if they are from a
non-European Economic Area (EEA) country, evidence of a right to reside and work in
the UK must be produced.

We carry out reasonable and practical due diligence in the sourcing of goods and
services and ensuring that the Act's obligations form part of the procurement process.
As part of this process we have conducted a review of the criteria used by Post Office

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 161 of 185
POL00423568

POL00423568

Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery

162 of 185

POST OFFICE PAGE 8 OF 10

to evaluate whether suppliers meet Post Office’s minimum tendering requirements. We
have also reviewed our standard form procurement contracts to ensure that they make
explicit reference to the Act, as well as covering other areas of company information,
policies and procedures. This enables the procurement team to assist Business Units to
identify and assess any potential risks relating to the goods or services being procured.

IDENTIFYING, ASSESSING AND MANAGING RISK

WHERE ARE THE RISKS OF MODERN SLAVERY AT POST OFFICE/POMS

Post Office understands that our procurement of goods and services from third parties
carry with it the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking.

We understand that a potential for risk of modern slavery sits within our agency network
as there are a large number of people employed by independent retailers acting as
Postmasters (including commercial partners) who are not direct employees of Post
Office or POMS.

GOVERNANCE

We have a cross-functional steering group through which we develop and coordinate
our approach to addressing modern slavery risks within our operations and supply
chain. This group consists of expertise from the legal, procurement, compliance and
operational functions in Post Office.

TRAINING
We provide annual Compliance Awareness Training to all our employees and
postmasters, which is tailored to ensure an appropriate level of understanding of issues

such as modern slavery and the Act's requirements.

WHAT DID WE DO THIS YEAR

Proposals from 2018 I Progress on 2018 proposals
Statement

We carried out a detailed assessment of our new
Improve the due diligence I supplier on-boarding process and identified a
assessment for onboarding new I number of recommendations which will help
suppliers to our systems ensure a robust assessment of new suppliers and
their ways of working.

9.3

We have designed an enhanced process and
detailed content to be included in new system
described above.

Review our supply base and
revise our supplier management I Our CSR questionnaire is being trialled with a small
processes cross section of suppliers, to test, review and make
improvements to the question format, evaluation
process and feedback/ improvement plan.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery

POST OFFICE

POL00423568

POL00423568

PAGE 9 OF 10

We have aligned this with Post Office Compliance
and Audit functions who conduct physical audits of
Supply Chain suppliers. This ensures maximum
benefit from our efforts and no duplication, or
overburdening of the suppliers.

Raise awareness of Modern
Slavery across our supply base

We created our Supplier Code of Conduct and
published it on our public website.

http://corporate. postoffice.co.uk/our-suppliers

This Code of Conduct is used in the on-boarding
process and other procurement exercises.

Depending on the outcomes of the CSR
questionnaire, we will devise additional awareness
material as appropriate and distribute to our
suppliers proactively.

Raise awareness of Modern
Slavery across Post Office, its
suppliers and within the agency
network.

We issued guidance and Modern Slavery
awareness raising material for Postmasters
through our branch Network management teams
and communication channels.

Educate field teams out in the
agency network on_ spotting
signs of Modern Slavery.

We sourced best practice training and awareness
materials from suppliers and developed it to align
and resonate with our Branch network
management field teams. We will start to roll this

training out to frontline staff. 9.3
WHAT COMMITMENTS ARE WE MAKING TO TACKLE MODERN SLAVERY IN THE
YEAR AHEAD
As part of our initiative to identify and mitigate risk throughout 2019/20 we are
committed to:
e Implement our new IT system to track and monitor the on-boarding of new
suppliers, ensuring a robust assessment and oversight of their ways of working
and risk profile around Modern Slavery.
« Review our supply base retrospectively by applying the focus of our new IT tracking
system.
e Raise awareness of Modern Slavery across our existing suppliers where they are
found to be lacking focus.
¢ Continue to raise awareness of Modern Slavery across Post Office branch network
across both directly managed and agency branches.
* Deploy specific MS awareness training to our field teams to enable them to robustly
spot signs of Modern Slavery.
« Review the guidance given to Postmasters to ensure alignment with wider business
activity and network support teams.
Strictly Confidential
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 163 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 9.3 Modern Slavery

POST OFFICE PAGE 10 OF 10

REMEDIATION PROCESSES

If you have any concerns about the issues raised in this statement or if you think you
have identified signs of Modern Slavery then please contact us on the below contacts:

Post Office’s Whistleblowing Officer: whistleblowing.. or by telephone

The Government's Modern Slavery Helpline on

We encourage any individual who has concerns about unethical behaviour in any part
of our business or operations to speak up and to do so without fear of retaliation. We
will review all instances of non-compliance, on a case-by-case basis and will implement
appropriate remedial action.

REVIEW

This statement shall be reviewed and published annually.

9.3

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and

ompliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 10 GDPR Update

POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 8
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

UK Data Protection Act (incorporating GDPR)
Compliance Status Report

Authors: Chris Russell Clare Hammond Sponsor: Ben Foat Meeting date: 4" July 2019

Executive Summary

Context

¢ The UK Data Protection Act 2018 (UK DPA 18) came into force in May 2018
incorporating the EU General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) along with UK
specific exemptions and interpretations. The legislation builds on the 1998 DPA
and includes increased penalties for non-compliance (up to 4% of global annual
turnover) and a requirement that organisations demonstrate accountability.

e The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) is the UK Data Protection Authority,
which enforces the UK DPA 18 and regulates Post Office.

e Post Office processes personal data in a uniquely complex environment.
Information is processed on behalf of more than 140 different data controllers,
including banks and government agencies. In turn, Post Office uses more than 170
different data processors, who process personal data on behalf of Post Office.

e In order to meet the GDPR and DPA requirements, the GDPR Programme was set
up in 2017 and ran to April 2019. The programme looked across the Post Office
Group, excluding Payzone.

e¢ The programme was tasked to achieve ‘effective compliance’ by May 2018 and
‘substantive compliance” April 2019.

e This paper is an assessment by the Data Protection Team of the level of compliance
achieved by the GDPR Programme and highlight the actions that need to be taken
to maintain the achieved Compliance levels.

Questions this paper addresses
e¢ What level of compliance with the UK DPA 18 has Post Office achieved through the
GDPR programme and is this within Post Office’s risk appetite?

¢ What further actions are needed to ensure that Post Office achieves and sustains
the required level of compliance?

e What structures are in place to monitor, improve and report compliance to the UK
DPA 18 in a ‘business as usual’ setting?

1 Covering aspects visible to data subjects such as Marketing Permissions and Privacy Notices

2 Covering other data issues such as Process Mapping and Information Rights
Strictly Confidential Page 1 of 8 RCC UK DPA Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 165 of 185
Tab 10 GDPR Update

166 of 185

POL00423568

POL00423568

Conclusion

1.

The GDPR Programmes established appropriate controls, from which Post Office
can reasonably derive a high degree of confidence that its operational process are
compliant.

There is still work to be done to implement further administrative controls, with
particular focus in the following areas, which are being delivered through separate
projects and as part of remediation work by the Data Protection Team and
relevant businesses:

a. Contract Remediation
b. Records Retention

c. Data Classification
d. Data Storage.

The Data Protection team is confident that the necessary remediation plans are
in progress to deliver confidence in our compliance maturity.

Additionally, there are two key areas that require the Data Protection Team’s
focus:
a. Refining Data Protection governance and setting up audit and review
processes by end September 2019
b. Third party risk and monitoring of new operational practices review with
the aim of moving to a more robust position by the end of 2019.

Lastly, in order to support the businesses in managing data compliantly, we have
proposed establishing a quarterly “Privacy Forum”.

Input Sought

The Committee is asked to note the Data Protection team’s compliance findings and
is requested to support the proposals included in this paper.

Strictly Confidential Page 2 of 8 RCC UK DPA Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 10 GDPR Update

POL00423568

POL00423568

Report

What level of compliance with the UK DPA 18 has Post Office
achieved through the GDPR programme and is this within Post
Office’s risk appetite?

ds

Approximately 575 different processing activities have been identified and
mapped as part of the GDPR Programme. Where appropriate, and to help explain
complex processes, data flow diagrams have been produced and all are
inventoried within our One Trust Privacy Management record system.

These processes encompass all current areas in Post Office (excluding Payzone)
where Personal Data is used.

A thorough review was undertaken and all processes, with the exception of Record
Retention, are compliant with the provisions of the UK DPA18 and are within Post
Office Risk Appetite.

However, we have identified discrepancies between the processes, which are
compliant, and elements of Post Office policies (such as Data Classification, Data
Storage and Legitimate Interest Assessment). As a result there is an ongoing
remediation exercise in place between the Data Protection team and process
owners to gain alignment with a targeted completion date of December 19

The GDPR programme also included amending key contracts to ensure they are
compliant with the new legislation. To date some 450 have been completed, with
a further 150 currently being reviewed/to start review. This work will continue
throughout 2019/20, with the Data team working alongside Legal. This is a low
risk to Post Office as remediation was prioritised at the Material and high risk
contracts. The majority of those not remediated are Non-Material IT Service
Contracts.

Privacy Notices are in place for all key groups of data subjects. There remain
some gaps, in particular, how to deliver information to customers in Branch. A
regular review and sign off process will be established by the end of September
19 to ensure that all Privacy Notices are in line with ICO guidance.

A robust annual training course that all staff are required to take has been rolled
out but we are developing further awareness materials and regular
communications with the Training and Communications teams to reinforce this.
We will also assess the benefits of holding an annual “Privacy Day” to highlight
the importance of data privacy both at work and also in our personal lives.

The GDPR programme has significantly improved Post Office’s compliance.
Further work remains to be done but there is now a low risk of sanction for not
amending processes etc. from the regulator. The programme prioritised
remediation on operational controls where a failure in this area would attract
regulatory scrutiny.

Improving ongoing compliance across Post Office?

9. Governance structures, including the establishment of a regular Privacy Forum
with terms of reference, need to be defined and implemented by the end of Sept
Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 8 RCC UK DPA Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and

ompliance Committee-04/07/19

167 of 185
Tab 10 GDPR Update

168 of 185

10.

ii.

12.

13.

14.

POL00423568

POL00423568

19. Key management information within a dashboard are planned to be available
to internal stakeholders on a monthly basis and reported to the Forum quarterly.

The Data Protection Team will work with the Policy Governance manager to
develop good accountability and governance structures so that ownership of
policies, processes, contracts and assets is well defined and responsibilities
understood throughout the organisation.

It is proposed that we establish a network of ‘data privacy champions’ throughout
the organisation by the end of Dec 19. The face to face GDPR training that was
undertaken in 2018 demonstrated that there are a number of individuals who
have a keen interest in the topic and would like to be a key contact for their area
of the business

Further remediation work will be conducted over the next year to ensure adequate
controls are in place for the processing of ‘unstructured data’ (outside the scope
of the GDPR Programme). The Process Mapping exercise identified that
Unstructured Data is Personal Data that is being stored outside of its source
system, for example data held in Outlook or local drives on laptops and PC’s. This
will tie in with the Records Retention project with targeted completion of July 20

The storage of this unstructured data is NOT in contravention of the UK DPA18
but is outside of Post Office policy. Therefore, through education, awareness and
remediation workshops this unstructured data will be stored correctly with the
adequate controls being developed.

An example of these controls has been developed and implemented within HR
Reports. Since September last year requests for release of raw HR Personal Data
have to be validated and verified by the Data Protection team prior to release to
the business. There are no exceptions to this process.

Plans to improve Post Office Data Protection Review procedures?

15.

16.

17.

18.

A review of Data Protection has been included in the 2019/20 Internal Audit
plan. The objective of this review is to assess the operational effectiveness of the
structure, process and controls in place to ensure ongoing GDPR compliance. In
addition Internal Audit will follow up the actions from the 2017/18 GDPR
programme review to ensure those controls are embedded and sustainable.

The Data Protection Team will conducting a programme of informal ‘Privacy
Reviews’ and walk-throughs targeting key areas of the business that will
commence in Q4 2019. This will be risk based and could be as a result of an
incident (or series of regular low level incidents) or target groups who process
particularly sensitive personal data.

The Third Party Risk Assessment process is established and focusses on the IT
Security of key vendors. The Risk team has agreed to include Data Protection as
part of the reviews and assessments. In addition, an ongoing due diligence
process should be established by Mar 2020 that requires higher risk processors
to regularly report their compliance status and to demonstrate adherence to key
contractual terms.

Data Protection by Design processes will be evaluated to identify enhancements
that can be made to ensure that Data Protection is considered and built into every
stage of a product or process development. The Data Protection team has made
significant progress by building more effective working relationships with the

Strictly Confidential Page 4 of 8 RCC UK DPA Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tab 10 GDPR Update

19.

POL00423568

POL00423568

business teams. However this requires formalising and documenting, particularly
as the organisation embraces Agile ways of working.

Complaint and enquiry handling from data subjects, particularly customers, has
improved and is handled and tracked. However, enhancements are planned to
be implemented by Nov 2019 to ensure that the processes are repeatable and
measurable. It is clear through recent ICO enquiries, that not all complaints that
come in from customers make it to the Data Protection team (e.g., marketing
complaints and challenges over use of personal data) and additional processes
and training need to be put in place by Nov 2019 to ensure that all possible
‘entry/capture’ points are aware of Post Office’s responsibilities.

What other key funded projects are required to deliver
compliance to UK DPA 18?

20.

21.

22.

The following projects are underway, which will support Post Office’s compliance
with UK DPA 18:

Records retention; it is critical to UK DPA 18 compliance that the project continues
to establish retention schedules and system and process owners implement the
required deletion procedures.

The Joiners, Movers, Leavers (JML) project; this is a key project that is ensuring
that only people who need access to personal data in order to do their job, have
access. Some higher risk systems are moving to single sign on and others to
enhanced manual access controls. The project will also recommend some lower
risk systems that should implement stronger access controls. The project will
close mid-July.

Conclusion

23.

24.

The overall compliance summary is that there has been significant improvement
in Post Office’s data protection processes, controls and culture. It is the opinion
of the Data Protection team that Post Offices overall Compliance standing is within
Risk Appetite for compliance with Legal and Regulatory obligations for all our
Operational Processes. The completion of the remediation exercises highlighted
in this paper will reduce the level of risk exposure and back within risk appetite
for the administrative controls applied. (See the Annex below for high level
information on Maturity Level of UK DPA18 compliance within Post Office.)

To further enhance and maintain compliance, the remediation work identified in
this paper needs to be completed. This will help ensure Post Office is within its
Risk Appetite for compliance with its legal and regulatory obligations and with
internal Policies and Procedures.

Strictly Confidential Page 5 of 8 RCC UK DPA Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

169 of 185
Tab 10 GDPR Update

POL00423568

POL00423568

Appendix

What is the basis of this Analysis of Compliance?

The Post Office Data Protection Framework has been defined and is based upon
the Nymity? Accountability model which is recognised as industry good practice.
All relevant Articles of the GDPR are mapped to Privacy Management categories
and activities, which in turn have been mapped to the new draft NIST (National
Institute of Standards and Technology) Privacy ‘functions’. It is proposed that
progress will be monitored on a regular basis within a new Privacy Forum. A
Privacy Dashboard is being developed, by the end of June, to track key
management information and output measures such as incidents, complaints,
requests and training completions etc.

The following diagram shows the 13 categories of the Privacy Framework around
the outer wheel, mapped to the 5 NIST ‘functions’. The segments are colour coded
according to the maturity as per the key. Full definitions of each level are in the
Appendix. The levels have been judged by the Data Protection team with input
from relevant areas (e.g. IT Security).

3 The Nymity Privacy Management Accountability Framework™ is the de facto industry standard
framework for privacy management, and contains over 130 privacy management activities organised
into 13 categories.

Strictly

170 of 185

Confidential Page 6 of 8 RCC UK DPA Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 10 GDPR Update
Maturity Model Assessment May 2017- May 2019
Maintain Data Privacy Breach and Maintain Governance
Incident Management Program mucuire,
Respond to Requests and Track External
Complaints from Individuals Criteria
Maintain Data Privacy

Maintain Notices Policy

Maintain Training and
Awareness Program

Monitor Data

Handling Practices Protect

Control

Manage Information
Security Risk
[ _\ Manage Third Party

Monitor for New
Operational Practices

Embed Data Privacy

Into Operations Maintain Personal Risk
Data Inventory

Strictly Confidential Page 7 of 8 RCC UK DPA Paper

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19 171 of 185
Tab 10 GDPR Update

172 of 185

How was ‘Proactive’ determined to be the desired level of the

Maturity Model and how does this fit with Risk Appetite?

3. ‘Proactive’ is defined as having a well-documented approach, consistently
applied; having activities occur on a regular, planned basis with failures identified
and rectified. A balance has been applied that provides for a robust, defendable
position that protects Post Office’s personal data while not overburdening the

organisation.

4, Our ‘Protecting Personal Data Policy’ describes the Post Office as having a:

Tolerant risk appetite for

POL00423568
POL00423568

e Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited circumstances where there are
significant conflicting imperatives between conformance and commercial

practicality
Adverse risk appetite for

e litigation in relation to high profile cases/issues
¢ not complying with law and regulations or deviation from business

conduct standards

e data loss/leakage that can lead to customer, commercial or reputational

damage

e inaccurate and unreliable processing of data
A maturity level of ‘Proactive’ has been judged to sit within risk appetite.

How does the model work?

5. Each category contains a number of activities that range from ‘essential for
compliance’ and mapped to a GDPR Article to ‘enhancing’ and good practice. Each
activity has equal weighting within a category.

6. It is proposed that the Data Protection Team will re-evaluate the maturity score
every quarter, and present at the Privacy Forum and maintain a database of

evidence of controls.

Definition of Maturity Levels

Maturity Levels

Score, [Detinition

[Absence or only partially present.
° ABSENT

Inconsistent approach;
1 SSS p= IAc-hoc, undocumented procedures;
Few records kept

Formally resourced;
2 T= Jodjectives are detined;
procedures defined, but are applied inconsistently.

{Well documented approach, consistently applied;
3 Ta activities occur on a regular, planned basis;
Failures are identified and rectified.

[Consistent and robust application;
4 EET al Activities are increasingly automated;
processes and tools are integrated.

Processes are well managed and governed by leadership;
5 Becta improvements are actively sought;
[Monitoring captures

‘cto measure performance.

Strictly Confidential Page 8 of 8

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance

ommittee-04/07/19

RCC UK DPA Paper
POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 11 Corporate Insurance Renewal
POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 1
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE NOTING PAPER

Post Office Insurance Renewal -
Process Update

Author: Mark Dixon Sponsor: Micheal Passmore Meeting date: 4 July 2019

Executive Summary

Context

The business has a series of insurance policies due for renewal on L
summary of the insurance programme in place at renewal in 2018 is set out in Appendix 1
(separate attachment) together with the insurance premiums paid in Appendix 2 (below,
page 5 of 7). This paper provides a brief outline of the changes in approach that we are
making for the 2019 renewal and sets out a summary of key milestones in the renewal
process. Risk Review and Analysis is presented in Appendix 3 (separate attachment).

Question addressed in this report

How does the renewal process for 2019 differ to previous years?
What is the renewal process for 2019?

Conclusion

We believe that the change in approach adopted for the 2019 renewal will allow us
to ensure we have appropriate coverage in place, with appropriate deductibles, while
optimising cost and following an OJEU compliant procurement process.

Input Sought

The RCC members are asked to note the update on the 2019 renewal
process

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk 2 npliance Committee-04/07/19 173 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

1 Corporate Insurance Renewal

POST OFFICE PAGE 2 OF 7

The Report

How does the renewal process for 2019 differ to previous years?

1. Our primary focus has been on delivering an insurance
_reasonable cost to the business. This has been achieved

IRRELEVANT

POL seeks to manage thi

3. POL takes advice from its broker, Lock
deductibles. For the 2019 renewal Lockton

IRRELEVANT

4. In order to ensure that the coverage POL has in place is appropriate we have
worked with Lockton to perform a detailed risk review to identify potential gaps.
Lockton have used the POL risk register as the basis for this review. The review is
attached as Attachment 3. The output from this review is now being used to tailor the
quotes that we requesting from insurers and therefore will enable us to make various
decisions around the coverage in place.

In particular,

has been identified as an area where we need to take a look
This is being addressed with a
small project team comprising David Mann, Tim Armit and Mark Dixon.

6. For the 2019 renewals we will follow an OJEU-compliant procurement process.

The process starts with an invitation to tender that will be issued o} In order
to be able to comply with the process timetable we will seek approval for the renewal
at the ARC meeting on I IR

Strictly Confidential

Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 11 Corporate Insurance Renewal

POST OFFICE PAGE 3 OF 7

What is the renewal process for 2019?

7. The 2019 renewal date is {IRRELEVANT _I

8. Key milestones in the 2019 renewal process are shown below:

Description Date Comments / Additional Notes

JULY RCC MEETING Popers due by 26 June

4 July

Issue Invitation to Tender wm 9July
JULY ARC MEETING 29 July I Perse by 23 uly
Deadline for Tender Submissions 19 Aug
Scoring of Submissions and Finalisation of Programme Ls} ° ca to
SEPTEMBER RCC MEETING mi 3sepe «PPE smisions de by 29 August
oveene neues sm 23 Sept PEPETsmisions by 13 September
Final Decisions Required on Insurance Programme (Insurers,

mitt
Structure, Terms, etc.)

There 1s a minimum 10-day perlod aftr insurers are notified before

Notifications Sent to Insurers 11. Oct final contracts canbe avarded.

Insurance Contracts Awarded

2B Oct

CONTRACT COMMENCEMENT m1 Nov

9. Wewill provide a brief update to the RCC and ARC in July and then seek
approval from the September ARC. Given the deadline for tender submissions it will
not be possible to provide an update to the September RCC. We will, however, meet
with Al Cameron and Rob Houghton once we have quotes back from insurers and prior
to submitting papers to the September ARC in order to finalise decisions around
coverage.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Tab 11 Corporate Insurance F

POST OFFICE PAGE 4 OF 7

Appendix 1: Summary of Insurance Programme at 2018 Renewal
Appendix 2: Insurance Premiums at 2018 Renewal

Appendix 3: Risk Review and GAP Analysis

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tal

1 Corporate Insurance Renewal

POST OFFICE

Appendix 1: Summary of Insurance Programme at 2018 Renewal

See separate attachment

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

PAGE 5 OF 7

Tab 11 Corporate Insurance Renewal

POST OFFICE

POL00423568
POL00423568

PAGE 6 OF 7

Appendix 2: Insurance Premiums at 2018 Renewal

Policy

2018/19
Premium

Crime
Motor
Combined Liability
PI - POL

PI - POMS
Cyber

PD & BI

D&O
Terrorism
PA & Travel
Contingency

TOTAL

Strictly Confidential

IRRELEVANT!

178 of 185 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19
Tal

1 Corporate Insurance Renewal

POST OFFICE

Appendix 3: Risk Review and GAP Analysis

See separate attachment

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance

Sommittee-04/07/19

POL00423568
POL00423568

PAGE 7 OF 7

179 of 185
POL00423568
POL00423568

Post Office Group - Summary of Insurances
(based on renewal at 1 November 2018)

A
A
Mm
re
<
>
=<
—I

POL00423568
POL00423568

Pe insurance ting Generah I Dcductbles Retention Lirsit of Indemnity / Sublime Comments

IRRELEVANT

POL00423568
POL00423568

Post Office Principal Risks vs Insurance

‘OPERATIONAL

POL00423568
POL00423568

Prope

Note: a number of the risks identified above by Post Office have the potential to result in liability of directors and officers for breach of duty, duty of care etc. The organisation buys D&O
insurance to address this.

Tab 12 Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda 29 July 2019

POL00423568
POL00423568

Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Agenda

Monday 29 July 2019

[ime] 14.30-18.00 hrs [LocationII 1.19 Wakefield I

© Carla Stent (Chair)

© Tom Cooper

¢ Tim Franklin

(Interim CEO)

Tim Parker

Alisdair Cameron

Shirine Khoury-Haq
(Non-Executive Director)

(Chairman — PO Limited)

Amanda Bowe (item 3.)
(Chair, ARC PO Insurance Director)
Rob Houghton (item 5.)
(Group ClO)
© Tony Jowett (item 5.)
(Chief Information Security Officer)

© Ken McCall PwC (including lan Morrison) © Phey Rasulian (item 5.)
(External Audit Partner) (Programme Manager Payment Services
~ Retail)
© Johann Appel © Ben Cooke (item 8.)
(Head of Internal Audit) (ClO Back Office)
Jenny Ellwood Mark Dixon (item 9.)
(Risk Director) (Head of Tax & Treasury)
¢ Jonathan Hill © Andy Bear (item 9.)
(Compliance Director) (Insurer Account Manager, Locktons)
© Ben Foat © Tim Armit (item 10.)
(General Counsel) (Business Continuity Manager)
‘© Micheal Passmore © Tim White (item 11.)
(Finance Director) (PMO Lead)
© David Parry
(Senior Assistant Company Secretary)
Apology:
NEDs meeting with Internal Auditors Johann Appel 14.30- 15.00
2 Welcome and Conflicts of Interest Noting Chair 15.00- 15.05
3. Update from Subsidiaries: 15.05 - 15.10
© Post Office Management Services Noting & Input I Amanda Bowe
ARC (Verbal)
4. Minutes and Matters Arising Approval Chair 15.10- 15.15
44 Minutes of the Audit, Risk and Compliance
meeting held on 29 May 2019
4.2 Actions List Noting & Input
43 Draft Minutes of the Risk and Compliance I Noting
Committee held on 4 July 2019
5. PCI-DSS Update and Cyber Security Noting Rob Houghton/Tony I 15.15- 15.30
Update Jowett/Phey Rasulian
6. Annual Report and Accounts Noting & Input I Micheal Passmore / I 15.30- 16.00
Focus on GLO disclosure Pwo
r Consolidated Report from Internal Audit, I Noting & Input 16.00- 16.45
Compliance and Risk Department
7A Risk Report Jenny Ellwood 16.00- 16.15
72 Compliance Report Jonathan Hill 16.15 - 16.30
73 Internal Audit Report Johann Appel 16,30- 16.45
8. Back Office Transformation Noting &Input I Ben Cooke 16.45 - 17.00

184 of 185

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

POL00423568

POL00423568
Tab 12 Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda 29 July 2019
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Agenda
9. Corporate Insurance Renewal Noting & Input I Mark Dixon/Andy 17.00 - 17.15
Bear
10. Business Continuity Update Noting & Input I Tim Armit 17.15-17.25
11. Proposals for Deep-Dives including Noting &Input I Johann Appel/Jenny I 17.25-17.45
update presentation from Tim White, Ellwood/Jonathan
PMO Lead on Change Hill/Tim White
12. GDPR Update Noting Jonathan Hill 17.45-17.55
13. Any other Business Noting Chair 17.55 - 18.00
Note: Date of next meeting 23 September
2019, 08.30 — 10.30 hrs

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-04/07/19

185 of 185
