POL00224476
POL00224476

From: Mark Underwood
Sent: Fri 13/03/2015 1:
To: Alisdair Cameron}
Ce:

Subject: Second Sight's Part Two Report and assertions made in relation to Suspense accounts

Alisdair and Rod,
On Tuesday we received Second Sight’s updated Part Two report.

Within the report is a section where they assert Second Sight has experienced significant difficulty in obtaining access
to a number of documents they believe are necessary for the purposes of their investigation. This includes “detailed
transactions relating to items held in Post Office's Suspense Account(s) and to disputed transactions on a number of
third party client accounts held by Post Office”.

Below are the relevant paragraphs relating to your recent meetings with Second Sight and this assertion.

Could you let me know if any of the below paragraphs are factually incorrect and whether as they say, Post Office has
agreed to provide the information as detailed in paragraph 2.12?

Transaction data relating to third party client accounts

2.9. Post Office operates a number of client accounts with business partners such as Royal Mail, Bank of Ireland,
HMRC, DWP, DVLA and many others. Transactions from branches relating to these business partners are allocated to
the appropriate client account before being reconciled with information provided directly from the business partner.
Normally these transactions are matched without difficulty but occasionally errors occur or disputes arise where the
transaction details shown on Horizon and the transaction details reported by the third party client differ.

2.10. In these circumstances an adjustment referred to as a Transaction Correction (TC) may be generated in order to
correct an error previously made in a branch. Post Office has told us that its policy is to write off unexplained debit
balances on third party client accounts, but that any unexplained credit balance will be left open in case the matter is
subsequently resolved. Eventually these long outstanding credit balances will be transferred to Post Office’s general
Suspense Account and may be taken to its Profit & Loss Account (“P&L Account”) if they have remained unresolved for
more than three years.

2.11. A number of Applicants have reported that they have suffered unexplained losses or have received TCs relating
to transactions with Post Office’s third party clients. We had informed Post Office, on 18 June 2014, of our wish to
investigate the possibility that some of these unexplained losses could be represented by transactions subsequently
taken to the credit of its P&L Account.

2.12. We have been advised that, in each of the financial years 2012, 2013 and 2014, amounts in excess of £100,000
have been taken to the credit of Post Office’s P&L Account and we have

asked for a detailed breakdown of those amounts, together with corresponding transactions from the individual third
party client accounts. This is a complex issue and, whilst Post Office has agreed to provide us with this information
where possible, this matter is still under investigation.

In addition at paragraph 23.11 of their report Second Sight state:

23.11. We note that Post Office's control and reconciliation procedures rely on correct information being supplied by
third party clients. It follows that, if incorrect information is provided by any client company, this can give rise to a loss
POL00224476
POL00224476

being charged to a branch. We also note that, for most of the past five years, substantial credits have been made to
Post Office’s Profit and Loss Account as a result of unreconciled balances held by Post Office in its Suspense Account.

Is this factually correct?
Many thanks for your help

Mark

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
