POL00143339

POL00143339
From: Susan Crichton[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=SUSAN CRICHTONCS5FA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-
BE4237A4AD4F]
Sent: Mon 09/07/2012 12:40:36 PM (UTC)
To: Jarnail A Singh, } Ronan
Kellehet,

Ce: Mark R Davies}
Subject: Re: Proposed media statement in response to Yetminster Horizon case

Ok I am fine with that approach.

From: Jarnail A Singh

Sent: Monday, July 09, 2012 02:26 PM

To: Susan Crichton; Ronan Kelleher

Cc: Mark R Davies; Alana Renner

Subject: RE: Proposed media statement in response to Yetminster Horizon case

We have to be very careful not to implied something which has not been proven in court as to conviction or smear
her character. I would only

Say;

“As Tracey Merritt, the ex-subpostmistress of Yetminster branch has repaid the bulk of the money and is
currently repaying the remainder , on this occasion, the Post Office has decided not to pursue the matter
further” The Post Office continues to have absolute confidence in the robustness and integrity of its
Horizon system and its branch accounting processes.”

From: Susan Crichton

Sent: 09 July 2012 12:50

To: Ronan Kelleher; Jarnail A Singh

Cc: Mark R Davies; Alana Renner

Subject: RE: Proposed media statement in response to Yetminster Horizon case

I would add the following in the second sentence after prosecution “for false accounting” — Jarnail do you agree?
Should we also include a reference to our consideration of the “use of public funds”....

Susan

From: Ronan Kelleher

Sent: 09 July 2012 12:32

To: Jarnail A Singh; Susan Crichton

Cc: Mark R Davies; Alana Renner

Subject: Proposed media statement in response to Yetminster Horizon case

Jarnail/Susan

In response to the approach from the Western Morning News re the case of Tracey Merritt, ex-subpostmistress of
Yetminster branch, below is the response I propose we give to the paper. Before I put it in front of Paula, can you
please take a look and see that you are comfortable. Their deadline is 3pm today:

“As Tracey Merritt, the ex-subpostmistress of Yetminster branch has repaid the bulk of the money and is
currently repaying the remainder , on this occasion, the Post Office has decided not to pursue the matter
further. We remain entirely satisfied that any criminal prosecution, if pursued, would have been
POL00143339
POL00143339

successful. The Post Office continues to have absolute confidence in the robustness and integrity of its
Horizon system and its branch accounting processes.”

Also, I asked the newspaper to tell me what the notice in the branch says and they tell me it’s says the following, which
is something else we may well want to pick up -

* Big thank you to all who supported me
* Your letters have helped and been taken seriously
* They brought about an independent investigation

* All charges have been dropped and the Post Office has finally accepted that there is fault with its Horizon
system

Thanks
Ronan

Ronan Kelleher

Head of PR and Media
Rast. Offica .t..

“GRO I

