POL00193030
POL00193030

From:
Sent:
To:

Subject: Branch Support Programme - Response by midday Friday 2nd would be appreciated
Attachment: Branch Support Programme Terms of reference v 2.doc

Hi all

As you are all aware, a few weeks ago the interim report was published by the company who had been investigating the
allegations from subpostmasters about the robustness of the Horizon system. The report identified that there were no
issues with the Horizon system, but it did bring into question the training and support provided to our branches. On the
back of this publication, Paula issued a statement which included a commitment to review and improve the way we
support and train branches. Angela has been asked to lead the Programme which will undertake the review.

As you are all key people who manage teams who have interactions with subpostmasters and colleagues, your
involvement is critical in helping us to improve how we do things going forward. Therefore we would like to invite you to
the meeting with the purpose to:

. Outline the purpose of the Programme and agree what it is trying to achieve by when

. Gain your commitment to support the Programme and understand what your involvement will be

. Agree how the Programme should be structured to deliver the best results

. Agree the Terms of Reference for the Programme

. Understand if there are any other activities happening within your work areas which could cut across or duplicate
this activity

URWNPE

An initial Terms of Reference has been put together for you to review.

Please can I ask that you review it in advance of the meeting.

Mapping our current processes and undertaking a full gap analysis will be a big piece of work in itself and we will be
looking for the experts in your teams to help on that piece of work. The TOR identifies potential people to be involved
but please have a think about whether this is a suitable person and who will have the right skills and capacity to
support the activity.

Please also have a think about current activity in your work area and whether what we are trying to achieve has either
a negative or positive impact on the Programme.

Unfortunately I could not get a room in Old Street but am currently sourcing nearby venues to use. I should be able to
advise you of the location on Friday afternoon but will need you to confirm attendance by midday on Friday if
possible.
POL00193030
POL00193030

Also, if you cannot attend, please can you arrange for a suitable representative to attend. If you have any questions,
please don’t hesitate to contact me.

I look forward to seeing you on Tuesday.

Thanks

