POL00044625
POL00044625

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION,

PERSONNEL
POLTD/0607/0108
OFFENCE
Theft
False Accounting
Name: Janet Louise Skinner
Rank: Subpostmisstress Identification 1
Code:
Office: North Bransholme Branch Code 174321
Age: 35 Date of Birth:
Service: 2 years Date Service 27/05/2004
Commenced:
Nat Ins No:
Home Address: I GRO

Contract for Services 30" May 2006 on the authority of Diane Hoyles
Suspended:

To be prosecuted by: Royal Mail Group (including Post Office Ltd)

Designated Tony Utting , National Internal Crime &
Prosecution Authority: Investigation Manager

Discipline Manager: Vicky Harrison
Discipline Manager

These papers refer to a shortage at North Bransholme Post Office on Tuesday
30'" May 2006 and a subsequent audit carried out the following day.

Diane Hoyles, Rural Support Officer, was instructed to visit the branch and
verify the cash on hand. This was due to the cash team reporting an increase
in overnight cash holdings (ONCH) and requests to return excess cash not
being actioned. As Mrs Hoyles identified a loss during this visit, an audit was
arranged for the following day to verify the exact loss at the branch.

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00044625
POL00044625

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION,
PERSONNEL
Loss to Post Office Ltd £59,175.39

North Bransholme is a 4 counter position branch situated within an
independently owned general store selling groceries and confectionary. It is
located within an urban deprived area of Bransholme in Hull. Janet Skinner
currently has a temporary contract as Subpostmisstress of the branch after the
previous owners, United News Group, relinquished their franchise in May
2005. Miss Skinner employs 4 staff to assist in the running of the branch, all of
which, at some stage have had key holder responsibilities as part of their
duties.

Mrs Skinner has considerable experience of working and managing Post
Office Branches. Whilst employed by United News Group, Miss Skinner
worked at several of their branches in a managerial capacity, Dalsetter Rise,
Orchard Park and Bodmin Road being the last three.

Mrs Hoyles arrived at the branch on Tuesday 30" May 2006 at 13:00 hours,
accompanied by her colleague, Julia Stephenson. Mrs Hoyles explained the
reason for her visit to Miss Skinner, after which Miss Skinner took them into
the back room and explained that the cash would be £40,000 short. She
stated she did not know how the loss occurred but added she had suspicions
over a member of staff, Kathryn Ayres. Mrs Hoyles completed a statement
outlining the discussions that took place, which was read and signed by Miss
Skinner as a true account.

Mrs Hoyles and Mrs Stephenson completed a check of the cash on hand and
confirmed a large shortage of around £54,000. Miss Skinner was suspended
from her duties and the keys were handed over. Mrs Hoyles arranged for a full
verification audit to be undertaken the following morning.

Before leaving the branch on Tuesday, Mrs Hoyles states that CVIT arrived to
deliver some pouches. After making further checks, Mrs Hoyles discovered
that despite concerns over the cash holdings of the branch being excessive
and the requests to return excess cash ignored, a remittance of £40,000 in
notes was attempted to be delivered. This delivery was refused by Ms Hoyles.

On Wednesday 31*' May 2006 an audit took place at North Bransholme Post
Office. Paul Field was the Lead Auditor at which a loss of £59,175.39 was
recorded.

At 12.00 hours on Thursday 1%' June, accompanied by Steve Bradshaw,

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00044625
POL00044625

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION,
PERSONNEL
Investigation Manager, I interviewed Miss Skinner.

During the interview, Miss Skinner stated she had worked at Post Offices
since 1995 as an employee of United News Group. She stated that she had
considerable experience of transactions and procedures and was the first
Manager in Hull to migrate onto the Horizon system. She said she became a
contact point for others experiencing problems with the system and is very
confident in operating the equipment.

Miss Skinner stated that she understood the reason for completing a balance
at the branch and that all losses and gains were to be made good in
accordance with her contract as Subpostmisstress.

A recap of the events of the last 2 days was given and Miss Skinner
acknowledged this was a true account of events. The statement signed by
Miss Skinner was also read out and again Miss Skinner confirmed that she
signed this note and it was an accurate account of her comments.

Miss Skinner was asked about the shortage in the branch. She stated that she
knew the branch was carrying a large loss and that she inflated her cash to
enable her to produce a clear trading statement. She stated that the loss
started in January 2006 when completion of the balance revealed a shortage
in the accounts of £7,500. She stated that she could not find the money but
thought it was too high an amount to be an error.

Miss Skinner stated that her staff knew there was a large loss but she did not
question them about it. She stated that to conceal the loss, she added the
£7,500 onto the £10 and £20 denominations

of her cash, as she did not have the money to make good the loss. She
stated she knew it was wrong to do this.

On the next branch trading statement in February 2006, Miss Skinner stated
that the loss had risen to £9,500. She again stated that this amount was
added to her cash figure spread over the £10 and £20 to conceal the loss.

Miss Skinner stated she has no idea how the amount rose to the present cash
loss of nearly £59,000. She stated that when the trading statement for period
2 was completed on Wednesday 24" May 2006, the loss was £40,253.85.
Miss Skinner has no idea how a further £20,000 has gone missing from her
branch in the space of 3 working days. Miss Skinner has stated that she has
not stolen the money and suspects a member of her staff although she has no
evidence of this.

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00044625
POL00044625

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION,
PERSONNEL
Miss Skinner stated throughout the interview that she suspects Katherine
Ayres of being the perpetrator of this crime. She stated that she was warned to
watch Mrs Ayres by the last Manager at North Bransholme Post Office due to
previous irregularities in the branch accounts.

Miss Skinner stated that Mrs Ayres was always short changing customers by
large amounts. Due to the losses in the branch, the staff were assigned
individual stock units during which time the branch had minimal losses. Miss
Skinner stated that in November 2004, there was a loss of £1,400 in Mrs
Ayres stock unit. Mrs Skinner stated that Mrs Ayres could not make the
shortage good in full so they agreed for Mrs Ayres to pay back the money at
£10 or £20 a week, whatever she could afford. Mrs Skinner stated that Mrs
Ayres was to put the money in an empty white Lisahally pouch and make a
note on a piece if paper with the running total. Mrs Skinner said this pouch
was kept in the safe however, Mrs Ayres kept dipping into the cash when her
son came and requested to borrow some money.

Mrs Skinner stated that she instructed Mrs Ayres to add the £1,400 loss onto
her cash each and every week in order to conceal the loss.

Shortly after this loss, Mrs Ayres went off sick. Miss Skinner stated that due to
being short staffed, the branch reverted back to a shared stock unit, again
there were no high losses reported. When Mrs Ayres returned off sick leave,
Miss Skinner stated that they did not revert back to the individual stock units
due to the time it would take to set up. She stated that around Christmas time
2005, the losses started again, rising each month to the amount at the audit.

Miss Skinner stated that she had been late a couple of mornings and the
customers had complained that the branch was not open at the scheduled
time of 8.30 hours. Due to this Miss Skinner stated that she gave Mrs Ayres a
full set of door keys to access the Post Office area and also a set of safe keys
and alarm codes. Miss Skinner stated this was due to Mrs Ayres living across
the road from the Post Office and ensuring the branch would be open on time.
Miss

Skinner then states that late opening was still a problem and the customers
were continuing to complain.

Miss Skinner stated that her hours of work were Mon to Thurs 8.45 hours to
14.00 hours with Friday and Saturday off. She stated that Mrs Ayres would
have responsibility for opening and closing the Post Office with another set of
keys rotating between the other clerks, Colleen and Wendy. They would
assume responsibility on Mrs Ayres day off.

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00044625
POL00044625

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION,
PERSONNEL

Miss Skinner stated that she was concerned on several occasions that she
would run out of cash and not be able to continue a service to the customers.
Miss Skinner stated that the week prior to the visit from Mrs Hoyles, she had to
contact a banking customer and request they make a deposit as the money at
the Post Office was extremely low. Miss Skinner also said that due to low
funds in the till, she conducted her own withdrawals from the ATM machine in
order to save her reserves for the customers

It was pointed out to Miss Skinner that the person she was warned about at
the start, who had shown a large loss and was failing to repay it, and who was
she suspected was stealing the money, was the person who had the full run of
the branch. Miss Skinner stated that she knows she is too trusting but did not
say anything, as she had no proof.

Miss Skinner states that she declared the total of the shortage in the cash
element of stock unit CC. This stock unit contains no cash or stock and is
rolled over inactively each week. Trading statement 2 for period ending May
24" 2006 was shown to Miss Skinner. She stated that the figure of £40,000
shown on the cash line of stock unit CC was the shortage in the account on
that date. Miss Skinner states that a further £20,000 has disappeared since
this date without any explanation.

Miss Skinner confirms that the 6 months on individual stock units and the 6
months of Mrs Ayres being off sick were the best in terms of balancing apart
from the £1,400, which was attributed to Mrs Ayres. Miss Skinner accepts that
to revert back to individual stock units was only a matter of transferring a small
amount of cash and stock which would takes minutes as the stock units were
already created. Miss Skinner acknowledged that she has made no attempts
to put any procedures in place to either stop the losses or identify the
perpetrator. Therefore the losses have continued to grow at an alarming rate.

The interview was concluded at15: 42 hours.
In order to clarify a number of issues raised by Miss Skinner in relation to the
possible involvement of her staff in the loss, interviews were arranged and

statements subsequently taken from the counter staff Colleen Kates, Theresa
Holmes, Wendy Lyell and Katherine Ayres.

The most significant points raised being:
> Staff were taking calls from the cash centre as the planned order had been
changed by Miss

Skinner. When the notes were checked there was between £2,000 and

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00044625
POL00044625

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION,
PERSONNEL
£3,000 on hand instead
of the £70,000 plus that the cash centre expected to be on hand.

> Miss Lyell was warned by Miss Skinner that the cash centre would probably
be phoning and to
fob them off by saying a large withdrawal was expected.

> Staff were instructed by Miss Skinner not to count cash to do a cash
declaration but to print off

a snapshot and enter this cash amount as being on hand. The reason given
for doing this was

branch trading would only give you a true figure of how the office was
balancing once a month

when the trading period ends.

> The branch was close to running out of cash on a regular basis and staff
had to contact

business customers to request they bank some money. Miss Lyell
regularly had to go to Kwik

Save and swop pound coins for notes to enable the Post office to continue
a service.

> All staff take turns in key rotation.

> Miss Lyell was taking phone calls from the landlord’s secretary, Naomi,
about the non-payment

of rent. Miss Lyell states she was told by Naomi £10,000 was owed with
cheques forwarded by

Miss Skinner bouncing.

> Miss Lyell states that Miss Skinner had an addiction for scratchcards.
Handfuls were taken from

the dispenser at a time and scratched. She spoke to Miss Skinner about
this who denied she

had a problem.

>Mrs Ayres was regularly told to go home early around 5pm on a Wednesday
despite being paid

till later, leaving Miss Skinner to complete the balance with assistance from
her daughter Toni.

>Miss Skinner contacted Mrs Ayres at home to ask for her password. The
reason given for this
was to enable Miss Skinner to serve on one terminal whilst printing reports

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00044625
POL00044625

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION,
PERSONNEL
on another.

> Miss Lyell states that her former employer Mark Ombler, owner of the retail
side, was chasing

Miss Skinner for National Lottery commission due. In May 2006, Miss
Skinner paid £1,100 in

commission and £2,200 in rent in cash. This money was given to Miss Lyell
by the shop

assistant to process through girobank.

> Staff were unaware that stock units BB and CC were still in operation after
they reverted back
to a shared stock unit.

> Miss Lyell and Mrs Ayres state they worked alongside Miss Skinner on a
Tuesday and
Wednesday afternoon respectively.

»>Mrs Ayres states that when she left her stock unit it was £700 over. When
she returned the next

day Miss Skinner had removed the £700 as her stock was short.
Consequently, Mrs Ayres stock

unit ended up showing a loss of £700 which she was told she would have to
repay.

>Mrs Ayres paid back £500 in May 2006 from the loss in her individual stock.

> Staff not informed of balancing results or asked to contribute to any losses
since branch
trading.

> Miss Skinner requested staff remove cash from the till to pay wages and
also leave cash on her
desk to be collected after the branch had closed.

Although Miss Skinner states she has not stolen the money and makes
reference to an employee, I do not suspect the staff of having any involvement
in this case. I have found no evidence to doubt the honest and integrity of
these staff members.

There are a number of business and procedural weaknesses that have
contributed to the loss occurring.

> Requests to return excess cash held back to the cash centre were

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POL00044625
POL00044625

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION,
PERSONNEL
ignored without any follow
up procedures to ensure the request had been followed.

> On the day of the audit, a delivery of £40k was made and refused by
Diane Hoyles, Rural

Support Officer. The business is still sending cash to a branch that is
severely over target and

has ignored requests to return excess cash.

>The systems currently in place did not cause sufficient concern for an
audit to be scheduled

despite the cash being inflated by a significant amount over a period of
5 months.

Loss to Post Office LTD £59,175.39

This report is forwarded to you for the present situation to be noted in respect
of any disciplinary issues pending.

Diane Matthews
Investigation Manager

D&I Capstan House, 35 Broadway, Salford Quays, Manchester, M41 6FW

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
