POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

A paper prepared by Post Office to assist Second Sight with the finalisation of their Briefing Report — Part
Two

Version two

This paper and accompanying documents are confidential and are not to be disclosed to any person other
than a person involved in the processing of Applicants’ claims through the Scheme
POL00117063

POL00117063

Confidential

Introduction...

1.

sen ery Pp YN

11.
12.
13.
14,
15.

Transaction anomalies associated with CASH or STOCK Remittances.
Transaction anomalies associated with Pensions and Allowances...
Transaction anomalies following telecommunication or power failures...

Transaction anomalies associated with ATMs..

Transaction anomalies associated with Lottery Terminal or Scratchcards.

Transaction anomalies associated with Foreign Currency...

Transaction anomalies associated with Bank / GIRO / Cheques...

Transaction anomalies associated with Stamps, Postage Labels, Phone Cards or Premium Bonds..2320

Hardware issues e.g. printer problems, PIN pads, touch screens and PayStatio

Failure to follow correct procedures or mis-advice by POL's Helpline...

Training and Support issues including Helpline and Audit.

The contract between the Post Office and Subpostmasters..

Post Office Investigations Function.

Surpluses....

Suspense Accounts...

POL00117063

POL00117063

Confidential

Introduction

As part of the Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme (the Scheme), Second Sight is engaged as a
firm of forensic accountants to provide a logical and fully evidenced opinion on the merits of each Applicant's
case.

On 21 August 2014, Second Sight's Briefing Report — Part Two (the Report) was sent as a confidential
document to a number of Applicants and their advisors, as well as to Post Office. The purpose of the Report
was to describe and expand on common issues identified by Second Sight as being raised by multiple
Applicants (a thematic issue). The aim being to provide general information that could then be applied in
specific cases.

Post Office has been unable to endorse the Report. It wrote to recipients of the Report immediately after its
release setting out its reasons for this, and prepared a Reply which was released on 22 September 2014,
detailing its position on the issues raised within the Report.

Further, within Second Sight’s Briefing Report — Part Two, several issues were said to require further
investigation. With a view to moving the Briefing Report — Part Two to finalisation, the Secretariat offered to

assist Second Sight in resolving these matters.

The following paper is written to aid this process, detailing the additional questions posed by Second Sight
and the answers provided by Post Office.

Post Office was provided with the questions on 9 December 20132014 and has committed to provide these-

answers to the questions posed before a meeting with Second Sight on 9 January 2014.2015. In line with
thisthe short timetable, Post Office's approach has-beenwas to identify a subject matter expert within its

organisation to, where. ossible. and

from all pai parts of its business. The answers wers below-therafore representpro
the best information possible given the limited time available but should not behave been considered
exhaustive.

Note on Version two

At this meeting and the face to face. ce Working Group meeting on 14 Janu 2015, Second Sight clarified its.

wers and.

information to ‘those included in version one. These are included in version two.

Confidential

POL00117063

POL00117063

1. Transaction anomalies associated with CASH or STOCK Remittances (including counterfeit notes)

Post Office is aware that there is an issue of counterfeit notes being circulated within the UK economy in
general. This is an issue that affects all businesses and Post Office has in place various policies and
procedures in order to detect counterfeit notes and prevent them being circulated within the Post Office’s
network of branches.

The large majority of costs / losses associated with counterfeit notes are claimed from other parties
(e.g. clients, cash suppliers, etc.) with Post Office branches being held liable for a very small number;

Where responsibility for allowing counterfeit notes to enter the Post Office network cannot be

established, Post Office absorbs the loss itself.

The process used in Post Office can be summarised as follows:

1.1.

Once a counterfeit note is identified by Post Office, it is verified by a second person.

Post Office then determines responsibility for allowing the counterfeit note into the network based
on the information included on the Plastic Bank Note Envelope (PBNE), an envelope used to seal the

cash as it is moved around the network;

If a branch is found to have not followed correct procedures, it may be held liable for the loss

created by taking a counterfeit note.

Please provide full details of the following:

a) All procedures and controls in place to detect and prevent damaged or counterfeit notes

being issued to branches as REMs;

The Post Office’s Cash Centre is responsible for issuing remittances of cash to branches.

There are four key elements within the Cash Centre that ensure the integrity of notes it sends

out to branches:

Use of High speed note counting machines. Each note is checked for all possible
characteristics and any notes that fail to meet the required standard are rejected,
either because they fail to meet the Bank of England’s note quality standard or
because they are counterfeit.

Daily calibration. Each note counter (there are 7 in use nationwide) are calibrated
daily using a standard pack (a test bundle of mixed quality notes) by specialist onsite
engineers. This check ensures that the counters will identify counterfeits and non-
standard Bank of England notes and that they are removed from circulation. The
calibration check exceeds the standard set out by the Bank of England and is subject
to regular audit by the Bank.

The Note Circulation Scheme (NCS). Under the NCS, the Bank of England does not
distribute banknotes and instead, wholesale cash operators, including Post Office,
sort and distribute notes. Under the NCS, all notes Post Office put into circulation
must be integrity checked.
Confidential

b)

d)

e)

f)

POL00117063
POL00117063

All procedures and controls in place to detect damaged or counterfeit notes in outward REMs
sent from a branch to a cash centre;

There are comprehensive guidelines included within the Methods of Payments section on
Horizon Online Help. Please refer to Annex 1 for further information.

All procedures and controls in place that prevent notes included in an outward REM froma
branch being sent to another branch as an inward REM without being counted or checked for

damaged or counterfeit notes;

All inward remittances from Post Office branches are opened in the Cash Centre before being
sent out through the cash cycle again i.e. the notes are checked before being remitted out to
branches as per above. There is no process for cash to be sent from branch to branch.

All procedures and controls used to ensure that notes issued as REMS for use in ATMs meet

the relevant quality standards;

All cash that leaves the cash-centreCash Centre for ATM use is checked to ensure it is
counterfeit free and is fit for ATM dispense in line with the Bank of England’s note standards.
Please refer to the answer provided in 1.1a for further information.

All procedures and controls used in branch to detect counterfeit notes;

There are comprehensive guidelines included within the Methods of Payments section on
Horizon Online Help. Please refer to Annex 1 for further information.

The procedures to be followed in branch when a Subpostmaster detects counterfeit notes;

and

There are comprehensive guidelines included within the Methods of Payments section on
Horizon Online Help, with seven different scenarios covered. Please refer to Annex 1 for
further information.

The seven scenarios covered are as follows:

* Identifying counterfeit banknotes;

¢ Treatment of counterfeit banknotes;

* — Remitting counterfeit banknotes;

© Counterfeit notes found loose in official cash;

* Counterfeit notes returned by a customer;

e Counterfeit notes impounded when presented by customers for a transaction;

* Counterfeit notes found in a deposit prepared by an Alliance & Leicester (now
Santander) business depositor.
Confidential

8)

POL00117063
POL00117063

Who bears the loss associated with accepting counterfeit notes?

There are detailed procedures documented on Horizon Help to assist the branch in dealing
appropriately with counterfeit notes. If the branch follows the correct procedures as detailed
on Horizon Help then the branch is not held liable for any associated loss. Please refer to
Annex 1 for further information.
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

2. Transaction anomalies associated with Pensions and Allowances

One of the issues raised by a small number of Applicants to the Mediation Scheme relates to alleged
transaction anomalies which, it has been claimed, are connected to Pensions and Allowances (P&A).

Typically, this has revolved around allegations of re-introduction fraud. This fraud involves P&A vouchers
being entered into Horizon twice (known as a “reintroduction”). The fraud occurs where a customer
visits a branch to receive a pension payment. First, the customer provides the staff member at the
branch with a P&A voucher and receives their pension as cash in return. The staff member then enters
the voucher into Horizon in order to account for the cash that has been paid out to the customer. The
P&A vouchers are sent on a weekly basis to the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP). The act of
entering the same P&A vouchers into Horizon twice is called reintroduction. Where this is done in error,
it creates a surplus of cash in the branch. Where reintroductions are frequent and there is no surplus,
these are strong indicators that reintroduction fraud is taking place at the branch.

Post Office has previously provided Second Sight with a paper on P&As. Annex 2 supplements the
responses provided in this section.

2.1. Please provide full details of the following:

a) Data mining or similar techniques used to identify branches which have processed unusual volumes
of P&A vouchers or have processed previously used P&A vouchers i.e. ‘Reintroduction’ fraud;

P&A vouchers are no longer used by Post Office - DWP replaced them with the Post Office
Card Account. The information below is therefore a historic process about which only limited
information is available.

Typically the process may have involved some or all of the following:

© DWP staff in Lisahally used to conduct rota checks of all P&A submissions.

e — If they identified a discrepancy in a pouch they would check the previous month to
see if this identified a pattern. The Date Stamp indicator would often be used as a
method of identifying potential suspects and the method, e.g. over-stamping a
voucher with a second date.

If further discrepancies were found they would then go back as far as possible which
was normally no more than 12 months.

* At each stage their check would be corroborated and recorded stating who had
carried out the checks and what had been found.

As this was happening, Post Office (FSC) was advised by the DWP of the discrepancy
and, if it was deemed necessary, an investigation may be begun by Post Office.

Post Office Security would arrange for the branch P&A submissions to be intercepted
by Royal Mail.

¢ These would be manually checked, recorded and retained by the allocated Security
Manager.

* Any discrepancies would be scheduled and recorded along with any DWP findings in
preparation for attending the branch.

e An audit may be arranged at the branch and the P&A foils on hand would be checked
and recorded as live evidence.

Fujitsu logs may be requested if required to confirm who had made the Horizon entry
for the fraudulent transaction.
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

b)

c)

d)

e)

f)

8)

h)

2.2.

All procedures and controls used to detect ‘Reintroduction’ fraud;

See answer 2.1a and Annex 2.

Any cases in the last 3 years where outgoing P&A vouchers have been stolen or lost in transit;

As detailed within Annex 2, P&A vouchers are no longer used. They were replaced by the Post Office
Card Account in circa 2005.

Who bears the loss associated with lost or stolen P&A vouchers?

See Annex 2.

Any cases in the last 3 years where P&A vouchers have been re-presented at a branch by a
person unconnected with that branch;

As detailed within Annex 2, P&A vouchers are no longer used. They were replaced by the Post Office
Card Account in circa 2005.

Any cases in the last 3 years where forged P&A vouchers have been presented at a branch;

As detailed within Annex 2, P&A vouchers are no longer used. They were replaced by the Post Office
Card Account in circa 2005.

All procedures and controls used to detect forged P&A vouchers;

Please refer to answer 2.1a.
Who bears the loss associated with accepting forged P&A vouchers?

A Post Office branch would only be held liable for a loss associated with P&A vouchers if they had
been negligent, had not followed correct acceptance and processing procedures or acted
fraudulently.

Are branches required to ensure that the value of the cheques and vouchers being remitted each
week matches the value of benefit pay-outs recorded on Horizon?

At the time of P&A vouchers being used for transactions within Post Office branches, those branches
would have been required to validate that the amount they were claiming as being paid out to
customers (as shown on Horizon) matched the value of the P&A vouchers on hand.
Confidential

POL00117063

POL00117063

3. Transaction anomalies following telecommunication or power failures

Another issue raised by a number of Applicants to the Mediation Scheme was that of alleged transaction
anomalies flowing from telecommunication or power failures. Power and telecommunications failures are a
risk to any business as branches and Post Office are reliant on third party suppliers for these services.
Recognising this risk, Horizon was designed with "recovery" processes in place to correct any issues caused
by a power or telecommunications failure. Post Office notes that as yet no evidence has been adduced to
show that either of these events will cause losses in branches where the recovery process has been correctly
followed by branch staff.

3.1, Please provide full details of the following:

a)

b)

c)

d)

Any tests carried out that ensure that Horizon's screen-based recovery instructions are visible
to the person looking at the branch terminal when a power failure or telecommunications
failure (or both at the same time) has occurred or is occurring;

The recovery process is shown on the Horizon terminal screen and therefore will therefore,
always be visible to branch staff.

The information that needs to be entered by the user to complete the screen-based recovery
process;

When the recovery process is carried out, a recovery receipt will always be printed as part of
the next log on after the failure and a recovery event will be recorded in the Horizon Event
Logs.

Depending upon the stage an individual transaction had reached at the time of the failure,
Horizon may ask questions of the Subpostmaster to help decide whether or not that
transaction was complete. Annex 3 — ‘Transaction Recovery — Horizon Online Reference
Guide’ — details the questions asked for the different scenarios.

Any tests carried out that ensure that the backup mobile telecommunications facility works
effectively in all locations and in all circumstances including busy, multi-position branches;

@} Branch back up availability is tested once a week on a rolling basis (one seventh of the
estate is tested every night).

Any tests carried out when a branch is upgraded to Horizon Online that confirm that a reliable
signal is available for the backup mobile telecommunications facility.

Please refer to the answer 3.1c.
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

10
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

4. Transaction anomalies associated with ATMs

A number of Applicants to the Scheme have raised complaints in relation to alleged transaction anomalies
connected with ATMs.

Post Office has previously provided Second Sight with papers in response to their questions involving ATMs.

Annexes 4 and 5 supplement the responses provided in this section.

4.1.

4.2.

Please provide full details of any instances in the last 3 years where Post Office, Bank of Ireland or
Wincor Nixdorf detected an attack against a branch ATM using either malware or hardware devices.
Please describe the technical measures in place to prevent or detect this type of attack.

Post Office is not aware of any malware attack on its BO! ATM fleet that has resulted in loss to a
branch. Hypothetically, if a loss of cash from a branch as a result of a malware attack was detected,

that loss would be passed to BO! and not be absorbed by the branch

Thi di tionately-wid: tf Hing " ithout identificat 7
Prop ¥ a) rr
d-by Applicants IE d Sight is-able-te identify with supperti terial
i” pplicants-to-the Sch have-bi ffacted by these i Rost Off il of

Details of the technical measures in place to prevent malware attacks have already been provided to
Second Sight in Post Office's note on ATMs — see Annex 4.

itis not clear which types of “hardware devices" are being considered by Second Sight. If this
relates to cash trapping devices, Post Office has already explained that this type of attack will not
cause loss to.a branch — see paragraph 7.4 of Annex 4.

Given the evidence that the Rejected Notes totals, in several ‘Print Totals' output reports by ATMs,
have on occasions become corrupted, on what grounds does Post Office assert that the Dispensed
Notes totals could not also be corrupted, thereby showing that the ATM had dispensed fewer or
more notes than it really had?

The Print Totals receipt is only used for managing the ATM cash levels and to allow the
Subpostmaster to identify when the ATM needs to be reloaded with cash. As per all
transactions/inputs that take place on an ATM, Print Total details are recorded on the ATM’s
Electronic Journal. However, the information on these receipts is for the local management of the
ATM only, is not used as part of daily/weekly ATM accounting and the data is not used outside of the
local management of the ATM. This is demonstrated by the fact that the Subpostmaster must zero
the totals on the Print Totals receipt when they reload cash into the ATM, which can be done as
often as required.

Where some corruption of the rejected notes total occurred there is evidence of erratic and unusual
behaviour by the postmaster in the management of hardware (cassettes) and software (Print Totals;
balancing activities). For example, many activities were repeated multiple times in a very short
space of time. Cassettes were loaded, unloaded, reloaded. Print Total instructions were performed
multiple times, sometimes with different cassettes in or out of the ATM, in the space of minutes,
and then repeated. In these circumstances it is not surprising that the ATM’s logical functions may
have been affected. However following the stated operating procedure would allow these totals to
be reset without there being any impact on the cash dispense/balancing of the ATM as it is the Bank
Totals and the ATM Totals receipts that are required to complete the daily and weekly ATM
accounting procedures.
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

4.3,

44.

4.5.

4.6.

It is the Bank Totals receipt that specifically details the value of cash dispensed by the ATM on a daily
basis. The value of cash dispensed is taken from this receipt and recorded through Horizon. This
value is tied back to the value of cash that has been dispensed through ATMs for each particular day.
In summary, all ATM transactions are confirmed between Bank of Ireland and the Card Schemes, the
vast majority of which are processed via LINK, as having successfully taken place. Any discrepancies
between LINK and Bank of Ireland’s data would be investigated before Post Office would be
involved. The total value of ATM cash dispensed is then settled on the next working day between
Bank of Ireland and Post Office. This total value is checked by Post Office and matched against the
individual ATM dispense records. Therefore any discrepancy in the cash dispense figures would
therefore be identified as part of the settlement process.

It should be noted that in 2011 a full investigation of ATM cash dispensed figures in relation to M040
was undertaken by Bank of Ireland and Post Office Security. For the month of April 2009 the daily
cash dispense figures were compared back to the actual settlement to ensure these were aligned.
No discrepancies were found.

In 2012 POL Security also undertook an investigation in relation to M042 that looked into the
number of Rejected notes that were reported on the ATM during April 2011. Bank of Ireland
provided electronic journal data for the dates in question. While no discrepancies were identified
with the daily cash dispense figures reported by the ATM the exceptional high rejected notes figure
appears to have resulted from the sequence of actions that took place at the ATM. It was
determined that resetting the Print Totals resolved the local issue without any impact on the cash
dispense records for the ATM.

Is it a Post Office requirement that when an ATM is installed that the branch immediately creates a
separate stock unit for the ATM? How is this policy monitored and enforced?

Yes. It is stated in the Post Office Accounting Instructions for Bank of Ireland ATMs that a separate
ATM stock unit must be created when the ATM is first installed. The ATM accounting instructions
then refer to this separate stock unit throughout, as required.

The use of an ATM stock unit is not monitored separately as it is just one of the mandatory steps to
be followed to properly account for the ATM. Post Office monitors the completion of daily cash
declarations and weekly balances. Where these processes are not being conducted, this is followed
up with the individual branches.

In circumstances where the Bank of Ireland generates incorrect ATM cash dispensed figures for
both the branch's ATM and in the figures supplied directly to Post Office, please describe the
controls and procedures in place to detect and investigate this type of error.

This question has already been addressed through correspondence with Second Sight around
Suspense Accounts. Please see Annex 6.

Please explain why it is necessary for Subpostmasters to manually print and enter onto Horizon, the
contents of the daily ‘16:30 - 16:30 ATM Reports’ when the same information is sent electronically
to the Bank of Ireland and then to Post Office.

It is necessary for Subpostmasters to key the data in because the ATM is not connected to Horizon
and branches need to know the amount of cash dispensed from the ATM in order to prepare the
daily cash declaration.

Please provide full details of the following:
a) Any investigation in the last 3 years in which a technical fault was discovered with the ATM

which produced a shortage when balancing the ATM or a loss on the Horizon ATM stock unit.
How was the associated loss dealt with by Horizon?
Confidential

b)

c)

d)

POL00117063

POLO0117063
Th di tionately-wid: tf Hinge i thoutidentificati £.
SPFOp ¥ aa $ 7
fi bs Jicants 4 d Sight is able te identify with. rn

tia vApPH is Yr PP

terials, specifi a pplicantsto-the Sch have-bi fected by thi
Rost Offi Hot ider-thi +,

-

Post Office does not collate statistics on the numbers of "technical fa! in the ATMs across

its entire network. It manages issues with ATMs on a case by case basis.

ATM related enquiries can be raised by branches through a number of routes depending on
the circumstances (Contract Managers, Field Support teams, NBSC, FSC, BOI / Wincor, etc.).
Only a fraction of those enquiries would relate to “technical faults" — although it is not
entirely clear what is meant by this phrase. It should be noted that even where there is a
"technical fault" this does not mean that cash has been lost or a branch's accounts have been
impacted. For example, there could be a mechanical failure that causes the ATM to not vend
cash.

Ifan issue raised by one branch may have an impact in other branches, this will be escalated
through the appropriate channels. The escalation route depends on the nature of the issue

but this could be through FSC, Post Office's network support teams, Post Office IT or Bank of
Ireland.

Asa general proposition, a “technical error" in an ATM cannot directly cause an error in the
Horizon ATM stock unit as the ATM is not directly connected to Horizon. Should however a
“technical fault" occur in an ATM that were to cause a loss to a branch, the branch would not
be held liable for that loss unless the branch had failed to follow the correct ATM accounting
procedures.

Any escalated investigation in the last 3 years relating to unresolved cash discrepancies
involving a branch ATM;

This-is-a-disproportionately wide request fore Linge i ithout identification of
ey d-by Applicants If d Sight is able te identify with supporting

terials, specifi ha pplicants-to-the Sch have-bi ffected-by-th
Pest Offi Lef. Ider this request.
Th it-have-b: c-with-NB! SC. ding ATM ti

ohh

To-collate this inf i 1d i: f-all-calls to NBSC-and FSC regarding ATM
thi le. ively ti ? giventhat dSight has-net

identified the specifi

See answer to question 4.6a above.

Any instance in the last 3 years in which Post Office, Bank of Ireland or Wincor discovered that
any of their authorised engineers or representatives had stolen cash from any branch ATM;

There is no record of an authorised engineer or representative (excluding Subpostmasters) of
Post Office, Bank of Ireland or Wincor stealing cash from an ATM.

The only incident that Post Office is aware of relates to a Wincor employee in 2013, though at
this juncture it remains only an allegation. No branch in the Scheme was affected by these
alleged incidents.

Any instance in the last 3 years in which Post Office initially determined that a cash loss was
attributed to a Subpostmaster but where it was subsequently found that the Subpostmaster
was not responsible for the loss;
Confidential

e)

f)

8)

POL00117063
POL00117063

As explained to Second Sight previously, Subpostmasters can challenge any cash loss or
Transaction Correction in their branch in relation to ATMs. In many circumstances the
information needed to determine the cause of a discrepancy is only held by a Subpostmaster.

It is therefore likely that there have been occasions when a Transaction Correction against a
Subpostmaster has been challenged and reversed — in accordance with standard operating
practice.

The guidance issued to Subpostmasters relating to the ‘16:30 - 16:30 Print Totals Reports' in
circumstances where the rear door of the ATM is located in a retail shop or other non-secure
area. Is the Subpostmaster required to close the retail shop when obtaining the '16:30 - 16:30
Print Totals Reports' in these circumstances? How does Post Office monitor and enforce this
policy?

The Print Totals Report is not required for balancing the ATM and does not have to be printed
out on a daily basis as it is only required when additional cash needs to be loaded into the
ATM.

As detailed in the Bank of Ireland ATM Operator Manual, this receipt is used to ensure cash is
correctly loaded into the ATM (i.e. to ensure the correct number of banknotes is placed into
the ATM).

As the ATM safe/cassettes would need to be accessed at this point, and in accordance with the
guidance included in the ATM Operator, Accounting Instructions and Post Office Security
Manuals, the premises must be closed to the public at this time.

It should be noted that the Bank Totals receipt (24 hour cash dispensed figures for 16.30 to
16.30) needs to be printed on a daily basis to allow the cash dispensed figures to be entered
into Horizon. As only the rear cabinet door to the ATM has to be opened, and not the ATM
safe, this receipt can be printed while the branch is open to the public.

Security procedures at branches are part of the compliance audits undertaken at branches.
Subpostmasters are asked about the branches security procedures at the compliance audit so
Post Office can verify that the correct processes are being followed.

Any instance in the last 3 years in which Post Office, Bank of Ireland or Wincor became aware
of a customer receiving more cash than they were entitled to from an ATM. Please also
provide full details of how the resultant cash shortfall was dealt with in the branch's
ATM/Horizon balancing process and whether any Subpostmaster was held accountable for
losses that were later found to be attributable mechanical problems with an ATM;

This question has already been addressed in Post Office's paper to Second Sight on ATMs
which explains the processes used to detect, and protect branches from third party fraud. The-
ef inf

n i thi Ecartai ts-withoutidentification- of
pecifi d-by Applicants is-disproportionate- Rost Offi Id-of. be-happy

t id detailed inf ti fi le-put-f db Sight
i yspe plop

ion to the statistical information sought, see the answer to question 4.6a above.

How Post Office detects and deals with incorrect items reported in the ATM ‘16:30 - 16:30
Print Totals Reports' in circumstances when the incorrect figures have also been reported

electronically to Bank of Ireland. Please also describe the accounting treatment of any loss
that occurs in these circumstances;
Confidential

h)

POL00117063
POL00117063

Post Office does not consider that ATM reports are unreliable. However, if there were an
issue with the 1630 report, it would be the same data feeding through to Bank of Ireland.
Therefore, if the Subpostmaster accurately keyed in the 1630 data (accurately from the report
which, it is being claimed, could be wrong) then the data in Horizon and the data at the Bank
would both be the same (and wrong). In that event, Post Office FSC would not identify any
issue as the two figures agree with each other.

It would be the Subpostmaster that would be in the position to detect the anomaly. This is
because the Subpostmaster is required to do a weekly physical balance of their ATM at
intervals, during which (if the 1630 report were wrong) they would find a difference between
the physical cash in the machine and the cash that the 1630 data indicates should be in it.

The Subpostmaster would then be able to make a call to the helpline as with any other
balancing issue.

There is no unique accounting treatment that would arise in such a situation. Post Office
finance systems would include the 1630 data and any enquiries/disputes about that data
would be handled in the same way as any other balancing queries.

Any instance in the last 3 years in which Post Office, Bank of Ireland or Wincor has become
aware of any theft relating to an ATM, that was carried out (or suspected of having been
carried out) by any person other than a Subpostmaster or a branch employee. Please also
describe the accounting treatment of any associated loss.

Please refer to the answer provided to 4.6 c.
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

Transaction anomalies associated with Lottery Terminal or Scratchcards

A number of Applicants to the Mediation Scheme have complained of alleged transaction anomalies
relating to the lottery terminal in their branch or the accounting process for Scratchcards. Post Office
has addressed these issues in detail in its investigation reports and in its response to Second Sight's Part
2 Report.

47.

4.8,

4.9.

4.11.

Please provide full details of any instance in the last 3 years in which any Post Office or Camelot
employee or representative has been found to have stolen Scratchcards or any other Lottery
products/prizes.

There have been no such incidents that Post Office is aware of.

Has Post Office ever issued an instruction that unused Scratchcards must not be collected by
Camelot representatives? Please provide full details of the circumstances that gave rise to any such
instruction being issued.

Post Office procedures for the return of activated and Unactivated Scratchcards is detailed on
Horizon Online Help. The relevant extract is appended at Annex 7.

Further, there are regular Branch Focus updates reminding branches not to give packs to Camelot
Representatives. An example of which is appended at Annex 8.

Is it possible for a Camelot representative to activate packs of un-activated cards without the
knowledge or approval of the Subpostmaster? How would this unauthorised activation be dealt with
on Horizon?

Anyone with access to and knowledge of the Lottery Terminal in a branch (which is often located in
the retail side of the premises) would be able to activate cards. Unactivated packs should, however,
be held securely by the Subpostmaster and the Lottery Terminal would be expected to be subject to
a form of security in branch as it is sited with cash and retail stock. Ultimately, preventing
unauthorised access to the Lottery terminal is a Subpostmaster's responsibility.

If an unauthorised activation were made, it would currently lead to a Transaction Acknowledgement
(TA) being sent to the branch to “rem” the pack in. Prior to the deployment of TA’s, it would have
led to a Transaction Correction (TC) being sent to the branch, with the same effect of remming the
pack in.

Both of these events (TA or TC) would lead to a message being presented on Horizon to branch staff
requiring formal acceptance by the branch. They could in turn be challenged and more evidence
asked for by the Branch. The TA or TC could be validated against records from the Lottery Terminal.

Is it true that whenever a claim for a prize is made, in respect of at that point an un-activated

Scratchcard; the entire pack from which that card was taken is automatically activated? Please
describe the accounting treatment of any Scratchcards that are activated in this manner.

Yes, The subsequent accounting would be the same as noted above in the response to 5.3

Prior to the changes made to Standard operating Procedures in February 2010, and the subsequent
implementation of 'Ping' in February 2012, did Post Office find that many branches were making
similar mistakes in regard to processing Scratchcards? Please provide full details of the types of
mistakes that were routinely being made. Please also provide a schedule showing for each month,
how many TCs were issued and of what aggregate value (separating TC Invoices from TC Credits)
during the years 2005 - 2011 in respect of Lottery matters?
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential
This-is-a-disproportionately.wide request for Hint i ithout identification-of asp.
-by-Applicants If d Sight is able to identify with supporti terials, specifi
hi licants-to-the Scheme -have-b ffected-by- these i Rost Office will of

reconsider this-request.tn light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given, Post.
Office is investigating to see if it is able to provide the requested information.

POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

5. Transaction anomalies associated with Foreign Currency

Post Office is not aware that alleged anomalies connected to foreign currency transactions have been
raised by a material number of Applicants to the Mediation Scheme. Second Sight’s questions on this
subject are answered below however this issue may be better addressed on a case by case basis.

5.1. Please provide full details of how the Forde Moneychanger (‘FM’) system operates. Please explain in
detail how FX deals were accounted for and the instructions that were provided to Subpostmasters.

The Forde Moneychanger was used to manage foreign currency transactions and stock in branches
before these functions were carried out on Horizon. Each morning, the branch would receive a fax
with the daily exchange rates on it and a member of staff would enter each rate into the machine
manually. The machines also sent rates to the rate board (which displayed the rates to customers)
and, once this was done, a member of staff checked the rate board to verify that the rates were
displayed correctly.

All foreign currency transactions were entered individually onto the Forde Moneychanger
throughout the week and the machine used a carbonated till roll to provide the customer with a
receipt and branches with a copy of all transactions and balances.

Each night a stock report could be run to check the daily totals. Each Wednesday the machine was
balanced and the totals were then transferred by a member of staff onto Horizon where the foreign
exchange stock would be ‘balanced’ again. The figures were entered onto Horizon as bulk totals;
individual transactions were not entered onto Horizon.

5.2. Also, how does the FM system, and Horizon, account for the difference between a transaction
carried out at a Special FX rate and the expected Normal FX rate? As an example, if a customer was
given €150,000 in exchange for £100,000, whereas the Normal FX rate would have only given him
€145,000, how did the FM and Horizon systems account for the €5,000 difference? What flexibility
was or is available to Subpostmasters when agreeing to non-standard FX rates?

The Forde Moneychanger machine was a stand-alone piece of equipment used to convert sterling
into currencies bought and sold to customers. Print-outs from the machine detailed the value of
currencies on hand that the user would validate by way of a physical check. The sterling equivalent
of these currencies was then entered into the Horizon system. A revaluation amount was also
detailed on the print out and entered into the Horizon system. Providing the amount of foreign
currency on hand matched what the system stated should be there, the branch accounts (specifically
the foreign currency stock unit) would balance as the revaluation figure accounted for the difference
in exchange rates from one accounting period to the next. The actual exchange rate at which
currency was sold was irrelevant as this was accommodated in the revaluation figure. So, by the
Applicant selling currency at a more favourable rate to the customer and processing this through the
Forde Moneychanger machine (i.e. manually altering the rate on the machine) the stock unit
accounts would still balance.

A special rate for foreign currency transactions over £2,000.00 could be obtained by contacting First
Rate Travel Services by telephone at the time of the transaction. The transaction would then be
processed via the FM machine at the special rate.

5.3. Allegations have been made about unauthorised access to transaction data by staff located at the
Fujitsu office in Bracknell. As previously requested and agreed, please provide the email archives in
PST or NSF format for Post Office staff working in Bracknell during 2008.
POL00117063

Confidential

POLO0117063
Thi tterhas-alreadyb: dd Spot R Sandal bsequently inthe Rost Off
Javestigation Report forthe Applicant wh: d-Sight din Spot R 5. ol
Sight J t previously-a-draft wit tat 7 Post Offi ploy hich mad
it-clear-that th: ability to alter live branch data—As-yet, dSight h suggested.
that the inf tion provided by Rost Offi tso-it + understood-what furth

In light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given, Post O'
Second Sight to provide an appropriate response to this request.

is working with
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

6. Transaction anomalies associated with Bank / GIRO / Cheques

6.1.

6.2.

6.3.

6.4.

6.5.

6.6.

We are aware that every night, a data file is sent to every bank into which its customers' have
deposited funds, and from which its customers have withdrawn funds. It is then those banks that
bear the responsibility to reconcile Post Office's record of what has taken place with their own
records of the entries that have been processed each day into their customers’ accounts.

This is a statement with no question to answer

It follows that each of those banks is expected by Post Office to take action where (for example due
to telecommunications interrupts between a customer's bank and a branch's Horizon system) a
customer's account has not been debited or credited by the bank when Post Office's records show
that it should have been, or where a customer's account has been debited or credited by the bank
when Post Office's records show that it should not have been. The bank would then usually use this
data to correct its errors and remove the additional deposits from the customer's bank.

This is a statement with no question to answer

Please provide us with a schedule listing all TC’s issued to branches in the last 12 months relating to
this type of adjustment.

Thisisad tionately-wid ef information, without identification-of if
prop. ¥ a 7
d-by Applicants-t£ d Sight is able to identify with ting material
vApp pp spe
here Applicants te the Scheme have been affected by these issues, Past Office will of
reconsider this request.in light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given, Post

Office is investigating to see if it is able to provide the requested information.

Please provide us with a schedule listing all amounts received back from any bank, in response to
that reconciliation process in the last 12 months, clearly describing the accounting treatment of
those amounts.

This is-a-disproportionately wide request forg Lin i ithout identification-of-a specifi
d-by Applicants If 4 Sight is-able to identify with support terials specifi
HA pplicants tothe Sch have-bi acted by th. Pest Off Hot

reconsiderthis-request-In light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given, Post
Office is investigating to see if it is able to provide the requested information.

We are aware that in some circumstances a customer may benefit from a duplicated transaction.
Please provide full details for any such instances that have been occurred in the last 3 years and
state whether any Subpostmaster was held accountable (during any period beyond the end of a
Trading Period) and required to make good the resultant shortfall.

Though-thi disproportionately wide request ating ti ithout identification of.

pecifi .d-by Applicants, the question has-already del et

Sight with. regards to'One Sided T, tions'As described in Post Offi
paper at Annex 11, this scenario does not give rise to any loss to_a branch.

We are aware that the November 2008 phasing out of two-part paying-in slips increased the
possibility of error or fraud impacting Subpostmasters. Please state what compensating controls
were implemented as a result of this process change and describe the consultative process that was
used prior to implementation. Please provide details of the anticipated cost savings associated with
this process change together with the estimates of increased financial risk i.e. the cost benefit
analysis carried out by Post Office.

20
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

6.7.

6.8.

6.9.

Thi

Issues regarding Girobank deposits that are in scope have already been addressed in the paper at
Annex 9, as previously supplied to Second Sight._As described in that paper, the change from paying-
in slips to "chip and pin" was driven by the client bank and was beyond Post Office's control. An

cost-benefit analysis would therefore have been undertaken by the client bank and not Post Office.

Please provide us with a schedule showing the monthly volumes (and the aggregate values) of
EN/TC Invoices compared to Credits that were issued to branches, in regard to Giro payments and
Girobank Deposits and Withdrawals, in the years 1999 — 2013.

This is-a-dispropertionately wide request -f Link tion without identification ofa specifi
db: Jicants 4 d Sight is ableto identify with rs terial f
yApPH ; PP 7 SPH
hi pplicantsto-the Sch have-bi ffacted by thesei Post Off iN-of
reconsiderthis-request-in light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given, Post

Office is investigating to see if it is able to provide the requested information.

We note that cheques not covered by a Cheque Guarantee Card were not an acceptable Method of
Payment for certain transactions e.g. the sale of Foreign Currency. Please confirm whether or not
Horizon is programmed to reject unacceptable Methods of Payment in these circumstances. Also, if
a branch has systematically been accepting cheques in amounts that exceed approved limits, is
there a process whereby those repeated errors are detected and corrected?

Horizon can advise on the method of payment, but a clerk can in practice choose to take a cheque
instead of cash, for example, but still record the transaction as cash on Horizon. Horizon is
programmed to indicate the appropriate methods of payment for products. If card payment is not
acceptable then it would not be offered and the card would not be recognised. If cheque is not
acceptable then the cheque payment icon would not appear but Post Office cannot control whether
a branch chooses to ignore that fact and still take a cheque and process at the point of settling the
transaction as a cash payment

Whether or not a cheque was covered by a Cheque Guarantee Card was not the reason behind
whether a method of payment was acceptable regardless of whether a guarantee card was
presented. Acceptable payment methods were dictated by what range of payment methods Post
Office’s corporate clients wanted Post Office to offer.

As regards the Cheque Guarantee Card, these no longer exist as they were phased out by banks.

We are aware that in some circumstances Horizon does not record transactions accurately. Specific
examples include:

Post Office is not aware of the "circumstances" alleged by Second Sight in this question.

a) Where, during Horizon's recovery mode processing, some transactions, that were not
processed, or were only partially processed, may not be properly corrected when the system
invites the counter clerk to correct the errors or omissions and, if the screen instructions to
the counter assistant are interrupted (as would be likely to happen where there are
telecommunications or power interrupts) then discrepancies may ensue;

The transaction may not be recorded accurately but that is due to how the clerk applies and
follows the “recovery instructions” which have been issued to branches (please refer to Annex
10). Whilst it may have been the system that had a connectivity issue, the error in accounting
would be due to the user’s failure to follow the recovery instructions, not a failure by Horizon
to record it accurately. Accounting process is covered by the recovery instructions at Annex
10. The quick reference guide has been provided in response to question 3.1b.

21
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

6.10.

6.11.

6.12.

6.13.

b) Where misalignment of screen icons results in the inadvertent execution of the wrong type or
value of transaction;

There is a screen calibration application which can be invoked at any time by the
Subpostmaster from the Engineering menu of Horizon. If the screen is out of calibration then
that would affect the whole screen and not individual icons so it would be obvious to the user
that the screen had gone out of alignment. If this issue is noticed and a call made to the
helpdesk then the subpostmaster or staff member would be asked by the agent to re-calibrate
their screen to fix the issue.

c) Where Foreign Currency transactions have been incorrectly accounted for through interaction
between the Forde Moneychanger System and Horizon (Note: we regard the FM system as a
component part of 'Horizon'); and

As described in Section 6, such errors would be the result of user error.

d) Where system-to-system interface problems result in incomplete transaction processing e.g.
where a PINpad, PayStation or other piece of equipment fails to complete its part of a
transaction.

If the above scenarios took place, the transaction would simply decline or the customer would
be asked for an alternative method of payment. As the transaction would be declined and the
branch's accounts thereby left in balance, there is no need for any follow-up accounting
process.

Please provide full details of the controls and procedures that will detect these types of error and
describe the accounting procedures that apply in these circumstances.

The accounting procedures for these are conducted in branch and, wherever a particular process is
necessary, it has been described above.

We are aware that if the root cause of a lost cheque is unknown or attributed to some other cause
outside the branch, Post Office will absorb this loss and not pass it on to the Subpostmaster. Please
provide monthly totals showing the aggregate of all such losses in the years 1999 - 2013, describing
how much of that loss was absorbed by Post Office and how much was passed on to
Subpostmasters.

Post Office has previously explained (via Spot Review 12) to Second Sight that lost cheques cannot
be the cause of loss to a branch unless it can be shown that the branch is at fault.- As Second Sight
accepts this explanation, this request is disproportionate.

We are aware that some Subpostmasters routinely accept high-value cheques from customers that
are in excess of the monetary limits set by Post Office. Please describe the procedures that were
followed prior to determining these limits and state the accounting treatment of losses that occur in
these circumstances.

Products may have limits (e.g. savings may only be up to certain values)—But; it is not the cheque
that is limited. 1tis the investment amount—There is no high value cheque limit set by Post Office.

We are aware that processing or technical failures can occasionally give rise to ‘one-sided’
transactions. We are also aware that Post Office has stated that ‘in any event a branch will never be
liable for an error caused by a ‘one-sided’ transaction’.

22
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

This is a statement with no question to answer

6.14. Please describe the controls and processes that detect one-sided transactions in circumstances such
as when a customer withdraws funds from an account at the branch counter but, although he has
received the cash, the account never gets debited.

This question has already been addressed by a paper appended at Annex 11 which has already been
supplied to Second Sight.

Nevertheless, “One sided transaction” implies incomplete double entry. We would be grateful if
Second Sight would cease the inappropriate use of the phrase “One sided transactions”.

What the question actually asks about is completeness of record keeping.

If the transaction interruption occurs during the Horizon accounting process, it would be subject to
recovery processes, referred to earlier and previously shared with Second Sight.

If the interruption is beyond the branch, the branch accounts are not affected. How banks would
then detect their own failure to debit their customer’s accounts is a matter of their internal process.
From a Post Office point of view, the withdrawals recorded in branch would lead to debits in a
central vendor account which Post Office would in turn clear down by payments received from the
bank. If the bank had not debited their customer’s account then that would likely manifest itself in
them not paying Post Office centrally and Post Office would challenge them with evidence of the
original transactional record. This is not a situation that would lead to a discrepancy for a
Subpostmaster.
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

7. Transaction anomalies associated with Stamps, Postage Labels, Phone Cards or Premium Bonds
7.1. We are aware that occasionally postage labels are purchased by customers, but the printer fails to

print correctly. Please describe the procedure whereby the Subpostmaster can recover the cost of
the missing label in circumstances where the missing label has not been processed as a ‘reject’.
After printing, Horizon explicitly asks the clerk “has this label printed correctly Y/N”.
If the label has not printed correctly then the clerk confirms “no” and another label is printed.
Post Office is aware of situations of damage in the printing process and there is a process to “spoil”
them so that the branch is not disadvantaged. There is a clear process in Horizon and the branch is

required to retain the spoilt label. This is appended at Annex 12.

To be able to claim a label as spoilt, the branch is required to produce to Post Office the spoilt label
as evidence.
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

8. Hardware issues e.g. printer problems, PIN pads, touch screens and PayStation

8.1. We are aware that occasionally branch Touchscreens get "out of alignment" and that in these
circumstances touching one icon generates a system response associated with another icon. Please

provide full details of the controls and procedures in place that detect or prevent this type of
problem.

Please refer to the answer provided to 7.9b
POL00117063

POL00117063

Confidential

9. Failure to follow correct procedures or mis-advice by POL's Helpline

9.1.

9.2.

9.3.

Anumber of applicants have reported that Helpline staff have said "don't worry, the problem will
sort itself out".

This is a statement with no question to answer.

Please provide full details of the actions taken to investigate these allegations and confirm whether
or not Helpline staff have been instructed to never say "don't worry, the problem will sort itself
out", or similar words.

Where such allegations have been made by Applicants to the Complaint and Mediation Scheme Post
Office has fully investigated the NBSC calls logs as part of its thorough investigation and reported its
findings in the Post Office Investigation Report.

In relation to certain transactions, Post Office has in place processes and controls to detect
particular errors by branch staff. Where an error is detected, a transaction correction may be sent
to a branch to correct a mistake. In these circumstances, it may well be correct for NBSC to advise a
branch to await receipt of a transaction correction amongst other steps. Post Office understands
that it is this scenario that is being referred to by Second Sight and considers that this advice may be
appropriate in the right circumstances.

Please provide details of Post Office's Policy and Standard Operating Procedures in regard to those
situations where customers leave parcels and come back some days later to settle their accounts.
Specifically, what is Post Office's position in regard to the credit risk that Subpostmasters take, and
the potentially ‘false accounting’ issues that those Subpostmasters risk, when they routinely allow
customers (such as eBay Sellers) to drop off large quantities of parcels that are then dispatched by
settling the labels to ‘Fast Cash’ (even though no cash has at that point been received from the
customer) and then reversing all those Fast Cash payments to cheque when the customer later
pays by cheque?

Post Office does not have a policy of providing credit to customers. Where Subpostmasters have
done so, they have contravened Post Office operating instructions which state that at the point the
transaction is completed the appropriate method of payment should be taken from the customer.

Therefore, the risk would be the Subpostmaster’s
customer.

in respect of an unsettled payment from the
Confidential

POL00117063
POL00117063

10. Training and Support issues including Helpline and Audit

Another issue running through the applications to the Mediation Scheme was the alleged poor quality of
training and support provided by Post Office to Subpostmasters.

Second Sight’s questions on this topic are dealt with below however Post Office considers that issue
relating to training and support are likely to be case specific and does not see how this can be a thematic
issue suitable for Second Sight's Part 2 Report.

10.1. Please provide us with full details as to how the following issues are dealt with during the handover
to a new Subpostmaster:

a)

b)

c)

d)

Ensuring that the new Subpostmaster has manager/supervisor-level access rights to the
branch's Horizon system;

The Field Support (FSA) team involved in the branch opening process would create the User ID
for the incoming Postmaster at the correct (maximum) level of manager. The audit team
would:

* Delete any obsolete users from the system and ensure that the incoming Postmaster
and any new staff members are added to Horizon in the correct format.

* Check the Horizon User ID’s against the list of Registered Assistants.

e Any staff working in the branch that are not registered with HR should be reported
via the Anomalies Report that the FSA completes to notify HR so that they can
follow up with the Postmaster.

Inform the Postmaster of the correct process for registering assistants with HR.

Set new alarm codes once the transfer is completed under FSA supervision.

¢ Add new user(s) to Horizon ensuring that all staff are also listed on the reporting
form to HR.

That every employee has a unique User ID and password;

Please refer to answer provided to 11.1a.

Ensuring that every till or employee and ATM is associated with a separate stock unit; and

Some branches operate with just one “shared” stock unit as they don’t feel the need to have
individual units (this depends on the branch’s preference).

ATM’s are required to have a dedicated stock unit. This is checked on branch audit. If the
branch does not have a separate ATM stock, one is created (instructions on how to do this can
be found in the Additional Horizon Procedures on EASE) which stands for ‘Engaging and
Supporting Effectively’ and is the library of tools, official forms and processes from which the
Field Team take all of their instructions in the deployment of all types of Field Support Activity,

Ensuring that all branch employees are approved by Post Office;

Please refer to answer provided to 11.1a.
Confidential

POL00117063
POL00117063

10.2. We are aware that, when attempting to correct errors made at the counter, and to deal with
incoming TCs, some Subpostmasters make matters worse by making further mistakes at that point.
Please describe the controls and procedures in place to detect and prevent or correct these types of
commonly made error.

“Correcting errors” and “dealing with incoming TCs” are different things. A branch may be seeking
to correct an error it has spotted itself well before a TC becomes necessary.

When correcting errors, some Subpostmasters do indeed sometimes make further errors. The
controls and process are:

Through their own vigilance in concluding a transaction they should spot issues;

Through daily cash declarations and other routine supervision of their branch they should
spot errors;

Having spotted an issue they can use local transaction logs to review and reflect on
transactions; and

If they cannot determine the root cause themselves then they can call the Helpline who in
turn may involve FSC. However, for many errors made at the counter by branch staff, there
may be limits on what investigative support Post Office is able to provide because it is not
aware of what is physically happening in each branch — only a Subpostmaster knows this.

10.3. Please provide full details of the following:

a)

b)

c)

Any surveys or other quality control procedures in order to measure user satisfaction with
regard to the NBSC and HSD Helplines;

NBSC performance is measured on the time advisors take to answer the phone, referred to as
a “Grade of Service”. The target is to answer 70% of calls within 30 seconds and to have no
more than 5% of abandoned calls (i.e. where the caller hangs up before reaching an advisor).
For complaints, NBSC’s target is to resolve 95% of complaints within 10 working days.

Further, the Subpostmaster engagement survey also measures satisfaction levels of users of
the NBSC - the most recent of which showed that 83% of respondents felt that the support
from NBSC was effective.

The extent to which that advice provided by the NBSC and HSD Helplines is monitored and
quality checked;

All advisors are coached through a robust quality process called ‘rewarding skills’. This
involves the team leader listening into a selection of calls and providing feedback on call
handling, customer service and quality of the response.

The extent to which the written reports (call logs) of the NBSC and HSD Helplines are routinely
compared to the actual calls and quality checked;

As part of the quality monitoring as outlined in 11.3b, the actual call log is checked to ensure
that it has been categorised correctly and relevant details of the call are logged. There are no
written reports as all calls are logged onto a robust call logging system.
Confidential

d)

e)

POL00117063
POL00117063

Any surveys or quality control techniques used to assess the adequacy of training provided to
Subpostmasters; and

Post Office uses the independent external organisation Kendata to collect feedback from all
customers of Field Team Activity, including Training, Audit and Intervention activities.

Following these support activities which are supplied by the Field Support Advisors (FSA) ,
across all branch segments in the Network, the FSA will ask the Subpostmaster, Operator in
Charge, and all training delegates, if they will complete and return a double sided form to
describe their experience in terms of the FSA’ performance and the effectiveness of the
activity itself.

A form is handed out at every activity as described below:

At all Audits including Branch Closure Audits;

Classroom and on-site training (BAU & NT);

Post Transfer Visits;

Interventions visits - including Non-Conformance Visits (NCV’s) e.g. Mail
Segregation / Dangerous Goods / other Non — Compliance/ standards activities.

cece

Exceptions include:
¢  Anaudit resulting in Suspension;
© Special Request audits — where fraud is suspected.

Performance Management

All feedback is submitted directly to Kendata, then summarised and sent to the line
managers of the Field Team and the individual FSA. The reports are tailored to the different
levels of line management on terms of detail ranging from full detail including comments at
the FSA and FTL level, up to an overview of performance by teams and activity at Senior
Manager level.

Each Field Team Leader (FTL), the first line managers of the FSA’s, will discuss the
performance of the FSA’s at their appraisals unless there are any concerns raised, in which
case this is dealt with as soon as the reports are received. If further information is needed to
hold an effective discussion, the FTL will call and speak to the person providing the feedback,
wherever possible, to further understand the issues.

The FSA performance, and the FTL’s team performance is discussed monthly as part of their
appraisal with the Regional Manager.

The feedback received on the activity itself is used alongside other information gathered by
the Lead Team to drive and inform change and improvements to the Field Team support

offer.

Examples of the forms used are appended at Annexes 13, 14 and 15:15,

Any surveys or quality control techniques used to assess the adequacy of training provided to
branch staff other than Subpostmasters.

This is a duplicate of question 11.3d.
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

10.4.

10.5.

10.6.

10.7.

10.8.

10.9.

Process issues at the end of each Trading Period
This question is not understood.

Please provide full details as to how and when Post Office notifies Subpostmasters that they may
extend a Trading Period into what should be the next Trading Period.

Branch trading dates are communicated to branches annually through Branch Focus (the branch
newsletter) and are also updated on Horizon online help. If a revision was needed during the year
the same process would be followed.

If a branch wished to request permission to extend their trading period they should contact NBSC.
This would only be permitted in highly exceptional circumstances. NBSC would contact the FSC
Relationship Manager who may consult with the Network Contract Manager. The formal response
could come from any of the three parties, depending on the circumstances.

Please provide full details as to the options available to any Subpostmaster who, at the end of a
Trading Period, discovered a shortfall that was:

a) __ Larger than they could ‘centrally settle’; or

The upper limit on being able to ‘centrally settle’ is £999,999.99. Should such an incident
occur, Post Office would manage by exception.

b) Only discovered after the Helpline had closed for the evening.

They could delay closing the Trading Period until the next morning — they could then contact
NBSC before opening the following day. However, well run branches would be unlikely to have
last minute surprises like that, because it would have become evident during other daily cash
declaration processes and checks during the preceding weeks. Last minute surprises usually
reflect poor planning / management by a Subpostmaster.

Bearing in mind that some TCs would be issued many months after the original shortfall, what
options are available to Subpostmasters to ‘fund' shortfalls that exceed their ‘central settlement’
limit?

Please refer to the answer provided to Q 11.6a.
Please provide full details as to the consequences of introducing ‘Monthly Trading’ periods. For

example, did Post Office notice an increase in the number of branches suffering discrepancies that
led to contract termination?

Thi disproportionately wide request f Ling tien without identification of a specif
d-by-Applicants—If d Sight is-able-to identify with supporti terials specifi
HA pplicants-to-the Sch. have ffacted by th. Pest Off slot

reconsider-thisrequestin light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given, Post
Office is investigating to see if it is able to provide the requested information.

. We understand that when Post Office moved to Monthly Trading, Branch Suspense Accounts

thereafter had to be closed out to zero at the end of each Trading Period. Please provide full details
of options available to a Subpostmaster dealing with the investigation of a loss just before the end of
a Trading Period.

30
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

This is answered in Section 9 of Second Sight's Part 1 Briefing.

31
Confidential

POL00117063

POL00117063

11. The contract between the Post Office and Subpostmasters

Some Applicants have made complaints in relation to the contract between them and Post Office.
Second Sight’s questions arising out of these complaints are answered below.

11.1. Please provide full details of the following:

a)

b)

c)

Any insurance coverage Post Office has ever offered to arrange for its Subpostmasters;

Th tof scope-and Rost Off " thi b ml COR

Applicant.Though this question is out of scope, it is a function performed by the National
Federation of Subpostmasters. Discounted insurance rates have been offered to

Subpostmasters by the National Federation of Subpostmasters and it is their decision whether
or not they opt in.

The measures Post Office takes in order to reduce the risk that incoming Subpostmasters, who
take over an existing branch and its staff, may be inheriting employees who have been found
to be, or are suspected of having been, incompetent or dishonest. In this context, was there,
or is there now, any competency and integrity verification, performance appraisal, or formal
disciplinary/warning process whereby outgoing Subpostmasters and Post Office's own Line
Managers could warn incoming Subpostmasters where questions had been raised?

Staff members/Subpostmasters’ assistants are employees of the Subpostmaster and not Post
Office Ltd. It is the Subpostmaster who performance manages the staff members including
any disciplinary action as appropriate. It is also a Subpostmaster who needs to assure
themselves that any assistants are suitable for the role by conducting interviews, seeking
references, etc.

When a Subpostmaster recruits a new member of staff there are a number of checks that
have to be undertaken (e.g. right to work in the UK, proof of identity and proof of address
along with their five year work history).

In addition, the individual must be registered with Post Office Ltd so the security checks can
be undertaken (e.g. criminal record check). There is an annual check of all assistants to ensure
they have been cleared through the pre-employment checking system. A recruitment file has
to be established and maintained holding the basic paperwork for each assistant (please see
section 15 of the Subpostmaster contract for services, paragraph 4, for further information).

Under their contract for services with Post Office, every Subpostmaster must establish,
maintain and adhere to a formal disciplinary policy in respect of any assistants who fail to
comply with the Subpostmaster obligations as detailed in the contract. The disciplinary policy
must include the content as defined in the contract and records must be retained (please see
Section 15, paragraph 9, of the Subpostmaster contract for services paragraph 9 for further
information).

The measures Post Office takes in order to satisfy itself that potential Subpostmasters have
the necessary skills to meet the challenging requirement of being a Subpostmaster?

This is undertaken through:

32
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

11.2.

11.3.

a) The provision of a business plan to support an individual’s application; and

b) A competency based interview of the individual which is undertaken by trained
assessors.

At interview, applicants are assessed on their ability to explain their business proposition,
answer any questions raised and provide examples to demonstrate their understanding of
what is required across a number of competency areas. The business plan is also assessed
financially by the Finance team.

d) How Post Office ensures that Subpostmasters have a copy of the Contract no later than the
day that they commence their position.

The contract document is issued with the offer of appointment when an individual is advised
they have been successful at interview. This has been the process since 2001.

We understand that many Subpostmasters have only signed the one-page ‘Acknowledgement of
Appointment' Letter and not necessarily been provided with a copy of the Contract. Please describe
the basis upon which Post Office considers the Contract enforceable in these circumstances?

Post Office has stated on a number of occasions that matters relating to the Subpostmaster contract
are out of scope and that, as this is a legal question, it is outside of Second Sight’s area of expertise.

Fhis-is-ocut-of scope-However, in the interests of providing Second Sight with as much information as
possible, Post Office’s position is that this question concerns the formation and enforceability of
contracts, the response to which will be informed by the particular circumstances of each individual

contract and their application to the relevant legal principles. Though it is not therefore capable of
giving rise to a general response it is worth noting that the “Acknowledgment of Appointment”

document, whilst not the main contract itself, states that the Subpostmaster has been given and has
accepted the terms of the standard Subpostmaster’s contract.

We understand that Post Office considers the terms of the Contract to be broadly similar to those
used in franchising arrangements across the UK. Please provide full details evidencing this
proposition?

A franchise agreement is a private contract between two (or more) parties recording the basis on

which they agree to do business in their particular circumstances. The SPMR Contract is similar in
that it records the basis on which Post Office and Subpostmasters do business.

Enclosed at Annex 17 is an extract from the Encyclopaedia of Forms and Precedents. This is a
leading legal text providing precedent agreements for various situations. The extract is Form 18
from Vol 16(4) and is a precedent for a “Non-Exclusive franchise agreement for a retail business".

As can be seen from the Precedent, the terms of a standardised franchising arrangment are broadly
similar to the terms of the standard Subpostmaster Contract. There are obviously some differences

between the two as the Subpostmaster Contract is tailored to Post Office's business whereas the
Precedent is generic however the core principles are largely the same - for example (number

references are to clauses in the Precedent);

¢ Premises (4 and 9): Both Franchisee and SPMR are both responsible for leasing the
premises and ensuring that it is appropriate to operate the business.

33
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

provided by the Franchisor. Post Office also requires this payment in some, but more.
limited, circumstances.

and the Franchisee/ SPMR is required to train their own staff (9.2.11.

Employees (9.3.5): The Franchisee / Subpostmaster is responsible for employing suitable
staff.

¢ Equipment / Software: The Franchisee / Subpostmaster is required to record all sales and
other financial information using the equipment and software provided by the Franchisor
‘9.2.23 and 10.9).

¢ Telephone lines (9.2.22): The Franchisee / Subpostmaster must provide the

through its helplines.

¢ Problem support (6.3): Any support provided by the Franchisor to the Franchisee to help

resolve problems will be at the Franchisee's cost. There is a slight difference here in that

although Post Office's additional support is voluntary, it is provided at nil cost to

Subpostmasters.

© Changes in business (9.2.2): Both Franchisor and Post Office can change its business model
and products for sale.

¢ Information / Accounts (9.3.8 and 10.9) — the Franchisee is responsible for the accuracy of

all reports, information and accounts.

Audit (9.2.13 / 13): Both Franchisor and Post Office have a right, but not a requirement, to

audit the Franchisee / Subpostmaster. Audit is described in the Precedent (13.1) as an
inspection of the business and books — not a full accountancy audit. This is in line with Post

Office's use of the word "audit".

le

. Liability: The Franchi: ee i required to indemnify the Franchisor for any loss resulting (i) a
“any deliberate

negligent act, error or omissions by you or yo ur emplovees 9.3.7.4) - this is almost
identical to the SPMR Contract wording.

In any event, the terms of the Subpostmaster Contract are the terms on which Applicants agreed to do.
business with Post Office. It is the relationship described in those terms that must be applied when assessing
Post Office's and a Subpostmaster's actions. It is not open to anyone to look to retrospectively impose new
duties on Post Office that did not previously exist. For this reason, Post Office maintains that challenges to
the Subpostmaster Contract are outside the scope of the Scheme, which was to focus on Horizon and
associated issues. Such an evaluation is also beyond Second Sight's expertise as they are accountants and not
lawyers.

34
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

This is-out-ofscope-

11.4. We understand that Post Office does not recommend that its would-be Subpostmasters take legal
advice (in regard to the Standard Contract) prior to entering into that contract. This appears to be
contrary to best practice procedures. For example, the British Franchise Association recommends
that independent legal advice should always be taken prior to signing a franchise agreement. Please
provide full details as to why Post Office does not comply with this best practice recommendation?

It is open to all Subpostmasters to seek legal advice at any time and Post Office does not block this
in any way.

The reference to the BFA standards is not applicable here. The BFA recommendation is directed to
franchisees (in a similar position to Subpostmasters). The BFA does not make a recommendation
franchisors (in a similar position to Post Office) to iasistrequire on legal advice being taken by
franchisees.

11.5, Several Applicants have reported their concerns that Post Office employees acted inappropriately in
connection with the closure of transfer of their branches. The inference of the majority of the
remarks made is that certain Post Office employees acted unprofessionally, either by leaking
confidential information (that was damaging to the Applicants) to potential buyers and/or by
thwarting their efforts to sell a viable branch until it was no longer viable (and consequently of
lower value).

this-is-cutoftscepe-These are very serious, but wholly unsubstantiated; allegations that Post Office
denies_and has not seen evidence or been provided with evidence to support these allegations.
Further, it was as agreed at the Working Group meeting on 15 January that this request for
information is too wide.

11.6. The further inference is that certain Post Office employees seemed to be in some way motivated or
incentivised to find reasons to close branches, that were already destined to close under the various
closure and re-invention programmes, without cost to Post Office.

but-whell: bstantiated, alleaations that Rest Offi

11.7. Please provide full details of the work performed to refute these ‘bad faith’ allegations.

Th Lot The _-but-wholly bstantiated allegations that Rest Off

denies.

See answer provided to 12.!

11.8. Please provide full details of Post Office's policy and procedures in respect of writing off amounts
due from Subpostmasters. Please also provide similar information relating to Crown Offices. Please
also describe the write off authorisation limits applicable to different grades of staff.

Subpostmaster write off levels are documented. Please see a copy of the write-off process for
agency branches appended at Annex 16.

Losses from Crown Offices form part of the individual Crown Office’s P&L and ultimately Post
Office’s P&L.

35
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

11.9.

Though reports have been issued to Crown RSMs on levels of losses, it is not a case of authority
levels. Tolerance is set at individual level. As a general rule an ‘escalation’ investigation is initiated
after three losses of in excess of £30, although there are variations to this depending on local and
individual circumstances. Branch Managers also implement a series of surprise checks on stock units
and separately carry out supervisory misbalance checks when a stock unit is showing £30 or more
loss on two consecutive daily cash declarations.

Discrepancies can also be identified at the end of each trading period where the Branch Manager
undertakes a full cash and stock reconciliation. An ‘escalation’ investigation can be initiated as a
result of errors found as part of that process.

Crown Offices discrepancies are rectified using the same Transaction Correction (TC) process as is
used in Subpostoffices. TCs are sent to the Branch Manager who is responsible for accepting or
querying the TCs based on the evidence in branch. This process could also identify discrepancies
which could result in initiation of an ‘escalation’ investigation.

Depending on the circumstances, actions against an individual member of staff in cases of persistent
negligence or wrongdoing can include disciplinary action, dismissal and prosecution.

Please provide details of Post Office's Policy and Standard Operating Procedures in regard to helping
Subpostmasters recover shortfalls that they have made good as a result of proven theft by branch
employees.

Recovery of losses caused by theft by branch assistants is a matter for Subpostmasters as the

assistants are their employees. Post Office may help, as a matter of goodwill, but there is no policy
in this regard.

36
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

12. Post Office Investigations Function

12.1. Please provide full details of any criticism of Post Office’s (or Royal Mail’s) investigative actions or of
its employees in any Court judgement or ruling.

This question is out-ofscope-very broad in scope - it could be interpreted to apply to the whole of.
Post Office's business and not just those issues under review in the Scheme. Through further
discussions with Second Sight, Post Office now understands that Second Sight is looking for criticisms
of Post Office's security investigation team and not criticisms of other parts of Post Office's business
nor its legal / prosecutions practices.

Although this greater clarity is welcomed, the question stil remains premised on an assumption that
there is an issue with Post Office's investigation function that would give rise to criticism. To date
no such issue has been identified by Second Sight. This enquiry also needs to be placed in context.
Post Office, like all large organisations, is regularly involved in legal processes. It also only separated
from the Royal Mail Group in April 2012, prior to which investigation functions were shared across
both businesses. There is therefore no single source for the information that Second Sight is
seeking.

Against this background, those individuals currently responsible for the security team and legal_
proceedings at Post Office have confirmed that they are not personally aware of any criticism in a

judgments are in any event a matter of public record and could therefore be reviewed by Second

12.2. Please provide a schedule showing the number of requests from Subpostmasters for assistance in
investigating discrepancies their branch's accounts for each of the years 1999 — 2013. Please also
show for each year the number of requests when assistance was provided.

Post Office does not hold this information. To undertake this exercise would require POL to review
14 years of calls to NBSC and HSD from a network of almost 12,000 branches. This request is clearly
disproportionate.

12.3. Please provide a schedule showing the number of investigations into branch surpluses or
shortfalls for each of the years 1999 — 2013 clearly setting out the number of investigations in each
category.

Post Office does not hold this information. To undertake this exercise would require POL to review
14 years of data from a network of almost 12,000 branches. This request is clearly disproportionate.

12.4. In relation to requests for assistance, we understand that, where several instances of the same
problem occurs, a ‘problem record’ is created and the root cause of the issue is identified and fixed
(ie. to avoid further instances). Please provide a schedule of all significant ‘problem records’ and all
process and software modifications (excluding "minor amendments to processes") that have been
implemented, in the years 1999 - 2013, that were designed to reduce the frequency and impact of
“errors made at the counter”.

This is a disproportionately wide request for general information, without identification of a specific
issue raised by Applicants. If Second Sight is able to identify, with supporting materials, specific
cases where Applicants to the Scheme have been affected by these issues, Post Office will of course
reconsider this request.

12.5. Please provide full details and results of any user satisfaction surveys Post Office has conducted into
the Horizon system.

37
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

Post Office constantly receives feedback on Horizon from its tens of thousands of users through a
variety of sources.

The primary sources are the NBSC, Horizon Service Desk, Branch User Forum and NFSP. Feedback is
also delivered through a variety of BAU processes, for example, from contact with the Finance
Service Centre, and through discussion in the field with Contract Advisors and Field Support Agents.

That feedback is then implemented through regular system reviews and upgrades implemented by
both POL and Fujitsu, and in product development (e.g. to streamline the processes for transacting a
new product).

12.6. We understand that many of the unexplained branch losses are attributed to "errors made at the
counter". Please provide a schedule showing the number and value of unexplained branch losses or
“errors made at the counter" for each month for the period 2008 to 2013. Please also provide
similar information relating to Crown Branches including the amounts written off each month.

Post Office does not hold this information

12.

Nv

. Please provide a schedule showing the number and value of ENs and TCs issued to branches for each
of the years 1999 to 2013 (we need to see separate volumes and values for Credits and Invoices).

Thi i tionatelywid. tors Ling tien without identification of a specif

bs Jicants 4£ d Sight is able to identify with i terial: f
APH iS Yr PP SP

A licants- tothe Sch: have-bi ffacted by these Rost Office will of

Office is investigating to see if it is able to provide the requested information.

12.8. Please provide full details of changes to the Horizon system and/or to its Standard Operating
Procedures that were designed to reduce the risk, incidence and severity of errors and fraud, as a
direct result of investigations carried out into unexplained branch shortfalls, or in response to
problems, vulnerabilities and susceptibility to errors or fraud, for the years 1999 — 2013.

Second Sight has clarified that it is not seeking an exhaustive list of all the changes described above:

rather it is seeking a summary of the key changes over this period and brief description of each
change. This information is provided below.

¢ MoneyGram Automation — Quotes and financials are now provided directly into
Horizon rather than the clerk telephoning and transcribing the rate / amounts.

¢ Broadband Sign Up — Addressing the issue of “slamming” (an illegal
telecommunications practice, in which a subscriber's telephone service is changed
without their knowledge or consent) accusations by onscreen “Read to customer...”

messages, and key terms being printed on the signed receipt.

¢ Bureau Pre-Order — Order lifecycle is now_managed through Horizon to ensure
payment is taken at the point of order, and issuance is ti

¢ Care Quality Commission / Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Identity Checking
= There is now automated customer identity verification to ensure key data

attribute checks are performed and the correct fee taken.

¢ Motor Vehicle Licenses (MVL) — Stock lifecycle is now automated to track all MVL

stock from the point it leaves the warehouse to issuance or destruction.

terms of the issuance of new and replacement card stock to customers.

38
Confidential

Thi i

POL00117063
POL00117063

Regulatory Compliance Training — The model has been simplified to allow tests to
be rolled out at reduced cost with full auditability based on Horizon user log on.
term and annual licences; removing the paper licence from branch.

Camelot Cheques — The cheque issuance process is now automated for large prizes.

Stock Ordering — The creation of an online ordering process through Horizon has
removed the need to fax / post order cards; product codes and allowable order.

volumes are now automated to ensure branches received the correct stock.

Travel Insurance — Price look up for policies is now automated, these were
previously keyed manually from the brochure look up tables.

tionately-wid. tf Linke tion without identification-of fi

Horizon Recovery — Online transactions with 3rd parties (e.g. MoneyGram) are
recovered in the event of, for example, a temporary loss of power or.
telecommunications to ensure synchronisation of branch, PO datacentre, and 3rd

t The situati ef hans s. i Ia id.
remember what transaction they were in when the power/comms went down, and
then contact the service provider directly to find out if the transaction had
completed.
Bureau 2nd receipt —The production of a duplicate session receipt (necessary for
Bank security checks) is now automated, previously the clerk had to remember to

print it manually.

4. er-it should be noted that Post Off tinuallylooks-at t

processes —a-good example beingLottery TA (PING:
incorporated into the Transaction Acknowledgemen’

39
Confidential

le

POL00117063
POL00117063

branch confirms the system reported figure for the previous days sales when
logging in the next morning.

applicable.

Display of long addresses in postcode lookup — Screen displayhas been revised to
allow long postal addresses to be displayed on two lines. This has resolved an issue

of postcodes not appearing.

(pending) Cheque Rem out — There are plans in place to implement a revised
i s of the Rem out and des, i

expected May 2015)

40
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential

13. Surpluses

13.1. Please provide full details as to how Post Office tracks surpluses and shortfalls at the end of Trading
Periods at both branch level and in aggregate.

This data is not collated by Post Office but at an individual branch level it can usually be
reconstructed from the branch's Horizon logs so long as the branch has accurately conducted its end

of branch trading processes.

13.2. Is it possible that an error which has generated a surplus in one branch can result in a shortfall in
another branch? Please provide full details as to how this may occur.

No (except for in connected Core and Outreach branches where remittances of cash between the
branches are not correctly recorded by branch staff).

41
POL00117063

POLO0117063

Confidential

14. Suspense Accounts

Post Office has already addressed Second Sight's questions on its Suspense Accounts in its Suspense Accounts
paper. This paper demonstrated that so long as a branch follows Post Office's standard operating practices,
it cannot suffer a loss due to the operation of a Suspense Account.

14.1. Please provide full details of all Suspense Accounts held by Post Office. Please also provide a
schedule, for each year end between 2008 and 2013, showing the amounts transferred to Post
Office’s Profit and Loss Account (both debits and credits) for each Suspense Account held.

HLappears-that this question is targeting whether the operation of the Susp t-could
afully disadvant: bpostmaster. tioned above, Pest Office has already add: el
this-question-in-its Susp. A + paper—Given that the-dat ht in-this- questi Id-onb
my 2: i ch p a ts-and-net branch level data, shouldbe
tefulif d-Siaht could-clarif hy-what inf tion it a d-how-this will "
+I ¥ iS
th lution-of individual Rost Off ill thentookt hatinke tion ilabl
<4 ba srovidadte acd. those} In light of the discussions had with Second Sight and

clarifications given, Post Office is working with Second Sight to provide an appropriate response to
this request.

14.2. Please also provide a schedule, for each year end between 2008 and 2013, showing the balance held
‘on each Suspense Account (both credits and debits).
This is-a-disproportionately wide request-forg information, without identification-of ifi
-by-Applicants—tf d-Sightis-able-t tify, with supporti terials,-sp.

A pplicantste-the Scheme -have-b ffacted by these Rest Offi iHLof.

reconsider this request.in light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given, Post
Office is working with Second Sight to provide an appropriate response to this reque:

14.3. Please provide an electronic report in CSV format or similar showing for the last 3 years the
following information for every item posted to any Suspense Account:

a) Full transaction details;

This is-a-dispropertionately wide request-f Link ti ithout identification ofa specifi
d-by Applicants IE d Sight is-able-te identify with supporti terials, specif
i pplicants-to-the Scheme-have been affected by these Pest Office willot

reconsider this request. In light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given,
Post Office is working with Second Sight to provide an appropriate response to this request.

b) —_ Originator’s reference;

This-is-a-disproportionately wide request fora Hing ti ithout identification-of-a specifi
ps Jicants 46 d-Sightis-ableto identify with i terial: fi
App = is b PP 7 SPH
i” licants tothe Sch: have-bi flected by these i Rost Office will of
App +

reconsiderthis request, In light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given,
Post Office is working with Second Sight to provide an appropriate response to this request.

c) Any comments or notes associated with the transaction; and

42
POL00117063
POL00117063

Confidential
Thi disproportionately wide request-f Linformation, without identification-of
bb: Jicants Hf d Sight is-ableto identify with +i terial iff
yApp porting Spe
hy pplicants to the Scheme have-b ffected-by-these i Post Office-will-ot
raconsiderthis request, In light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given,

Post Office is working with Second Sight to provide an appropriate response to this request.

d) Full account details of the account the transaction relates to or is being transferred to.

In light of the discussions had with Second Sight and clarifications given, Post Office is working with

This is-a-disproportionately wide request-f Linge i ithout- identification of
. ised_by Applicants IE d-Sight is able-te identify, with materials specifi
i" pplicantsto-the Sch have-bi fected by these i Rost Offi Hot

14.4, Please describe the controls used to detect errors in Post Office client reports that if not corrected
could give rise to an incorrect TA or TC being issued.

Where Post Office receives client reports, these are part of matching accounts, where Horizon data
is matched to the client data. Therefore, if the client report was wrong, it should lead to a difference
compared to the Branch data. Post Office would then investigate that difference. If a wrong
approach were made to a branch, the branch themselves could, in turn, challenge it.

43
POL00117063
POL00117063
Document comparison by Workshare Compare on 27 January 2015 18:32:49

input:

Document 1 ID

interwoven Site://SHAREDBOND/4A-LIVE/30014125/1

Description

#30014125v1<4A-LIVE> - 150107 Part 2 Finalisation
Issues Revisited Report MU to AVDB docx AVDB
Icomments 6th Jan 2015

Document 2 ID

interwovenSite://SHAREDBOND/4A-LIVE/30138141/1

Description

##30138141v1<4A-LIVE> - FINAL Version 2 of Second
Sight Questions Answered

Rendering set

DD Standard

Legend:

Insertion

Deletion-

Moved from

Moved to

Style change

Format change

Inserted cell
Deleted cell
Moved cell
Split/Merged cell
Padding cell
Statistics:

Count
Insertions 142
Deletions 65
Moved from 0
Moved to 0
Style change 0
Format changed i}
Total changes 207

POL00117063
POL00117063
