POL00151752
POL00151752

From: Thompson Laura \(Shareholder Executive\

Sent: Thur 02/04/2015 11:43:00 AM (UTC)

To:

Subject: RE: Letter from Criminal Cases Review Commission

Hi Patrick — just tried to give you a call to discuss a couple of points but got your voicemail. I’m about to pop out and
get some lunch but will be back by 1pm, if you could drop me a line on the landline below that'd be great.

Thanks
Laura

‘tor I Shareholder Executive

From: Patrick Bourke
Sent: 02 April 2015 12:
To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive); Tom Wechsler; Jane MacLeod; Mark R Davies; Gavin Lambert
Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Rodric Williams

Subject: RE: Letter from Criminal Cases Review Commission

Dear Laura
Thanks very much indeed for letting us know.
We have indeed received similar communications from the CCRC and we are engaging with them.

It would be useful to know from you what the letter says about the basis on which BIS has been approached since it is
not immediately apparent what that might be.

The contact point in our legal team is Rodric Williams, to whom I am copying this email. He would be pleased to talk
to your legal team about this and I think it might be helpful to do so at some point. I should say that he is away from

tonight, however, and back in the office on Monday 13 April.

Do give me a ring if you would like to discuss. I can be reached on

Best wishes

Patrick

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive) I”
Sent: 02 April 2015 12:02

To: Tom Wechsler; Patrick Bourke; Jane MacLeod; Mark R Davies; Gavin Lambert
Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: Letter from Criminal Cases Review Commission

Tom, Mark cc. Patrick, Gavin, Jane

We have received today a letter from the Criminal Cases Review Commission regarding a number of applications they
have received from individuals who allege their convictions are unsafe as a result of issues with the Horizon system.
The letter states that the CCRC believes BIS may have documents or other material which would assist in any
investigation, and asks BIS to confirm that any such material will be preserved.
POL00151752
POL00151752

We are discussing with our legal team here how to handle the letter, but I wanted to make you aware. I assume you
will have received similar.

Very happy to discuss
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director, Post Office Network Team I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET laura.thompsoni
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JES OR ID IIHS III ISO IOS II II IOSD IO III III II II II II III

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

