POL00284970
POL00284970

From: Nick Readf
Sent: Thur 26/09/2019 34 AM (UTC)
To: Ben Foat[!.

Subject: RE: Alex Chisholm Meeting

Thanks Ben. That’s very helpful.
Nick

From: Ben Foat
Sent: 25 Septe'
To: Nick Read <¢ GRO

Subject: Alex Chishoim Meeting

Hi Nick
You requested any information that may assist in relation to your meeting with Alex Chisholm on Monday.

GLO

We have already discussed the context of GLO where Alex’s view was that POL should have mediated and settled the

case. As discussed, he clearly was correct about this and you can provide reassurance that there has been a change of:
* Leadership and management (new QC; HSF being appointed; change of internal legal lead) given some of the
strategic errors and a need to avoid the group think;
* strategy to one that embrace alternative dispute resolution (whilst also improving POL operations which in
turn will be better for our relationship with postmasters);

We are ensuring that UKGI and the Shareholder representative is being briefed and receiving necessary information.

Starling
Project Starling may be raised. This is 123 postmasters that claim they are “workers” and as such should be afforded
workings rights/benefits (such as holiday, sick pay, etc) notwithstanding their agency agreement that explicitly says
that they do not give personal services. You could take the opportunity to assure him that the new mana

al Privilege

In the previous meeting with Kelly Tolhurst MP, she was very keen to ensure that the Framework Agreements and
Articles of Association were completed. You will be able to reassure him that the remaining issues on the Framework
Agreement and Articles of Association have been agreed by the Board as of Monday and the General Counsel has
asked for the final documents to be circulated to both parties. Hopefully they will be pleased that this has now been
agreed by Board and can be quickly finalised.

Happy to provide any further support or information that you need.

Kind regards
Ben
POL00284970
POL00284970

Ben Foat
General Counsel
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Highly Commended for ‘Excellence In-house’ at the Law Society Mobile
Excellence Awards 2018

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street,
London, EC2Y 9AQ.
