CONFIDENTIAL

Key Objectives of the Towers Model, Fujitsu Set

Version History

SCHEDULE F

ices Collaboration Requirements and
Ss

Responsibi

POL00027953
POL00027953

Version No. Date Comments

1.0 13/01/14 Agreed version as at date of signature of CCN 1400

10.0 10/09/15 Moving all Schedules to v10.0 in accordance with CCN1506
11.0 31/03/16 Moving all schedules to V11.0 in accordance with CCN1604
12.0 03/07/17 Moving all schedules to V12.0

13.0 Moving all Schedules to V13.0

Schedule F Version 13.0

Page 1 of 6
CONFIDENTIAL

SCHEDULE F

Key Objectives of the Towers Model, Fujitsu Services Collaboration Requirements and
Responsibilities

In the event of any conflict between this Schedule F and the Agreement, the provisions of the
Agreement (including any Service Descriptions) shall prevail.

1. KEY OBJECTIVES OF THE TOWERS MODEL

Fujitsu Services acknowledges that the key objectives of Post Office’s Towers Model are set out
at paragraphs 1.1 to 1.9 below and that it shall facilitate and not negatively impede those key
objectives where relevant. For the avoidance of doubt, Fujitsu Services is not, for the purposes
of this Agreement a Tower Contractor.

14 Each Tower Contractor understands the need to form and conduct collaborative
partnerships with any and all other Tower Contractors in accordance with Good Industry
Practice.

1.2 The relationships between all Tower Contractors support and deliver effective, efficient,
fit for purpose, stable and operable services to Post Office to the agreed levels and quality of
service for those services.

1.3 The governance frameworks and delivery organisations applicable to all services
delivered to Post Office are proactive and supportive, taking a collaborative approach to
knowledge and skills sharing, benefiting Post Office and the Tower Contractors.

1.4 Each Tower Contractor delivers services using an integrated (through strong interfaces),
innovative and strategic approach in accordance with Good Industry Practice. Such approach
carried out by each Tower Contractor shall include (but not be limited to) the use of appropriate
and cost effective tools, properly skilled and experienced staff, and continuous improvement
strategies.

1.5 Each Tower Contractor is focussed on maintaining, delivering and improving user
support, user experience, and customer satisfaction in relation to any and all services. Each
Tower Contractor acknowledges that the maintenance, delivery and improvement of such
factors or items are critical to the effectiveness of any and all services provided to Post Office.

1.6 Each Tower Contractor, and relevant functions of Post Office, works collaboratively
together in relation to the provision of the services, and receipt of those services by Post Office.

Schedule F Version 13.0
Page 2 of 6

POL00027953
POL00027953
CONFIDENTIAL

1.7 Each Tower Contractor shall work with Post Office (and other Tower Contractors, as
appropriate) to enable and further improve proper and robust assurance regimes in relation to
the delivery of services by Tower Contractors in accordance with agreed service requirements.
and service levels for those services.

1.8 Where a Tower Contractor's activities in relation to the provision of any services have a
significant bearing on the activities of any other Tower Contractors or any potential providers of
services, that Tower Contractor shall act in good faith and in the best interests of Post Office,
and shall act in an unbiased manner in relation to any other such Tower Contractors or any
potential providers of services.

1.9 Each Tower Contractor shall conduct its activities in relation to any services it provides
in order to support Post Office to achieve benefits including, but not limited to, the following:

(a) Asustainable run rate reduction in costs throughout the lifetime of each applicable
contract between that Tower Contractor and Post Office;

(b) Enablement of Post Office to deliver on and support Post Office's strategic plan
(whether relating to Post Office’s ICT or business strategies);

(c) Enhancement of the capability of Post Office IT&C;

(d) Creation of a post-transformation Post Office IT&C organisation that is business
focused, responsive and flexible;

(e) Enhancement of the quality of services provided by Post Office IT&C to its customers or
users;

(f) Provision of a catalyst to transform and consolidate the supply chain from which any
and all services are delivered to Post Office (including the use of new technologies,
standardisation of techniques and methods, e.g. smart shoring); and

(9g) The achievement of improvements to services, and the delivery of increased value for
money for Post Office.

2. FUJITSU SERVICES COLLABORATION REQUIREMENTS
Fujitsu Services shall:

24 Work with Post Office and other Tower Contractors to adopt governance processes and
meeting structures to support the delivery and management of the services of the other Tower
Contractors where these interface with the Services including all interfaces to the governance
structures and processes.

2.2 In relation to any governance meetings required or introduced in accordance with this
Agreement, ensure that Post Office and other Tower Contractors (where such are participants)
have access to the artefacts used in support of such governance meetings.

Schedule F Version 13.0
Page 3 of 6

POL00027953
POL00027953
CONFIDENTIAL

2.3 Assist Post Office at stakeholder meetings and strategy forums as directed by Post
Office and (including representation or participation at meetings with the National Federation of
Sub-postmasters).

24 Establish and maintain positive, collaborative and effective working relationships with:
a) Post Office's relevant internal functions; and
b) all other suppliers of IT services to Post Office, including the Tower Contractors,

as reasonably necessary to perform its obligations under this Agreement and to demonstrably
deliver measurable benefits to Post Office.

25 Contribute to a balanced scorecard measurement method to prove positive,
collaborative and effective working relationships.

2.6 Proactively support and contribute to the innovative and continuous improvement of
practices, models and methods for undertaking service management in relation to the Services.

2.7 When reasonably directed by Post Office be engaged and support other Tower
Contractors in the design, delivery, transition, operation and improvement of services provided
by Tower Contractors to Post Office and changes to the Services to facilitate the Towers Model.
In the event that this incurs demonstrable additional cost over and above the current baseline to
fulfil this requirement, Fujitsu Services may raise a change under the Change Control
Procedure.

2.8 As reasonably requested by Post Office, develop and deliver proposals to Post Office
including in relation to: (a) enhancements to existing Services; or (b) new services. Fujitsu
Services shall lead and manage any such requested proposals in accordance with any
timescales or service levels agreed with Post Office. In the event that this incurs demonstrable
additional cost over and above the current baseline to fulfil this requirement, Fujitsu Services
may raise a change under the Change Control Procedure.

2.9 In accordance with the CCD entitled “Management Information Service: Service
Description” (SVM/SDM/SD/0016), as requested by Post Office, deliver assurance reports and
data relating to the provision of the Services to Post Office.

2.10 Comply with its obligations agreed with Post Office and/or Post Office Service Integrator
with respect to the implementation and maintenance of any service remediation plans, with the
aim of promptly resolving or mitigating any service or service level failures (or related risks or
issues). Fujitsu Services must obtain the approval of Post Office before implementing any
material new initiatives or changes.

2.11 Provide reasonable support to Post Office in developing, maintaining, working to or
complying (where reasonable) with any agreements or arrangements that Post Office has or
may enter into with any third parties (including clients) in relation to the Services, including any
service level agreements, memorandum of understandings or similar agreements and
arrangements. In the event that Post Office request such support, it shall be agreed by the
Parties via the Change Control Procedure.

Schedule F Version 13.0

Page 4 of 6

POL00027953
POL00027953
CONFIDENTIAL

2.12 Support Post Office in the management and enforcement of processes and procedures
by:

(a) complying with any agreed processes and procedures; and

(b) ensuring that such agreed processes and procedures are set out in OLAs between Fujitsu
Services and any applicable Tower Contractors (if applicable and as agreed as appropriate
following consultation with Post Office).

2.13 Without prejudice to Schedule A2, paragraph 9.7, as directed by Post Office enter into,
comply with and update (to ensure ongoing relevance and accuracy) from time to time individual
OLAs with each Tower Contractor where and to the extent that the services under the Tower
Contractor's agreement interface with the Services.

2.14 Use reasonable endeavours to ensure that all Operating Level Agreements or other
agreements entered into between Fujitsu Services and other Tower Contractors shall include:

(a) I adescription of:

i) the parties;

ii) the purpose, scope, services to be provided;

iii) the required access permissions, tools/equipment, personnel, contacts and
escalation levels; and

iv) review periods and dates;

(b) the manner in which the parties will work together to provide compliance with:

i) standards, regulations and security policies applicable to the delivery of the
Services; and
ii) the agreed requirements and service levels applicable to the Services;

(c) provisions that require in the Tower Model environment, that Tower Contractors
participate in, effective operation of processes and techniques necessary for IT
services/Services (including Service/IT service components) to be managed and provided to
Post Office in a seamless manner and across the Tower Model. Such processes and
techniques shall include:

i) inter-Tower Contractor relationship management processes including escalation
routes;
ii) service management processes;

Schedule F Version 13.0
Page 5 of 6

POL00027953
POL00027953
CONFIDENTIAL

iii) inter-Tower Contractor business continuity and disaster recovery support and
crisis management;

iv) tools access and sharing processes including integration, data interchange, the
sharing of Tools and the provision of access to tools owned and deployed by one party
or a Tower Contractor;

v) knowledge sharing processes;
vi) reporting processes;

vii) processes associated with the creation and management of enterprise
architecture and technology roadmaps;

viii) service validation and testing processes; and
ix) project management and delivery processes;

(d) the responsibilities of each party to that OLA or other agreement (including in relation to
timing), and any dependencies on other Tower Contractors, Post Office or third parties, that may
impact or limit those responsibilities;

(e) the procedures to be followed (including escalation or governance procedures) in the
event of a failure or likely failure of one or more parties in meeting the obligations and/or
requirements contained in this Agreement, the relevant OLA, Tower Contractor's agreement with
Post Office, or other relevant agreements. This includes (without limitation) ensuring that all
interdependencies, including the Fujitsu Dependencies, Tower Contractor Responsibilities and
Post Office Obligations, Tower Contractors’ responsibilities, performance or non-performance of
obligations, delays, and matters that may adversely affect the delivery of IT services or the
Services to Post Office are properly managed by Fujitsu Services and other Tower Contractors
as necessary; and

(f) a dispute resolution procedure whereby the parties must attempt to resolve any dispute
between each applicable Tower Contractor.

2.15 Ensure Post Office and the Post Office Service Integrator has reasonable access to the
appropriate Fujitsu Services personnel to continuously develop know-how in support of all
services to be delivered under the Towers Model.

To the extent to which any of the above obligations give rise to a demonstrable increase in costs
or risk to Fujitsu Services over and above the cost of performance of the Services immediately
prior to the creation of the Tower Model environment and/or the introduction of a new Tower
Contractor, Fujitsu Services shall be entitled to recover such additional demonstrable costs (and
any charges for any additional risk assumed by Fujitsu Services) from Post Office, such
demonstrable costs to be agreed by the Change Control Procedure it being acknowledged that
both Parties shall use reasonable endeavours to mitigate such additional demonstrable costs or
risk.

Schedule F Version 13.0
Page 6 of 6

POL00027953
POL00027953
