POL00099941
POL00099941

Alice Perkins meeting with Sir Anthony Hooper
Date: 25" November

Time: 3.30pm

Location: Baker Street (TBC)

Background Information
The Initial Mediation Scheme opened for applications in August 2013 and closed on the 18"
November 2013. 143 applications were made to the scheme before the closing date.

A Working Group was established to ensure the Initial Mediation Scheme is run in a fair and efficient
manner. This includes making decisions on how individual cases should be managed through the
scheme. The Working Group comprises representatives from Post Office, Second Sight, JFSA and is
chaired by former Lord Justice of Appeal Sir Anthony Hooper.

Each week the Working Group discusses progress of individual applications. To date this has
involved deciding which applications should move to the second stage of the process - the
submission of a case questionnaire. The Post Office offer subpostmasters the opportunity to have a
professional adviser help them complete the case questionnaire. So far we have received 10
completed case questionnaires. Now that the scheme has closed, Post Office would like the weekly
meetings to focus on the progress of case questionnaires and Post Office’s responses to them
through the scheme.

Each month the Working Group has a formal face to face meeting to discuss cases in-depth and the
progress of the mediation scheme.

Purpose of the meeting

@ Welcome Sir Anthony Hooper (likes to be known as Tony) as Chair of the Working Group.

e Provide Tony with an opportunity to highlight what he thinks the key challenges are with the
scheme in terms of timing, costs and investigations.

e Achance to discuss the political context with Tony, in particular that 100 MPs have engaged with
the Horizon issue since the Second Sight report and the role James Arbuthnot MP has played.

Key points to discuss with Tony

e Paula mentioned that Tony recently delivered a paper on mediations as opposed to adjudication
~ it’s good that Tony has that expertise to bring to the Working Group.

¢ From Tony’s point of view, what are the benefits of mediation in the context of the applications
we have received so far (especially as Tony has had visibility of these now).

e In Tony’s view is mediation better than adjudication? (On this point, it would be good to get
Tony to explain how mediation works).

¢ How does Tony think the Working Group is progressing? Post Office has successfully
collaborated with JFSA and Second Sight to set this up; is the group working well together?
From Tony’s point of view is that likely to continue when we get into deciding whether cases
should go forward for mediation?

© How does Tony see the scale of the task? We had hoped to have completed the scheme by
March/April but that now seems optimistic given the number of applications and issues raised.

© What are the biggest challenges for Post Office, on the basis of what Tony has seen so far?

The role of Second Sight - we had anticipated their involvement ending before the scheme
completed as our investigation team gets up to speed and re-establishes itself as a credible team
to deal with Subpostmaster complaints. We are also concerned about whether Second Sight will
be able to manage the workload.
POL00099941
POL00099941

e@ Whilst we want outcomes for subpostmasters to be fair on the basis of the facts of the case, as
yet no faults have been identified with the Horizon system and we therefore have confidence in
it and do not anticipate that settlements will generally be large. Is Tony able to say whether he
thinks that is a reasonable expectation on the basis of what he has seen?

Appendix 1: Biography for Sir Anthony Hooper.

Called to the Bar of England and Wales, Inner Temple (1965; practising 1974-1995)
Appointed Queen’s Counsel (1987)

Justice of the High Court of England & Wales (1995-2004)

Presiding Judge of North Eastern Circuit (1996-2000)

Lord Justice of Appeal (2004-2012)

Sir Anthony Hooper is the inaugural Judicial Fellow of the Judicial Institute of University College,
London and an honorary professor in the Law Faculty at University College.

During his 20 years practice, Sir Anthony appeared in both civil and criminal courts. He prosecuted
and defended in a number of high-profile criminal trials, appeared in the European Court of Justice
(representing Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corporation in Case No. 53/83), as well as in the Cour
d’Appel in Paris, France. He combined practice at the English Bar with membership for a number of
years of the Brussels European law firm, Stanbrook & Hooper. His cases included defending in the
Blue Arrow rights issue case in 1991-1992 and prosecuting the serial murderer and rapist John Duffy
in 1988. In 1995 he appeared for the Premier League in their successful defence of a civil claim
brought by the Swiss Bank Corporation for payment of an alleged success fee.

In his judicial roles, Sir Anthony tried a number of high profile jury criminal cases including the first
Damilola Taylor trial in 2002. The acquittal of the defendants was subsequently vindicated when
DNA evidence revealed others to be responsible. He also presided over the private prosecution in
2000 of two police officers for the alleged manslaughter of the 96 victims of the Hillsborough
Stadium disaster. He sat in the Queen’s Bench Division, the Administrative Court and the
Employment Appeal Tribunal, as well as in the Court of Appeal Criminal Division.

In the Court of Appeal Sir Anthony sat on both civil and criminal appeals, deciding complex issues of
law and fact. He also presided in the Divisional Court. His particular areas of expertise have included
fraud, confiscation, money laundering, public interest immunity, joint enterprise, asylum and
immigration, extradition, libel, employment law and all aspects of administrative law.

Sir Anthony has lectured widely both in the United Kingdom and abroad. In 2011 in Argentina, in
2009 in France and in 1995 in China he spoke about the criminal justice systems both in England and
in other countries. He recently gave a valedictory lecture looking at the changes in the criminal
justice system over the last 50 years. He is also the General Editor of Blackstone’s Criminal Practice
and the author of Chapter 31, The Golden Thread, in The Judicial House of Lords 1876-2009, 2009.
He has also served as the Chair of the Bar Council’s Race Relations Committee, the President of the
British Academy of Forensic Sciences and is the current Chair of the Expert Witness Institute.
Between 2005 and 2012, Sir Anthony was a member of the Criminal Procedure Rule Committee, and
Deputy Chair from 2008.

In July 2013 Sir Anthony was welcomed as an Associate Member of Matrix Chambers
