POL00397878
POL00397878

Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential

[ SHAPE \* MERGEFORMAT ] Risk and Compliance
Committee (R&CC)

See Distribution Reference: R&CC/MIN/SEP12
Date: 17 September 2012

MINUTES OF THE POST OFFICE RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE HELD IN 148
OLD STREET AT 15.30 HRS ON 17 September 2012

Present Susan Crichton HR & Corporate Services Director Chair
Martin Moran Commercial Director Member
Sarah Hall Financial Controller (for Chris Day) Member
Lesley Sewell Chief Information Officer Member
Susan Barton Strategy Director Member
John Scott Head of Security Report
Craig Tuthill Head of Network Services Report
Malcolm Staite Head of Risk & Compliance Report
Stephen Collins Risk & Assurance Manager (RMG) Report
Nick Kennett Financial Services Director Report
Jonathan Hill Senior Relationship Manager Report
Andy Jones Quality & Standards Manager Report
Mark Ward IT Security Specialist Report
Nigel Tuppen Business Risk & Assurance Manager Secretary
Rob Bolton Risk & Assurance Advisor Assistant
Secretary
Apologies Chris Day Chief Financial Officer Member
Item Discussion & Decisions Action
(a) (b) (c)

1. Introduction I 1.1 The Chair welcomed everyone to the meeting and there were brief
introductions. Apologies had been received from Chris Day and Sarah
Hall was attending in his absence.

2. Minutes of 2.1. The minutes of the last meeting had been circulated and were accepted
Previous as an accurate record by those present.
Meeting

3. Outstanding I 3.1 Nigel Tuppen went through the previous actions.
Actions from
the Previous Action 1478. An update had been provided prior to the meeting. It was
Minutes agreed the action should be closed for the present however Nick Kennett
advised that this would be re-visited again in the future and that an update
would be provided to the November meeting

Action 1486 An update on the IARM plan was an agenda item
Action 1491 Scheduled for November meeting agenda

Action 1492 In progress, audit to be completed in November or December

POL-BSFF-0224548
Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential

POL00397878
POL00397878

Action 1494 Action Completed
Action 1498 Agenda item

Action 1499 Update provided in advance of the meeting and this action linked
to the monthly forum being set up with the network field team

Action 1501 An update had been provided by John Scott prior to the meeting
but he also provided a further verbal update at the meeting. He confirmed
that Post Office Ltd had successfully achieved re-certification for PCI DSS for
the Branch Network and Data Centre. Martin Moran asked about the period
of the certification and John confirmed this was 12 months. The meeting
welcomed the update but it was felt that a further report should be provided to
the next meeting covering all of Post Office Ltd payment channels

Action 1502 Update provided and this action in progress

Action 1503 Update provided and this action in progress. Nigel advised this
would be referred to in the ERM agenda item

Action 1504 Agenda item

Action 1505 An update provided in the form of a visual representation of the
governance structure. Nigel confirmed that this was a initial view and that it
was a work in progress with some work still to do in identifying the complete
governance structure

Action 1506 Agenda item
Action 1507 Action in progress and update to be provided to the next meeting

Action 1508 Report to be provided to the November meeting on updated
position for Credit Card sales pilot

Action 1509 Full report on PCI certification covering all payment
channels in Post Office Ltd to be provided to the November meeting
and plans to ensure PCI compliance is established as a rolling business
as usual programme.

1508 — NK

1509 - JS

4 Enterprise
Risk
Management
(ERM) update

4.1 Nigel Tuppen explained that the target was to fully implement the Stratex
risk tool by the end of September and to start using it from October. He
confirmed that training on the tool was currently taking place covering the risk
champions and the risk co-ordinators. Malcolm Staite explained that it was
also the intention to get time with each of the ExCo members in the near
future to talk through and explain functional risk management

4.2 Nigel provided a spreadsheet identifying risk champions and risk co-
ordinators and explained that there were some gaps in both of these roles.
This was discussed and the following confirmed:

e Paul Brown was the appointed risk champion for Commercial

@ Simon Baker was the appointed risk champion for Chief Information

Officer

The risk representatives for Strategy and Financial Services to be discussed
with and confirmed by Susan Barton and Jonathan Hill respectively

4.3 John Scott suggested that the conversation had identified that
Communications was the only directorate not represented on the Risk &
Compliance Committee. Susan Crichton suggested that she discuss this with
the Communications Director.

POL-BSFF-0224548_0001
Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential

POL00397878
POL00397878

Action 1510 Discuss a Communications representative on the R&CC
with the Communications Director

Action 1511 Discuss and confirm the Strategy and Financial Services
directorate risk representatives

1510 -SC

1511 —
NT/SB/JH

5. Key Risks

5.1 Nigel Tuppen talked through the paper on key business risks which had
been circulated prior to the meeting. He explained that the Business as Usual
(BAU) risks had been generated by the Risk Champions within the
directorates. Martin Moran queried some of BAU risks and the rationale
behind them appearing together on the slide such as the failure to meet the
Mails Distribution Agreement and the collapse of the Euro. Malcolm Staite
explained that the top ten risks were identified across the Business and
therefore it was normal for different levels of risks to be identified together

5.2 There was a general debate on the risk data and the consensus was that
there was further work to be done on the identification of risks. It was also felt
that the current process was very “bottom up” and that it should also include
a “top down” view of the ExCo. Sarah Hall also felt that risk profiling was not
being performed consistently across the Business and she thought it would
have been a good opportunity to include this within the training that is
currently being delivered. She suggested that training on risk identification
and profiling could have been considered and included

Action 1512 Re-engage with Risk Champions, via a workshop or face to
face meetings, on the identification of key risks and risk scoring and
review outputs by ExCo meetings scheduled.

Action 1513 Consider the inclusion of risk identification and risk
profiling in the current training being delivered on the risk software

1512 —NT

1513 —
NT/MS

6. EY
Management
Letter

6.1 Lesley Sewell and Andy Jones provided a brief summary of the
Management Control audits performed over the last 2 years by Ernst &
Young. Andy Jones reviewed the slides that had been circulated prior to the
meeting focusing on the 4 findings. It was recommended to management that
controls in place are sufficient to mitigate the existing low risk exposure. It
was proposed that the committee should agree the acceptance of the risks
associated with these audit findings

6.2 It was suggested that there was a requirement to evidence the existence
of the mitigating controls and to confirm the strength of those mitigating
controls in place and to this end the assistance of Internal Audit was required
particularly in the area of the 4 findings previously discussed.

Action 1514 Co-ordinate with IARM the follow up on the non SAP
elements of the E&Y Audit, in particular the 4 findings identified within
the R&CC update. Follow up activity to include a mitigation statement
over the remaining risk.

1514-LS

7. Internal
Audit Plan
Update

7.1 Stephen Collins provided an update on the 2012/2013 internal audit plan
for Post Office Ltd. He identified progress against the activities identified
within the original plan and also the reviews that had been cancelled in
agreement with Post Office Ltd

7.2 Stephen confirmed that from the original plan of 500 days there was now
some surplus time available due to the review cancellations. This extra time
had now been allocated to additional reviews — Critical Business Controls,
LINK and the E&Y Audit follow up

POL-BSFF-0224548_0002
Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential

POL00397878
POL00397878

8. Business
Continuity
Management

8.1 Nigel updated the meeting on current status and the resource proposal
for Business Continuity. John Scott queried the resource proposal and
whether this had been agreed as he felt that this was the main issue

8.2 There was a discussion about the resource issue and it was confirmed by
Lesley that the principle had now been agreed of a split between the
governance and operational (1 and 2 line) BCM activities. It was therefore
agreed that the resource proposal recommended within the BCM update be
progressed and that a revised business case be submitted.

Action 1515 Progress and submit business case for the resource
proposal identified in the BCM update (2 x 3A managers and admin
support)

1515 — NT

9. Network
Audit Findings

9.1 A detailed report and a summary slide had been provided in advance of
the meeting and Craig Tuthill talked through the summary slide relating to
network audit findings.

9.2 There was a discussion about the data provided and the reporting
requirements going forward. It was agreed that the reporting needed to pick
up the key themes and trends from the audit activity that is being performed.
It was agreed that that next report would reflect this.

10. Internal
Controls
Framework

10.1 Nigel Tuppen provided an initial overview of the progress in developing
an internal controls framework for Post Office Ltd. The supporting work that
had been completed was then described including the approach and the
initial outputs.

10.2 It was explained that the legacy 26 Critical Business Processes (CBPs)
had been mapped to the APQC process framework and this had not only
driven the identification of a new set of critical processes but had also
suggested gaps in the legacy CBPs (Communications & Brand and
Procurement).

10.3 15 new critical processes had now been identified and the supporting
sub-processes from the APQC framework together with the legacy existing
controls were mapped to these. This exercise revealed gaps in the existing
controls e.g. the Strategy & Vision slide. It was explained that the
documented existing controls needed to be validated to confirm if they still
existed and were still operating effectively.

10.4 The Committee were informed that that there would be IARM support
going forward Plans were already in place to discuss 2 of the new critical
processes (Governance and Security) and fill in the gaps in the framework
and to check the validity of the identified existing controls.

11. Any Other

11.1 The reporting pack was discussed but no major issues revealed

Business
12. Next The next meeting of the Risk and Compliance Committee is scheduled to be
Meeting held on 19th November 2012. Meeting to be held in the POL Boardroom from
13.30pm - 15.30pm.
Rob Bolton

Risk & Assurance Adviser

POL-BSFF-0224548_0003
POL00397878
POL00397878

Post Office Ltd — Strictly Confidential

13. Summary
of Actions
Carried Perform a review of new Financial Branch
Forward Performance Profile findings and provide a John Agenda Item
further report of the findings to the November Scott
Risk & Compliance Committee meeting
. Initial view developed but
Carried 1505 I To provide a list of all the governance boards Nigel further enhancement
Forward for the next meeting. Tuppen I required which is in
progress
J 7 7 7 7 In progress — new
Carried 1507 I Nigel Tuppen to confirm list of key stakeholders Nigel .
Forward of MI in liaison with David Mason. Tuppen I Management forum being

developed

Update received and
included with supporting
papers

New Action 1508 I Report to be provided to the November meeting Nick
on updated position for Credit Card sales pilot Kennett

New Action 1509 I Full report on PCI certification covering all
payment channels in Post Office Ltd to be
provided to the November meeting

John Agenda item — to be
Scott delivered by Mark Pearce

New Action 1510 I Discuss a Communications representative on Susan

the R&CC with the Communications Director Crichton For discussion at meeting

Nigel IT & Change Risk Champion
Tuppen/ I also currently covering
Susan Strategy. Risk
Barton / I representatives for Financial
Jonathon I Services & Strategy to be

New Action 1511
Discuss and confirm the Strategy and Financial
Services directorate risk representatives

Hill advised
New Action 1512 I Re-engage with ExCo members, via a workshop Nigel Ongoing — workshops or
or face to face meetings, on the identification of Tu 3 en face to face meetings to be
key risks and risk scoring Pp arranged
Consider the inclusion of risk identification and ue , I Noted and will be
New Action 4513 I risk profiling in the current training being Malboim incorporated where required
delivered on the risk software Staite as part of ongoing training
New Action 1514 I Co-ordinate with [ARM the follow up on the non
SAP elements of the E&Y Audit, in particular the Lesle
4 findings identified within the R&CC update. Sewell Agenda item
Follow up act i
statement over the remaining ris!
New Action 1515 I Progress and submit business case for the Nigel
resource proposal identified in the BCM update Tuppen Agenda item

(2 x 3A managers and admin support)

POL-BSFF-0224548_0004
