POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

Post Office Limited - Board

Rachel Scarrabelotti acts as Secretary to the Board

BC, Chairman

Lorna Gr: in, Non-Ex ‘ive Dir

Joined the Board in May 2023

> Member of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, Investment
Committee, Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and
Remediation Committee

Lorna joined UKGI in October 2021. She has had a varied career both
lin and out of government. She is an experienced senior civil servant
having been a director at DCMS and served as Private Secretary to two
Prime Ministers. Prior to this, she was a management consultant at
Boston Consulting Group working primarily in utilities and financial
services. She began her civil service career in the Treasury.

Lorna sat on the Board of Sheffield Forgemasters, a steel forge and
precision manufacturer recently acquired by MoD.

She started her career as a secondary school maths teacher in
Peckham.

INick Read, Group Chief Executive Officer

Joined the Board in September 2019

Nick joined Post Office as Chief Executive Officer in September 2019.
INick was most recently Group CEO at Extra Energy and prior to that
(CEO at Nisa Retail Limited where he led the stabilisation and
transformation of the business ahead of its sale to the Co-Op in 2018.

INick has over 25 years of consumer and commercial experience and
lhas previously held senior roles at Tesco, Vodafone, HBOS, Lloyds
Banking Group and Thomas Cook. In his earlier career, Nick was a
(Consumer and Retail Strategy Manager at Deloitte Consulting, a
Purchasing Director for Aldi UK and spent 4 years as a Captain in the
4""/7"* Royal Dragoon Guards, H.M. Forces.

Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

(Al Cameron, Group Chief Finance Officer

Joined the Board in January 2015

IAl became the Chief Financial Officer of Post Office in January 2015.
He served as Interim CEO from April to September 2019. He was a
Non-Executive Director of the Dover Harbour Board. From 2002 to
2014, Al worked in a variety of roles for Centrica plc, a FTSE 100
company, including Director of Audit & Risk, Group Financial Controller,
Finance Director of British Gas and Managing Director of British Gas
Enterprise. Previously he was a partner with Deloitte and Arthur
(Andersen. He has served an 8-year term as a Non-Executive Director
lof Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and was also a
trustee of the e-Learning Foundation.

‘Simon Jeffreys, Non-Executive Director

Joined the Board in March 2023
Chair of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee

[Simon brings experience of the auditing world and financial services.
Until 2023 he chaired AON UK Limited and Henderson International
Income Trust plc. He was a Non-Executive Director of St James's Place
plc where he chaired the Audit Committee, and was a member of the
Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. He recently was
(Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee at SimCorp A/S. He was a senior
jaudit partner with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP from 1986 to 2006
where he also led their Global Investment Management practice.
Between 2006 and 2014, Simon was CFO and Chief Operating Officer
lat Fidelity International and at The Wellcome Trust.

‘Simon chairs the Board of St James Place International plc, and is Chair
jof the Audit and Risk Committees of Templeton Emerging Markets
Investment Trust plc, a listed Danish financial services software
company, and the Crown Prosecution Service.

Elliot Jacobs, Non-Executive Director

Joined the Board in June 2021
Member of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and Investment
(Committee

Elliot has over 25 years of multi-channel business experience and has
lbeen a Postmaster since 2014. He currently runs eight ‘Mains’
branches in London and Hertfordshire. Prior to his current roles he
worked in the computer games (Electronic Arts) and financial software
industry (Intuit Inc). He also successfully divested his business-to-
business stationery division in 2019 to focus on his retail portfolio.

Elliot was previously a Non-Executive Director (and former chairman)
lof Office Friendly Dealer Association and a Non-Executive Director of
IBOSS Federation. He is a certified Master Strategy Summit Facilitator
land International Accelerator Trainer for Entrepreneurs Organization asI

2
Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

well as Mentor & Business Coach at London Business School’s Global
Entrepreneur Programme.

‘Saf Ismail, Non-Executive Director

Joined the Board in June 2021
Member of the Nominations Committee

Saf is an experienced Postmaster with a Business Economics degree
jand over a decade of involvement in running, developing, growing and
developing award winning branches. He operates several Post Offices,
ffrom small community branches to larger high street and town centre
branches.

Ben Tidswell, Senior Independent Director

Joined the Board in July 2021
Chair of the Remediation Committee and Member of the Remuneration
(Committee and Nominations Committee

Ben Tidswell is a lawyer, with over 30 years’ experience in resolving
complex disputes. Most of his career has been at international law
firm Ashurst, where he was a disputes partner for 21 years and Global
(Chairman for eight years until his retirement from the firm on 31 July
2021. He is also a part time, fee paid Panel Chairman of the
(Competition Appeal Tribunal, the UK's specialist competition court.

Ben was born and educated in New Zealand.

Brian Gaunt, Non-Executive Director

Joined the Board in January 2022
Member of the Remuneration Committee and Remediation
(Committee

Brian has spent his career in General Management within the Supply
(Chains of Retail, Manufacturing, E-Commerce, and Outsourced
(Companies. Most recently he has been CEO of Home Delivery Network
(now branded Yodel) and iForce, both privately owned companies
providing supply chain support to the e-commerce sector. Prior to
Ithese appointments he sat on the Management Boards of Christian
Salvesen PLC whilst employed as UK Managing Director, and on the
Board of The Big Food Group PLC whilst employed as Group Logistics
Director. In the role of European Supply Chain Director, he also sat on
{the Operating Boards of ASDA Stores, ASDA Walmart, and Walmart
(Germany. During his career Brian has also been employed by Scottish
land Newcastle Breweries PLC, Grand Metropolitan PLC, United Biscuits
PLC, Touche Ross Management Consultants and B & Q.

Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

Having achieved the sale of iForce to an AIM listed business in 2017
Brian has subsequently moved his career onto a non-Executive bias.
Until 2021 he was Non-Executive Chairman of Buy it Direct, the on-line
electrical retailer. He was the Non-Executive Chairman of Mosaic
Fulfilment Solutions Ltd, an LDC owned company. He is the Non-
Executive Director of the privately owned ITD Global.

(Amanda Burton, Non-Executive Director

Joined the Board in April 2023
Chair of the Remuneration Committee

[Amanda began her career as a lawyer, working in both private practice
land as General Counsel in a number of industries. She was appointed
executive director of Meyer International PLC in 1997 and became
Chair of its Timber Division a year later. Following the acquisition of
Meyer by Saint Gobain, she joined the global law firm Clifford Chance
LLP in and carried out a number of operational roles, leading to her
appointment as Global Chief Operating Officer in 2010.

For the past 25 years Amanda has been a Non-Executive Director of a
Inumber of public, private and charitable organisations and has chaired
several Remuneration Committees, most recently Countryside
Partnerships plc and HSS Hire Group plc.

(Andrew Darfoor, Non-Executive Director

Joined the Board in June 2023
Chair of the Investment Committee and Member of the Audit,
Risk and Compliance Committee

(Andrew brings over 25 years of general management and leadership
experience within consumer and retail financial services sectors across
several continents. He is the previous Group CEO of Alexander Forbes
(listed South African financial services company), CEO of Sun Life
Financial International (listed Canadian financial services company)
land CEO of Old Mutual Bermuda (subsidiary of Old Mutual plc). He also
lheld senior management roles at UBS AG, Credit Suisse AG and Ernst
(& Young LLP.

Andrew chairs the Board of Capita Pensions Solutions Limited, is
(Chairman of Damhurst & Co, Chairman of the Audit, Nominations and
Remuneration Committees and Non-Executive director at Hartford
International (subsidiary of Hartford Financial Services Group),
(Chairman of the Finance & Risk Committee and Trustee at World Vision
IUK and is a Board member at Cranfield School of Management.

Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

Post Office Limited - Strategic Executive Group (formerly Group Executive)

(Owen Woodley ~ Deputy Chief Executive Officer

(Owen is Deputy Chief Executive Officer overseeing all the Post
(Office’s product businesses across, Mails, Banking, Financial
Services & Insurance, Digital Identity, Government Services,
Travel Money, Telecoms and Payments. He joined the Post Office
lin 2016 as the Sales Director. He was promoted to Group Chief
(Commercial Officer in February 2020 and Deputy CEO in July 2023.

Prior to this, Owen spent four years as Managing Director of the
retail business at Lloyds Bank with responsibility for the branch
Inetwork and customers. Owen had previously launched and run a
new UK bank in the wake of the financial crisis, Shawbrook, which
focuses on commercial property and asset finance lending. He
started his career at Barclays where he undertook a number of
‘senior roles in the UK in retail and commercial banking. He also

orked extensively in risk management and business development
lacross sub-Saharan Africa. He was at different points responsible
for the joint venture business in Barclaycard and was UK Regional
Director for Barclays in the Midlands and London.

(Owen has held a number of other board positions and has been a
Board Governor at Nottingham Trent University since 2014.

(Karen McEwan - Group Chief People Officer

Karen joined Post Office in September 2023 as Group Chief People
Officer. Karen has an extensive executive leadership background,
most recently with over six years at McColl’s, acting as Interim
(Chief Executive Officer to lead the business through the
ladministration process to the successful sale to Morrisons plc. This
appointment followed a five-year period leading cultural change as
their Chief People Officer and subsequently Chief Operating Officer.

Before her time at McColl’s, Karen held a variety of Director roles
during a long and successful career at Tesco, which spanned
general management and HR, including five years as People
Director where she led the HR transformation for Tesco’s UK
(Operation.

Karen was recently named as a ‘woman to watch in retail’, for her
lachievements in diversity and inclusion.

Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

(Chris Brocklesby - Chief Transformation Officer

(Chris joined the Post Office in August 2023. He is responsible for
all aspects of IT and Change at the Post Office including the
itransformation programme which will replace Horizon. Chris has
spent the last 15 years in various CIO roles in Retail, Travel,
Telecoms and Financial Services with businesses such as Tesco,
Tesco Bank, easyJet, Vodafone and Dunelm.

Prior to this, he had a 20-year career in IT consultancy as a partner
in Accenture’s Financial Services London practice.

Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

Post Office Management Services Limited (Post Office Insurance) - Board

Sarah Koniarski acts as Secretary to the Board

(Tim Franklin - Non-Executive Chairman

y Joined the Board in March 2018
Member of the POMS Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee

Tim Franklin was appointed Chairman in April 2019. Tim’s executive
career spans both building societies and banking. Prior to his board roles
in the mutual sector, he was Director of Customer Programmes and
Loyalty and Managing Director of Savings at Barclays. Tim’s experience
E extends across the private and public sectors too. He is Senior

Independent Director at HM Land Registry where he chairs the Audit
(Committee and was previously on the Boards of Reclaim Fund Limited,
Mutual Plus Limited and the Link Cash Machines Network.

(Clare Ryder - Non-Executive Director

Joined the Board in April 2022
(Chair of the POMS Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee

(Clare started out as a trainee underwriter and, during a 30-year career
lin general insurance, has held a variety of senior roles spanning
underwriting, distribution, broking and credit hire.

(Clare has used this breadth of experience and understanding advising
jon a wide range of projects. She now focuses on working with Private
Equity and Trade investors, providing market specific, strategic and
management expertise in commercial due diligence.

‘She has considerable experience as a Non-Executive Director including
(Chairing various committees and has sat on Boards for Capita, Hastings
Insurance Services Ltd, Cogent Insurance Services Ltd and UK General
Insurance. Outside of the sector Clare is currently Chair of the Bristol
Metropolitan Academy Council, part of the Cabot Learning Federation.

[Ed Dutton - Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Joined the Board in September 2019

[Ed started his career in retail as a merchandise buyer at Marks and
‘Spencer, before working in e-commerce in both an international start up
land launching Kingfisher’s Health and Beauty business Superdrug. He
joined AXA Insurance in 2001 working in strategy and distribution before
becoming Underwriting Director of Personal Lines. His previous role
before joining the Post Office was as CEO of British Gas Insurance which
lhe helped launch and develop as Centrica converted their £1bn Home
Services division into a regulated Insurance business in 2010.

'He is also an advisor to Ventureprise Ltd, a growing Home Services
business.

Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

Simon Parr - Executive Director

Joined the Board in June 2017
Interim Chief Executive Officer

Simon became the Chief Financial Officer in June 2017 and then the Chief
Executive Officer in September 2023. From 1997 to 2007 Simon worked
in a number of roles for Barclays Bank plc, including Finance Director of
Barclays Insurance, Financial Controller —- Barclays Private bank, and
‘Head of Finance for Barclays Private Bank in America. Since leaving
Barclays Simon was Finance Director of RiskFirst (a technology start-up)
land divisional Finance Director at Slater & Gordon (law firm).

(Owen Woodley - Non-Executive Director (not independent)

Joined the Board in June 2018
Member of the POMS Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee

(Owen is Group Chief Commercial Officer for Post Office Limited overseeing
lall the Post Office’s product businesses across, Mails, Banking, Financial
Services & Insurance, Digital Identity, Government Services, Travel
Money, Telecoms and Payments. He joined the Post Office in 2016.

Prior to this, Owen spent four years as Managing Director of the retail
business at Lloyds Bank with responsibility for the branch network and
customers. Owen had previously launched and run a new UK bank in the

jake of the financial crisis, Shawbrook, which focuses on commercial
property and asset finance lending. He started his career at Barclays

here he undertook a number of senior roles in the UK in retail and
commercial banking. He also worked extensively in risk management and
business development across sub-Saharan Africa. He was at different
points responsible for the joint venture business in Barclaycard and was
UK Regional Director for Barclays in the Midlands and London.

(Owen has held a number of other board positions and has been a Board
(Governor the Board at Nottingham Trent University since 2014.
(Owen has held a number of other board positions and has been a Board
(Governor the Board at Nottingham Trent University since 2014.

Kay Martin - Non-Executive Director
Joined the Board in January 2024

Kay has had an extensive career in financial services. She has held roles
lin the Life, Pensions & Investment industry, Banking and for the last 21
ears General Insurance Executive roles both with Insurers (Aviva, Zurich
& RSA) and Brokers (EndsLiegh, Ardonagh, Paymentshield & Swinton).
‘Her experience spans across Marketing and Communications and she has
led businesses at Paymenshield and RSA.

‘She retired from full time executive work after her last role as MD Personal
lines, RSA at the end of 2022 and is now starting to develop her
Independent NED portfolio.

Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

Ravi Dudala - Executive Director
Joined the Board in September 2023

Interim Chief Finance Officer

Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

Post Office Management Services Limited (Post Office Insurance) - Executive
Committee

Il Tavener - Chief ration

Russell has worked for Post Office Insurance for over 7 years, initially
ith Bank of Ireland, then playing a major role in the transfer of the
business to Post Office in 2015.

Previously Head of Commercial for POI, Russell become Chief of
Operations in 2017 reflecting the business growth or POI and also the
increased scope of services under direct control.

Prior to Post Office Russell was Head of Business Development at
Tesco Bank, having previously set up Tesco Compare. Russell has
also has held various roles with RBS and Direct Line Group.

an Holloway - Director, Risk & Compliance

flan is a Chartered Accountant and holds an MBA from the university
of Bath. Following qualification he held a variety of financial
management roles before moving into Risk Management roles.

He was Vice President of the International Petroleum Exchange, and
project managed the demutualisation of the exchange before moving
into AXA to head up general insurance risk management. He then
headed risk and compliance at Aviva’s general insurance arm before
moving to Post Office insurance in October 2017. He has headed up
a number of industry forums including the ABI’s conduct committee,
and liaised with the FCA on behalf of the industry in respect of PPI,
notably in respect of remediation processes.

Paul Paddock ~ Head Of Travel and Protection

Paul joined Post Office Insurance in January 2018, initially as Head of
Travel. Then in January 2020 he was appointed to Head of Travel and
Protection after adding the Protection business to his list of
responsibilities.

Prior to Post Office Paul was Head of insurance at Holiday Extras,
holding a number of roles across the organisation over his 10 years’
service.

10
Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

[Ben Foat - General Counsel (Post Office Limited), delegates
to Sarah Gray, Legal Director (Post Office Limited)

Ben is the Group General Counsel of Post Office Limited and an
executive member of Post Office Limited and Post Office Management
Services Limited. He is responsible for managing the Legal,
Compliance, Assurance and Secretariat departments across the
organisation and works with executive management and boards to
shape strategy, maximise commercial opportunity and mitigate legal,
regulatory and governance risk.

Prior to joining Post Office, he was employed at Zurich Insurance plc
in the UK and was previously a Senior Associate in private practice in
Australia. He has spoken at various industry events in relation to
leadership and legal operations including emerging technology and
resource models. He is a Leadership Fellow at St George’s House,

indsor Castle. In 2018, he was awarded Solicitor of the Year -
Inhouse by the Law Society, shortlisted for Diversity Hero at the 2019
British LGBT+ Awards as well as being listed in the Financial Times
OUTstanding 2017 -2019 lists for his leadership in Diversity and
Inclusion. Ben holds a Master of Laws, Bachelor of Laws (Hons) and
Bachelor of Arts with a double major in Political Science.

t_ Lang - Talent, Diversity and Inclusion Director (Post
Limi

ffi

juliet joined Post Office in September 2019, initially as Head of
People for the Retail and Network Team, then in November 2020 she
as appointed to Talent, Diversity and Inclusion Director. She is
accountable for Talent Acquisition, Talent Management, Performance
Management, Senior Leadership Development, Learning, Early
(Careers and Diversity and Inclusion.

juliet has over 13 years experience in HR working for large multi-site
national retailers such as Currys and Morrisons Supermarkets PLC.
juliet also holds a trustee position at Mid Kent Mind.

11
Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

Payzone Bill Payments Limited - Board

Cordelia Hagan acts as Secretary to the Board.

[Ed Dutton - Chairman
Joined the Board in October 2023

Andrew Goddard - Director
Joined the Board in October 2018

IAndrew is Managing Director, Payzone Bill Payments Limited and joined
Post Office in 2016. Andrew has over 30 years’ business development
land senior leadership experience in the payments industry &
convenience retailing businesses with leading global and international
companies; Esso, American Express, ENOC, Gemalto, PayPoint, Post
(Office, and currently as MD of Payzone Bill Payments Limited is leading
jthe transformation of the bill payments business in the combined
24,000 Post Office / Payzone outlets in the UK.

Max.

Joined the Board in July 2022

Max Jacobi joined the Post Office in 2017 and is currently the
(Commercial Financial Director. Prior to joining the Post Office, he has
worked in senior financial roles at CBRE, CGI and Thomson Reuters.

12
Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES
First Rate Exchange Services Holdings & First Rate Exchange Services Limited

(Directors remain the same on each board in accordance with the Joint Venture Agreement
between Post Office & Bank of Ireland)

Marie Molloy acts as Secretary to the Board.

Ben Foat - Chairman (Post Office Representative)

Joined the Board in May 2020
Member of the Remuneration & Nomination Committee

Ben is the Group General Counsel of Post Office Limited and an executive
member of Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services
Limited. He is responsible for managing the Legal, Compliance,
Assurance and Secretariat departments across the organisation and

orks with executive management and boards to shape strategy,
maximise commercial opportunity and mitigate legal, regulatory and
governance risk.

Prior to joining Post Office, he was employed at Zurich Insurance plc in
ithe UK and was previously a Senior Associate in private practice in
Australia. He has spoken at various industry events in relation to
leadership and legal operations including emerging technology and
resource models. He is a Leadership Fellow at St George’s House,

indsor Castle. In 2018, he was awarded Solicitor of the Year - Inhouse
lby the Law Society, shortlisted for Diversity Hero at the 2019 British
LGBT+ Awards as well as being listed in the Financial Times OUTstanding
2017 -2019 lists for his leadership in Diversity and Inclusion. Ben holds
ja Master of Laws, Bachelor of Laws (Hons) and Bachelor of Arts with a
double major in Political Science.

haron Cr - Ex ‘ive Dir

Joined the Board in June 2019

IT & Operations Director, First Rate Exchange Services Limited

Sharon joined First Rate Exchange Services in December 2016 to lead
tthe IT function as we continue to develop and expand our digital
offering. Prior to First Rate she was CIO for Santander Consumer Finance
UK as well as holding a number of senior roles in IT within various
organisations mainly in the Financial Services sector. Sharon holds a BSc
lin Software Engineering from the University of Birmingham.

Gary Fitton - Executive Director
Joined the Board in June 2012
Chief Executive Officer, First Rate Exchange

(Gary was appointed Chief Executive Officer for First Rate in August 2017.
Gary originally joined the business in October 2009 as Retail Director
before being appointed Managing Director in July 2014. During his 25+

13)
Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

ear career Gary has held a number of senior marketing and

management roles in the UK cards industry. Gary headed up the cards
business at Egg plc during its key period of growth and innovation. Past
employers also include the Lombard Group, People’s Bank, Post Office
Financial Services and the Bank of Ireland. Gary has served on a number
of VISA / MasterCard boards and committees.

TBC - Non-Executive Director & Chair of the Remuneration &
Nominations Committee

Joined the Board in
(Bank of Ireland Representative)

(Chief Executive Officer, Bank of Ireland UK

Andrew Hardie - Executive Director

Joined the Board in May 2011

(Chief Financial Officer, First Rate Exchange Services & Managing
Director, BOIFCS, Finance

Andrew joined First Rate in March 2007 and was appointed Finance
Director in May 2011. Andrew is a member of the Chartered Institute of
— Management Accountants and has significant experience across several
sectors including retail financial services, FMCG, and business services.
Prior to joining First Rate, Andrew worked for Citibank for a number of

ears, holding senior management positions in both Retail and
International Banking. He was able to broaden his experience during this
time by also holding a number of roles outside Finance including heading
lup the Retail Products team. Previous to this Andrew worked for Rentokil
Initial and Rank Hovis MacDougall.

jartin Edwards - Non-Executive Director (Post Office
Representative)

Joined the Board in December 2023

Martin Edwards is currently Network Strategy & Delivery Director,
responsible for planning the future shape and size of the Post Office
network and co-ordinating the transformation programmes required to
deliver that change. He joined the Post Office in 2012, with previous
roles including Chief of Staff, Group Strategy Director and Managing
Director for Identity & Government Services. Prior to joining the Post
(Office he spent the majority of his career at HM Treasury. Martin is a
graduate of Edinburgh University.

Martin Roberts, Group Chief Retail Officer, joined the Post Office in
February 2022. He is accountable for the leadership and future

14
Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP
BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

development of the network’s 11,500 branches, Strategic Partnerships
and Supply Chain.

Martin has over 38 years of senior management experience with many
jof the top retailers in the UK and Internationally. He previously held
Director and Board roles at Sainsburys, DIY Chain Wickes, Vodafone UK
and International and most recently B&M Retail the leading discount
retailer where he lead this business into the FTSE 100. Martin is also
Non-Executive Chairman at GoAudits, an appointment he has held since
2019, and Non-Executive Chairman at Taxi Studio from 2021.

\Barbara Brannon - Non-Executive Director (Post Office
Representative)

Joined the Board in June 2022

Barbara joined Post Office as Procurement Director in 2016 and was
appointed Interim Portfolio Director for Retail & Government in May
2022.

‘She started her career in retail before moving into Procurement and
has held a number of senior procurement positions within financial
services for LCH.Clearnet, Standard Bank Group and within the legal
‘ jsector for Herbert Smith Freehills.

Barbara is a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin.

[Daniel Ehreich - Non-Executive Director

Joined the Board in September 2021

(Bank of Ireland Representative)

'Head of Product and Solutions, Bank of Ireland UK

Daniel was appointed Head of Product & Commercial Management in
ST a April 2021. Daniel has more than 18 years’ experience in Financial

Services gained during an extensive career with Lloyds Banking Group
before joining the Bank of Ireland in January 2013.

‘iara Moore - Non-Ex: ive Dir

Joined the Board in January 2024

(Bank of Ireland Representative)

(Chief Data and Digital Officer, Bank of Ireland UK
(Chairman of the FRES Audit & Risk Committee

(Ciara joined Bank of Ireland in January 2017 and was appointed to the
role of UK Chief Data and Digital Officer in March 2021. Prior to this

15)
Internal
POL00363166
POL00363166

POST OFFICE GROUP

BOARD DIRECTORS & EXECUTIVES

appointment, Ciara held a number of Senior Management positions
lacross the UK Risk, Partnerships, Strategy and CEO office. Ciara has
lover 17 years’ experience in the UK and Ireland Financial Services
sector, during which time has worked for Deloitte, Royal Bank of
Scotland, Ulster Bank and Citi.

Matt Garrood
First Rate Exchange
Services

Alternate Director

For Andrew Hardie, Gary Fitton and Sharon Cross

Representative
ia te) (Chief Customer Officer, First Rate Exchange Services Limited
Joined the Board in June 2023
TBC Alternate Director
‘Bank of Ireland ,
Representative) For Ciara Moore

TBC, Bank of Ireland UK

Joined the Board in

Martin Roberts
Post Office
Representative)

Alternate Director

For Ben Foat, Martin Edwards and Barbara Brannon

(Group Chief Retail Officer, Post Office Limited

Joined the Board in February 2023

Internal

16
