CASE PROGRESSION PROCESS MAP

Case Raised
¢ Case Raised will be emailed from casework team with the attached
new case raised document and case number. The front page of the
case raised should be printed off and be the first page (not numbered)
of your file.

Stakeholder Notification
e This should be emailed to all stakeholders, Casework Team and Team
leader and a copy of the email printed off and associated in Appendix
Cc

Book Interview
e Offender should be contacted and Interview should be arranged
without delay timescales will depend on investigation that needs to
take place prior to this.

Investigate
e Obtain as much information as possible before the interview takes
place such as HR Printout — Assistant Lists - audit report — historical
balance paperwork — witness statements.

Interview
e To take place at arranged time tape recorded and under caution.

48 Hour Offender Report
e Tobe emailed to Team Leader, Casework Team, Financial
Investigator (if appointed) Primary Stakeholder within 48 Hours of the
interview.

FES Report
e Financial Evaluation Sheet to be emailed to Financial Investigator
within 72 hours of the interview.

Tape Transcripts
e To be completed by the individual or when appropriate send to the
typist - Cath Philbin Post the tapes to Cath By special delivery

(address on the form) and email the form to (See Link Below)
[ Copy in Helen Dickinson because she picks up
the tapes to post back.

Interim report
e If the report is not going to be submitted within 12 working days due to
annual leave then an interim report should be submitted to Team
Leader Casework Team and financial investigator. This should be
discussed with Team Leader before hand and a copy of the report
enclose in main file.

POL00121116
POL00121116
Write Offender Report Legal
e Offender Report to be written using example report and guidelines.
This has to be submitted in the complete file within 12 working days to
the casework team.

Write Discipline Report
e Discipline report to be written using example report and guidelines.
This has to be submitted in the complete file within 12 working days to
the casework team.

Business Failings Reported
e If business failings or procedural weaknesses identified this should be
completed on the relevant tab of the new case raised form and emailed
to all stakeholders. This should be printed off and associated in
appendix C of the file.

Green Jacket
e Green Jacket should be put together as per the compliance guidelines
(See Link below) with report, tape transcripts and all evidence etc in
the correct appendix.
e General Rule Appendix A = Witness Statement B = Evidence C =

Other
Body Of File Appendix A Appendix B Appendix C
Case Raised Witness Gso01 HR Printout
Sheet Statement
Interim Report Evidence GS003
Offender Report Notebook Entry Stakeholder
Notification
Tape Transcript Search Business Failings
Documents
Working Tapes Discipline Report
Antecedents
NPA1

Submit to Team Leader
e The file should be submitted to your team leader for them to check and
ensure everything is ok.

Submit to Casework Team
e Submit the complete file to the casework team and email them the
Offender Report Discipline report and tape transcripts. This should be
done within 12 working days of the interview.

POL00121116
POL00121116
POL00121116
POL00121116

Summons Process

Contacting the Court

Contact the Magistrates court where the offence took place and
confirm that, that court deals with the matter and the address where
the summons are to be sent for signature.

Speak with listings and inform them you are a private prosecution —
(reason certain courts have set days for non police prosecutions).
Obtain a date normally six weeks from date of request but no more
than 8 weeks.

Acquiring AS Number

Update the front of the NPAO1 with the date of the court hearing and
the details of the court,

Complete the offence and the method used in offence section on the
front of the NPAO1. If more than one offence, then complete the NPAO2
for the relevant number of offences.

Email the updated NPA01 (and NPA0O2 if required) to the casework
team. This will generate an AS number which is required for the court
to sign the summons, the AS number will be emailed back within a few
days of the submission of the NPA0O1.
