POLO00097612

POL00097612
Message
From: Ivan Swepson
Sent: 14/03/2013 14: 7
To: Craig Tuthil GRO a
cc: Rodric Williams {I
Subject: SRO12 DRAFT for Peer Review - Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider

Circulation
Attachments: SRO12_Missing_Cheques_DRAFT_FOR_PEER_REVIEW.doc; image001.png; image002.jpg

Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation

Craig and Gareth,

We have been asked by Second Sight Support Services Limited to respond to an allegation that cheques sent to
Chesterfield had gone missing and POL had recovered losses through recovery from the SPMR.

As you are aware, allegations that the Horizon system is defective and/or that the processes associated with it are
inadequate have been, and continue to be, the subject of legal challenges. We must therefore assume that the parties
who want to pursue these allegations will look to our response to advance their allegations, including through the
Courts. We will therefore be obtaining legal advice on the response before it is finalised and sent to Second Sight to
ensure it fairly represents our position and does not prejudice our ability to advance that position before the Courts.

As the provider of the Horizon system which Post Office Limited uses, it is in the interests of both Fujitsu and Post Office
Limited to ensure that the response to this allegation is accurate and fair. We would therefore like you to comment on

our draft response (copy attached) before we provide it to our solicitors. We would be grateful to receive this no later
than close Tuesday 19 March 2013.

Regards, lvan Swepson

Ivan Swepson I Proposition Manager, Government Services

2" Central, 148 Old Street, LONDON ECIV 9HQ.

____GRO

JOH OSS SOI IO BOO IOI SOI IDIOT III AI IAI IOI AIK

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0097195
