POL00244227
POL00244227

Message

From: Tom Wechsle!

on behalf of I Tom Wechsler GRO. a

Sent: 30/08/2016 2:

To: Paula Vennells! cnn

cc: Avene Regan Alisdair Cameron
Subject: Briefing for meeting with Margot James

Attachments: Post Office Strategy Overview_August 2016_v2.pptx; Margot James MP 4.docx; PO key facts.docx; Briefing for

meeting with Postal Affairs Minister 3008.docx

Hi Paula

Ahead of your meeting with Margot James, please find attached:

1)
2)
3)
4)

A short slidepack covering POL strategy

A note of briefing on current live issues

A note of key PO facts

A background note on the Minister herself

Since the base material was pulled together we have had some additional feedback from UKGI, including this evening.

Their advice was:

The Minister is bright and engaging (“chatty” was a word used) with a genuine interest in Post Office issues
However, she has very limited prior knowledge so the meeting should be pitched at a high level and focussed on
building a relationship rather than detail at this stage

The department’s emerging early agenda appears to have a string focus on SMEs

The Minister has been briefed on Sparrow but is content that this is best left to the Courts — no need cover the
issue in the meeting

She is keen to visit branches etc outside her constituency and we are pulling together some ideas

Subsequently we have heard that the Minister would value:

e

With all
.

Our views on the relationship with the trade unions — especially the CWU given she is meeting them next week
And to understand whether there are any particularly good examples of where PO has changed/adapted its
approach or proposals as a result of consultation. This was in the context of a discussion on the consultations on
pensions, supply chain and on individual Crown branches but we need not be limited to that.

of this in mind:

Mike and I will pull together an additional note on consultation responses asap

The pack may be too detailed for the discussion UKGI suggest we pursue — especially on funding. Nonetheless,
better to have the information if we go into that space

I have considered whether slide 4 on funding is too much at this stage but on balance think we should plant a
few seeds

I will also ensure we have the latest position on POCA and Visa — although UKGI advise not raising these it may
appear disingenuous at a later date not to do so; especially on POCA

Please let me know if you have any feedback at this stage. Mike and I will meet you prior to the meeting and I will
attend with you.

Thanks

POL-BSFF-0082290
POL00244227
POL00244227

Tom

POL-BSFF-0082290_0001
