POL00448225
POL00448225

STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL oa
aa 100 Wood Street
Post Office® XXXXXXAXXK Branch Cordon

Xxx EC2V 7ER

Xxx Classification:
Private

XXX. XXX

Post Office® XXXXXXXXXX Branch

On/Off Site Local/Main Post Office® Agreement between Post Office Ltd and

(Agreement)

Invitation to attend a meeting to discuss Contract Performance

As you will be aware from our conversation(s) I have been carrying out review work

fllowing [briefly insert typeof event which led to review.

As explained in our conversation(s) it is important that the matter is fully reviewed to
establish the facts and to give you the opportunity to identify and answer any issues of
concern raised. Appendix 1 to this letter sets out the position to date.

As part of this I want to share with you details of the review that have been considered to
date (providing these details are not subject to restriction on disclosure, for example through
legal privilege, data protection law or material relating to a criminal investigation). Appendix

2 sets this out and will hopefully give us a basis to discuss the matter further.

v2su300523
Page 1 of 7

Post Office Limited i registered in England and Wales, Registered No, 2154540.

Registered Office 100 Wood Street, London. EC2V 7ER

Post Offce ancl the Post Office logo ae registered rade mars of Pst Office Line postoffice.co.uk
POL00448225
POL00448225

[As discussed during our conversation on [date’], I would like to discuss these matters with

you at a meeting on:

Meeting Purpose

The purpose of the meeting is to establish facts and to give you an opportunity to identify

and answer any issues that have been identified. Post Office will use the content of this

meeting, along with other areas of review, in determining next steps [and this may include a
is being considered]. With this in mind this is also an opportunity for you to raise any

material issues that you need me to be aware of as well as the impact any decision by Post
Office may have on you. I will then take the contents of the discussion into account in

making a decision as to what will happen next.
Meeting Attendees

I willbe attending this meeting (with Name and ele fmore than one POL attendee)

If you wish to bring someone with you to the meeting, please let me know in advance their
name(s) and role as this may affect who will need to attend for the meeting on behalf of Post
Office Ltd. If not already done so, you may, if you wish, contact your NFSP representative to
support you through the process and attend the meeting with you. During this meeting the

“again may talk on your behalf.
If you choose to attend the meeting, it will be recorded in order that an accurate record of

the discussion can be made. A copy of this recording will be provided to you after the

meeting.

Page 2 of 7

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
POL00448225
POL00448225

Alternatively, you may wish to submit a written response providing input on the matters

outlined in this letter. Again, I will take the content of this submission into account when

making a decision as to what will happen next. [This may include a decision to terminate

Please can you confirm whether you will attend the meeting or submit a written response by

signing the enclosed duplicate of this letter, and return it to me, at the address on this letter,

The opportunity to attend a meeting or to provide a written response does not affect Post
Office Ltd.’s rights and remedies under the Agreement or otherwise, and all such rights are

reserved. I am mindful the impact that this process may have

Office offers wellbeing support helpline, either by phone } for at

http://postmaster.workplacewellbeing.com. In addition to this support is also available
through the NFSP.

In the meantime, if you have any queries, please do not hesitate to contact me on the phone

number below.

Yours sincerely,

Contracts Advisor,
Post Office Limited.

Page 3 of 7

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
POL00448225

POL00448225

Complaints or Concerns

If you have a complaint in the way this matter is being handled you can telephone the

Branch Support Centre ont. ‘for your concerns to be escalated to

the Complaint Handling team.

Alternatively, should you wish to report any concerns in confidence you can do so via the
Speak Up service by calling. “GRO _ i
http://speakup.postoffice.co.uk/

via a secure on-line web portal:

Page 4 of 7

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
POL00448225
POL00448225

Page 5 of 7

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
POL00448225

POL00448225

This table sets out the information reviewed and I have enclosed any relevant documents

with this letter, If there is anything you feel that has not been supplied please contact me.

Onboarding Application

Review — relevant details

A review of the application

Details of Onboarding training
e-learning
classroom
onsite (including first balance)

A review of training and support provided

Details of early days support

A review of training and support provided

Details of formal training

intervention

A review of training and support provided

Details of any branch visits

A review of any branch visits

Call logs

A twelve-month review of inbound and outbound
branch support call logs for anything relevant to the

matter has been undertaken with the following findings

Relevant supporting branch
transaction data

A review of cash declarations and trading statement
details

Branch Performance History

Any record of communications or logs with the branch

concerning operational compliance.

Information provided at the

Branch Assurance Visit

A summary of what was discussed at the Branch

Assurance Visit and reason for suspension:

Network Support & Resolution
Team discrepancy review
report

A summary of the report and any subsequent calls held
to review the report:

Any other relevant information

Please detail.

? Note - this table is provided as an example however information shared is dependent on the matter being reviewed (and may

include additional information not covered here)

Classification: Private

Page 6 of 7

postoffice.co.uk
POL00448225

POL00448225

Contract Advisor
Post Office Limited

From [Operator's Name}

Post Office® to branch

Please complete and delete as appropriate:

*I acknowledge receipt of the invitation to attend a meeting and confirm that I will attend on

[enter date time and location] and willbe accompanied by please insert name and oe).

Please indicate if you have any specific circumstances or special requirements which need to

be considered for the meeting. If so please enclose details:

*I will be submitting a written response by [enter date of meeting]

*I acknowledge receipt of the invitation to attend a meeting or submit a written response but

do not wish to take the opportunity to do either.

Signed..

Operator Post Office® [Branch Name] branch

Date:

Page 7 of 7

Classfeation: Private postoffice.co.uk
