POL00100445
POL00100445

Message

From: David Oliver1 tg

on behalf of — David Oliver1 <j

Sent: 20/03/2014 16:

To: WALKER, Janet

cc: Belinda Crowe ; Sophie Bialaszewski §-
Subject: RE: draft email and prep for 24th

Janet,

Just tried to call. it would be good to grab a quick word on this.
Regards
David

David Oliver
Programme Manager
tnitial Complaint and Mediation Scheme

From: WALKER, Janet [mailt

Sent: 20 March 2014 16:29

To: David Oliver1

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Sophie Bialaszewski
Subject: RE: draft email and prep for 24th

Thanks David

Re POL contact. The last email that was sent out to MPs offered that Post office was happy to talk to individual MPs
about their constituents cases. James would like to talk to someone above his constituent, and we have a couple of
others who wish to do the same. Your draft email below states that individual cases cannot be talked about ina
proposed individual meeting between POL and an MP — but this is not what the email that went out on 4 February
stated. It read:

I would like to mention a couple of matters in advance of the meeting. The mediation scheme is running, and
we must take care both to respect the privacy of individual applicants and to avoid skewing the mediation
process. Individual cases will not be up for discussion, but I am sure that if any colleague wanted to seek a
separate meeting with Post Office to discuss an individual case, Post Office would be happy to arrange this
separately.

As it was an offer that came from your side, I assumed there would be a contact to whim I could refer MPs. Can you let
me know please?

lsent an email some time back about the amendments, saying they were good. Thank you for them.
Attendance for next week ~ Pll pull together a list once I’ve sent this new draft email out, as we'll get responses.

Vil look carefully at your draft, as we need to iron out this business about MPs being able to talk to PO about their own
cases,

Yours ever,

POL-0100028
POL00100445
POL00100445

Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

From: David Oliver1 [mailto:/”
Sent: 20 March 2014 16:18
To: WALKER, Janet

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Sophie Bialaszewski
Subject: draft email and prep for 24th

Janet,

Following on from the call Paula undertook to provide James with a draft email he could send to interested colleagues
about the restrictions around what we can and can’t say. A draft is below.

Also apologies I picked up your voicemail and haven’t got back to you yet. I can find a contact point for MPs to discuss
issues with Post Office. What kind of issues are they looking to discuss?

Also I just wanted to check whether you were happy with the amends I had made to the minutes and if you had any
update on attendance for next week.

Regards

David

All

In advance of our meeting with Post Office on 24 March. I wanted to write to update you all on progress and to
emphasise some areas that we will not be able to cover in the meeting having spoken to Second Sight and the Chief
Executive of Post Office this week.

l realise that some of you might want to discuss in detail the progress of cases through the Complaints and Mediation
Scheme. However, we must avoid doing anything that could undermine the integrity of the Scheme, the Working Group
administering the Scheme or the individual cases within it. For that reason it will not be possible to discuss individual
cases and both Post Office and Second Sight have stressed to me how important this is.

Separately Post Office have offered to meet with any MPs individually to discuss areas of interest to you and I encourage
you to take up this offer, but it is worth noting that Post Office will still be unable to discuss the detail of individual cases

within the Scheme.

Yours etc

POL-0100028
POL00100445
POL00100445

James Arbuthnot

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

SOHO SOOO III OI IORI SII III III ODI I IIIT OSI AISA I OTS AI

POL-0100028
