POL00095973
POL00095973

Message
From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To: Susan Crichton I
cc: Paula Vennells §._
Subject: Re: James Arbuthnot MP: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

Thanks Susan.

have replied saying I'll see him (no choice there so best to be responsive).

lam happy to talk about this, of course, but what exactly is his connection with Jfsa?
Alice

From: Susan Crichton
Sent: Friday, February
To: Alice Perkins;

Alice — I have checked with Mike Granville and apparently James Arbuthnot has links with the Justice for Sub-postmasters
campaign an organisation pursuing press action against POL. We also believe that Jfsa are behind the current legal
activities of individual sub postmasters against POL. So any meeting with him would need to be carefully handled.

Obviously it would be a good opportunity to put our views forward but there are risks associated with that
approach, maybe we can have a word next time you are in the office.

Have a good weekend.

Susan

Susan Crichton

Legal and Compliance Director
Post Office Limited

148 Old Street

London

ECIV 9HQ

Telephone [

From: Alice Perkins;
Sent: 23 February 2012 1.
To: Susan Crichton
Subject: FW: James Arbuthnot MP: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

58

ALICE PERKINS
ACA Group

POL-0095556
POL00095973
POL00095973

on, Esrail

Subject: James arbuthnot MP: SiBpostmasters and the Post Office

Hi there,

James Arbuthnot is a Conservative MP who is. I think, Chairman of the Defence Select C’tee. I knew him when I was in
the Treasury and he was a Minister at MOD. He is a thoroughly decent and sensible person.

I will reply later today saying of course I will meet him. I think I should probably see him on my own, to look open and
receptive but equally, if you think I should take someone with me, I would be open to that. I will need briefing of course.
Is there anything else I should know at this stage?

Alice

ALICE PERKINS
JCA Group

From: ARBUTHNOT, James
Sent: 23 February 2012 09:5)
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

Dear Alice,

You may remember that when we last met at, I think, Ditchley Park I mentioned the issue of the Horizon computer
system in use in Sub Post Offices throughout the country, and said I had a real concern about the way some of the sub-
Post Masters in and outside my constituency had been treated. I have spoken to Orna Ni Chionna as well about this, and
she may mention it to you.

May I please come and see you about it? I know it is the position of the Post Office (supported by the National
Federation of Sub Post Masters, though not by the Communications Workers Union) that there is nothing wrong with
Horizon. I am deeply sceptical about this, and hope I can persuade you to look afresh at the matter, rather than
accepting that there should be a closing of ranks round the computer.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Yours ever,

James

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot

POL-0095556
POL00095973
POL00095973

MP for North East Hampshire
House of Commons
London SW1A 0AA

T: H
www.jamesarbuthnot.com

thinnest Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales
registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ This email and
any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not
use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

POL-0095556
