POL00104827
POL00104827

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

P&S Doc. 5.4 v2

WITNESS STATEMENTS
Jan 10

1. PURPOSE

The aim of this document is to provide Investigators within Royal Mail Group Ltd
(RMG Ltd) with a clear understanding of the procedures to be followed when
recording witness statements and producing exhibits as evidence. It also covers
victim personal statements and witness care.

2. CONTENTS

Section 3. Introductions.

Section 4 General Considerations.
Section 5 Recording a Witness Statement.
Section 6 Producing Items of Evidence.
Section 7 Victim Personal Statements.
Section 8 Witness Care.

3. INTRODUCTION

3.1 Victims and witnesses are fundamental to the criminal justice system. They
provide the information, intelligence and evidence to Investigators, which
enable offenders to be brought to justice. Witness statements are used to
capture evidence in written format and as a means of introducing evidential

ems into court proceedings. They also;

Allow the prosecution and defence lawyers to evaluate the level and
strength of the evidence.

2. Allow the evidence in the witness statement to be read and produced in

Court, (if agreed by the defence lawyer) thereby excusing the witness
‘om appearing in person.
3. Assist the prosecution & defence lawyers and the Judge or Magistrates
during the oral examination of a witness, if they are required to give
evidence at Court.

3.2 Rules & Continuity of Evidence. Success in a case may well depend on the
Investigator’s skill and thoroughness in taking statements which accurately
describe the matter in question. However this in itself is not enough
statements must also be recorded in accordance with the “Rules of Evidence”
and evidence obtained stored in a manner which demonstrates continuity.
Further rmation on the rules and continuity of evidence can be found
Appendix 1 to these P&s.

3.3 Scotland and Northern Ireland. These P&S deal with recording witness
statements in all jurisdictions. However references to advice from the
Criminal Law Team (CLT) should be directed to the Procurator Fiscal in
Scotland and the Public Prosecution Service Northern Ireland.

Back to Contents

4 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

4.1 Health & Safety. Before witnesses are interviewed, Investigators must have
regard for Health & Safety and act in accordance with the Criminal
Investigation, P&S 4.1 Criminal Investigation Duties, Safe Systems of Work,
found on the GSD under Criminal Investigation P&S.

Witness
5.4 Ve
Jan 10
Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104827
POL00104827

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

4.2 Eye Witness & Finders. In the case of “eyewitness” or “finders” evidence,
Investigators should endeavour to obtain witness statements at an early stage
to prevent potentially vital information being lost and to ensure that
continuity of evidence is maintained.

4.3 RMG Ltd Friends at Witness Interviews of RMG Ltd Employees or Agents. Any
member of staff, Post Office Ltd agent or agent’s assistant being interviewed
as witnesses by a RMG Ltd Investigator must be offered the presence of a
friend at the interview. The process is managed by the completion of a GS003
form ‘Friends at Interview’. For further information on ‘Friends at
Interview’ see P&S, 7.4 Interviewing Suspects, Section 7 found on the GSD
under Criminal Investigation Pas.

4.4 Friends at non RMG employee/agent Witness Interviews. In some circumstances
an Investigator may find it beneficial to offer or allow the presence of a
friend at other witness interviews. A friend should be a person independent
of the RMG Ltd Security Community, who is not involved in the case being
investigated. They may be a friend or relative, but not necessarily so.
Friends must be clearly instructed not to take part in the interview and may
be asked to leave if they behave inappropriately.

4.5 Juveniles & their Appropriate Adults. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland
a juvenile is a person who has not reached their 17% birthday. In Scotland a
juvenile is a person who has not reached their 16‘ birthday. Juveniles
should not be asked questions or asked to sign any documents in the absence
of an appropriate adult, whether they are a witness or suspect. The
appropriate adult should be informed that they are not there simply as an
observer; they are there to ensure that the juvenile is treated correctly and
to facilitate communication. Appropriate adults should be asked to sign the
statement as a witness after any signature by the juvenile.

4.6 Children under 14 may not understand the importance of taking a sworn oath to
tell the truth, as such they should not be asked to sign the declaration at
the top of the statement form GS011. Investigators should however include in
the statement the fact that the juvenile knows what has been said is true.

4.7 Further details on who is and is not suitable as an appropriate adult are
contained within Appendix 8, Juveniles & Appropriate Adults, to P&S 7.4
Interviewing Suspects found on the GSD under Criminal Investigation Ps.

4.8 Royal Mail Group Ltd Young People. RMG Ltd has granted all staff and agents
who have not reached their 18 birthday, special treatment when they are to
be interviewed as a witness. The young person concerned should be met in the
presence of a responsible supervisor who is known to the witness and who has
not been involved in the enquiry. The supervisor should make introductions,
explain the nature of the inquiry and proposed interview and fully explain
the rule which gives the young person the opportunity to have a friend
present. If a friend is required the responsible supervisor should remain if
practicable until the friend arrives.

4.9 Vulnerable & Intimidated Witnesses, (including mentally disordered persons) &
Special Measures. The treatment of vulnerable and intimidated witness,
including the provision of Special Measures, is dealt with in Appendix 1
Rules & Continuity of Evidence.

4.10 Interpreters. An interpreter will be required to record a statement from a
witness who has difficulty in speaking or understanding English. If a
foreign language interpreter is required the interpreter should record the
statement in the preferred language of the witness. The statement should
commence with the declaration at the top being translated into the relevant
language. In the case of a sign language interpreter the statement should be

Document Title:
Pas Ri
Di
owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104827

POL00104827
CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS
recorded by the Investigator. In both circumstances the statements should

then be signed by the witness. In the case of a foreign language statement
the interpreter should be asked to make their own statement exhibiting both
the witness’s statement and its translation. They should also be the person
who witnesses the witness’s signature.

4.11 For details on how to obtain a qualified interpreter see Appendix 9,
Interpreters at Suspect Interviews, to P&S 7.4 Interviewing Suspects found on
the on the GSD under Criminal Investigation P&s.

4.12 Blind Persons. Blind witnesses should be interviewed as normal and a
statement recorded from them, which, on
completion should be read out to the witness. They should not be asked to
sign the statement. If they agree the statement and they can read braille
then a braille translation statement should be prepared and the witness
should be asked to sign the braille translation. If they cannot read Braille
then the procedure in the paragraph below should be followed.

4.13 Persons Who Cannot Read. Prior to recording the statement the declaration at
the top should be read out to the witness in the presence of a third person.
The Investigator should then (below the declaration at the head of the
statement) record the following: “(Name of witness) being unable to read, I
(name of Investigator) read the above declaration to (him or her) in the
presence (name of third person)”. The declaration should then be signed
by the Investigator and the third person. On completion of the statement the
contents should be read out in the presence of a third person. The witness
should be asked if they want to add or alter anything. If any alterations or
additions are made the amended statement should read out again. Once the
statement is agreed, all persons present who can read should certify and sign
to the effect that the statement was read out and agreed by the witness in
their presence.

4.14 Competence and Compellability of Witnesses. Witnesses who are considered to
be competent can be compelled to give evidence by obtaining a witness
summons. Spouses and civil partners are an exception and cannot be
compelled. Witnesses cannot however be compelled to give a statement. If a
witness refuses to give a statement and it is thought that their evidence is
necessary, advice should be sought from the Criminal Law Team. Further
details on competence & compellability of witnesses can be found in Appendix
1 Rules & Continuity of Evidence.

4.15 Managing the Witness and the Contents & Structure of a Witness Statement.
Appendix 2 to these P&S contains practical guidance on the management of a
witness and the content and structure of witness statements.

4.16 Assistance to Witness. You are entitled to assist the witness to keep their
statement confined to what is relevant and admissible. However, you must not
influence what they say in its content or convert the words they use into
‘official’ language or jargon. Always use their words unless they make the
meaning doubtful. If it is necessary to alter them, explain why and get
their agreement to the alternative phrasing. Always remember it is their
statement and must contain what they will say if called upon to give
evidence.

Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104827
POL00104827

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

4.17 Rough Notes & Sketch Plans. During the statement taking process it may also
be useful to make rough notes or draw sketch plans of scenes. If a sketch
plan is drawn to assist the investigator to complete the statement it is not
an exhibit, it is unused material and should be signed and dated by the
person who has drawn it. However, if the sketch plan, or the position of an
item or person marked on it, is referred to in the statement; it becomes
direct evidence and should be exhibited. Rough notes should be retained as
they are “relevant” for disclosure purposes.

4.18 Persons Present. To avoid undue influence, statements should not be taken in
the presence of someone who may become a witness in the same case.

4.19 Unreliable Witnesses. Investigators must be open-minded and information
obtained from the witness should always be tested against what the
westigator already knows or what can reasonably be established. If an
Investigator considers that for any reason the witness’s credibility is in
doubt then they must discuss the matter with the Criminal Law Team (CLT).
Back to Contents

5. RECORDING A WITNESS STATEMENT

5.1 Statement Forms. Statements are recorded on forms GSQ11 and GSOlla (the
continuation sheet). The forms come in both lined and unlined formats and
there are versions for England & Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. In

addition there are statement forms in the Welsh Language. Templates for all

forms are on the GSD

under Numerical Index of GS Forms.

Document Title:
Pas Ri
Di
owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104827
POL00104827

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

General rules for Witness Statement forms GS011.

1. Full Title. The full title, full forenames and surname of the witness
should be entered at the top of the statement and at the top of each
continuation sheet.

2. Age of Witness. If the witness is under 18 years of age the Investigator
must enter their age and date of birth in the space provided. If the
person is over 18 they should write “over 18”. (In Scotland the preamble
requires the witnesses’ date and place of birth).

3. Declaration. Before beginning the statement, Investigators should draw

the witness’ attention to the declaration. The certificate should be

explained if necessary. The witness should not be asked to sign that
certificate until the statement has been completed. (There is no such
declaration in Scotland).

. Black Ink. Statements sho be completed in black ink.

5. Margins. The margin on the witness statement forms are left blank to
enable lawyers to make notes.

6. Spacing. The spacing on typewritten statements should be 1.5 or double-
spaced, again allowing lawyers to make notes.

7. Abbreviations. If abbreviations are used then the first time they are
used they should be written in full followed by the abbreviation in
brackets. The abbreviation can then be used throughout the statement.

8. Terminology. Specific Royal Mail Group Ltd (RMG Ltd) terms should be
fully explained to enable a jury to understand what has been written.

3. Addresses;

a. In England and Wales if a business address is relevant it can be
written in the body of the statement. The home address of a witness
must not be in the body of a statement (unless it is an addressee
statement where the home address is already on the exhibit that is
referred to in their statement).

b. In Scotland the home and business addresses are written in the
preamble of the statement £

c. In Northern Ireland witness det
Personal Details Form” GS007.

First Person. Although it is the normal practice for the Investigator to

write the statement, it must be in the first person singular as if the

witness had written it.

Relevant Information. Investigators must include all the relevant

formation the witness can provide, even if it tends to disprove the

orm.
ls are recorded on the “Witness

12. Detailed Points. If witnesses are not sure of a particular point of
detail Investigators must include this in the witness statement, e.g. I
am not sure of the colour of the car. This shows that the point has been
considered even if the witness is unable to give exact details. The
witness may be able to say the car was dark or light even if they cannot
state the colour.

13. Chronological Order. The statement should be in chronological order in

paragraph form, using separate paragraphs for each element of the

witness’ account.

Blank Lines/Spaces. To avoid any suggestion of words being later added,

blank lines must not be left between paragraphs and any blank spaces on

lines of the statement should be struck through with a line.

Alterations. Any alterations or mistakes made during the preparation of

the statement must be carefully crossed out with a single line, so what

was originally written can still be read. The correction can then be
written after the error or above it if necessary. The witness must
initial errors and corrections.

16. Completion of Statement. At the completion of the statement;

a. In England and Wales the number of pages should be entered in the
declaration at the top of the statement. The declaration should then
be signed by the witness and dated. The “Page... +” should be
completed on all the continuation sheets. The witness should sign
theigame.@fter the last word and where indicated at the lower left

handjsernez of all pages. A witness to the signatures should sign
wher) indicated at the bottom right hand corner of all pages.

HeYs¢étland the Investigator should comp ete the details in the box

at the end of the {CS CONFIDENTIAL ” should be completed on all

sheets. The witness should sign thes: name after the last word and

where indicated at the lower left hand corner of all naqes. A

POL00104827
POL00104827

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

recorded the statement should then sign their name where indicated under
the declaration. “Page....of....” should be completed on all the
continuation sheets. The witness should also sign their name after the
last word and at the lower right hand corner of all pages.

Blank Spaces. When the statement does not occupy a whole page the blank

space below should be crossed through with a diagonal line initialled by

the witness.

Reverse of Statement. Completion of the reverse of a statement form (and

if applicable the GS007) in England, Wales & Northern Ireland.

a. All boxes on the forms must be completed If there is information that
is not known, endorse the section ‘Not known’ or ‘Not applicable’.

b. The witness should be informed that the defence will not be given the
personal details on side B (or the GS007) under any circumstances.

c. The personal details must be recorded in the relevant spaces. It can
be explained to the witness that the details are required to enable
checks to be carried out to establish whether the witness has any
previous convictions. This is a legal requirement for prosecution
witnesses.

d. The witness should be given form GS041 Giving a Witness Statement -
What Happens Next? (ensuring that appropriate box is ticked).

e. They should also indicate whether they consent to the statement being

used in Civil or Disciplinary cases.

It should be established if the witness has any specific needs i.e.

healthcare, childcare, transport, disability, language difficulties,

visual impairment, restricted mobility or other concerns which w

need to be addresses should they be required to give evidence at

court.
g. The witness and if applicable the appropriate adult should be asked to
sign to confirm the responses.
h. The details the Investigator recording the statement should be
entered at the bottom of the form

19. In Scotland the details of the witness are recorded on the front of the
statement. At the end of the statement there is a section for
Investigators to confirm with the witness whether or not they are happy

r the statement to be used in civil/disciplinary proceedings.

Additionally Investigators should inform witnesses that if they are cited

as a witness by the Procurator Fiscal’s Office they will receive a

et entitled “Being a Witness”. However, if they want further

ation prior to that they should contact the Investigator or they

can obtain it from the following website,
http://www.copfs.gov.uk/Witnesses/WitnessesattendingCourt

20. A witness can be provided with a copy of their statement should they wish.

Back to Contents

Hy

6. PRODUCING ITEMS OF EVIDENCE

6.1 England Wales & Northern Ireland. Any witness who refers to an item that is
to be produced as evidence at court must describe it and say how it is
identified in their witness statement. The item identifying mark is to be
unique and will normally be the initials of the person producing it followed
by a chronological number. For example, Andrew Brian Cox finds several items
of evidence then they should be identified as ABC/1, ABC/2, and ABC/3 etc. If
a larger exhibit, say ABC/1, is broken down then the sub exhibits should be
marked ABC/ia, ABC/1b, ABC/ic etc.

6.2 After an evidential item has been given an identity reference mark it should
retain that reference mazk throughout the investigation. If the evidence is
shown to another witness and referred to in their statement they should

describe it and identify the item and confirm that they have signed and dated
the identification label attached or exhibit bag.

Document Title: Witn Statements

P&S Doc Ref: 5.4 Version 2

Date

Tan

10
owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104827
POL00104827

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

6.3 Identification labels GS035 (non adhesive) and GS035B (adhesive) can be found
on the GSD under the Numerical Index of GS Forms

6.4 Productions in Scotland. In Scotland items of evidence are referred to as
productions. However productions are not given production numbers until the
case is being prepared for submission to the Procurator Fiscal’s (PF) Office.
Accordingly to assist in iden ing productions during the investigation they
should be given an “interim”
reference mark, which should be made up as described in paragraph 6.1 above
(ABC/1, ABC/2 etc.). When recording a witness statement any productions
referred to should be fully described and reference made to the interim

rence mark. Additionally a production label, describing the item and

including the interim reference mark, should be attached to the production.

Production labels are numbered GS035A and they can be found on GSD, Numerical

Index of GS Forms, Investigation and Prosecution Forms.

6.5 Producing Evidence of Recovered Postal Packets. Recovered postal packets
should be scheduled in accordance with P&S 5.3 Schedules of Recovered Postal
Packets.

6.6 Producing documents England, Wales and Northern Ireland. If during the course
of a suspect interview a suspect is shown documents, such as signing on sheets
or a P13 and they identify their signature on the document, or they agree its
contents, then, if the document has not already been produced by a witness it
will be appropriate for the Investigator to produce it in their statement,
describing what it is, what it is for and what is shows.

6.7 However, if documents have not been verified by the suspect in interview then
the principle of best evidence applies and the person who made the document or
record, or can speak about the facts of the document or record should produce
it if at all practicable. If not the contents of the document being produced
may amount to hearsay and as such the contents of the document will only be
admitted in evidence if it satisfies the provisions of the Criminal Justice
Act 2003. Further details on producing documents containing hearsay can be
found in Appendix 1 Rules and Continuity of Evidence.

6.8 Producing documents in Scotland. Documents such as business records which are
being produced in Scottish cases are described by the witness, identified by
the local reference mark and produced in their witness statement. In addition
each document that is produced in evidence has to have a Documentary
Production Sheet GS035C completed. This GS035C should be folded in half
vertically and the production placed inside the sheet.

Back to Contents

7. VICTIM PERSONAL STATEMENTS

7.1 England & Wales only. Victims of crime who have provided an evidential
statement in relation to an offence have an additional voluntary right to make
a “Victim Personal Statement” (VPS) if they wish. Although a VPS is generally
used in more immediately personal offences such as murder, rape, serious
assault etc, there is no barrier to them being used in relation to other
crimes, especially if the offence has had a particularly negative impact on
the victim. The decision to offer the facility to the victim will be left to
the discretion of Investigators who can judge from a person’s reaction to the
crime whether to suggest it to them. If there is a doubt the CLT will provide
guidance.

7.2 Its primary purpose is to allow a person to comment on the impact that the
crime has had on them, which may include such things as;

1. Physical impact.
2. Emotional impact

Document Title: — Witn
P&S Doc Ref: 5.4 Version 2
Date Jan 10
owner: Ray Pratt

Statements

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104827
POL00104827

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

3. Financial impact
4, Social impact
An example of a VPS is embedded at 7.7 below.

7.3. A VPS may also be used to state a victim’s wish to be kept informed of the
case progress, or if extra support is required when appearing as a witness, or
if they are worried about the consequences of an offender being given bail
Should an Investigator believe that a VPS is appropriate in the case they
should hand the witness a copy of the Home Office leaflet “Making a Victim
Personal Statement” and go through the leaflet with them. A copy of the
leaflet is embedded below. (Investigators should ensure that the references to
the Police and CPS should be interpreted as the Investigator or Criminal Law
Team RMG Ltd as appropriate). When asking a victim if they wish to make a
personal statement the Investigator must emphasise that that it is entirely
voluntary, and that no

inferences will be drawn if the victim chooses to make a VPS or not.

a,
ee
VPS Leaflet. pdf

7.4 The VPS should be recorded after the evidential witness statement has been
completed. It should be clearly identified on the GSQ11 witness statement
form by ruling a line under the evidential section of the form. The
investigator should then write the following declaration;

“I have been given the Victim Personal Statement (VPS) leaflet and the VPS
scheme has been explained to me. What follows is what I wish to say in
connection with this matter. I understand that what I say may be used in
various ways and that it may be disclosed to the defence.”

7.5 The victim may wish to discuss with the Investigator what information to put
in the VPS. The Investigator can give general advice, but must take care not
to lead the victim in a way that might subsequently prejudice the integrity of
their evidence. The Investigator must make it clear that it is ultimately for
the victim to decide what information to include in their personal statement
and then record the statement in the victims own words.

7.6 The CLT will take into account the VPS when making decisions on whether to
secute (as well as the normal Public Interest considerations). The court
will also take the statement into account when considering bail applications
and also when sentencing. In addition the defence will be able to question
the witness about the contents of their VPS.

7.7 A victim may wish to add to a VPS after the initial one has been recorded. If
this is the case then it should be recorded on a blank Witness Statement form
GSOil. An Example of a VPS is embedded below.

Example of VPS.doc

Back to Contents

8 WITNESS CARE

Statements
5.4 Version 2

Jan 10

Ray Pratt

with

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104827
POL00104827

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

8.1 When a witness has given a statement there are four occasions when they should
be informed of the progress or outcome of case. They are;
1. The case does not proceed for any reason.
If the suspect admits the offence and is cautioned or pleads guilty
prior to a Committal or Trial at Magistrates Court.
3. The witness is needed to go to Court.
4, The final outcome of the case following Committal or Trial at a
Magistrates Court.

8.2 In England and Wales the lead Investigator is responsible for informing the
witness regarding the progress of, or final outcome of the case. However, in
Royal Mail Letters and Parcelforce Worldwide cases where circumstances 3 & 4
(above) apply, the PSO will take over responsibility for notifying the
witness.

8.3 In Scotland the lead Investigator must ensure that witnesses are informed of
the progress of a case and its final outcome. This includes cases prosecuted
by the Procurator Fiscals (PF) office. (It is thought that the PF office will
inform witnesses of the outcome of their prosecutions but Investigators should
confirm this is the case). The PF office will deal with witness expenses.

8.4 In Northern Ireland the lead Investigator must ensure that witnesses are
oxmed of the outcome of any case

which is not prosecuted by the Public Prosecution Service (PPS). This includes
cases which are submitted to the PPS but the decision not to prosecute is
taken. If a case is prosecuted by the PPS they take over responsibility for
informing the witnesses of the progress and final outcome. The PPS will deal
with witness expenses.

8.5 Witness Expenses in England and Wales. When cases go to Court and a witness
attends the Investigator must ensure that the matter of witness expenses is
addressed. the witness is a Royal Mail Group Ltd employee they should
claim their expenses in accordance with normal business processes.

8.6 For non-RMG Ltd employees it is the responsibility of the Investigator in the
case to ensure that witnesses understand what they are entitled to claim. The
claim form should be returned to the Investigator to be certified and
forwarded to the PSO for payment. Appendix 3 to these P&S deal with Witness
Expenses.

Back to Contents

Pas

Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
