POL00097310
POL00097310

MP Cases Review of Horizon

1, Update December 2012 Summary

1.1. The “Immunity Agreement” has been approved by the JFSA, 2"! Sight and Post Office. Key benefit
is the agreed cut-off date, of 29"* February 2013, for sub-postmasters to submit their cases; this
helps to contain timelines.

1.2. There are currently 17 cases in the investigation. The number is expected to increase. We have
not seen any cases yet from JFSA.

1.3. A prioritisation process is underway.
1.4. Preliminary findings for Yetminster and South Warnborough are due by the end of December.

1.5. It is unlikely that the investigation will complete before July. We are pushing for a completion
date before the start of the summer recess.

1.6. The review has so far cost £60K. The final cost is expected to be in the order of £125K.
1.7. 2” Sight are scheduling an update meeting with James Arbuthnot.

1.8. Challenges: These include, how best to communicate the investigation to sub-postmasters; and
having little control over timelines.

2. Immunity Agreement

2.1. JFSA requested an Immunity Agreement to reassure sub-postmasters against reprisals if they
come forward.

2.2. The wording for this agreement has now been approved (by JFSA, 2 Sight and Post Office). Key
points of the agreement:

Reassurance provided to sub-postmasters that they have no reason to fear if they come
forward with potential Horizon issues.

@ Sub-postmasters have until end of February to submit cases.

e The final report will be anonymised.

e Aclear process is defined on how sub-postmasters can submit cases into the review.

3. Scope - Number of Cases

3.1. There are 17 cases currently in scope, and the number is continuing to grow; three were added in
November, two were added in October.

3.2. Once the Immunity Agreement is communicated, we are expecting another tranche of cases to be
submitted.
POL00097310
POL00097310

4. Prioritisation

4.1. 2°? Sight has agreed with James Arbuthnot and JFSA that they will prioritise cases to enable them
to focus on cases that provide most insight into the Horizon concerns. The cases at the bottom of
the list will still be reviewed, although less time will be spent on them.

4.2. The process and criteria for prioritisation have been agreed with 2" Sight and JFSA. Post Office is
not involved in the prioritization process.

5. Yetminster and South Warnborough

5.1 James Arbuthnot and Oliver Letwin’s cases (Yetminster and South Warnborough) are being
investigated first by 2" Sight. Their aim is to have preliminary findings for these by early in the
New Year. When the South Warnborough sub-postmaster, Jo Hamilton, was interviewed by 2°
Sight she submitted new evidence of transaction anomalies these are now being investigated.
This report will be available early in the New Year.

5.2. The investigators have not yet interviewed the Yetminster sub-postmaster and are trying to
schedule an interview before the end of December. So far, their review of the documentation
suggests that it is unlikely to indicate a problem with Horizon.

6. Time lines

6.1. The investigators have informed Post Office that, due to the amount of work required, the
investigation will not complete before July.

6.2. Although Post Office does not want to be seen controlling the investigation, we have pushed for
the investigation to be completed before the start of the summer recess.

7. Costs
7.1, To date, the investigation has cost Post Office £60K.

£45K 2% Sight
£15k ——_-Millnet (for document scanning).

£60k Total spent to date

7.2. Fujitsu has agreed to extract the data for no charge.

7.3. 2°° Sight originally agreed to undertake the investigation for £100K. Since then the scope and time
lines have extended; however, 2" Sight has not requested a budget increase. Any request from
2°¢ Sight for additional budget will need to be approved by Susan Crichton.

7A. It is expected that the total Millnet charge (for document scanning) will be £25k.

8. Communications to James Arbuthnot (JA)
POL00097310
POL00097310

8.1. Post Office is taking the position that for the investigation to be independent, the investigators,
not Post Office, should be keeping JA informed.

8.2. 2°? Sight is scheduling a meeting with JA, to provide an update and discuss the prioritised list of
cases. They hope to see him early in the New Year.

8.3. Post Office has requested that 2" Sight, at the meeting, ask JA how best to keep the other MPs
informed.

9. Challenges

9.1. The JFSA have requested that we inform the sub-postmaster community about the investigation,
to encourage them to come forward. Post Office has not yet done this due to the concern of
creating a high volume of low value cases. What we publish is being discussed internally and
should be agreed by the end of next week.

9.2. To ensure true investigative independence, Post Office has been careful not to control the
timelines of the investigation. This has resulted in a slower pace than we would have liked. To
mitigate the risk of further “delays”, the Post Office has urged the following:

* Acut-off date for sub-postmasters to submit their cases
« Aprioritisation process

* Aproposed target completion date (before summer recess)
