POL00458488
POL00458488

From: Snow:=!Emily (BEIS)
Sent: Mon 13/02/2023 11
To: Matthew Nelson Hilto!
Subject: RE: OHC Weekly MI Update- 9-Feb-23

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening
attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Thanks Matt! Very useful.

Emily Snow

"] MS Teams I r

From: Matthew Nelson Hiltor:
Sent: 13 February 2023 10:22
To: Snow} Emily (BEIS) !~
Cc: Mitchell, Katie (BEIS} = NM
Subject: RE: OHC Weekly MI Update- 9-Feb-23

Morning Emily,
I had a great weekend thank you- hope you did to!
You’re summary below is correct- just to add some detail:
1. The NI OR issues McLaughlin have been resolved, the IP accepted and payment made on the 8-Feb.

2. The two pending are:
a. O’Connel + Clarke Kiernan have said that they'll pursue settlement via the F&F processes-
the NP offer they received has been informally accepted, although there’s ai issue that needs to
be resolved ref signatories who can sign on behalf of the, that we're working to resolve- the IP
acceptance is unlikely, but it’s still under offer so we should keep it on the report for visibility purposes.
b. Fegan: This is last weeks (8-Feb) NI overturn. They have previously applied via Late Apps, so HSF have
been instructed to contact the Legal Rep directly and redirect them through the OHC IP process (would
expect that to come in fairly soon.

Hopefully that’s helpful but please shout if you have any follow up questions!
Best

Matt

Matthew Hilton

Historical Matters Project Manager Post Office Limited
20 Finsbury Street EC2Y 9AQ

POL00458488
POL00458488

Sent: 13 February 2023 1
To: Matthew Nelson Hilto!
Cc: Mitchell, Katie (BEIS) £
Subject: RE: OHC Weekly MI Update- 9-Feb-23

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening
attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Morning Matt,
Hope you had a nice weekend!

Can I check on initial interim payments — has the claim with the NI bankruptcy issue now been paid? If so, are the
remaining 2 ‘pending submission’ IPs 1) the recent overturn and 2) the Clark Kiernan claimant:

where no
interim payment was applied for as they wanted to pursue F&F only?

Many thanks,
Emily

J] MS Teams I

From: Matthew Nelson Hilton:
Sent: 09 February 2023 17:00 _
To: Madeleine De Matteis: } Neil McDaid _ GRO.
Evelyn Hocking hard F

Simon Recaldin + ;

; Mark Durrans

iunseath, Laura - UKGI
n McMillan
Shabegh Singh Srai

Melanie Corfield
raeme McDougall:
Nick Lowman
Subject: OHC Weekly MI Update- 9-Feb-23

~___§ Paul Goudie

Hi all,

Please see attached weekly OHC update- as always, any if you have questions or comments then please just get in
touch.

Best regards

Matt
POL00458488
POL00458488

Matthew Hilton
Historical Matters Project Manager Post Office Limited
Finsbury Dials

London I EC2Y 9AQ

FESS OSI SECIS E SOE OSCE OOSESISSE OSCE OO SESS SSRIS IARI

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FESO IEEE OREO SCEI OSES OSEOSFEI OSES OBESE SORE SRE OEE III

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our

website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy
