POL00186953
POLO00186953

Briefing for Paula / James Arbuthnot meeting

1. When we began the investigation, it was founded on the following principles:

1.1. Independent to “get to the truth” about the allegations raised against Horizon

1.2. Post Office would respond to any learnings found

1.3. We would ensure that it would be a good use of public money

2. Current position:

2.1. No systemic issues found (ie no major software flaws found)

2.2. Timescales significantly overrun (originally expected to complete Autumn 2012)

2.3. Concerned that there might be mission creep (eg started with 6 cases, now have 29 MP cases and

20 JFSA cases)

2.4. We are still receiving cases from MPs (two arrived this week)

2.5. Concerned about the spiraling costs in light of our duty to protect public money

3. Proposal

3.1. We need to ensure we focus the investigation on the key question: are there systemic defects in

Horizon?

3.2. Limit to two to three MPs cases [need to confirm with second sight]

3.3. We don’t accept any more new MP cases.

review process (and do not go to Second Sight)

Instead they get feed into the normal Post Office

3.4. Second Sight to report back before summer recess [need to confirm with second sight]

3.5. If that report shows that there are no systemic problems, we close down the investigation

3.6. Post Office will address any improvement areas that are identified

4. Stakeholders

4.1. Some stakeholders may be not be satisfied

4.2. Face to face meeting with you to discuss how we can help on this:

Stakeholder

Response

Recommended Approach

MPs

May not be satisfied that their
cases were not included in the
review

Meeting with each MP, Second Sight and
Post Office to take them through the
details of their case.

Strictly Private and Confidential; Subject to Legal Privilege 10f2
POL00186953
POLO00186953

Note: not all cases have provided enough
detail to enable a thorough review,
however we could talk about findings in

similar cases
JFSA JFSA may respond negatively and I Maybe we have to accept that no matter
could withdraw support. They what we do they will not be happy unless
could take their views to the systemic issues are found, nonetheless I
media. would like to see if we can positively

engage with JFSA:

Post Office could invite JFSA to become
part of a Horizon user group.

We could ask JFSA on an on-going basis to
help us identify which new cases warrant
further investigation as sub postmasters
report issues in the future.

Media Any findings will generate media_ I We should work together to ensure our
interest, we have to be prepared I communication messages are aligned and
with our proactive messages reflect the good work that has gone into
before the report is published this investigation.

Strictly Private and Confidential; Subject to Legal Privilege 2 of 2
