POL00182875
POL00182875

From: Andy Holtfimceaex-
_0=mms_ou=exchange+20administrative+20group+20+28fydibohf23spdit+29_cn=recipients_cn
=andy+2eholt1f932521-2f1a-4377-9268-fdOfcf5c737 1@c72a47.ingest.local]

Sent: Thur 25/10/2012 9:06:13 AM (UTC)

To: Andrea Harwood}
Peter Whitfield,

Tom Pitkethly
Ce: Dave Hulbert G RO H

Subject: FW: Post office Clerk needing enlightening on our future within
Attachment: Dear Dawn_0 2.doc
Dave

When you did the response letter how did you make sure that someone was owning the
actions going forward?

I have included my team on the email and we can give you an update where we are aware,
although quite a few of the actions sound like they wont happen in the short term eg Budget
card, Stock ordering, Child Saver etc.

Matt, Tim, Tom, Andrea, Peter

If you scroll down you will find Dave’s email asking for updates on the following, can you give
an update to Rebecca or Tony and cc Dave and me. I have highlighted in green which I think
you might have knowledge of. Do feel free to read the others and respond if you know about
these as well. Below is the response letter to Dawn, I have copied in her original
comments/ideas to give some context (these are highlighted in yellow).

Regards

Andy

Dear Dawn

As per our correspondence, I and my management team have been reviewing the interesting
issues that you brought to light via your original email.

As my first reply stated, I would like to invite you to the Post Office head quarters in London so I
can share my vision for the Post Office and then my management team would like to further
discuss with you the issues that have been raised and provide a overview of how we can help to
resolve and improve the service we provide to you and the rest of the Post Office community.

The proposed time date etc for the meeting with Paula
I have included an early view on the issue that you raised and how we are dealing with them within

the Post Office. I and my management team can provide a much more detailed update and review
in the proposed meeting.
POL00182875
POL00182875

Complex Transaction

This was originally devised to prevent clerks abusing the system and effectively cashing cheques
for customers. Some products have restricted methods of payments. The solution polices
permissible methods of payments for the basket ensuring that it is settled correctly.

Stock Ordering- [iil

Since moving to HNG we have made some changes to this to try and make navigation easier.
However this is a continuing exercise and we are currently in the process at looking at ways to
improve this customer journey further as a number of branches have commented on the issue that
you have also highlighted. A member of the development team will welcome your views on
improving this area and discuss the possible solutions which have been investigated to date.

Postcode finder Biiyene

Our development team have been aware of this HNG issue and have been working out possible
solution that will enable branches to print out any addresses that scroll off the side of the screen
and we are still assessing the best course of action

Horizon System

From our early investigations this might look like an issue that is just effecting your own branch
and we will request our Horizon supplier to investigate why your system is running slower than the
rest of the network and provide a resolution plan to improve the service to your branch.

Printers
POL00182875
POL00182875

This has been a major issue since the rollout implementation of the new secure label in 2010, a
number of changes have already been implemented that have greatly helped in resolving the
issues and we continue to work with our supplies to further improve the usability of the labels. We
are also in tandem with the label improvement activity testing a cleaning card that should help
branches and we will communicate our findings in due course.

. Printers — we are constantly having I problems with the printers, the new gold labels tend to be
gummed together when you open the packet so you can only use the ones that ren’t and if you use

, els more often than not the second one will jam which means you have ‘0 reboot the printer,
asting time, and in the labels case money. (and yes the labels are the new ones without the
pinked edge).

Rems

The products held as a value on Horizon (such as definitive postage) show as a value on the
delivery note and those that are held as volume stock (such as first class stamps) show as a
volume on the delivery note. The rationale behind that was to cut down on confusion so the
delivery note mirrored how stock was actually held on Horizon, but would welcome your views as a
user on how this could be improved.

nd some without,

Budget Card AGES

There was a feasibility study undertaken for Budget Card (Sept 2011). The overall
recommendation was that due to the time period before the contract with supplier finishes and the
high cost of introducing balance enquiry and real-time processing improvements for the Budget
Card using an Online connection (between £200k and £250k) means that this is not a
recommended option.

In order to fully improve the customer journey, we should be taking the opportunity to introduce
real time, not only for balance enquiry, but also for supporting real-time deposits for customers,
otherwise we may still be managing customer complaints even after implementing this

change. This would deliver a full suite of improvements to the customer journey and not just
balance enquiry in isolation.

This will be considered on our technology roadmap when we look at the Budget Card successor.

+ Budget Card — great idea, but why can’t we do a balance at the counter? The software is obviously
there, we do it for banks and post office card account customers.

Software problem on balances

This is the first time we have been aware of this issue and looks like a possible problem that needs
to be resolved asap. We would request that an incident is raised via the Horizon service desk
outlining the issue and I will insure that it is dealt with the upmost urgency
POL00182875
POL00182875

Certificate of posting [iim

This is an interesting situation that you have highlight and we are currently looking at a number of
customer and back office efficiencies. I have asked the team to investigate this issue and produce
a set of recommendation that can be evaluated against a possible solution.

In regard to the possible ideas for the Post Office in the future:

Post Office card account #iigReaNOnIall

Our Compliance team are looking at the SARS (Suspicious Activity Reporting Process) and
investigating a generic transaction as one option, like your suggestion. At this time we are in the
early stages of feasibility and submitted your idea as a possible solution to be investigated

Application Forms (aROnNiInn

We are currently in the process of trailing a “print on demand” kiosk as one of the initiatives of the
Network transformation programme of work. The kiosk has been developed with HP and is
currently being used by customers in our crown office Birmingham. The feedback from the staff
and customers has been very positive and we are hoping to us this technology to not only benefit
Post Office branches but also bring new business in the branch network.

POL00182875
POL00182875

Stamps HRERSHtTom)

This is an area that my management team would like to discus and review with you to better
understand the impact and possible benefits that could be realised by implementing such an idea.

25

ould make it

Recorded delivery EiBBESEnOI)

Thank you for your well thought out idea I have passed this onto our marketing and network team
for there further investigation.

Child Savings [iQ@RIEIEBE)

We are currently looking at a number of opportunities around assisting our younger customers to
engage with the Post Office and see the Post Office as a safe and friendly place to invest with. I
agree heartily that as part of our social and community agenda we should be investing in the
younger generation.

+ Childs vings — Why not have a card similar to our budget card which they can load with cash at the
counter . Losing NS! shouldn’t mean we lose the chance to show our children how to save.

Royal Mail

Separation from Royal Mail will bring a number of opportunities to the Post Office and we are
currently planning for all aspect that this may entail. I look forward to discussing the future of the
Post Office with you at our meeting

From: Dave Hulbert

Sent: 25 October 2012 09:00

To: Antonio Jamasb; Andy Holt; Peter Stanley; Ian Trundell; Rebecca Barker
Cc: Chris Taylor

Subject: FW: Post office Clerk needing enlightening on our future within
Importance: High

All
POL00182875
POL00182875

You may or may not remember this which was a list of suggestions and issues from Dawn Stokes who works in a
branch near Bournemouth, Dawn wrote to Paula in January. Peter and Tony drafted the attached at the time and
went to see Dawn.

You'll see from the request from Lesley below that I’ve had to provide an update to her and Susan. However, I need
your help, or that of your teams to update the attached document as I’m pretty sure that most, if not all of these
suggestions have been dealt with i.e. improved, fixed, or ruled out.

In Tony’s absence, could you provide your updates to Rebecca (and cc Tony) by Friday 9° November.

Many thanks
Dave

Dave Hulbert I Head of Service & Supplier Management

@ Dearne House, BARNSLEY, S73 OUF

© postoffice.co.uk

© @postofficenews

From: Dave Hulbert

Sent: 24 October 2012 09:08

To: Lesley J Sewell; Susan Barton

Subject: RE: Post office Clerk needing enlightening on our future within

Susan

As requested by Lesley. Inserted below is a response from Tony within my team. This was followed with a visit to
Dawn at her branch in Bournemouth in March. The word document attached is the brief that Tony and Peter Stanley
(Technical Architect) took with them. It should be noted that the purpose of the visit was to listen to Dawn and discuss
her views so the attachment was not given to Dawn as it could have come across as closed minds.

I know progress has been made and some of the issues addressed. I will get an update from the teams involved so
that you have a clear picture on what’s been done.

Regards
Dave
POL00182875
POL00182875

From: Antonio Jamasb

To: dstoke: GRO I
Ce: Dave Hulbert? Lesley T sewelr”””
Subject: Response to Paula Vennell's email

Dawn

Thank you for the email you sent to Paula on the 18" of January. I am Antonio Jamasb and have been working with Paula and her team to
respond to the queries raised in your previous mail. While we were aware of some of the issues you highlighted and have been working to
resolve them, some of the ideas you have suggested are new to us and are now being investigated.

We were going to respond with a formal response, but think it would be a good idea to meet with you to discuss in person.

If you could either ring using my contact details below, or send me your details we can discuss either meeting you at your branch, or to
arrange a meeting at whichever of our head office sites are convenient to yourself. I would probably be looking to meet with you along with
two or three of my colleagues if possible.

I will await your response.

Kind regards,
Tony

Antonio Jamasb
IT & Change
Live Service and Continuity Manager

Dave Hulbert I Head of Service & Supplier Management

® Dearne House, BARNSLEY, S73 OUF

©)

° GRO

am

® postoffice.co.uk

(3) @postofficenews

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: 23 October 2012 11:39

To: Dave Hulbert

Cc: Susan Barton

Subject: Fw: Post office Clerk needing enlightening on our future within

Dave
if I remember right Toni followed this up with the branch.
Can you dig out the mails while I'm off for Sue.

Thx

From: Theresa Iles

Sent: Tuesday, October 23, 2012 10:35 AM

To: Susan Barton

Cc: Lesley J Sewell

Subject: FW: Post office Clerk needing enlightening on our future within

Susan

POL00182875

POL00182875

This is the last correspondence I can find referring to the earlier email from Dawn in January, so I assume Lesley will
send over to you the response she pulled together. You'll then have the full picture to progress. Pauline Holroyd also

sent Dawn’s email dated 31 July (copied to you yesterday) on to Nick Kennett for information.

Meanwhile, I’ll let Dawn know that you'll be contacting her.

Thanks
Theresa

Theresa lles I Assistant to Chief Executive

© 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

© Post Office stories

®© @postofficenews

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: 30 January 2012 11:23

To: Kevin Gilliland; Pauline Holroyd

Cc: Paula Vennells

Subject: RE: Post office Clerk needing enlightening on our future within

Kevin/Pauline
POL00182875
POL00182875

I'm happy to pull together a consolidated response to Dawn’s issues.

Please let me know who would be the best contact from your respective areas.

Regards Lesley

Lesley J Sewell
Head of IT & Change
Post Office Ltd

148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ

Building a Post Office® we can all be proud of

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 30 January 2012 08:18

To: dawn

Cc: Kevin Gilliland; Lesley ] Sewell; Pauline Holroyd

Subject: Re: Post office Clerk needing enlightening on our future within

Dear Dawn, thank you for taking the time to write. I really do appreciate it.

In fact, because you have given so much care and challenge to the business, I would like to consider carefully
how we respond to you. My ambition is to set some work in place on a number of the issues you raise and
then invite you and your manager to come and hear about progress. I could then also share with you my vision
for the Post Office - which is ambitious and very future focused.

Thank you again, I'll be jn touch.

Paula
Ps. Which branch are you?

Sent from my iPhone pre nninnnennnnn
On 18 Jan 2012, at 17:21, "dawn"

Dear Mrs Vennells,

I am just a post office clerk. I love my job, mainly for the people, but there are some issues with
the horizon system that are a total pain and I wondered if you knew about them and how they
make our job harder to do and easier to make mistakes.

They are as follows:

* Complex transaction — this actually makes a simple transaction complex — often
confusing customers.

* Stock ordering — we have the codes on horizon yet rather than having a pick list and
ordering from it we have to order each item individually, it takes 7 screens to order 1 item
each time. Often when an item is sent through to us from yourselves it cancels our stock
POL00182875
POL00182875

order and we have to process it again and if we haven't got the stock then we can’t sell a
lot of the products, again costing you money, and us customers.

* Postcode finder — very useful facility if it worked all the time. It shows the address on
one long line, so if its a long address the postcode is off-screen and there is no facility to
scroll over to see the postcode which makes us look foolish.

* Horizon system — although new is extremely slow at busy times it can take 20 seconds
(yes I did count it) to load each screen. This is how mistakes happen if the system can’t
keep up with us.

* Printers — we are constantly having problems with the printers, the new gold labels tend
to be gummed together when you open the packet so you can only use the ones that
aren’t and if you use both labels more often than not the second one will jam which
means you have to reboot the printer, again wasting time, and in the labels case money.
(and yes the labels are the new ones without the pinked edge).

* Rems — When we receive a stock rem, some items are shown with a value and some
without, wouldn’t it be clearer to stick to one or the other?

* Budget Card — great idea, but why can’t we do a balance at the counter? The software is
obviously there, we do it for banks and post office card account customers.

* Software problem on balances — when a banking customer gets a balance for their bank
account it always says declined on the pin pad and authorised on our screens, it’s been
doing that over 6 months now and it still isn’t rectified.

* Certificate of posting — EBay customers bringing in large amounts of post will often ask
for a certificate of posting, since we no longer supply the pads this means each item has to
be either typed in individually or printed off with each bulk, this again is time consuming.
royal mail have a bulk item certificate of posting on their website which we have
suggested to many of our eBay customers, but what has happened in the past is they end
up doing smartstamps on their website instead of coming to us and if we are to be
separated then this isn’t really ideal.

There are many problems with the system and I think if we are thinking for the system we
aren’t doing the best for ourselves or the post office.

My Boss and I also have a few ideas for the post office:

* Post office card account — why not have a suspect button on the icons — if we are
suspicious of somebody we could highlight it so they can be investigated, this could help
save the government a lot of money

* Application forms — we have A4 printers in the office — why not have an icon to each of
the products which need an application form so we can print it on our printer. This would
save money on printing new booklets each time the wording had to be changed and we
would never be in the situation where we had to turn away a customer because we were
waiting for forms.

+ An Estamp, W stamp, top up stamp [st to 1st large, 2nd to 1st, 2nd to 2nd large would
make it quicker at the counter and would save on reprinting stamps every time the values
went up.

* Recorded Delivery — have a customer advised icon to print on the receipt when we have
informed the customer of Special and they have chosen recorded.

* Childs savings — Why not have a card similar to our budget card which they can load with
cash at the counter. Losing NSI shouldn’t mean we lose the chance to show our children
POL00182875
POL00182875

how to save.
* Royal mail — when they are privatised can we become a one stop post shop for all the
mail companies, I mean, we are a post office after all.
I hate the thought of losing the post office from our streets. It's more than just somewhere to
get your stamps or pay your bills, it’s somewhere that you know you will get help.
We should never lose that.

I would love to know what you think of these ideas and also to know what you think of our post
offices and where you would like to see us all in 5 years time.

I await your response with interest.
Yours sincerely

Dawn Stokes

This email has been scanned by Westcoastcloud.
http://www.westcoastcloud.com

