POL00448269
POL00448269

CTO2021 July 2023 SECTION 11 Weekly Accounting V4.0

Weekly accounting:
Balance Period (BP) balance

1. Complete end of day activities in section
10, except for the cash declaration
«The cash declaration will be completed as part of
the weekly balancing activities and should be the
last declaration you make before rolling over your

stock unit Cash sumos [sick [CurenyI ee
2. Check Stock On Hand —— PP —
This report provides a snapshot of all stock items held ia [ ea00]

within a stock unit, as recorded on the Horizon system

«From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Weekly
Accounting’, then ‘Stock On Hand’ and print
the report

» Check the ‘Stock On Hand’ report carefully
against the actual stock in your stock unit/
branch. Make sure the system held stock figures
match your actual stock holdings. If there are any
differences, recheck that item of stock

=
Bears [sumer Aa Jen ro Ss
tte

oan ey

Adjusting stock discrepancies

If after rechecking the stock, there is still a

discrepancy, please adjust the stock as follows:

«From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Weekly =
Accounting’, then under the ‘Stock’ heading, select “I
‘Adjust’

» Find the stock item that is wrong and type in the
correct quantity. Once you've corrected all stock
discrepancies, select ‘Enter’

» Horizon will prompt you to select a reason code
for the discrepancy. Select ‘Surplus of stock at
balance’ if you have more stock or ‘Shortage of
stock at balance’ if you have less. Please don't
select any other reason code

«Print a second ‘Stock on Hand’ report to check
that the stock has been adjusted correctly

' Top Tip! Before making a stock adjustment, also check any stock remittance received by your branch; do i
I the figures match the remittance paperwork? If you've forgotten to rem in the stock, it will result in a I
1 surplus or, if figures are entered incorrectly, it will result in a discrepancy. f
!
!
Fy

1 For guidance on correcting a stock remittance discrepancy, please see Section 14.

f this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &©&
Post Office - Operational training guide

The contents
fon behalf of P

POL00448269
POL00448269

SECTION 11 Weekly Accounting V4.0 CTO2021 July 2023

Weekly accounting

3. Declare Stamps

«From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Weekly
Accounting’, then under the ‘Declare’ heading
select ‘Stamps’

» For individual stock units, the system will display
the ‘Declare Stamps’ screen. For a shared stock
unit, either select ‘New Declaration’ or edit the
previously declared stamps

«Physically count all your postage stamps
(excluding non-value indicator stamps (NVI): 1st
Class and 2nd Class)

* Select the stamp line in the list for the stamp value
you need to declare (if the stamp you need to
declare is not shown on the screen, use ‘Page Up’
or ‘Page Down’ to move up and down the list)

» — Input the quantity, then press the ‘Tab’ key. Repeat
the process for each stamp value that you want
to declare

» When you have declared all your stamp values
press ‘Enter’. How you will see a discrepancy will
depend on the stock unit type (see below)

Please note: you need to enter a declaration ID, e.g.
‘01’ for a shared stock unit

Ser pee
Fa _REcer)
Sagat

When the stamp declaration figure
shows a discrepancy:

If you have checked and re-declared the

stamps and there is still a discrepancy

between the stamp declaration figure and the

‘Stock On Hand’ report:

» Continue with your remaining declarations

» When you complete your declarations and
select ‘Balance Report’, any discrepancy in
your stamps will be visible

Individual stock unit

The system will compare the declared stamps total

with the system held total and will warn you if there

are any discrepancies.

» If the system displays a message warning that
discrepancies have been found, select ‘Continue’

» To confirm the discrepancies, select ‘Yes’

Please note: If you do not want to confirm the

discrepancies and want to check your declaration,

make a note of the discrepancies and select ‘No’

* Select the appropriate reason for the stamp
discrepancy from the options available

Remember: this process is for definitive
stamps where you have completed the stamp
declaration and it doesn’t match the figure on
your ‘Stock On Hand’ report. For
discrepancies in NVI stamps where your
Stock On Hand figure is different to the actual
stock in your stock unit, use the ‘Stock

Shared stock unit

The system will not automatically compare the
declared stamps total with the system held total. You
need to compare the postage stamps total on the
declaration to the figure at the top of your ‘Stock On
Hand’ report.

If there is a discrepancy between these two figures,
check what you have declared, and if necessary,
re-declare stamps.

document are cl
fice and for th

ified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
se intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &
Post Office - Operational training guide
POL00448269
POL00448269

CTO2021 July 2023 SECTION 11 Weekly Accounting V4.0

Weekly accounting

4. Declare Currency

» From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Foreign
Currency Holdings’ and then ‘Print’

» Count and list all the currencies you hold

«From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Weekly
Accounting’ then ‘Currency’. For shared stock
units, select ‘New declaration’

» Select the currency line in the list for the currency
value you need to declare/edit (if the currency you
want to declare/edit is not shown on the screen,
use Page Up or Page Down to move up and down
the list)

» Input the value, then press the ‘Tab’ key. Repeat
the process for each currency value that you need
to declare/edit and press ‘Enter’

«Check the ‘Foreign Currency Holdings’ report to
see if there are any discrepancies between what
you've counted and what the system thinks you
have

5. Declare Cash

» From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Cash’

«Fora shared stock unit, please select ‘New
declaration’ and press ‘Enter’

» Now count the cash in your stock unit and enter
the amounts (press ‘Tab’ to move to the next
line and ‘Page Down’ when at the bottom of

the screen) a=
» Once you have entered the cash you have on hand Sttoamre sims gat NepteJocre Soak Sot
{including anything that may be in the Rollercash a s __ al Fs -]
safe), press ‘Enter’ ion ES,
seme ieane Ou,

if there is a discrepancy between what you've

» For individual stock units, the system will tell you
counted and what the system thinks you have

» For shared stock units, check the variance to see if
there is a discrepancy

! Top tip! Section 20 Troubleshooting of the Operational Training Guide contains guidance on the causes!

of errors and discrepancies when completing a weekly or monthly balance, and the steps to take to 1
1 resolve them and/or access support. 1

ee ee ew ee eww eee eee eee eee eee een

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
(on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &©&
Post Office - Operational training guide
SECTION 11 Weekly Accounting V4.0

Weekly accounting

Should you rollover to a new Balance

Period (BP) or Trading Period (TP)?

Before the next step to complete a balance report and

rollover, please check if you need to roll into a Balance

Period (BP) or Trading Period (TP)

» From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Branch TP
Number’ to check the date of your next TP

Be eee eee nena
4 Remember: You can rollover into a Balance Period
1 (BP) as many times as you like, but you should not
1 rollover to a Trading Period (TP) more than nine times
H in a 62-day period. If you do, you will not be able to use
1 your Horizon system.

1
1
'
1
1
'
1

Be ee ee ee ee eens

6. Produce Balance Report and Rollover

To produce the balance report and rollover the stock

unit:

«From the ‘Back Office’ screen select ‘Weekly
Accounting’, then ‘Balance Report’

* Check and accept messages until you arrive at the
‘Balance Stock Unit Report’ screen. You can then
Print or Preview the Trial Balance report

» Once the Trail Balance Report has been produced,
check that all totals are correct

» Select ‘Rollover’ and choose ‘Next BP’ to roll the
stock unit into the next Balance Period

Please note: If you are completing your monthly

Trading Period balance, you will need to select

‘Next TP’

Branches with more than one stock unit

If you are rolling into a new trading period, complete
step 6 (above) on each stock unit one at a time. If
multiple stock units are balanced simultaneously, the
system may become confused and not allow you to
settle your local suspense and roll over.

POL00448269
POL00448269

CTO2021 July 2023

' Remember: You have to sign and date-stamp
1 the final balance report and keep in branch for
1 two years with declarations attached.
.

i Strategic Partner branches: You should also :
1 follow the weekly and monthly accounting I
1 Processes and procedures issued by your 1
1
a

1 company.

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the informatio

@

(on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

fined within this document to any third-party not working

Post Office - Operational training guide

