POL00312066

POL00312066

Agreed upon procedures

To [those who engaged the auditor]

We have performed the procedures agreed with you and set out below with respect to our procedures
on the postings to the Client Suspense Account during the financial years 2010/11 to 2013/14. Our
engagement was undertaken in accordance with the International Standard on Related Services 4400
applicable to agreed-upon procedures engagements. The procedures were performed solely in
accordance with the Engagement Letter dated xxx and are as follows:

a. Enquire of personnel who compile the Client Suspense Account summary paper as to
process for compilation of data used therein, and walk through the processes in place that
yield the figures reported in the statement, obtaining back up evidence for reported figures
where appropriate.

b. Observe the GL summaries and posting detail [ on a sample basis ] on screen in SAP;

I. GL movement summary for each year
I. Line item posting summaries

I. Branch and transactional analysis where provided

c. Enquire of management, the rationale for which stated releases to P&L are considered not
to be applicable to branch:

I Walk through a sample item for each product category therein, to confirm
the hypothesis underpinning exclusion

d. Confirm that credit items are only made up of credits and that debit items are only made up
of debits

e. Confirm whether any of the branch identifiable items in suspense relate to any of the 150
branches in the mediation scheme.

We report our findings below:

A. With respect to item a we found...

B. With respect to item b we found...

C. With respect to item c we found...

[Detail the exceptions]

Had we performed additional procedures or had we performed an audit or review of the financial
statements in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) or International
Standards on Review Engagements, we might have identified other issues that would be of relevance
to you.

Our report is solely for the purpose set forth in the first paragraph of this report and for your
information and is not to be used for any other purpose or to be distributed to any other parties. This
report relates only to the accounts and items specified above and does not extend to any financial
statements of Post Office Limited, taken as a whole. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
assume responsibility to anyone other than DVLA for this report

[ Auditor organisation & Date & Address ]
