POL00448392
POL00448392

From: Saf Ismailf.
Sent: Thur 02/05/2024

To: Elliot Jacobs't
Subject: FW: One News Special: Application process for two new Postmaster NEDs
FYI
Regards
Saf Ismail
e
ie
grove

IE Group UK 1 12 Oxford StI Bolton! BL1 1RF

4 Please consider the environment before printing this email.

The information contained in and accompanying this communication may. contain confidential information and is for
the intended recipient(s) only. Any views or opinions presented are solely those of the author and do not necessarily
represent those of IE Group. If you are not the intended recipient of this communication you are hereby notified that
any disclosure, copying, distribution or reliance upon the contents of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you
have received this communication in error, please notify. the sender immediately and delete all copies immediately. IE
Group has taken every reasonable precaution to ensure that any attachment to this email has been swept for
viruses. However, IE Group cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of software viruses
and would advise that you carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. IE Group is the
trading name of IE Group UK Limited. Registered in England No: 11316603.

From: One Post Office <
Sent: Monday, April 8,
To: Sarfaraz Ismail: ss GRO. P

Subject: One News Special: Application process for two new Postmaster NEDs

8 April 2024

Hi all,
I am delighted to officially open the application process for two Postmasters to join the
POL00448392
— POL00448392

main Post Office Board as Non-Executive Directors (NEDs).

Our current Postmaster NEDs, Saf Ismail and Elliot Jacobs, have made significant
contributions to our commercial strategy and operational effectiveness, but after three
years their tenure on the Board is coming to an end. I would like to thank them both,
especially Elliot who will be leaving the Board first, in September 2024, with Saf leaving in
June 2025. This phased leaving process is to ensure a smooth handover for the incoming
NEDs. Please see the supporting information for more detail on this.

You will all be aware this has been a difficult and challenging time for the Post Office.
Postmasters are the heartbeat of the Post Office business and now more than ever, we
need your input.

We are looking for two Postmasters who are passionate about shaping the future of the
Post Office and who reflect the diverse communities we serve. These are two very
important appointments, so I have recorded this short video to give you more information
on the roles, what we are looking for and how to apply.

If you have the required skills and fulfil the eligibility criteria, I would urge you to apply.
Please read on below for more detailed information.

Good luck with your applications.

Best wishes,

Nick Read
CEO, Post Office

Supporting information

POL00448392
POL00448392

What does the role include?

The successful candidates will play a critical role in shaping the strategic direction of our
business and support specific opportunities and challenges facing the Post Office. They
will work as part of the current Board of Directors, with the interim Chair Ben Tidswell, and
contribute to strategic issues, applying their experience and background to the continued
development and growth of the Post Office. Further details and profiles of the current
Board are available here.

In keeping with the responsibilities a NED would have in any business, the role requires
promoting and balancing the interests of Post Office customers, Postmasters, the wider
business (Post Office Ltd) and the shareholder (UK Government).

To sit on the Board of any company is a great responsibility and we have developed a
recruitment process which reflects the significance of this role.

The Postmaster NEDs will have the same duties as other Board Directors and will be
required to attend regular meetings, manage conflicts of interest, and treat Board matters
confidentially.

How do I apply?

STAGE 1: Application and shortlisting
The first stage is to complete an application form which includes submitting a CV anda
500-750 word personal statement. These must be submitted in one document.

To view the job description including information on the key competencies expected for
the role and to apply for the role, click here.

There is also supporting information including board duties and meeting dates on Branch
Hub, available here.

Applications are open from Monday 8th April 2024 through to 30th April 2024 and anyone
who meets the following eligibility criteria is entitled to apply:

1. Contractual status
Be an individual Postmaster or director or partner of a company or partnership,
that includes a Post Office and holds a permanent contract with Post Office
Ltd.
2. Length of Service
Have a minimum of three years continuous service in that role, as of 30th April
2024 when the application window closes.
3. Operational Conformance - Cash Declarations (for each Branch)
Have an average cash declaration completion rate of at least 90% over the last
6 months period from October 2023 to March 2024.
4. Operational Conformance - Monthly Trading Statements (for each Branch)
Have completed the last 6 months trading statements.
These criteria have been set so to ensure that candidates have the minimum and
necessary experience.

We have appointed Green Park, who specialise in Board level appointments, to support
and facilitate the recruitment of these roles. Following Post Office’s initial eligibility check,
Green Park will assess each candidate against the key competencies within the NED role
specification. They will use the information submitted in the CV and personal statement as

well as information provided by Post Office on candidates’ engagement with Post Office

initiatives and involvement in Post Office events including meetings and forums.
POL00448392
POL00448392

Core experience and skills Green Park will be looking for includes:
v Evidence of commitment to Post Office including our social purpose
vv Experience of developing a Post Office business and demonstration of
product knowledge
vy Understanding of retail trends, with a commercially focused outlook
‘vy Evidence of customer focus and driving excellence
‘vy Knowledge and awareness of key financial targets, financial risks and
opportunities
vDemonstrable leadership qualities and / or people management experience
Vv Ability to listen to and influence key stakeholders, sometimes within
challenging environments and experience of engaging with other postmasters
across the network
v Experience in similar roles e.g. school governor, community association
member.
Green Park will provide a short list of 12 candidates.
Applications will be accepted until 5pm on 30" April 2024. Any applications submitted after
this date or which do not meet the eligibility criteria, will not be considered.
STAGE 2: Interview & Due Diligence
The top 12 candidates will be interviewed by an independent panel of retail and industry
experts, all of whom will be external to the Post Office. The twelve interviewees will be
informed of the Panel Members in advance of the interview.

Six candidates will be selected by the Panel. Before the final stage of the process, due
diligence and conflict checks will be carried out on each, in line with our usual recruitment
processes for Board members.

STAGE 3: Election
It will then be over to you, our Postmasters. The six shortlisted candidates will be
supported by a 3rd party organisation to prepare a statement and/or create a video
detailing why they would like to take up this post. They will then put themselves forward
for election by the Postmaster community. The election is likely to take place during June
and July and your votes will decide who should join the main Board of the Post Office.
STAGE 4: Formal Appointment and Training
The two candidates with the highest votes as elected by their peers will be recommended
to the Board and to the Secretary of State for final appointment, due to be made in July /
August 2024. Please note, the two successful Postmasters will have staggered start
dates— see below for more detail.

The Postmasters appointed to the role will receive an extensive induction and training
programme, covering the corporate and legal aspects of the role.

If lam successful, when would I start?
The final candidates will be recommended to the Board and to the Secretary of State for
final appointment, due to be made in September 2024.

While the final appointments will be made in September 2024, there will be a phased
induction for both NEDs coming onto the Board. The NED with the most votes will begin
their appointment in September 2024 with the second NED beginning their appointment in
June 2025. The tenure for both appointments remains three years from the date they
begin their appointment.
POL00448392
POL00448392

The two existing Postmaster NEDs will have a phased leaving process — one will leave in
September 2024 and one will leave in June 2025 to ensure a smooth handover process
for the incoming NEDs.

For any questions about the role or the recruitment process please contact Racheal Hill
H GRO i.

