Agenda

POL00423563

POL00423563
®
Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting
Wednesday 21 January, 2015 14:00 - 16:00
Boardroom, 5" Floor, 148 Old Street
Members: Chris Aujard (Chair) Attendees: Piero D'Agostino
Alisdair Cameron Gavin Lambert
Fay Healey Jessica Madron
Alwen Lyons Arnout van der Veer
Paula Vennells
Nick Kennett
Apologies:
Agenda Item Purpose Timing Paper I Owner
1 I Committee minutes and I Agree minutes of last I 14:00 - 14:10 One Chair
matters arising meeting 10 minutes
2 I RCC terms of reference I Discussion 14:10-14:40 I Two All
30 minutes
3 I RCC rolling agenda Discussion 14:40-14.50 I Three I All
10 minutes
4 I ERM framework Receive update 14.50 - 15.10 Four Arnout van
implementation 20 minutes der Veer
5 I Risk incident reporting: I Review and approve I 15:10-15:25 I Five Arnout van
de-minimis values levels 15 minutes der Veer
6 I Overview of legal Receive presentation 15:25 - 15:40 = Piero
strategy 15 minutes D’Agostino/
Jessica
Madron
7 I Audit update Receive update 15:40-15:50 I Six Arnout van
10 minutes der Veer
8 I Whistleblowing update I Receive update 15:50 - 15:55 - Arnout van
5 minutes der Veer
9 I Any other business 15.55 -16.00 - Chair
5 minutes
Papers for noting
10 I Finance Road Map - Note paper - Seven I Peter
lessons learned Goodman
11 I Front Office Tower Note paper - Eight Neil Wilkinson
Procurement
Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15 1 of 32
POL00423563

POL00423563
1. Committee Minutes and Matters Arising
RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER ONE
Post Office Ltd — Confidential
Risk and Compliance Committee (R&CC) Reference: R&CC Dec 14
Date: 5 Dec 2014 l Venue: Boardroom, 5" Floor, 148 Old Street Time: 10:00 - 12:00
Attending:
Chris Aujard General Counsel Chair
Chris Day Chief Financial Officer Member
Fay Healey Head of HR Member
Garry Hooton Acting Head of Internal Audit On behalf of the Head of IA
Nick Kennett Financial Services Director Member
Alwen Lyons Company Secretary Member
David Mason Head of Risk Governance Report
Steve Miller Risk Business Partner Report
Geoff Smyth Head of Telecoms Report
Colin Stuart Head of Commercial Finance On behalf of the CFO
Paula Vennells CEO Member
Georgina Blair Risk Business Partner Secretariat
Apologies:
Gavin Lambert Chief of Staff On behalf of the CEO
Malcolm Zack Head of Internal Audit Observer

Chair’s opening remarks

The Chair declared the committee quorate and opened the meeting. The Chair reminded the committee that it
was a second line committee and should focus its attention on risk governance rather than performance
management.

Agenda Item 1

The committee to agree minutes of the last meeting

The committee reviewed the minutes from the last meeting and agreed that on this occasion updates to the
actions would be reviewed when the minutes were circulated.

The com

Agenda Item 2

The committee to receive update

The committee received an update from the Risk Function on the ERM implementation. The committee
discussed the collection of incident data and requested that some draft de minimis limits were identified and
used to select incidents for the next ERM report (Action 1639).

The Chair noted that it was easier to obtain incident data where there was an individual in the business unit who

Page 1 of 6

2 of 32 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
POL00423563
POL00423563

1, Committee Minutes and Matters Arising

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER ONE
Post Office Ltd — Confidential

had responsibility for risk management as part of their job description. The committee requested that each
individual responsible for supplying incident data be named in the summary table (Action 1640).

The committee also requested clarification on the governance arrangements for the ATOS Consolidated Service
Review (Action 1641).

The committee received the update and requested follow up action.

Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Report

The committee to review report

The committee received the ERM report from the Risk Function. The committee reviewed the report and
discussed the appropriate governance arrangements for challenging elements of the report. The committee
agreed the approach and format but would like to see more engagement from certain areas of the business. The
committee agreed that individual risk owners should be asked to attend the committee to provide further
information to support their assessments if required. The committee noted that the shape of the report will
change in future iterations.

The committee recognised the progress that has been made and concluded that, whilst there is much work to do
to enhance and embed it, the Post Office now has a basic and functioning ERM framework in place, for which
the Risk Function was to be commended.

The committee received the report.

Management of vulnerable customers in telephony

The committee to receive update

The committee received an update from the Head of Telecoms on the treatment of elderly and vulnerable
customers in the Telecoms business. The committee requested that the Chair ask the Commercial Director and
the Financial Services Director to review the treatment of elderly and/or vulnerable customers in all the product
pillars at the Commercial Committee, and to update the RCC with the results (Action 1642).

The committee received the update and requested follow up action.

_ Response to PwC recommendations for risk management

The committee to receive report and agree recommendations

The committee received a report from the Head of Risk on the PwC recommendations for risk management. The
committee discussed the report and requested that a rolling 12 month agenda for the RCC be prepared which
included reporting to the ARC (Action 1643).

Page 2 of 6

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15 3 of 32
POL00423563
POL00423563

1. Committee Minutes and Matters Arising

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER ONE

Post Office Ltd — Confidential

The committee received the report and requested follow up action.

Agenda Item 7

User Acceptance Testing (SSKs)

The committee to receive report and agree recommendations

The committee received a report from the Head of Risk on the causes of the recent operational issues in Self
Service Kiosks (SSKs). The committee discussed the report and considered the appropriate level of incidents
which should be reported to the committee. The committee noted that there was a need to look for unexpected
risk events (‘the blob that sits outside the profile’) given the amount of change in the business. The committee
requested that a scenario-analysis workshop be held in early February to try and identify unexpected risks
(Action 1644).

The committee noted that there were many potential risks around planned changes in technology. A
presentation on IT transformation is going to the Board on 28"" January 2015, and the committee noted that
there was a need for business users to highlight their concerns about future technological changes. The
committee requested that a workshop be run in the New Year to try and identify other IT problems that might go
wrong (Action 1645).

The committee received the report and requested follow up action.

Agenda Item 8

Any other business

The committee to discuss any other business

The Chair noted that the committee doesn’t have visibility of policies that need to be approved on an annual
basis. The committee requested a report on the list of policies that need to be approved (Action 1646).

The Chair noted that the new finance system was experiencing some teething problems. The committee
requested an update on the lessons learnt from the implementation of the system and assurance that they are
being shared with the rest of the business (Action 1647).

The committee requested that an update on Sparrow be presented in February or March (Action 1648).

The committee discussed the items and requested follow up action.

Note. Agenda Item 5 Overview of Legal Strategy is carried over to the January 2015 meeting.

Ref Action Lead By Update

1648 Present an update on Project Sparrow in I Chris 16" March
February or March. Aujard

1647 Provide an update on the lessons learnt Colin Stuart I 21° Done for January RCC
from the implementation of the new January meeting — see Paper Six for
financial reporting system and provide noting — closed.

assurance that they are being shared
with the rest of the business

1646 Provide a report on the list of policies David 19" A list has been prepared and
that need to be approved Mason February the next steps are being

discussed with the new Head

Page 3 of 6

4 of 32 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
1, Committee Minutes and Matters Arising

RCC 21 January 2015

PAPER ONE

Post Office Ltd — Confidential

POL00423563
POL00423563

of Risk and Audit — action
carried over to 19" February.

1645 Run a workshop to try and identify other I David 76" March I Workshop to be held towards
IT problems that might go wrong. Mason end of February. To be

attended by SLT members
from all business areas
except IT, and led by R&C
supported by Roger Middleton
and Neil Wilkinson. Deadline
revised to 16" March.

1644 Hold a scenario-analysis workshop to try I David 22” April__I Workshop to be held after
and identify unexpected risks Mason year end. Deadline revised to

22" April.

1643 Prepare a rolling 12 month agenda for David Pare Done — draft rolling agenda
the RCC which includes reporting to the Mason/ January has been prepared — closed
ARC. Alwen

Lyons

1642 Ask the Commercial Director and the Chris 2" Done — Commercial Director
Financial Services Director to review the = Aujard January has accepted action — closed.
treatment of elderly and/or vulnerable
customers in all the product pillars at the
Commercial Committee, and to update
the RCC with the results.

1641 Provide clarification on the governance David 2" The reporting is reviewed by
arrangements for the ATOS Consolidated I Mason January the PO1 — ITIL Performance
Service Review. and Service Review

Meeting. Issues are
escalated to the M4 Meeting —
IT Supplier and Service
Committee. Any significant
issues raised / outstanding at
the M4 are also discussed in
the weekly ClOs SLT meeting
— closed.

1640 Name each individual responsible for David 21" Done for January RCC
supplying incident data in the summary Mason January meeting — see Paper Two —
table. closed

1639 Identify some draft de minimis limits on David 21% Done for January RCC
incidents and use them in the next ERM Mason January meeting - see Paper Three —
report. closed

1638 The ERM framework report is to be David 5" Done - Updated paper
updated with details of the ExCo Mason December _ circulated to RCC members
engagement needed with the minutes on 28/11/14

- closed.

1637 Provide a report to the committee on the I Nick 2" Action transferred to
approach to managing vulnerable Kennett January Commercial Committee —
customers in financial services. closed

1635 Provide an update on the state of risk David 5” Incorporated into
registers before the next meeting. Mason December I development of the ERM —

closed

1634 Review the existing standard of User David o™ User Acceptance Testing
Acceptance Testing and provide an Mason December I (UAT) is a mandatory step for
update. any IT change. This includes

projects of all size and
complexity and BAU changes
to existing systems and data.
Clearance/sign-off of
successful UAT is a
mandatory requirement for

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

Page 4 of 6

5 of 32
Committee Minutes and Matters Arising

RCC 21 January 2015

PAPER ONE

Post Office Ltd — Confidential

POL00423563
POL00423563

Go-Live and is reviewed in
Gating forum meetings. UAT
is carried out by identified
user(s) and there is a formal
test plan and test scripts are
completed evidencing
adequate testing. From 1
October 2014, UAT is signed
off by Atos as the SISD
partner. The user group still
has the responsibility for
testing. On successful
completion of UAT, Atos is
provided with written
clearance/approval before
any change can go live. —
closed

1633 Provide an update on the resolution to Paul 49” Identification of

the Travel Insurance problem. Havenhand I February customers has concluded.
Project moving into
rectification phase but
Horizon fix not yet in place —
action carried over to next
meeting.

1632 Review the processes for dealing with Martin a7 Head of Telecoms updated
vulnerable telecoms and government George December I committee on process in
services customers and provide an telecoms. Gov't services to
update on what is in place. be covered by Commercial

Committee — closed.

11631 Brief the Telecoms team on the Geoff 16" March I BT changes have impacted
importance of registering risks and Smyth the Telecoms team
provide an update on training on significantly with a number of
regulatory matters and the allocation of individuals moving roles/VR -
accountability for compliance with team will be confirmed by
General Conditions within the Telecoms mid- Feb. Deadline revised to
team. 16" March.

1629 Document the risks and mitigating Jonathan 5" This action relates to POMS.
actions associated with the reliance on Hill December and so is not proper to the
contractors in project Titan and the future POL RCC - closed.
governance structures of Post Office
Management Services

1628 Document the risks to Post Office and Mike 5” The Smith Commission's
mitigating actions associated with the Granville December report of 27/11/14 made no
move to “devo max” in Scotland specific mention of the Post

Office specifically much lower
risk now of PO being involved
— therefore the action is
closed pending a further risk
trigger. Comms will continue
to monitor — closed.

1619 The NT programme to report back to the lan 5" The following is a summary of
committee on the outcomes of its ‘100 Kennedy December the information presented to
day’ project to improve and embed risk BIS on the same subject:
management Risk / Issue management

process — A programme wide
risk process and Issue
process has been fully
embedded within all areas

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

Page 5 of 6
POL00423563
POL00423563

Committee Minutes and Matters Arising

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER ONE
Post Office Ltd — Confidential

with full documented
supporting processes and
structures; * Risk review and
escalation — Delivery risks are
reviewed centrally by a Risk
and Compliance Committee.
Below which is the
Programmes Steering
Committee, and then down to
a Programme Council all
dealing with risks escalated
through according to severity.
* Quantitative risk models
have been constructed to
show the financial exposure
of all major programme risks.
allowing for accurate
programme contingency
calculations - close

1611 Provide the committee with a proposal Mark oe The impact of accepting state
covering the communications activity and Davies/ December _§ aid on Post Office's

other management of the emerging risk Chris Day restrictions policy is also
related to the restrictions policy. under consideration with a
proposal being discussed
limiting the relaxation to a
small number of small
branches.

Management is aware of the
potential impacts and are in
the process of developing an
appropriate solution.
Consultation with the EC and
UK government in relation to
this is progressing.

A workshop was held with
relevant stakeholders to
discuss how best to govern
the required actions across
the range of restrictions
issues in the business arising
from this state aid risk and a
paper on the proposed
strategy was submitted to
ExCo on 18.11.14 for
consideration. This issue is
now being addressed by
management and is no longer
relevant to the RCC — closed.
1589 Assess the options for further FCA David 5" The Bank is taking this matter
approved persons within Post Office and Mason December forward with their new
identify training requirements. supervisory team at the FCA
— no longer relevant to the
RCC - closed.

1584 Discuss and agree with Group People David By The results of the survey of
Director how any gaps in compulsory Mason December training requirements have
training are resolved been passed to HR.

Page 6 of 6

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15 7 of 32
POL00423563
POL00423563

2. RCC Terms of Reference

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER TWO

TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

1. Purpose
The purpose of the Risk & Compliance Committee (R&CC) is to support the Executive
Committee (ExCo) in fulfilling their effective oversight of risk management by:

« Developing and promoting a risk culture that emphasises and demonstrates the
benefits of risk management throughout the business

« Focusing on the top risks in the business as defined by the Executive Committee
* Monitoring and assessing significant risk events and near misses
« Developing the stewardship of risk and policy frameworks

2. Responsibilities
The Risk & Compliance Committee responsibilities will be:

« Developing and promoting a risk culture in the business by:
» Enhancing the profile of risk management
> Driving the behaviours of risk management
> Recognising good risk management
> Promoting a risk management agenda

« Focusing on the top risks in the business by:

Reviewing and assessing the management of risks

> Identifying actions required to manage risks

» Making recommendations to ExCo

> Reviewing key risks, controls and relevant action plans

v

« Monitoring and assessing significant risk events and near misses and:
> Considering the implications of internal or external risk events and near
misses including financial impact as appropriate
» Commissioning action plans to manage risks.

« Developing the stewardship of risk and policy frameworks by:
> Ensuring policy governance is in place
> Reviewing and approving business policies
> Ensuring business policies are maintained and regularly reviewed
» Receiving and reviewing compliance reports relating to
= Anti-Money Laundering
= Bribery / Gifts & Hospitality
=" Whistleblowing
= Internal Audit

Page 1 of 3

8 of 32 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
2. RCC Terms of Reference

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER TWO

TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

3.

Authority

The Risk & Compliance Committee is authorised by ExCo to:

4.

To seek any information it requires from anyone in the organisation in order to
perform its duties.

To obtain outside legal or other professional advice on any matter within its
terms of reference.

To call anyone to be questioned at a meeting of the committee as and when
required.

Composition

The committee is a management committee and the chair and members shall be
appointed by the Chief Executive Officer:

The committee membership shall comprise the General Counsel (Chair), Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group People Director and Company
Secretary. The Head of Risk & Compliance whilst not a member of the committee
will be a regular attender

The chair of the committee may require other senior managers to attend all or
part of meetings as appropriate.

The quorum shall be two members and will be deemed competent to exercise all
or any of the authorities, powers and discretions vested in or exercisable by the
committee.

Meetings
The committee shall meet at least six times a year aligned to every second ExCo
meeting and otherwise as required.

Notice of each meeting confirming the venue, time, date and agenda of items to
be discussed shall be forwarded to each member of the committee and any
other person required to attend no later than five working days before the date
of the meeting. Any supporting papers will also be provided

Once approved by the Chair minutes of committee meetings shall be circulated
promptly to all members of the committee.

The committee will arrange for an annual review of its own performance to
ensure it is operating effectively and recommend any changes it considers
necessary to ExCo for approval.

The committee will ensure its terms of reference and membership are reviewed

on an annual basis and updated as required

Page 2 of 3

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

POL00423563
POL00423563

9 of 32
2. RCC Terms of Reference

POL00423563
POL00423563

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER TWO

TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Reporting

The committee shall report to ExCo on its proceedings after each meeting on all
matters within its purpose and responsibilities highlighting significant risk and
compliance matters for their attention

The committee shall report to the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee as
requested

The committee shall input to the Post Office annual reporting as appropriate.

7. Membership

Members

General Counsel (Chair) Chris Aujard
Chief Executive Officer Paula Vennells
Chief Finance Officer Chris Day
Group People Director Neil Hayward
Company Secretary Alwen Lyons

Other attendees

Head of Risk & Compliance Dave Mason
Secretariat Rob Bolton
7. Document Control
Risk & Compliance Risk & Compliance
Committee Secretariat Committee Secretariat
2.0 February 2014
March 2014 March 2015
07/01/2014 Rob Bolton Revised draft
12 08/01/2014 Rob Bolton Re-write of draft
13 08/01/2014 Rob Bolton Amendments to responsibilities and membership
14 17/01/2014 Rob Bolton Updated purpose and responsibilities
15 17/01/2014 Rob Bolton Change to order of priority in purpose
16 17/01/2014 Rob Bolton Purpose & responsibilities updated
1.7 11/02/2014 Rob Bolton Final changes to reporting and responsibilities
Page 3 of 3

10 of 32

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
RCC 21 January 2015

PAPER THREE

Risk & Compliance Committee Annual Agenda

POL00423563
POL00423563

This timetable sets out the known agenda items. It may be modified by the Risk & Compliance Committee in light of specific requests or actions arising from meetings. The
meeting dates can be subject to change as can the number of meetings scheduled.

Agenda Item Purpose Apr I May I Jun I Jul I Aug I Sep I Oct I Nov I Jan I Feb I Mar g
POLICY GOVERNANCE
Review and approve business policies Approve business policies and forward to ExCo for endorsement v v v v v v
Review policy governance Review the adequacy of policy governance and recommend
v v

RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk reporting to:

changes

Agree summary of key risks and status of actions to ARC, Board

@ ARC and ExCo
© ExCo v v v v
© Board v v
Review strategic risks Monitor status and any movement of high level risks and agree v v v v v
any mitigating actions
Review business unit risks Review and challenge business unit risk self assessments v v v v
v v v v v v v v v v

Risk Incident reporting

Review risk incidents and consider impacts and actions

Risk reporting from Sub-committees:

© Health & Safety
* Finance

¢ Commercial
«Transformation

© Information Security

* Business Continuity

Receive risk reports from sub-committee Chairs

Review and approve Risk policy

Review draft annual internal audit plan

Review effectiveness of risk policy and recommend amendments

Review draft internal audit plan and recommend for onward
approval by ARC

Receive update on internal audit activity Receive report on internal audit activity, key findings and actions v v v v
status
Gifts & Hospitality annual report Receive and agree annual summary report v
AML annual report Receive and agree annual summary report v
Whistleblowing annual report Receive and agree annual summary report v
REPORTING
Risk management and internal control Agree draft risk management and internal controls statement for
I_statement for Annual Report __I inclusion in Annual Report for further approval by ARC/Board v
Review effectiveness of risk management and I Discuss effectiveness of risk management and internal control
internal control frameworks v

REVIEW
Review R&CC Terms of Reference &
membership

frameworks and agree any necessary changes

Review appropriateness of committee terms of reference and
membership of the committee

Review annual agenda

Review appropriateness of committee annual agenda

Review effectiveness of R&CC

Perform review of committee effectiveness and agree any
necessary changes

POL00423563
POL00423563

4, ERM Framework Implementation

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER FOUR

Risk and Compliance Committee 21 January 2015
Update on ERM implementation and data flow analysis

1. The timetable and data management tables provide updates on the implementation. Most
activities are on plan although there has been some slippage mainly due to impact of staff in
branches over the Christmas period and the senior management changes.

2. The first iteration of the ERM profile has been circulated to EXCO along with the implementation
timetable.

3. The following critical success factors which require EXCO attention and feedback have been
identified; progress is summarised below:

Success Factor

Status

a. I Reviewing first ERM report (RCC then
subsequently from EXCO)

First ERM report presented to RCC on 5
December 2014. RCC papers circulated to EXCO
on 12 December 2014.

b. I Workshop on resetting strategic risks (and
subsequent quarterly reviews)

Strategic risks refreshed for 5 December 2014
report.

EXCO Workshop scheduled for February 2015.

c. I Risk Appetite statements and metrics

Risk appetite statements went to ARC on 12

January 2015.

Timetable for collecting metrics and reporting in
development.

d. I Process for annual assessment of the risk
management activities

Plans on track.

e. I Construction of the annual report commentary
on risk management in the PO

£. I Implementation of an operational risk register
and quarterly review process in their business
areas

Timetable:

4. Table 1 shows the timetable and current status. Implementation of the profile elements is
mainly on track. A proposal for incident capture and de minimis reporting levels is included for
discussion at 21 January RCC. Most amber rated elements have been re-planned to account for
engagement with new members of senior management.

Data:

5. Work has continued on data mining and some enhanced information has been reported.
Difficulties have been encountered in obtaining further depth around some data items, but
nothing that isn’t unusual for this type of activity.

6. The updated data source table is shown below.

Steve Miller

8 January 2015,

12 of Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
SL/Lo/.Z-BunaeW aaniuiwiog aouelIdwiog @ ¥SIY

Ze sJOel

RCC 21 January 2015

Implementation of ERM 21 January 2015

PAPER FOUR

RISK PROFILE (RP)

KRIs / Metrics
(RP:M)

Annual Report
(AR)

FEB

Begin basic back-testing
and validation with
available incidents and
metrics

Design sustainable OR
model

Refresh strategic risks
with an EXCO
workshop

Develop action plan for
enhancing incident data
flows ~ fill
profile

Proposal for ‘top down’
metrics dashboard for
inclusion in ERM report

MAR

Exception reports on re-
dated action plans and
estimates of post-action
risks exposure

Report on exceptions
basis for actions

Redraft / update annual
report

Cultural approach and
statement of design
principals and embedding in
HR policy

Communications
Papers (CP)

POL00423563
POL00423563

uonejuewejduiy yomewel4 WS “b
ZE 40 bh

SL/Lo/.Z-BunaeW aaniuiwiog aouelIdwiog @ ¥SIY

RCC 21 January 2015

Implementation of ERM 21 January 2015

PAPER FOUR

DEC

JAN

FEB

MAR

Risk Appetite
(RA)

Present full set risk appetite
statements to ARC

Plan to put metrics and
tolerance cascade into
operation

Finalise rating method

Data collection on
tolerance metrics where
data available

Annual
Assessment (AA)

Report on results of
annual assessment

Build action plans to
correct any gaps

Governance
Structure (GS)

Policies and
Procedures (PP)

Review annual assessment
process for any changes
required to governance
structure

Develop high level risk
training plan

- Staff

- SIT

-  EXCO/Board

POL00423563
POL00423563

uonejuawejduiI yomewel4 WHS “y
SL/Lo/kz-Bunsay eenWog souRl\dwod ® ¥SI4

Ze JOSE

RCC 21 January 2015

Risk Data Flows: Update post ERM report

The table below shows which data types have been used in the report. The metrics collected so far paint a reasonable picture of how the control framework
is operating in mitigating operational risks. There is further research to do in a number of areas to flesh out the profile. As this progresses the number, type
and composition of metrics will change. This will assist in understanding the exposures and form an input to defining reportable incident levels.

PAPER FOUR

POL00423563
POL00423563

uonejuewajdu) Yomawes4 Wyss “y

Risk incident I Examples Data Owner Oversight Data source/ Actions
type Body database
Internal and I Robbery and Mark Dinsdale Tactical Electronic Crime Data provided and reviewed
external burglary (IMS)/Elaine Coordination Database (ECD)/ I regularly.
fraud Spencer(ECD) Group Incident
(Security) Management
System (IMS)
Bribery Georgina Blair Risk and Gifts and Data available and reviewed
Compliance Hospitality regularly.
Committee register
False Rod Ismay Control reviews in I Data provided for January ERM
accounting Finance report.
Theft of Claire Davies InfoSec ISAG log Data provided — no new events for
information/ Committee January.
hacking
Third party Jonathan Hill tbe tbe FS business partner investigating
fraud (eg. Bank appropriate data streams with
of Ireland, Bank of Ireland
Aviva)
Employment I Compensation Nisha tbc Summary Current claims data available and
practices & claims for unfair I Marwaha/Colin provided by reviewed regularly.
workplace dismissal or Stretch external legal Further analysis of internal HR data
safety treatment advisors to be completed by HR business
partner.
Industrial action I HR tbe Incident logs Further analysis of internal HR data

to be completed by HR business

Status

Ze sO OL

SL/Lo/kz-Bunsay eenWog souRl\dwod ® ¥SI4

POL00423563
POL00423563

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER FOUR
Risk incident I Examples Data Owner Oversight Data source/ Actions Status
type Body database
partner.
Health and Simon Eldridge I Health & ERICA+ Data provided and reviewed
safety event Safety regularly.
Committee

Clients, Compliance Andy Garner Customer and I Managed Services I Oversight process mapped. Data
products & breaches eg. Conduct Risk Complaints provided and reviewed regularly.
business mis-selling Committee Summary
practices (FS)/

Product flaws Louise Fairhurst I Finance Post Investment PIR process is only slowly becoming

and defects and I (Finance) Committee Reviews (Finance) I established. Once data becomes

model errors available it will be provided.
Damage to Natural & other I tbc the Business Confirm collection, data flow and
physical disasters (inc eg. Continuity oversight process.
assets terrorism, incident

vandalism, management

pandemic) process
Business Hardware, Steve Beddoe ITIL ATOS Existing data is provided regularly.
disruption & I software, Performance Consolidated The IT business partner has been
systems telecoms, utility & Service Service Review working with IT colleagues to try
failures outage or Review and improve the quality of the data

disruption Meeting provided. This work is continuing.
Execution, I Poor execution I Andy Garner Product Managed Services I Oversight process mapped. Data
delivery & of transactions teams; reports I Complaints provided and reviewed regularly.
process and processes reviewed by Summary
managemen ExCo
t Projects: missed I Louise Fairhurst I Finance Project reporting I Project overspend data discussed

deadlines, Committee but not provided.

unauthorised

overspend,

benefits not

realised

uonejuewajdu) Yomawes4 Wyss “y
SL/Lo/Lz-Bunaaw aenwuwoy aouelIdwog » ¥sry

ZEsJO LL

POL00423563

POL00423563
FS
m
=
RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER FOUR FY
3
é
Risk incident I Examples Data Owner Oversight Data source/ Actions Status x
type Body database a
Failed reporting I Legal/Company I tbc tbe Determine appropriate data flow. $
obligations, Secretary's g
inaccurate Office
external report
Disputes with Procurement/Su I tbc ATOS (for some) I Determine data sources and
suppliers or pplier oversight processes (IT & Finance
vendors management business partners)

POL00423563
POL00423563

5. Risk Incident Reporting_ de-minimis values

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER FIVE

RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE 21 January 2015

Risk incident reporting: De-minimis values

Action:

The committee is asked to review the approach to collecting risk incidents and the de-minimis levels.
Request: RCC to consider the approach and confirm current approach and suggested reporting.
Context:

Collecting risk incident data is an important part of understanding the organisation’s risk profile. It
works together with the risk assessments and key risk indicators.

‘Toolbox’ element I What it means

Risk assessment Assessment of risk and mitigation

ae Examples of individual risks materialising (quantitative
Risk incidents

data)
Key risk indicators _I Trend data about related indicators risks (quantitative
(KRI) data)

Both incidents and indicators provide information on the effectiveness of controls and likelihood of
risk to materialise. They provide a perspective on the overall risk profile

Definition:
The definition of a risk incident for the purposes of the Post Office risk management framework is:

Any event which causes or may cause an interruption to, or a reduction in, the quality of a service, or
which causes financial loss, or other operational failure.

Key reasons for recording risk incidents

* To learn lessons from what has happened and to identify mitigating controls to help prevent a
similar incident from happening again.

« To treat it as an opportunity to improve our processes and to reduce operational risk exposure
and drive value for the Post Office.

« To understand the root causes and establish whether other areas of the organisation could
have an exposure.

Which incidents should be reported to the Risk and Compliance Committee?

In order to ensure that only the most relevant incidents are reported to the RCC a set of draft de-
miminis limits and other significant factors have been drafted (see table in Appendix). This guidance
is not exhaustive, and will be updated as the ERM framework develops.

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
POL00423563
POL00423563

5. Risk Incident Reporting_ de-minimis values

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER FIVE

Example risk incident:

Background:

The Government announces dog licences will become mandatory and Post Office decides to tender for the contract
to provide the licences. In order to provide the service some changes are required to Horizon and project costs are
estimated and included in the model. A cost per transaction is calculated and used in putting together POL’s bid.

Based on the model forecasts, POL offers the Department for Dogs a competitive bid and wins the contract to be one
of two physical providers of dog licences.

Exposure Action

Risk assessment I Risk description: Risk assessment: Review model
There is a risk that the modelling Low assumptions and process
assumptions are wrong and POL will
not achieve the expected benefits.

Risk incident _I Post investment review identifies the I Reporting trigger breached _I RCC requests review;
cost of each transaction has been (product flaws and defects _I possibility that contract is
incorrectly captured in the model, _I or model errors: financial not renewed due to cost
Which will result in a loss of £300k at I impact > £250k) to business / lost
year end, instead of the expected incident reported to RCC in I Profitability.
benefit of £500k. ERM report

Key risk Calls to NBSC about the dog licence I Expected level: 400 calls a__I Call levels trigger review

indicators (KRI) I issuing process are higher than month of process to improve
expected each month. Actual level: 2000 calls a efficiency / effectiveness.
This suggests that the process is not I month
working well in branch and it is Included in ERM report as
taking longer than planned. KRI with tolerance breach

2

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15 19 of 32
5. Risk Incident Reporting_ de-minimis values

RCC 21 January 2015

APPENDIX: RISK INCIDENT REPORTING GUIDANCE

PAPER FIVE

Please note this list is for guidance; and will be further completed with the implementation of the

ERM framework.

POL00423563
POL00423563

Risk Type Example incidents Impact (financial or Other elements to
other) consider
1.I Customer Hacking or other theft of Customer or ‘strictly Any brand or reputational
information confidential” impact
information lost or
compromised
2.I Financial Projects: missed deadlines, Financial impact > Repeated examples of
unauthorised overspend, £250k projects going over budget
benefits not realised in one area
Deliberate misreporting or Financial impact > Evidence of unauthorised
unauthorised changes to £250k access to system
transactions or data
3.I Market Product flaws and defects or Financial impact >
model errors £250k
4,I Legal and Compensation claims for unfair I Claim > £50k Involves whistleblowing
regulatory dismissal or treatment and/or discrimination
Any brand or reputation
impact
Compliance breaches eg. mis- I Events which have been I Linked events
selling reported to regulatory I \vultiple similar events
body (eg. FCA)
Monitoring and reporting: Failed I Financial impact > Failure puts POL in breach
reporting obligation, inaccurate I £250k of legal or regulatory
external report obligations
Bribery or corruption Bribe offered or Bribe paid on behalf of
received Post Office
5 I People Employee relations — industrial _I Disruptions to Unforeseen or unplanned
action operations > 1 day action
Health and safety events Death or serious injury I Multiple people affected
5.I Technology Poor execution of transactions Financial impact > Large number of
and processes (eg. accounting I £250k customers affected
and inputting errors, failure to Potential reputational
follow procedures) impact
Hardware, software, Financial impact > Disruption > SLA recovery
telecommunications, utility £250k time
outage or disruption No service for customers
Disputes with suppliers or Financial impact > Customers are, or are

20 of 32

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
5. Risk Incident Reporting_ de-minimis values

RCC 21 January 2015

PAPER FIVE

Risk Type

Example incidents

Impact (financial or
other)

Other elements to
consider

vendors

£250k

likely to be, affected

2

Operations

Admin sites unavailable

Disruption > 1 day

Contingency plans are
insufficient

Cash centre unavailable

Disruption > 4 hours

Contingency plans are
insufficient

Natural disasters (eg. terrorism,
pandemic, vandalism)

Any human losses,
Financial impact >
£250k

Human losses likely

Robbery or burglary

Kidnap or hostage situation

Financial loss > £75K OR
Major injury to one
person or injuries
sustained by more than
one person

Larger than expected loss

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

POL00423563
POL00423563

21 of 32
7. Audit Update

22 of 32

RCC 21 January 2015

PAPER SIX

POL Internal Audit - Summary of Significant Audit Issues for the RCC meeting on 21.1.2015

POL00423563
POL00423563

Audit

Issue/Risk

Local Area Network - Identity 1) There is no overview of all local area network accounts access

and Access Management

rights.

(October 2013) 2) Access rights are granted on a ‘mirroring with a similar account
role’ base instead of a fit for job principle.
3) Movers’ access rights are not reviewed and updated to remain
fit for job.
4) Leavers’ accounts are not systematically disabled in time and
there is no control.
An update to ARC was provided by the CIO on 12/1/15 indicating a
positive progress in closing the actions.
Software Licencing 1) The SLM process is not yet defined.
Management 2) POL software licensing assurance and governance process is
(November 2013) therefore also not yet defined.

3) Currently there is insufficient expertise in house to define the
best fit for purpose and cost effective licenses holistically for the
company needs

4) There is currently no overview of all licences and licence types
POL has and uses, POL is currently at a higher level of risk from
sanction should an external software audit take place.

5) Licences can be purchased by different parts of the business.
There is currently no overall control by the Procurement team
on the software purchase and change process

An update to ARC was provided by the CIO on 12/1/15 indicating a
positive progress in closing the actions.

Business Continuity
Programme - Business
Readiness

(October 2014)

1) Top level management guidance not yet issued.

2) The Finance BCP is quoted as the example for central teams to
follow - this is still not complete - call out cascades outstanding

3) At least 50% of Supply Chain sites have no formal contingency
location.

4) No single plan is fully complete - callout cascades outstanding.
This was not in the basic plan specification.

5) Whilst product and service plans have been tested, no site
testing has taken place

6) Crisis management does not yet form part of the plans.

Actions have been accepted and are being implemented.

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
10. Finance Road Map - Lessons learned

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER SEVEN

Confidential

POST OFFICE LTD RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Noting Paper - Finance Roadmap Programme (part of Separation Programme) —

capture and sharing of Lessons Learned

1. Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to:

1.1.

Update the Risk and Compliance Committee on the processes followed to
capture, document and share Lessons Learned during the Finance Roadmap
Programme in response to a question raised at the December 2014
Committee meeting.

2. Background / Overview

vA

2.2.

2.3.

24.

25.

2.6.

27.4

2.8.

The Finance Roadmap Programme (FRP) implemented a new Finance
system in Post Office enabling Finance Separation from Royal Mail. The
approved funding over the years 2011/12 to 2015/16 was £18.4m. This was
managed as a discrete programme within the Separation Programme.

The new Finance system went live on 1 September 2014 and the Programme
was formally closed on 29 October 2014.

Post Office Internal Audit were engaged throughout the Programme and
issued a number of reports during the Programme lifecycle. The Head of
Internal Audit was also a member of the Programme Board.

Lessons Learned were captured over the lifetime of the Programme in line
with Post Office Change Management methodologies.

Change Management was represented on the FRP Programme Board to
provide challenge / best practice into the Programme and to take Lessons
Learned from the Programme and share them with other programmes.

A Post Evaluation Review (PER) was carried out as part of Programme
closure by a member of the Change Management team independent of the
FRP and Separation Programmes. This made a number of observations from
which Lessons Learned, that could be applied to future programmes, were
derived

The Lessons Learned from the PER have been made available to the Change
Management team and are being factored into the set-up of the new Change
Management and PMO structures and revised programme and _ project
methodologies

A Post Completion review, mainly focused on business case delivery, will be
completed towards the end of 2014/15 financial year

FRP Lessons Learned process Peter Goodman Page 1 of 3

9 January 2015

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

POL00423563
POL00423563

23 of 32
10. Finance Road Map - Lessons learned

24 of 32

RCC 21 January 2015

PAPER SEVEN
Confidential

3. Lessons Learned Processes

3.1. FRP applied a number of different processes to capture Lessons Learned and
used these to improve the Programme itself during its lifecycle and to make
these available to other programmes.

3.2. The key processes used to capture Lessons Learned and apply them within
FRP were:

Internal Programme team Lessons Learned workshops were held at
key milestones during the lifecycle of the Programme

Lessons Learned identified in the workshops were documented within
the shared Programme documentation repository (SharePoint)

Application of the Lessons Learned to future phases of the
Programme was actively considered

Ongoing engagement with Internal Audit took place to benefit from an
independent challenge and act upon feedback received

Internal Audit reports were reviewed at Programme Board meetings
and recommendations actively followed up and closed

3.3. The key processes used to capture Lessons Learned and share them to
improve the quality and reduce the risk of other programmes were:

Change Management was represented on the FRP Programme Board
through Michael Brown who both provided challenge / best practice
into the Programme and was able to take Lessons Learned from the
Programme and share them with other programmes

The SLT Programme Sponsor (Peter Goodman) requested an
independent PER to be carried out by the Change function in October
2014. An experienced Programme Manager independent of FRP and
Separation Programmes (Chris Nelson) was provided to complete this
work

Chris Nelson interviewed eight people from within the Programme and
external to the Programme. Each of these eight were also asked to
illicit input from team members / colleagues

A PER was produced based on these interviews which was shared
with the Programme Board as part of Programme closure and has
been shared with the Head of Change (Alison Thompson)

The Lessons Learned from this PER are being factored into the set-up
of the new Change Management and PMO structures and revised
programme and project methodologies to ensure they are applied to
programmes going forward

FRP Lessons Learned process Peter Goodman Page 2 of 3

9 January 2015

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

POL00423563
POL00423563
10. Finance Road Map - Lessons learned

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER SEVEN
Confidential
. Additionally, the Lessons Learned captured during the Programme,

referred to in section 3.2 above, are available as an ongoing resource
for other programmes and projects to reference during their set up.
The gating process led by the Change Governance Lead (Jaki Purser)
requires new programmes and projects to consider Lessons Learned
from previous similar programmes during their set up

4, Conclusion

4.1. FRP has followed a robust process to capture, document and share Lessons
Learned during, and on closure of the Programme.

Peter Goodman

9 January 2015

FRP Lessons Learned process Peter Goodman Page 3 of 3
9 January 2015

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

POL00423563
POL00423563

25 of 32
POL00423563
POL00423563

11. Front Office Tower Procurement

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER EIGHT
RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Front Office Tower Procurement

1. Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to:

« provide the committee with an update on the actions and mitigations resulting
from the withdrawal of Fujitsu from the Front Office Tower Procurement

2. Recommendations

A paper was presented to the ExCo on 20th November 2014 covering the actions and
mitigations that have been put in place following the withdrawal of Fujitsu Services Ltd
from the Front Office Tower Procurement. This paper is attached as Appendix A. The
committee is requested to review Appendix B which provides update on the actions
taken. This paper is for noting only.

Neil Wilkinson
21 January 2015

Update on Front Office Tower Neil Wilkinson Page 1 of 1
Procurement 29th May 2014

26 of 32 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
POL00423563

POL00423563

Front Office Tower Procurement

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER 8A

4a

Strictly Confidential

POST OFFICE LTD — RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Front Office Tower Procurement

Purpose
For the Risk & Compliance Committee to note the following:

1.1. The actions and mitigations that have been put in place following the withdrawal of
Fujitsu Services Ltd from the Front Office Tower Procurement.

1.2. The paper was reviewed and noted by ExCo, 20" November 2014 meeting.

. Background

2.1. Front Office Applications Tower procurement is one of several Tower Procurements
within the Post Office target IT Supply Chain model.

2.2. The procurement will replace the Post Office’s core transactional system, Horizon
Online which provides the Point of Service (POS) functionality supporting c.30,000
counters, serving 20 million customers a week and managing over 2 billion transactions
per year. The Horizon Online system is a proprietary and is provided and supported by
Fujitsu, the contract expires on 31% March 2017.

2.3. The current operating cost for Horizon is c. £52m per annum, with the POS element
representing approximately £28m.

2.4. On the 17" October 2014, following evaluation of interim tenders, a decision was taken
to shortlist three bidders, Fujitsu Services Ltd, IBM UK Ltd and CSC Computer
Sciences Ltd. The decision to short-list took into consideration the desire to conclude
the procurement in a timely manner and the need to safeguard competitive tension
should one of the three bidders withdraw from the process. All three bidders were
debriefed and feedback was provided on their tender responses.

2.5. In addition, on the 17 October 2014, Post Office informed Accenture UK Ltd that they
had been unsuccessful following evaluation of their interim solution.

. Activities/Current Situation

3.1. On 30" October 2014 Fujitsu Services Ltd formally withdrew from the process. Citing
concerns about the resources and costs they have expended on unsuccessful bids on
other Post Office procurements, and a belief that their bid methodology was not aligned
with the Post Office procurement process.

3.2. In response to the Fujitsu Services Ltd withdrawal, Post Office formally invited
Accenture UK Ltd to re-join the procurement to maintain competitive tension; the
invitation was accepted on 14" November 2014.

3.3. Post Office are seeking to appoint a dedicated senior exit lead who will manage the
overarching relationship, commercial performance and contract exit with Fujitsu
Services UK Ltd.

Front Office Tower Procurement Neil Wilkinson Page 1 of 3
8" December 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

27 of 32
POL00423563

POL00423563

11. Front Office Tower Procurement

28 of 32

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER 8A

Strictly Confidential

4. Key Risks / Mitigation

These risks have been presented and discussed at the IT Transformation Committee.

41.

4.2.

Failure to maintain competitive tension in the procurement and Fujitsu not providing, or
delaying the provision of Inbound Due Diligence information.

(Financial Risk — Controlled)

Initially there was one less bidder which could have led to a reduction in competition,
and an increased risk of the procurement resulting in a sole bidder outcome.

Fujitsu may delay the provision of information to the bidders, thereby impacting
Inbound Due Diligence, the timescales and price certainty of the procurement.

Mitigating Actions:

The remaining two bidders, IBM and CSC, submitted strong proposals at the ISPS
stage and demonstrated enthusiasm to win the business.

In accordance with the published terms of the procurement documentation
Accenture UK Ltd have accepted the invitation to re-join the procurement process.
Though Accenture came fourth at the interim proposal stage, their proposal was.
also viable. This increases the number of bidders back up to three.

We are increasing the relationship management with all bidders, at a working and
executive level to safeguard against further withdrawals from the procurement.

Post Office has started to engage with Fujitsu on the Horizon extension.
Principles have been agreed to help shape a possible extension. Both parties have
expressed a desire to close negotiations by the end of this financial year.

A dedicated procurement lead has been appointed to facilitate Inbound Due
Diligence information and the negotiation of a service extension as deemed
necessary.

Failure to maintain continuity of service or Fujitsu not fully cooperating on contract exit.
(Operations Risk — Controlled)

There is a risk that remaining bidders may be unable to guarantee successful transition
of services away from Fujitsu by March 2017 or even if they offer assurance we may
not be satisfied with the risk profile.

Fujitsu have advised that they are now in a state of exit, and as such behaviours may
change. Operationally, there is a risk that Fujitsu will deliver solely to contract (resulting
in service degradation to Post Office) and seek to exploit change control procedures.

Fujitsu may not fully cooperate with the new supplier after the award of contract,
impacting knowledge transfer and increasing the continuity of service risk.

Mitigating Actions

Three out of four bidder proposals were within the March 2017 time limit to deliver
continuity of service (only Accenture were not). The procurement team is currently
working with bidders to accelerate the delivery timeframes as part of the
development of their proposals.

Attempts are being made to accelerate the procurement process in-order to bring
the new partner on-board as soon as possible.

Front Office Tower Procurement Neil Wilkinson Page 2 of 3

8" December 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15
POL00423563

POL00423563

Front Office Tower Procurement

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER 8A

Strictly Confidential

Fujitsu has been re-engaged to consider extending the contract beyond March
2017. It is likely to be difficult to secure acceptable and affordable terms with
Fujitsu, to guarantee the current service levels Fujitsu may request Post Office to
provide further investment to refresh the central infrastructure. Alternatively, there
may be a need to provide Fujitsu with service lets.

The dedicated senior exit lead will manage the overarching relationship and
commercial performance both of Fujitsu. Any spend with Fujitsu (including arising
from change requests) shall be carefully considered, given that Post Office are
currently procuring a new POS solution and exiting from the Horizon agreement.
Operational Horizon service will continue to be managed by Dave Hulbert,
HomePhone and Broadband by Andy Garner.

Within the Exit schedule in the contract, Fujitsu are formally obliged to provide
knowledge transfer information on request of Post Office. The charges related to
this will be managed by the dedicated exit lead.

5. Commercial Impact/Costs

5.1.

5.2.

Post Office is seeking to appoint a dedicated senior exit lead who will manage the
overarching relationship and commercial performance both of Fujitsu and of future
change requests on the Horizon contract.

Post Office is developing an approach to engage Fujitsu on an extension to the existing
contractual terms. They may request Post Office to provide further investment to
refresh the central infrastructure. In addition, there may be a need to provide Fujitsu
with service lets.

6. Communications Impact

6.1.

Press Relations have been briefed and are prepared to respond to any press inquiries.

7. Conclusion & Recommendations

7.1. Due to the severity of risks continued focus is required, and potential implications for
both the procurement and current services will be mitigated. Post Office will institute
heightened risk management control and provide transparency to the Board as the
situation develops.

7.2. Risk & Compliance Committee is asked to note:

The risks highlighted in the paper, and the associated planned mitigation.
Regular updates will be provided to Risk & Compliance Committee, Transformation
Committee and Executive Committee.
Neil Wilkinson
December 2014
Front Office Tower Procurement Neil Wilkinson Page 3 of 3

8" December 2014

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

29 of 32
Z€ 40 0€

SL/Lo/kz-Bunsay eenWog souRl\dwod ® ¥SI4

POL00423563

POL00423563

RCC 21 January 2015 PAPER 8B
Front Office Tower Procurement Appendix B
Challenge Area Concern POL Status ‘ations Comments / Updates

Strategy © Towers createa
less stable
environment

© Drivesin Cost

© Increases Risk
© Dilutes

Accountability

© Has been tested against Business Transformation agenda and is aligned supported by
Mckinsey

© Strategy and delivery overseen by steering committee and Transformation Board

* Has been market tested with key independent organisations (Mosaic, ISG, Gartner,
Deloitte)

‘© Procurement all market tested to ensure value for money

© Towers is a growing trend in the market; it’s live and working successfully in other
organisations — see attached

Continue to challenge and validate
against change
our strategy (PI
Align witlfBusiness
transitional

Sessions planned in early Jan to
map technical landscape based
‘on FO. (PB)

IT strategy work is looking at
investment plan and transition
states across BTP delivery (PB)
Strategy being tested with FO
bidders (NW)

No further external market
testing identified at this stage.

Transition .
Execution

Increases

development risk

© Timescales are
unrealistic

© Risk of losing or
concentrating
accountabi
across supply chain

* Delay

+ Escalating costs

© Ease of change

‘© Towers model changes how we manage risk but increases competition

* Commercial model designed to constrain cost escalation

‘+ Recognised as complex to transition; benefits grow as Towers are establis!

* Getting the model right on accountabilities for the Towers is key to avoi
duplication or loss of function. This is a key focus through governancejn
programme

© PWC worked with us to identify key risks and controls for a profamme ORtbis
and the programme continues to implement and monitor

* Acknowledge that timescales have moved, under forma

© Set aggressive timescales with the market, bt ten and
respond
© Market input has resulted in more di of solutions

‘© Business Transformation and Set
© We've applied lessons learned improv
successive towers (DC/ SISD/ E

rammepto-date we believe that these

IPR has not proved an issue to t fice bidders, solutions don’t rely on it

Clear cross tower security figgel

eS
~~

Gross Towers alignment
))

plete planned use case tests on
fowers accountability model
(NW(DH))

Review and challenge risks supported
by PWC (NW)

Conclude on need for contingencies
with Fl for continuity of service ~
including TSS extension (BW)
Validate cost and benefits with
Programme Committee and
Transformation Committee (NW)
Complete use case on IPR, test our
ions (NW)

Programme execution aligned with
TMO (NW)

Test security model across towers

{PCI/ISO and Cyber) (JG)

Reviewing cross tower
alignment is active and an on-
‘going piece of work undertaken
by Lee Ham, lan Mealings and
‘Andy Jacques. This is owned by
Steve Hayes on behalf of Dave
Hulbert, with the outputs
required by Neil Wilkinson who
Uses it to procure the right
services (NW & DH)

20 use-case tests have taken
place and found no significant
issues with the model. This

ity will be repeated
periodically. (DH & NW)

PWC finding due for
publication early Jan, and
session to agreed way forward
in diaries (NW)

TSS negotiations on-going,
targeted for completion prior
to FO contract award

Updated cost and benefits
work complete, to be
presented at Programme
Committee (NW)

Continue to work closely with
TMO to ensure appropriate
alignment (NW)

IPR position continues to be
monitored, with further
validation received from CMS
(NW).

Initial security review
complete, findings published
under a separate cover (NW)

JUAWEINOlg JAMO] BOYJO JULY “LL
SL/Lo/kz-Bunsay eenWog souRl\dwod ® ¥SI4

Ze JO Le

RCC 21 January 2015
Front Office Tower Procurement Appendix B

PAPER 8B

POL00423563

POL00423563

Commercials © Onerous ‘© POLhas customer contracts that impose obligations that Towers find onerous. We I « Test FO material commercial ‘Commercial obligations being
obligations continue to work with customers to minimise impact, but in areas these remain an obligations (NW) tested during ISFT dialogue
issue and are outside market norms ‘* Test cross-tower obligations and (nw)
© We have taken advice from CMS on shaping obligations, have challenged appetite Commercial Committee sign-off
with the Programme Committee, and have selectively used Gartner to impact likely I © of final ISFT will be sought as
cost and balanced with risk part of on-going governance
© Have succeeded in awarding SISD and UC contracts that have found the right . (nw)
balance (ExCo approval sought within delegated authorities) Meeting diarised to discuss the
‘* Have maintained credible bidders in all remaining Towers and continue to have governance required to
dialogue to reach a compliant and affordable solution support contract award,
including Board requirements.
been tested by the cross-tower
design team (Lee H, Andy J and
lan M). No significant gaps
found. (DH)
Benefit Case + Notachievable ‘© SISD awarded and benefits secured (more value to be derived frog@the Sexgtre ‘* Continued review of benefits and Review of benefits case and

EUC awarded and benefits secured ~ average £7m p/a across tet (ahead
Business Case), 42% reduction against current run rate

ISPS for BO was in line with Business Case

ISPS for FO was ahead of Business Case

ISPS for Networks shows a benefit challenge — thi 1Bdigwedeh costs
demonstrating 20% reduction

investments across all Towers (NW)
Business Case to be presented to
Finance Committee before YE (NW)

investment profile complete, to
be presented to Programme
Committee (NW)

Finance Committee
requirements being reviewed.
Further update to be provided
in Jan (NW).

JUAWEINOlg JAMO] BOYJO JULY “LL
Supplementary Documents

32 of 32

Location:

Post Office Ltd
Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting
24 January 2015

5th Floor Boardroom, 148 Old Street, London, England, EC1V 9HQ, United Kingdom

ATTENDANCE LIST

ATTENDEES

SIGNATURE

Alwen, Lyons

Aujard, Chris

Cameron, Alisdair

Fay, Healey

Lambert, Gavin

MacLeod, Jane

Nick, Kennett

Paula, Vennells

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-21/01/15

POL00423563
POL00423563
