POL00004669
POL00004669

BARKHAM P.O.

5 June 2020

Post Office Ltd
Head Office
Old Street
London

EC1

oa Lust,

Jam waiting as a Sub Postmistress who has worked for the Post Cffice for some 23 years and who has
been in charge of this Office for eleven years, since my husband’s death. During this time I have had very
few problems with the work involved in running the office.

However, all that changed when I moved from my old building into a Portacabin for the duration of the
demolition and rebuild of the new shop and office. Almost from the day that my Horizon system was
relocated into the Portacabin, my office balances were short by thousands of pounds in each Trading
Period.

I flagged up each shortage with the Help Line , particularty after the Christmas 2009 Trading Period
when the office was short by some £3000= even though I had only been open for twa and a half weeks.
No help or advice was forthcoming and so I decided on my own that I would print off transaction logs for
every week to enable me to make some sense of these losses. Unfortunately ! was unable to go right
back to the relocation date but I have logs from 17% November 2009 up untif the current week.

By palling out all cash deposits, withdrawals and remittances daily and then comparing these figures
with the ONCH , the cash movements are close to the daily cash figures, sometimes over and sometimes
under. These are figures which are generated in the Branch. itis the calculations which are remote from
the Branch which appear to be the problem.

Ihave had an Auditor monitor me at work. He checked my cash, did a cash declaration, watched every
transaction for a moring’'s work. At the end he produced another cash declaration which showed , on
Horizon atleast, that the office had lost £190=. A week later my office had an official audit. Atthe end,
after he had shown me the figures, he entered them onto the Horizon system, so that both his sap top and
my system had the same entries. When he tries to balance the Office system, he found thatit had lost
£276.76. After spending many hours double checking to ensure that both systems had exactly the same
figures, he made no progress and in the end, he had to accept the Horizon figure. Yet another £276.76
Joss for my office.

POL-0000738 Eairart
POL-0000738

POL00004669
POL00004669

Ihave photocopied anomalies on my transaction logs which have resulted in Horizon being asked to
investigate. To date I have heard nothing except a comment from my Contracts Manager that he has
fooked at Horizon and there is no problem. Please could you explain why you have Auditors if the
Horizon/Fujitsu organisation is able to pronounce itself perfect at every opportunity. I have asked that!
be provided with the report from these “investigations” as a courtesy but hold out litte hope that it wil
be forthcoming, if, indeed, one exists.

Jam now being requested to forward ALL of my evidence to Post Office Ltd. I have declined but have
made it plain that I am happy for Post Office Ltd and Horizon/ Fujitsu to view it either at my Office or at
my home, but [ have stressed that this must fappen before my office is moved out of the Portacabin
which I believe was the start of this problem.

I sincerely hope that you will be able to intervene in this matter, since I am of the opinion that no-one
‘will actually look at Horizon in an impartial way unless directed by a person of Authority at the top of Post
Office Ltd.

Yours sincerely,

Mrs PJ.Stubbs

E2/74/2
