POL00021800

POL00021800

Message
From: Belinda Crowe
Sent: 19/08/2014
To: David Oliveri, I; Melanie Corfield }; Parsons,

itive Group/cn=Recipients/cn=ap6)
cc:
Subject: Fwd: Second Sight's Draft Part Two Report

Attachments: 140818 _POL_Ltr_.docx; ATT00001.htm

For info and comments. I suspect that we will not go in this hard. However we can go through tomorrow with Linklaters
as to the pitch.

I'll give it some thought overnight.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
248 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
GRO {Postline:!_ GRO}

i GRO 7]

Subject: RE: Second Sight 's Draft Part Two Report

Dear Belinda

I attach a draft letter to Second Sight along the lines you have requested below. You will see that it is drafted in quite
strong terms. For our part, and as discussed and as you suggest below, we think the time has come to be as robust with
them as possible. Obviously, there are other considerations that mean it may need toning down, but hopefully this draft is
a good place to start.

On the reservation of rights, I have not inserted the “all our rights are reserved” language one usually finds in litigious
correspondence. That is usually only used in the lead up to litigation or where legal rights adverse to another party are
about to be exercised or realistically may be exercised in the near future. I thought it may look a little out of place in this
letter — being a letter to your service provider whom you can theoretically sack at any time - and heavy handed,
particularly if in reality, Post Office has no intention of terminating the engagement (it doesn’t appear to me there is any
other express right of redress or remedial action available under the engagement terms). However, the wording I have
inserted at the end of the letter makes it clear that Post Office does not endorse and is not acquiescing in/accepting
Second Sight's report as drafted. I have inserted for your review a further sentence threatening possible action under the
engagement terms (i.e. presumably, sacking them) but suggest against making such a threat if there is little likelihood of it
being carried out.

Do let me know if you'd like to discuss the letter, including the point above. Otherwise, I look forward to seeing you here
tomorrow morning.

Kind regards

Jonathan

POL-0018279
POL00021800
POL00021800

From: Belinda Crowe?,
Sent: 15 August 2014 15:23

To: Swil, Jonathan

Cc: Rodric Williams; Belinda Crowe

Subject: FW: Second Sight's Draft Part Two Report
Importance: High

Jonathan
With many thanks for your assistance. Please find attached what eventually went.

However, we now understand that the Chair wants Second Sight to finalise their response with no more representations
from the Working Group.

Therefore would it be possible to draft me a further letter to Second Sight which deals not with the detail of Report
itself but:

- quality of work

- What we expect from professional accountancy firm

- what we have paid them and over what period

- why we have a right to expect a high quality product

- Terms of engagement and reserving our legal rights should the report issue as is (Rod said you would understand
exactly what that looks like)

Some of this is already in the letter you prepared before but this needs to be as strong as we can make it — we can also
water it down.

Would you be able to do that as a matter of urgency? Or so that we have something to go very early next week.

I understand that you are working from home but I can be reached on! “} should you wish to discuss

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
‘ostline }

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

peereecueerecerecuntrecerecrcerececercerecccerecertrecrercrrrectercs
Any business communication, sent by or on behalf of Linklaters LLP or one of its affiliated firms or other
entities (together "Linklaters"), is confidential and may be privileged or otherwise protected. If you receive it in
error please inform us and then delete it immediately from your system. You should not copy it or disclose its
contents to anyone. Please be aware that messages sent to and from Linklaters may be monitored for reasons of
security, to protect our business, and to ensure compliance with legal and regulatory obligations and our internal

POL-0018279
POL00021800
POL00021800

policies. Emails are not a secure method of communication, can be intercepted and cannot be guaranteed to be
error free. Anyone who communicates with us by email is taken to understand and accept the above.

Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number
0C326345. It is a law firm authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (www.sra.org.uk).
The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is used to refer to a member of Linklaters LLP or an employee or
consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications.
Please refer to www.linklaters.com/regulation for important information on our regulatory position. A list of
Linklaters LLP members together with a list of those non-members who are designated as partners and their
professional qualifications, may be inspected at our registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ and
such persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers.

Joa I oS IIIS O aI ODIO DIA DADO ID ISDA SII ARIA AIA A

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0018279
