POL00410261
POL00410261

From: Helen M Perkins[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=HELEN+20M+20PERKINS 14353AFF-347C-48D8-AB99-
7649C06131782E@C72A47.ingest.local]

Sent: Mon 24/09/2012 5:21:12 PM (UTC)

To: Tim FranklinI

Ce: Alwen Lyons. Gi

Subject: RE: Final calendar of meeting dates

Attachment: 31 FS Sales Mar12.doc

Attachment: Eagle Board Final Authorisation July 2012.doc

Attachment: Eagle Board Regulatory Capital 0712 nk2.doc
Hello Tim

That is all fine, thank you. Not all Board members have yet confirmed the 2013 dates so February’s ARC might still
move. If not, I’m sure it would be fine to join the meeting by phone and we can work out the best way of doing that
nearer the time.

I was going to email you today, in any case, to propose an outline for your induction.

FS

I have seen and noted your email correspondence with Nick Kennett and he has asked me to send you some
background documents in preparation for your meeting on 10". You saw the latest proposal for current accounts
(Polo) in the September Board papers. Also attached are:

a) Ageneral paper on FS Sales Strategy, dating from March 2012

b) A paper setting out the position on regulatory capital issues for Project Eagle and a further paper containing a
summary of final terms of the Project Eagle contract, both dating from July 2012. As you know, this contract
was signed on 3 August and governance of the contract arrangements going forward will be discussed at the
next meeting of the ARC, in November.

Meetings with Key People

In terms of other useful people/things to see as a priority, we would suggest meetings with;
1) Alice Perkins, Chairman (1 hour on initial views and ideas for your contribution to the business)

2) Paula Vennells, CEO (1 hour on the current principal challenges and an introductory overview of the
membership and roles of the Executive Committee)

3) Chris Day/Sarah Hall/Charles Colquhoun, Finance (half day).
Chris is obviously the best person to bring you up to date on financial performance. Sarah is the Chief
Financial Controller and deals with production of annual and half year accounts and performance
reporting; Charles is the in-house expert on Government funding, State Aid, LIBOR, insurance and all
things to do with banking and treasury. Both are very useful, particularly if you will be joining ARC.

4) Sue Barton, Strategy Director (1 hour introduction). Sue is quite new to the business but she has worked
with Post Office in the past and is leading a review of various elements of strategy (including IT and digital
strategy, sales channels, targeted approaches to customer groups and the business of cash, and the longer
term need for cost management in order to try to secure financial stability. You will be seeing quite a lot
of her at board meetings over the next few months, I expect, so I am suggesting a short introduction to
POL00410261
POL00410261

start with and we can arrange further meetings as you need them.

5) Kevin Gilliland — Network and Sales Director (1 hour)
You will have gathered by now that “network” = post office branches, in layman’s terms. Kevin is the
expert on what is happening in the real world of post offices, what is being done to improve customer
experience and how the relationships with subpostmasters/mistresses, the retailers and the unions are
progressing.

6) Martin Moran— Commercial Director (1 hour)
Martin’s main areas of control are the relationship with Royal Mail re Collections and Returns and the
operation of the Mail Services and Mail Distribution Agreements between the two companies following
separation, and the development of the Front Office of Government business.

7) Mark Davies — Communications Director (1 hour).
Again, you will see Mark at the “Tell the Nation” briefing but it may be useful to have a little more time
with him to understand the programme of engagement with stakeholders, Government etc and meet the
people in his team who deal with PR, advertising etc.

You may also like to spend an hour or so with Alwen to talk about Board and Committee meetings. We
can of course arrange further meetings with other Executive Committee members or managers whenever
you like

I am checking diaries to see which of the above people have free time on the days when you would expect to be here
— firstly on 10 October, then on 23 October and then perhaps on 13/14 November as I think you will be here on both
days for ARC and then the IT workshop. Please let me know in particular if 13/14 November works for you or, if you
are likely to be in London on any other dates, do let me know and we will try to arrange meetings in an efficient way.

Post O1 vi

The Network team has looked at post offices by location and there is, unfortunately, a scarcity of suitable examples in
your local area! The nearest Main office which has been converted is 54 miles away, in Tamworth.

I have therefore suggested that it might be easier for you to spend some time instead in Birmingham, where we
recently launched the new Premier model office. It would be relatively easy for you once there to visit local, main and
Crown offices (as well as the flagship Premier) and make some comparisons within an easy timescale.

If this would be acceptable for you, perhaps you could let me have some dates when you could spare a day for visits
and we will take it forward from there.

Documents

The Articles of Association are very important as they determine our relationship with the Shareholder Executive of
BIS. They should already appear in the “Reading Room” section on your iPad. You have also had the list of proposed
meeting dates.

The last Board papers also included an updated contacts list for the Board. The “Project Mozart” report, Terms of
Reference for Board committees and the latest published report and accounts for both Post Office Limited and Royal
Mail Holdings pic and a contact list for the Executive Team should appear there shortly too (I hope, by the end of this
week). If there are any documents which you would particularly like in hard copy, do please let me know.

Director Training

We run workshops on key issues from time to time, as you will see from the IT and Communications workshops. If
POL00410261
POL00410261

there are other areas in which you feel you would benefit from one to one briefings, or external training, do have a
word with Alwen or with me and we will make the necessary arrangements.

am sure that is enough from me for now. I will wait to hear from you and then we can confirm times in diaries.
Helen

Helen Perkins
Assistant Company Secretary

Post Office Limited
148 Old Street
London

EC1V 9HQ,

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales,
company no.2154540

From: Tim Franklin [mailto;
Sent: 24 September 2012 13:
To: Helen M Perkins

Subject: Re: Final calendar of meeting dates

Dear Helen,

Many thanks for sending out the list. There are no board clashes with any of my other commitments, so I'm
grateful for the early notification.

In terms of ARC, I do have a clash in February 2013, and would like to phone in for that meeting, if that is
okay, as I will be in the US from the end of January until just before the February board meeting. I will discuss
what other sub committees Alice would like me to join when we get together in October.

At the last Board, Alwen asked us to let her know what address to send the framed Postal Order to. Please let
her know that my home address would be best for me.

Kind regards and see you soon.

Tim
Tim Franklin

E} GRO iH

On Sep 20, 2012, at 05:12 PM, Helen M Perkins 4

_r wrote:

Alwen apologises for not having handed this out this document yesterday. This is the final,
confirmed list of Board and Committee meeting dates from now up to the end of this year.

The proposed dates for 2013/14 are also attached as a reminder.

Helen
POL00410261
POL00410261

Helen Perkins
Assistant Company Secretary

Post Office Limited
148 Old Street
London

ECIV 9HQ

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales,
company no.2154540

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email
from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT,
LONDON EC4Y 0HQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ
with the registered company number 02154540

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y 0HQ
with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered
company number 02154540
