POL00297588
POL00297588

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce: Jarr
_J;. Susan Crichton!
Subject: RE: High Level Summary of Prosecutor's Duty and Appeal Process

Rodric - Nearly there! - I've added bits. Please see the amendments below.

Martin.

From: Rodric William:
Sent: 10 July 2013 13:49

To: martin smith

Cc: Hugh Flemington; Jarnail A Singh; Susan Crichton

Subject: High Level Summary of Prosecutor's Duty and Appeal Process

Martin — have I described this accurately? If not, please amend or give me a call as necessary.
Thanks, Rodric

¢ Prosecutors have a continuing duty to act properly and fairly within the prosecutorial function.

¢ Part of that duty requires that any material in the hands of the prosecution which may
undermine the prosecution case or assist the defence case must be disclosed to the Defence. This
assessment is made on a case by case basis.

« By reason of the release of the Second Sight report, POL has become aware of fresh
circumstances which may trigger the duty mentioned above. Accordingly POL (as a
prosecutor) is required to and has instituted a review of both past and present cases so as to
ensure that the material contained within the Second Sight Report is disclosed to those who
ought to have received it when prosecuted, because it may undermine the prosecution or
assist the defence.

e@ The Defence then decides whether to apply to the Court of Appeal for permission to appeal a conviction
based on the fresh material .

e The Court of Appeal decides whether an appeal should proceed.

¢ If permission is granted, POL will be represented at the appeal hearing and it is the Court of
Appeal's function to determine whether or not in all the circumstances a conviction is safe.
Even where a convicted defendant receives permission to appeal based on the new material,
that does not mean that his conviction will be overturned. That decision depends upon a
consideration of all of the evidence by the Court of Appeal.

e¢ The Court of Appeal may look to issue a precedent ruling if presented with multiple similar applications for
permission to appeal.

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer
Scans ossnsceansanetntEnnENCCR RANGE NNER

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

POL00297588
POL00297588

@ Post Office stories

®© @postofficenews

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,

please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
