POL00108394
POL00108394

Message

From: Jessica Madrori.
on behalf of Jessica Madron.
Sent: 04/04/2014

To: Jarnail Singh
Subject: RE: Top 5 matters

Many thanks, Jarnail. We can discuss in more detail to make sure I have understood key issues at our 121.

Kind Regards
Jessica Madron
Principal Lawyer
Legal & Compliance

My working days are Tuesday to Friday.

© 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
©
e www.postoffice.co.uk

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V SHQ.

Sent: 03 April 2014 15:10
To: Jessica Madron
Subject: FW: Top 5 matters

Jessica
As discussed see below brief summary of top 5 prosecution matters.
Jarnail.

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

POL-0106499
POL00108394
POL00108394

Fro jarnail Singh

Sent: 18 March 2014 16:18
To: Renata Prywerek

Cc: Piero D'Agostino
Subject: RE: Top 5 matters

Renata
Please see below Top five matters in Criminal prosecutions

Summary of Update postion In POL prosecutions

The persistent allegations that the “Horizon” accounting system used in Post Office branches is unreliable
Over the last few years, there have been a growing number of accusations from subpostmasters (and other
Horizon users) that the Horizon system and its associated processes are unreliable. They allege that errors in
the Horizon system have falsely created losses that do not actually exist. Some subpostmasters have gone
further to allege that Post Office has wrongfully recovered debts from subpostmasters or wrongly prosecuted
subpostmasters based on flawed information from the Horizon system. it should be noted that the transaction
records from the Horizon system often form the foundation of any civil recovery or criminal prosecution
e Past criminal prosecutions are being reviewed for safety following the “Second Sight” (SS) report:
e Brian Altman QC has provided two reports:
e A “backwards looking” report on POL prosecutions to date and “forward looking” report on POL’s
criminal prosecution policy/strategy —
® To date, no appeal has been made against any conviction
e Current prosecutions are being reviewed on a case by case basis to see if they should continue
e No new summons being issued pending identification and appointment of new independent expert to
support Horizon data
e New Horizon expert is continuing, candidates found , awaiting agreement for appointment and
funding.
® Scotland - following discussions with the Procurator Fiscal (prosecutor in all Scotland cases), all Scottish
prosecutions have been adjourned pending appointment of new expert
e Northern freland - no Horizon issues identified with NI prosecutions to date

1. Auditors Training

Auditors were going beyond their role and effectively obtaining evidence(significant comment) not under
caution,

Trained investigation officers on number of occasions in summer and December.

It would appear the effective training has not been cascading through in the security team to all of the
auditors.

Discussed with CK and arranged with them to provide bespoke training and currently awaiting to hear whether
security training to be delivered on team by team basis or regional basis or National basis.

2.Scotland

Following second sight interim report and during the file review process in England and Wales. I arranged and
accompanied CK to Scotland to meet BTO and PFO, this meeting was of up most importance as PFO had
concerns about the safety of prosecuting using Horizon data.

POL-0106499
POL00108394
POL00108394

@ This one to one meeting avoided unfortunate developments North of the boarder which would have
adverse publicity for POL south of the boarder.

e {previously put BTO in place to consider case files in light of Scottish rule of evidence and encouraged
them to develop their links with the PFO. This benefits POL for number of reasons for example Cutting
down on number of rejections by investigation officers to PFO and ensures more effectively
communication .

3. Expert

One of the important issues has been to locate suitable and instruct an expert.

.identified an expert. Accompanied CK to number of meeting with expert and it is hoped expert be instructed
shortly.

in these meetings discussed important issues and assisted in briefing of the expert.

. by liaising with different areas of POL gathering information technical aspects and funding and Fujitsu as
appropriate and liaising between external lawyers and internal POL departments.

. Feed information to experts ,who then become better informed to be able to deal with Horizon
issues/scope.

Current & on-going prosecutions cannot re-commencing, until instruction independent HOL computer expert
is instructed and his report is hand.

4, POL Mediation scheme

The Scheme is open to any Subpostmaster who believes they have suffered a loss or been treated unfairly as a
result of the Horizon system or any

associated issues.

Considered Documents prepared by Bond Dickinson of risks facing POL due to Mediation Process.

Sought Specialist advice from CK as and when appropriate

. written risk warning highlighted by CK to minimised the risk to POL.

. Arranged criminal and civil litigation lawyers to discuss face to face how to minimise risk to POL of the
mediation process.

»mechanism set to limited risk to POL arising out of the mediation scheme. Drawing red line ,not say sorry or
apology.

provide briefing note on each applications.

.Provide training to POL representatives to the mediation scheme.

. As a result CK are more involved and focused in responses to final file reviews before going to mediation
process.

5. Revised Prosecution Policy and Future of POL prosecutions

POL has an in-house security and prosecution team. As part of its remit it undertakes investigations and where
deemed appropriate will undertake criminal prosecutions in line with the business prosecution policy. If an
incident is considered to have sufficient evidence to prosecute it is passed to the POL legal team for review
and consideration against the evidential and public interest tests. Legal teams recommendations are then
passed to the Head of Security and if satisfied, he will then make a decision on Prosecution.

a)There is no doubt that this year will be the most challenging in terms of a number of key factors; the

findings of the second sight review; £20k threshold on anomalies for potential audit and prosecutions policy

and significantly proposals have been submitted for Contract advisors not to precautionary suspend as a

matter of course, without first considering whether or not the subject remaining in the Post Office.

b) Following the Second Sight review and revised prosecution policy with a resultant cultural shift within the
business, greater emphasis will be placed on fraud prevention and early intervention activities. It is
envisaged that a number of fraud risk programmes will be initiated this year driven by emerging patterns
and trends identified by the fraud team in Chesterfield. The success of these programmes will only be
achieved by a collaborative approach with other security strands and key stakeholders.

POL-0106499
POL00108394
POL00108394

c) Cases will only be raised for criminal investigation once all alternative avenues which may culminate ina
successful outcome have been explored and dismissed. The decided course of action needs to be
proportionate, justified and necessary. Cases raised for investigations will be limited to those likely to
seriously damage the brand or reputation of the Post Office, Other cases will be considered where there is
a clear and obvious business need to conduct a criminal investigation.

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

@ LONDQ.

ostlines

HQ
GRO I

Sent: 12 March 2014 11:46

To: Sabrina Jethwa; Nisha Marwaha; Jarnail Singh; Jonny Gribben; Rodric Williams; Jean Reynolds; Jamie Kerr; Jessica
Madron; Joanne Bates; Amanda Curtis

Subject: Top 5 matters

Hi All
I have been asked by Piero to collect information about your matters.

Could you please create a list of your top 5 matters, including short description of each matter. Piero would like to have
the lists by next Tuesday (18.03.2014).

If you need to use our WIP list this is where you can find it: Z:\Legal\3- Admin Legal Team\WIP list

Kind regards
Renata Prywerek I Paralegal

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POL-0106499
POL00108394
POL00108394

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0106499
