POL00460661
POL00460661

From: Jane Davies!
Sent: Thur 22/12/2022

7 AM (UTC)

To: Zdravko
Ce:
Juliet Lang}
Subject: Moving to a Day Rate Contractor
Hi all,

It has been brought to my attention that we are moving a permanent employee into a daily rate contractor role, with
a number of surrounding issues which we need to consider. In summary the issues are:

1. The role description is that of tasks, which should be assigned to a temporary employee/perm employees in
supporting functions

2. The role description is not a defined set of deliverables associated with a contractor which sits outside IR35
3. The role title whether IT Team Support or Enterprise Demand Analyst is one associated with an employee
not a contractor, as role activity is BAU regardless of the function within which it sits

4. The role is being offered to an existing employee who is transferring to a contractor position, which is not
acceptable by HMRC

5. The process for assessing the contractor against the specific requirements of the role has not be managed
appropriately

6. The sign off process by Employment Tax and the People Team has not been followed (assuming there a
process?)

7. There is a serious question raised on ‘responsible’ spending of POL monies in that we are offering a current
employee who earns c£36k a contract work over £100k?

I am not proposing to resolve this before the Xmas break, so suggest we put this recruitment on hold until we have
time to discuss.

I have been made aware by Andy and Tim of the history here, including the cost impact. However, when I review the
above proposed appointment, I am concerned that we are continuing to build upon the risk we already have. I want

to ensure that a) we are fully complaint b) we manage the current exposure with the HMRC appropriately c) that we
understand costs v risks d) that we avoid negative PR. In the meantime, I have asked Andy/Peter for a full review on
all contractors, to assess whether we are inside/outside IR35 for every individual. I has also asked for the process for
bringing contractors on board to be clarified.

Look forward to meeting in the NY to discuss further.

Many thanks,
Kind regards,

Jane

Jane Davies
Group Chief People Officer

People Team

POL00460661
POL00460661

Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street
London, EC2Y 9AQ

postoffice.co.uk

@
