POL00448351
POL00448351

Training Deployment
Model

September 2023

Version 1.2

POL-BSFF-114-0000028
POL00448351

POL00448351

Contents

1. Overview and document purpose ....

1.1 Document overview....

1.2 Version control...

2. Executive summary

2.1 Context and background

3. Scope of conversion training for the Retail Transformation Programme.....

3.1 Key audiences in and out of scope...

3.2 What is out of scope for this deployment approach? ...

No BB

4. Training deployment aims...

5. Training approach

5.1 Levels of training

5.2 Training delivery pathways
5.3 Modality of training delivery...

6. Training deployment logistics...
7. Outliers

7.1 Remote Islands...

7.2 PO Branches with no connectivity...

7.3 Visiting branches with no connectivity ...

7.4 British Forces Post Offices (BFPO)...

8. Operating model, roles, and responsibilities

8.1 Operating model for deployment...

8.2 Proposed operating model for training...

8.3 Key roles and responsibilities.

9. Training Deployment Evaluation.......

9.1 Quality Assurance

9.2 Success Metrics ....

10. Appendix....

10.1 Programme dependencies and outstanding decisions.......

10.2 Abbreviations

10.3 Supporting reference:

10.4 Next steps.....

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0001
POL00448351
POL00448351

1. Overview and document purpose

1.1 Document overview

The purpose of this document is to outline the training deployment approach, delivery
methods, delivery channels and ongoing support as part of the New Branch IT (NBIT)
transformation programme. The scope of this document will focus on the deployment of
NBIT conversion training only.

The design, development, and piloting of the NBIT conversion training materials sits within
the wider scope of the Strategic Platform Modernisation (SPM) training design team and is
documented separately. Any roles that require full NBIT/new starter onboarding training,
will remain under the scope of the Post Office Retail and Head Office Business as Usual
(BAU) training teams, and therefore will not be covered within this document.

The purpose of this document is to:

e Outline how training will be deployed as part of the Retail Transformation
Programme (RTP)* across the in-scope user groups (i.e., people working in Post
Office branches, Postmasters, and counter staff). A detailed view of in scope
audiences is provided on page 5.

e Set out the training deployment approach and training interventions that are being
developed.

e Outline the logistics of deploying each type of training intervention.

e Provide clarity on the approach for outlier branches e.g., remote islands.

e Provide clarity on the scope of the training deployment activities and the roles and
responsibilities of the various stakeholders.

NB. This document is not aimed to be a detailed training curriculum or plan.

PageI1
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0002
1.2 Version control

Workstream I File name
Training 1* Draft
Training
deployment
model v1.0
Training Training
deployment
model v1.1
Training Training
deployment
model v1.2
Page I 2

Date of
issue

15/09/2023

23/09/2023

28/09/2023

Versio!

Draft/Final

Draft (1.0)

Draft (v1.1)

Final (v1.2)

POL00448351
POL00448351

Reviewed by nedct
by

Tracy N/A
Marshall
Ranjeet
Jouhal
Andy
Kingham
Christo
Caratossidis
Thomas
Maddern
Christo
Caratossidis
Thomas
Maddern
Tracy
Marshall
Christo
Caratossidis
Thomas
Maddern

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0003
POL00448351

POL00448351

2. Executive summary

2.1 Context and background

The Post Office network plays an important role in local communities across the UK,
providing products and services on which customers, including small businesses, rely. The
key role the business plays in Britain's high streets has further increased with the demise of
many banks. It is the biggest retail network in the UK and is vital to the UK’s infrastructure
for postal, financial and government services.

Post Office Limited (POL) has embarked on a programme of transformation to address
historical failings in their core branch computer system, Horizon, and replace it with NBIT.
Horizon is used for transactions between POL and its Postmaster branch network, and is
owned, maintained, and managed by Fujitsu Services Limited. In the years following its roll-
out, Postmasters claimed that there were problems with Horizon, which led to prosecutions
and convictions of Postmasters for offences such as theft and false accounting. In
December 2019, POL settled with a group of claimants who established legal action
against the Post Office in response to their convictions. Following this settlement, the High
Court ruled in the claimants’ favour. In February 2020, a Public Inquiry was announced into
the matter, with terms of reference and the appointment of a chair being announced in
September 2020.

The vision of RTP** is to successfully lead colleagues and the retail network through the
biggest retail transformation programme in Post Office history. This will be achieved by the
programme's mission to build a robust retail deployment and training capability, that
seamlessly delivers and embeds NBIT into the retail network; ensuring everyone is heard,
informed, valued and ready. A key element for ensuring that retail branch employees are
confident using the new NBIT terminal, is to first ensure relevant POL employees and third-
party training/support providers are adequately trained on NBIT. The RTP** training teams
current scope covers NBIT branch conversion training only, i.e., assumes that the recipient
already knows how to use Horizon. Therefore, any roles in POL that do not require Horizon
to complete their roles are out of scope. Equipping Postmasters and POL colleagues with
the knowledge, skills, and capabilities to perform their roles effectively with the new NBIT
system will proactively de-risk the transformation and prevent a likely drop in productivity
or quality when changes are implemented.

Page I3
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0004
POL00448351
POL00448351

Some key points to note:

« The scope of this document is limited to the deployment of training, rather than the
training content itself.

e The programme is focused on conversion training, i.e., assumes that the individual
already understands the current Horizon system. However, there is significant
change to branch management processes and trading period (TP) balancing,
therefore a large part of the training delivery will focus on these two key areas.

e Our approach will evolve as we move through the programme. If requirements
emerge after approval of this document, we will work with the programme and its
stakeholders to address them.

3. Scope of conversion training for the Retail Transformation
Programme

This section outlines the key audiences currently in scope for the deployment of NBIT
conversion training. Audiences that require full NBIT/new starter onboarding training, are
out of scope and will continue to be the responsibility of the BAU Retail and Head Office
Training Teams.

3.1 Key audiences in and out of scope

Teams in scope

The scope of RTP* training deployment covers employees in retail branch facing roles. This
will include people working in Post Offices, including Banking Hubs, Postmasters (including
equivalents in Directly Managed Branches (DMBs) and Strategic Partnerships (SPs)) and
counter staff. Additionally, some wider supporting teams such as the Branch Support
Centre (BSC) and Retail Field Teams and Training Teams, are also included in scope for
delivery.

Page I 4
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0005
POL00448351
POL00448351

Teams out of scope

Several Head Office Teams will also require a level of NBIT training as established within
the Training Needs Analysis (TNA) conducted by the RTP* training team.* However, these
currently sit outside the scope of the programme and therefore will be addressed by the
Peoples L&D Team.

The TNA also identified that 3 Head Office teams will require additional training content, in
addition to the conversion training content being provided by SPM. These teams are Branch
Assurance, Network Monitoring and Support, and Network Support and Resolution. These
additional requirements are outlined within the TNA summary pack and have been shared
with the Peoples Learning & Development (L&D) Team.

Audiences in scope Audiences out of scope

and Independents

Postmasters, Branch Managers (DMBs),
Officers in Charge (SPs)

Post Office Field Teams for DMBs and
Independents (Regional and Area
Managers, Business Development
Manager (BDMs))

Strategic Partnerships Post Office Field

¢ Post Office Counter Teams-DMBs, SPs

Post Office employees that currently do
not use Horizon to complete their roles
POL Head Office Teams that do access
Horizon to complete their job role

New Postmasters that take over a
branch with NBIT post its deployment
New employees joining POL that will
need to work with NBIT

Relief Postmaster businesses

Teams

e Post Office Training Team - DMBs and
Independents

e External Training Provider/ Third party
support roles (To be onboarded)

e Branch Support Centre (BSC)

1 See ‘TNA ppt - ‘TNA Part 1 v1.0’ and ‘TNA excel - ‘TNA Excel Part 1 v1.0" for a detailed overview
of the TNA conducted (document linked on page 29)

PageI5
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0006
POL00448351
POL00448351

3.2 What is out of scope for this deployment approach?

Design and build of
training

LMS implementation
and configuration

Management of
courses on LMS

Onboarding
training/New

Postmaster training

POL Head Office
Teams

Page I6

Why th

is out of scope

The training materials are being designed and built by the SPM
training design team. RTP* training team is only responsible for the
deployment of these materials.

SPM training team are building and implementing the Learning
Management System (LMS).

SPM training design team will own the initial uploading of courses
on to the LMS and remain in support for up to the first 6 months of
deployment., to amend courses where required based on critical or
substantive feedback. The RTP* training team will then be handed
over the responsibility of deploying this content.

These activities are owned by the BAU Retail Training Team.

Example BAU activities:
¢ ~NBIT Training build for new Postmasters
e NBIT Training delivery to new Postmasters
e BAU Training for POL employees- will sit with Learning &
Development Manager in the Peoples L&D team

There are teams within Post Office Head Office who require an in-
depth knowledge of the NBIT system to perform their role,
including Training Teams, and teams that investigate discrepancies
or high losses.

These teams (except Training Teams) are not in the scope for
RTP** deployment.

NB. RTP* have flagged via the programme, that these teams
should be included in the scope for RTP* deployment. This is yet to
be agreed.

The Learning & Development Manager for POL employees will
take responsibility for the delivery of training to the specialist POL
Head Office (HO) Teams.

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0007
POL00448351
POL00448351

4. Training deployment aims

The overall aim for training deployment is to ensure that POL Retail, Business Service
Centre (BSC) and third-party training/support providers, are upskilled, confident and
competent to go-live with NBIT deployment. This will support the programme mission to
build a robust retail deployment and training capability, that seamlessly delivers and
embeds NBIT into the retail network; ensuring everyone is heard, informed, valued and
ready.

Training deployment objectives:

e Ensure all users are confident and competent to use NBIT to fulfil their role
requirements on day one of go live, by ensuring they are adequately trained.

e Ensure that the training experience provided is relevant, accessible, and positive for
all included within its scope.

e Ensure that training is pitched at the appropriate level, tailoring learning for
different audience groups based on their user needs and familiarity required of the
system.

e Ensure the appropriate support and feedback mechanisms are in place during
training and post go-live, providing audiences with the opportunity to raise any
concerns or additional support requirements they have throughout their training
journey.

5. Training approach

This section outlines the way in which training will be deployed across our in-scope
audience groups. When designing this approach, the Horizon Issues Judgements (HUs),
Common Issues Judgements (Cis), Project Implementation Review (PIR) and additional
comments made about training during phases 2 and 3 of the Inquiry were reviewed and
taken into consideration, ensuring that the proposed approach and recommendations will
seek to address issues that arose in the past.”

? See ‘RTP* Training Impact Plan v1.0' for more information on His, CUs and PIR related to training
(document linked on page 29)

Page I 7
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0008
POL00448351
POL00448351

5.1 Levels of training

Audiences identified during in the TNA activity have been split into categories based on the
level of expertise and familiarity that they require in NBIT.

After reviewing these findings, we identified that four levels of training would be required
across the business, these are outlined in the table below.

Diagram of the 4 levels of NBIT training

NBIT LEVEL 4

{Training materials: eLearning
+ Practice Site +Branch
‘Management + Interrogation/
Diagnostics

- ‘Audience: POL Head Office
Training materials: Specialist Teams & BAU
jeLearning + Practice site Training Teams

+ Branch Management

NBIT LEVEL 3

NBIT LEVEL 2

Audience:
Postmasters Branch
Managers, Officer in
Charge, POL & Strategic
Partnership Field Teams

Training materials:

NBIT LEVEL 1

. ‘Audience: All Counter
NBIT Familiarisation id
optional presentation

‘Audience: POL teams that
currently do not access.
Horizon in their roles

Based on audience groupings, levels 1-4 have been further broken down into 5 individual
training pathways. These are reflective of audience’s role, skill set and knowledge needs,
taking in to account that a one size fits all approach to training was not suitable and that
tailored pathways would be required for core audiences such as Trainers, Counter staff,

Postmasters, and SPs (see section 5.2).

PageI8
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which

has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0009
POL00448351
POL00448351

Table of key details for the 4 levels of NBIT training

Roles in this level In scope for
RTP**?
NBIT e Forusers that do not currently e AllPOLteamsthat No-comms
Level 1 use Horizon to complete their currently do not activity
roles but need awareness of access Horizon to
the new system. complete their roles

e This will be delivered through
comms awareness

campaigns.
NBIT e For users that currently use e Branch Postmaster Yes
Level 2 Horizon to serve customers in ¢ Relevant branch

Post Office Counters. This employees

level does not include back- e Branch counter

office processes (e.g., TP team

balance and cash count).
e This will be delivered through
the eLearning and practice

site.
NBIT e Level 2 training + back-office « Branch Managers Yes — with
Level 3 processes (e.g., training e Officer in charge exception of
period balance and cash from the branch Specialist
count). e Field Teams (POL & Investigation
e This will be delivered through SPs) Teams which
eLearning, practice site, e POLHO specialist will be the
branch management teams responsibility
classroom sessions (either e Training partner of the
virtual or on-site), and Trade ¢ Deployment partner Peoples L&D
Period (TP) Balancing team
webinars.
NBIT e Levels 1-3 + specialist e On-site trainers Yes — with
Level 4 investigations training (e.g., « On-site trainer team exception of
interrogation / diagnostics). leaders Specialist
e This will be delivered through ¢ Quality Assurance Investigation
eLearning, practice site and Training Lead’s Teams which
classroom sessions (either (QATL's) - will be the
virtual or on-site). classroom trainers responsibility
* Regional training of the
leads x2 (North & Peoples L&D
South) team
« Head office

specialist teams

Page I9
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0010
POL00448351
POL00448351

5.2 Training delivery pathways

Five training pathways have been designed to date, each providing an overview of the
specific, individual training ‘touchpoints’ for each core audience, based on their role and
level of training need. Each pathway maps out the baseline NBIT conversion training
approach and requirements for its intended audience.

The 5 pathways created are outlined below*:

Head Office Roles

External Training Partner

Deployment Partner Role in Full-Counter Roll-out Pathway

Branch Managers (Postmasters) and Counter Staff NBIT Training User Pathway (see
example below)

5. Strategic Partnership for Branch Postmaster, Branch Officer in Charge, and Branch

FWNER

Counter team

Branch Managers (Postmasters) and Counter Staff NBIT Conversion Training user
Pathway 10 weeks

3 See ‘POL NBIT Conversion Training Pathways v1.0" pack for all 5 training pathways (document
linked on page 29)

Page I 10
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0011
POL00448351
POL00448351

NB: These pathways have now been signed off in principle based on the current
programme understanding and will continue to evolve through the next phase of design. So
far, they been used to help test the proposed approach with several key programme
stakeholders, with the aim of gathering feedback on any friction points, key dependencies,
and opportunities to further improve the audience journey.

Once an agreed SPM plan for the overall NBIT deployment is defined and agreed. Each
pathway will need to be revisited and additional discussions and inputs from key
stakeholders across the wider SPM programme, and impacted POL teams, will be required
to finalise each journey and obtain full sign off from the business.

5.3 Modality of training delivery

A blended approach to learning

As outlined in the levels of training above, each of the 4 NBIT levels will receive a more
tailored combination of training dependant on their needs and the training pathway they
have been assigned.

Training will follow a blended approach, using a mixture of both online (self-serve) and
facilitated (formal classroom) learning experiences, via a mixture of platforms. The diagram
below provides a summary of the delivery methods that will be used, and highlights what
each of the 4 NBIT levels will receive.

eLearning — Levels 2-4

Audiences aligned to Level 2 and above will all be required to
complete the eLearning training via the LMS, to help convert from
their current knowledge of Horizon to the new baseline knowledge
required of the NBIT system.

Practice site — Levets 2-4

The practice site will provide a safe environment for learners to
test their knowledge of the eLearning and remains accessible after
leaming is completed.

Classroom learning (virtual or on-site) — Levels 3-4

Virtual classes will run 7 days per week, mornings, afternoons and
evenings; in-person classes will run Sunday to Friday, both
covering Branch Management and Trading Period Balancing

Webinars — tevets 3-4

To support Postmasters and their teams at the point of their first
TP (trading Period) Balancing, webinars will be run across each
week, three per day, Monday to Friday.

Page I 11
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0012
POL00448351
POL00448351

eLearning

Audiences aligned to Level 2 and above will all be required to complete the eLearning
training via the LMS, to help convert from their current knowledge of Horizon to the new
baseline knowledge required of the NBIT system. It is currently estimated that these
modules will take between 5 to 6 hours to complete over a set period.

eLearning content will be created in ‘bite-size’ modules to reduce time impact on branches
and enable learning to happen during the contractual working hours of counter teams.

NB. It is critical learning is offered in small chunks over an extended period, as many
counter staff work short hour contracts and earn minimum wage, or close to. Therefore,
there is a need to ensure they can access and complete learning during their contractual
hours to avoid contravening any working time regulations. This could expose the Post
Office to negative media attention if not adhered to.

Practice Site

SPM have requested the build of an online Practice Site to support learning. The Practice
Site will provide a safe environment for learners to test their knowledge of how to use
NBIT, following on from the eLearning content. Learners will use the site to practice key
common scenarios and build their familiarity with the system, ahead of their new terminals

being installed. There is plan for this site to remain accessible after learning is completed.

NB: Currently the practice site will be the only way branches can practice using NBIT
before terminals are installed in their branches. Several risks have been raised around this
already as this is a critical requirement for training, especially when it comes to enabling
branches to practice their back-office balancing activities. If this solution is found to be not
viable, an alternative solution must be found to allow audiences to safely practice using
NBIT prior to go live.

Classroom Learning (virtual or on-site)

Most transactions within NBIT do not change significantly from the current process within
Horizon, however, Branch Management and TP Balancing do alter considerably. To address
this, we plan to run more focused, facilitated training to support Postmasters specifically
with these processes. We refer to this as Level 3. This will provide them with the
opportunity to solidify what they have learnt from the eLearning and speak through these
changes with someone in detail.

Page I 12
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0013
POL00448351
POL00448351

Audiences will be offered the option of attending either virtual or on-site classrooms (see
diagram for key details). Sessions will be open to anybody that leads a Post Office branch
or has a responsibility for completing branch management/TP balancing activities (e.g.,
where a Postmaster has multiple branches, they should attend in addition to a minimum of
one nominated person from each of their units).

NB. We have listened to the feedback from the Postmasters Working Groups and the
NFSP, and therefore will plan to run virtual classroom sessions 7 days per week, covering a
range of mornings, afternoons, and evenings; on-site classes will run Sunday to Friday
giving Postmasters the choice of which they prefer to attend. We have avoided times/days
when Postmasters told us are their busiest. Additionally, Postmasters requested a
maximum of eight learners per session, on-site or virtual and that virtual sessions will for a
maximum of two hours.

Diagram of key information for on-site and virtual training sessions

Length Circa half a day Maximum of 2 hours

pu
Se Days Sunday-Friday Sunday-Saturday

fe} aan Maximum travel of 50 miles to Leveraging same materials as
Logistics attend training on-site sessions

bs

Capacity 8 people 8 people

Post deployment Webinars — Trading Period (TP) Balancing

Support for branches on balancing during the rollout of Horizon has been heavily criticised
at the Inquiry, with the balancing training and trading statement for the Horizon system
being called out as very poor compared to other training modules.

As this is an area of significant change in the move to NBIT, we will aim to address this by
offering a regular programme of daily (Monday-Friday) Webinars for branches to dial into
when they are ready to complete their first TP balancing activities via NBIT.

We will offer the choice of three Webinars per day. We will not expect places to be
booked, we will not restrict numbers, nor will we restrict how often a branch can

Page I 13
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0014
POL00448351
POL00448351

access these webinars (we recognise that some branches may want to attend more than
one session until they feel sufficiently confident in the process). SPM Training Design are
producing the material for these sessions, there is also a plan to record a session and make
this available to branches for them to online self-serve when needed.

Table of proposed schedule of webinar sessions

Post Deployment support with first TP Balance — 2hr Webinar session

15 Sessions per week — no maximum capacity

14:00 14:00 14:00 14:00 14:00

PM
17:00 17:00 17:00 17:00 17:00

6. Training deployment logistics

This section outlines the logistics behind deploying NBIT training to in-scope audiences
outlined in section 3.

Whilst most audiences will follow these pathways and logistics, there are some groups
who will not, and additional logistics will be required. For more information on these
groups, please see the next section (Section 7: Outliers).

eLearning

e Allcounter staff, including Postmasters or equivalents, will access their eLearning
via the LMS.

e AURL will be shared to access the LMS via comms on the lead up to training kick
off for that branch.

e The LMS will be programmed with the Financial Accounts/Accounting Department
(FAD) Code (unique identity code per Post Office branch, which identifies the type of
Post Office branch i.e., Main or Local) so that only the appropriate training for the
transactions offered within the branch are accessible; we will not train ‘local’ teams
in content that is not relevant to their branch.

Page I 14
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0015
POL00448351
POL00448351

e Learners will be able to access modules as often as they like and will still be made
available post deployment. The only ask is that completion of all modules is
actioned within the allotted timeframe as part of the deployment readiness criteria.

e Atthe request of users, training is to be designed in ‘bite-size’ chunks to enable it to
be more digestible and time effective.

e Postmasters (and equivalent) will be able to monitor eLearning completion of their
teams. They will be required to verify their team have completed their learning
ahead of Go Live.

Branches without a suitable device

e Atthe time of developing this document, no work has been done to establish how
many branches do not have access to a device to access eLearning. SPM are
currently exploring options to credit each branch with £200 to purchase, and retain,
a device locally should it be required.

NB. A decision will need to be made by the SPM programme on the best way to address
this issue, this approach will also need to be piloted ahead of full counter roll out.

Practice site

e  Itis anticipated that a separate online Practice Site will be built to support learning
in the absence of branches being able to practice on physical terminals.

« Practice Site will be accessed via Branch Hub.

e This will be released to a branch at the same time as their eLearning and will remain
accessible even after the deployment of NBIT.

e  Itis important to note that the practice site does not sit within NBIT and therefore,
cannot contribute to physical transactions (unlike the Horizon practice tool).

Online webinars

e We plan to run 15 TP balancing sessions per week to support branches at the point
of their first TP.
«These sessions will be hosted via the LMS.

NB. LMS functionality to support, host and schedule webinars will need to be confirmed, if
not an alternative platform will need to be established.

Page I 15
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0016
POL00448351
POL00448351

Virtual classrooms for Postmasters

e Atpeak, we plan to offer up to 60 virtual sessions each week, across seven days.

e These will be offered, booked, and hosted via the LMS. There is a principle that
these will not last longer than 2 hours.

e Anadministration team within Retail Operations Centre (ROC) will be responsible
for inputting the virtual training sessions onto the LMS.

e Despite on-site classrooms being an option, there is a desire to encourage as many
people as possible to choose virtual training. We anticipate a gradual decline in
take-up for on-site classroom sessions as the programme progresses, and word
gets out that virtual sessions are as effective as on-site training. There is a plan for
the NBIT Comms Team to support training with this change in culture, by sharing
positive stories from Postmasters to promote their experiences with the virtual

training.

NB. LMS functionality to support, host and schedule Virtual Classrooms will need to be
confirmed, if not an alternative platform will need to be established.

On-site classroom sessions for Postmasters

e Conversations in 2022 with Postmaster Working Groups and the National
Federation of Sub-Postmasters (NFSP) demonstrated that culturally there is a
preference for on-site training for many Postmasters; The Retail Engagement
Director (Tracy Marshall) is keen for on-site classes to continue to be part of the
NBIT offer, therefore we need to ensure this is an option for the Postmasters as an
alternative to virtual.

e The Post Office expects Postmasters to travel a maximum of 50 miles to attend
training. It’s important to note that Postmasters incur all the costs associated with
attending on-site training — backfill, travel, meal costs etc.

e Classroom sessions will be offered across the UK predominantly hosted at POL
sites such as Counter Training Offices (CTO’s) and DMBs utilising unused rooms
located above the branch. This will need to be supplemented by a small number of
external venues to ensure sufficient coverage of the country.

e Training classes offered in a CTO, will be in the site’s meeting room and not in the
BAU Training Room, with two exceptions, Plymouth, and Cambridge. These two
venues are available Mondays & Fridays only. This has been agreed with the Head
of Training Delivery, Postmaster Effectiveness (Ranjeet Jouhal).

e At peak we plan to offer 45 Classroom sessions each week, Sunday to Friday.

e These sessions will be offered and booked via the LMS.

Page I 16

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0017
POL00448351
POL00448351

e Atraining administration team will be responsible for scheduling the training
sessions and assigning the venues. These will then need to be uploaded into the
LMS for booking on a weekly rolling basis.

e External venues will need to be secured via the current POL venue provider Agiito.

https://www.agiito.com/

On-site classroom locations

To date, 26 potential on-site training classroom locations, ideally placed around the UK,
have been identified and are listed below. These locations would enable 95% of all Post

Office Branches to attend a classroom session within a 50-mile radius.

For the 5% of branches that sit outside of this offer (e.g., remote Isles) a separate approach
will be offered. This is further covered in the following outlier’s section of this document.

Directly Managed Branches
MBs)

¢ Chesterfield
e Hampstead

e Kingsland
e Grimsby
¢ St Albans

e Milton Keynes

External Locations

Llandudno North Wales
SPA Hotel

Penrith North Lake
District SPA Hotel
Inverness Marriott
Exeter Jurys Inn

Bury St Edmunds Best
Western

Maesmawr Hotel Wales
Leeds Parks Plaza
Stevenage Holiday Inn
Maidstone Mercure

Basingstoke
Belfast
Bridgend
Coleshill
Glasgow
Mutely
Cambridge
Perth

South shields
Stockport
Swindon

NB. Further modelling activity will need to be carried out to confirm and secure the required
number of on-site training venues and their locations once a better understanding of the
end-to-end SPM deployment plan is known.

7. Outliers

Page I 17

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which

has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0018
POL00448351
POL00448351

There are some Post Office branches that will not be able to fully follow the approach
outlined above. These include Post Office branches on remote islands, British Forces Post
Office (BFPO) branches, and branches with no/poor connectivity. This section outlines the
logistical considerations required for these branches and the approach to deploying training
to these groups.

NB. The information in this section contains our initial research and recommendations for
these branches, this approach will need to be refined and agreed as we move through the

programme.

7.1 Remote Islands

There are more than fifty remote islands in the UK that have at least one Post Office branch
located on the island.‘ In total, there are 127 branches that will need to be trained, situated
on remote islands, these can be seen in the diagram below.

These locations are referred to as remote as access is only by sea, weather permitting, or in
some cases by air. ©

With a large volume of these remote branches located in the Scottish Isles, it is important
to be aware of the Scottish Government's strongly held view, that businesses in these
remote islands receive the same experience and service as those on the mainland.

We have agreed that a tailored deployment solution is required for these locations and that
they should not be included in the automated plans with the rest of the UK.

Training will likely need to visit every remote branch that cannot access learning because of
no/insufficient connectivity. Due to constraints of sea travel, it has been agreed to only
deploy NBIT to these branches during summer months, when sea crossings are most likely
to run regularly. Sea crossings are not always daily, and many islands do not offer
overnight accommodation or allow vehicles, therefore a more detailed plan is required for
these islands.

4 See ‘Remote Islands’ for a detailed overview of all Scottish Isles (document linked on page 29)
5 See ‘Remote Isles Training Accessibility Survey (July 2023)’ excel for the outcomes of this survey
(document linked on page 29)

Page I 18
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0019
POL00448351
POL00448351

Diagram of remote island locations

7.2 PO Branches with no connectivity

Where a branch has no, or insufficient connectivity, training materials will be provided in
‘hard copy.’ If a branch is unable to access eLearning and the Postmaster is not able to join
virtual sessions, we will send a Trainer to deliver training on-site. Once an NBIT terminal
has been deployed, branches will be able to access their learning via the terminal.

Where there are branches on the mainland that do not have sufficient connectivity to
access the LMS, we will respond in the same way, sending a hard copy training pack in
advance, followed by a Trainer to deliver on-site NBIT training at the branch.

NB. This link shows the connectivity of each branch at the time of collating this report.® It
lists almost 100 that rely on satellite connectivity. Although many of these are branches in
the Scottish Isles, there are branches across all regions of the UK with only satellite
connection. The work was compiled for us by Senior Service IT Manager, Network &
Connectivity, (Ashley Humphries). Approximately 300 branches have an 8meg download
speed, most branches have a 24meg broadband speed. Obtaining up to date information
on branch connectivity will be vital in determining numbers of on-site trainers required.

® See ‘Scottish Isles No Connectivity V1’ for an overview of branch locations with no connectivity and
the nearest branches to these with mobile connectivity (document linked on page 29)

Page I 19
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0020
POL00448351
POL00448351

7.3 Visiting branches with no connectivity

Itis not always easy to contact branches by telephone, and currently not all branches have
an active email address. It is advisable to pass a copy of the planned training schedule to
Grapevine (POL security team) so that if a Postmaster calls, they can confirm that it is a
genuine visit.

7.4 British Forces Post Offices (BFPO)

BFPO provide a Postal and Courier Service to the UK armed forces worldwide. Their 19
Post Offices (with 21 counters in total) are based overseas at permanent and operational
concentrations of British Service Personnel.

BFPO are responsible for their own:

e Policy, governance, and performance management
e London based courier and sorting offices

e Technical support

e Corporate services

Training BFPO in NBIT.

Training Delivery to BFPO’s will be their responsibility. We have agreed to train their small
training team, who will then cascade onward to their 19 branches. The ‘Train the Trainer’
sessions will be at RAF Northolt, west London, where the leadership for BFPO is based.
We will need to liaise carefully with them to ensure security clearance in advance. BFPO
sit within POL’s Strategic Partnership Team. At the time of compiling this pack a Strategic
Partnership Account Manager (Billy Ware), has responsibility.

Because of the various time zones that BFPO branches operate in, SPM will need to ensure
that videos giving guidance to TP Balancing are available to access whenever required.

7.5 Relief Postmaster Businesses

There are numerous Relief Postmaster businesses that can be drafted into a branch with
little notice to lead the running of a Post Office on a temporary basis in order that

the Government stipulation for national access to a branch is not compromised.

Page I 20

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which

has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0021
POL00448351
POL00448351

Many of these businesses are small, local family run businesses, but some are much larger.
Many Relief Postmasters will find themselves managing a branch during the deployment to
NBIT and will be upskilled as part of that branch, but those that are not yet assigned to a
branch will require separate upskilling.

Further activity is required to establish the smaller businesses and agree an upskilling
approach with them. Larger businesses do have their own training teams and have
requested train the trainer sessions. The Head of Postmaster Onboarding, Jayne Pardoe,
can help with a current view.

8. Operating model, roles, and responsibilities

This section outlines the training operating model for deployment, an overview of how the
ROC brings together the different partners and the roles and responsibilities of the training
resources required.

8.1 Operating model for deployment

The below diagram shows a high-level operating model view for NBIT deployment and
how it interfaces with our partners and the wider business.

Deployment operating model

ttt B x I
=x @ Tesco ASDA
500m st, 11,600. tn Se ES Ee - Es
Page I 21

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0022
POL00448351
POL00448351

8.2 Proposed operating model for training

The next diagram shows a high-level operating model view for RTP* training. The Retail
Operations Centre brings together POL and its partners to govern, monitor and de-risk the
execution of deployment. Together, they implement and deliver the deployment Lifecycle.
Three core capabilities have been identified as the functional requirements for the Training
Provider: training delivery and management team, learning administrative team and
helpdesk team. Within these three core teams, there are several roles and responsibilities
which are outlined in the section below.

Training operating model

Postmaster and Branch staff

8.3 Key roles and responsibilities

Deployment partner role

The Deployment Partner will be responsible for the removal of Horizon terminals and the
installation of NBIT terminals, including all associated activity. This includes engineering
teams and deployment management teams. They will also own the relationship with a
Postmaster from week —-12 through to week +2 and be the single point of contact within

the programme for the Postmaster during the programme's lifecycle.

Page I 22
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0023
POL00448351
POL00448351

Key activities:

e POL branch visit to better understand ways of working

e Completes eLearning, trade immersion training and branch and cash management
webinar

e Feedback to RTP* training team as part of training evaluation process

e Continued check-ins and contact with RTP* trainers support team

Training partner roles

Capability
Role Descriptio:
group
Training Supply chain — Responsibility for supplier sourcing and contracting,
delivery management = onboarding specialist suppliers as required, and
management provide quality assurance, regular vetting with

evaluation and benchmarking.
Other Other Managed Learning Service (MLS) activities such
management as delivery management, facilitator quality assurance,
activities commercials, subcontracting, contract management,
invoice management and service delivery
management. Liaising with Deployment Lead to agree
wording regarding NBIT Training in the Start-Up

Packs.
Learning Booking and Administrative support responsible for all back-office
administration scheduling scheduling, bookings, cancellations, and rescheduling
team management of all face-to-face (classroom and on-

site) and virtual training events throughout the
duration of training deployment via LMS.
Faculty Ability to subcontract qualified training providers that
management can deliver either face to face (classroom and on-site)
or virtual classroom training across all regions of the
UK to circa 22,000 people.
Venue Administrators will support the scheduling and
bookings booking cancellations of venues, both POL and third-
party owned venues.
Reporting and Provide effective data and reporting established
evaluation against Key Performance Indicators (KPls), Service

Page I 23
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0024
POL00448351
POL00448351

Level Agreements (SLAs), and wider programme
success metrics.

Helpdesk Training Multi-channel help desk providing effective general
team support help query management underpinned by robust triaging
desk query and escalation processes. Will act as key

contact channel between branches and training
deployment to ensure all branches are offered an
excellent and fully supported training experience.
Trainers NBIT Trainers Capable of training delivery across three different
methods: on-site classroom, virtual classroom/post
deployment webinars and on-site branch delivery.

9. Training Deployment Evaluation

9.1 Quality Assurance

We will expect the Managed Service Training Provider, to establish a robust process of
quality assurance (QA) to demonstrate to the programme that it regularly and actively
measures the delivery of NBIT training in classroom, virtual and on-site sessions. SLAs and
KPls will need to be agreed as part of the Contractual Agreement.

RACI to demonstrate levels of ownership for QA

Topic Respon: Accountable Consult Inform
Training SPM Tracy Marshall, Tracy Marshall, Pete Marsh,
Design Retail Retail Retail
Content Engagement Engagement Operations

Director Director Director
Faculty of RTP* Prime -— Tracy Marshall, Pete Marsh,
Training Training Retail Retail
Delivery Provider Engagement Operations
Director Director

The quality of training delivery of the Horizon system was heavily criticised by Postmasters
at the Inquiry and POL will need to see that RTP* have checks and measures in place to
effectively assure training of NBIT. There will need to be regular QA updates to POL
throughout the duration of the roll-out.

Page I 24
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0025
POL00448351
POL00448351

9.2 Success Metrics

The training success metrics will assess how the Post Office Teams are engaging with the
training content, where they may require additional support and whether the training has
been effective. These metrics will be analysed across the deployment Lifecycle and used to
adjust the training as required.’ The Cs, HUs and PIR were reviewed and all training
judgements and references relevant to training were highlighted. These judgements and
references have been used, along with best practice, to determine what success metrics are
required to ensure that individuals receive sufficient training.

The success metrics have been divided into 3 categories: progress metrics, effectiveness
metrics and post-deployment metrics. There are several measures that will sit under each
of these categories which are outlined in the table below.

Proposed training success metrics

Category Metrics

Progress metrics + Volume of branches trained by wave
Metrics that indicate how well users * eLearning module completion rate
participated in the training provided, which »* Number of classroom sessions held
reflect their initial reactions to the training + Attendance to classroom sessions

Effectiveness + Final assessment scores
Metrics that will indicate how well the + Average assessment pass rate
training supports learning and learning + Time spent on modules
transfer. + Time spent on practice site

+ Branch manager readiness survey
+ Feedback questionnaires

* QA

Post-deployment metrics + Deep dive evaluation

These metrics will help to gather direct + BSC calls

feedback from users on their attitudes and + Revisiting eLearning

behaviors on how useful they found the + In App support

training and the new NBIT system. + Feedback shared directly with Field
Teams

+ TP balancing accuracy

7 See ‘T2 Training Success Metrics_v1.0' for a detailed overview of Training Deployment Success
Metrics (document linked on page 29)

Page I 25
*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0026
POL00448351
POL00448351

Appendix

POST
OFFICE

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0027
10.1 Programme dependencies and outstanding decisions

Decision required Owner

Issue

Do we need to
provide a suitable
device to branches?
Larger branches
may need more than
one device

Suitable Practice
Site, incl branch
management
processes,
requested by SPM
but no indication of
where it is in IT
workplan

Access to an NBIT
terminal ahead of
deployment

An LMS is required
to facilitate the
delivery of NBIT
Training

Impact

Counter staff &
Postmasters need to access
eLearning via a device
Window for eLearning
completion remains tight, if
large team, one device will
be insufficient

Will build confidence if
accessible alongside
eLearning. Highlighted
during Inquiry

Will significantly increase
confidence if teams can see
terminal & peripherals
before Go Live

Current LMS does not have
sufficient capability to
schedule training events or
host remote sessions. Also
has limited number of
licences

Procure & loan, or
provide funding to
purchase locally
Survey branches to
determine number of
devices/funding
required

Develop Practice
Site not ina live
environment

Procure a suitable
LMS

NB. These dependencies feature in RTP*’s Risk Log in Service Now.

Page I 27

POL00448351
POL00448351

SPM
Programme
Lead
SPM
Programme
Lead

SPM
Programme
Lead

SPM
Programme
Lead

Retail
Engagement
Director

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0028
10.2 Abbreviations

POL00448351
POL00448351

Below is a table outlining the acronyms used in this training deployment model document.

Term

BAU Business as Usual

BDMs Business Development Manager

BFPO British Forces Post Office

Bsc Branch Support Centre

cu Common Issues Judgement

cTo Counter Training Office

DMB Directly Managed Branch (sometimes called Crown Offices)
FAD code Financial Accounts/Accounting Department
HU Horizon Issues Judgement

HO Head Office

KPls Key Performance Indicators

L&D Learning & Development

LMS. Learning Management System

MLS Managed Learning Service

NBIT New Branch IT

NFSP National Federation of Sub-Postmasters
PIR Public Inquiry Recommendations

POL Post Office Limited

QATL's Quality Assurance Training Lead

ROC Retail Operations Centre

RTP* Retail Transformation Programme
SLAs Service Level Agreements

SP Strategic Partnerships

SPM Strategic Platform Modernisation

TNA Training Needs Analysis

TP Trading Period
Page I 28

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0029
10.3 Supporting references

No
1 TNA - Part TNA Part 1v
1 1.0.pdf

jocument I Document link

TNA Excel Part 1
v1.0.xlsx

RTP* Training
Impact Plan
v1.0.pdf

2 Impact
Plan

3 Training
pathways

POL NBIT
Conversion Training
Pathways v1.0.pdf

4,5&6 Remote Remote Islands v1.0

Isles xlsx

Documents Remote Isles
Training
Accessibility Survey
uly 2023).xlsx
Scottish Isles No
Connectivity
Branches V1.xlsx

7 Success T2 Training Success

metrics Metrics _v1.0.pdf

Page I 29

POL00448351
POL00448351

Description

Overview of the TNA conducted
identifying the specific training required
for 115 Head Office teams in POL.

Summary of key themes identified from
review of His, Cs and PIRs, and an
outline of how the proposed approach
and recommendations will seek to
address issues that arose in the past.
Overview of the specific, individual
training “touchpoints” for each core
audience, based on their role and level of
training need. Each pathway maps out
the baseline NBIT conversion training
approach and requirements for its
intended audience.

Detailed list of all 127 remote isles
branches.

Detailed list, outlining the accessibility
requirements and constraints for each of
the remote Isles branch locations.

Overview of branch locations with no
connectivity and the nearest branches to
these with mobile connectivity.

Outlines the training success metrics that
will be used to assess how Post Office
Teams are engaging with the NBIT
training, where additional improvements
can be made, and its overall
effectiveness.

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which

has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0030
POL00448351
POL00448351

10.4 Next steps

This document was taken at a point in time during merger between RTP and SPM. Thus,
this document will need to be revisited in the future and will continue to evolve through the
next phase of design. Below are the high-level next steps from this deployment model.

1. Sharing and socialising the deployment model more widely across the SPM team
Close down programme dependencies and outstanding decisions (see section
10.1)
a Develop detailed end-to-end deployment plan on how this approach will be
deployed
Page I 30

*At the point this deliverable was written, the programne was named RTP which
has since merged to become SPM.

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0031
POL00448.
POL00448351

POST

\ OFFICE

POL-BSFF-114-0000028_0032
