POL00149417

POL00149417

Message
From: Laura Pinkney i GRO q
Sent: 29/10/2014 11:36:03
To: Parsons, Andre\ GRO }
cc: Tom Wechsler Belinda Crowe! Simon Clarke

L GR
Subject: RE: Prosecution Docs [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Attachments: image004.gif; image00S jpg; image006.jpg; image007.jpg

Hi Andy
Just a few clarifications:
Pre-Court

Interview transcripts are not disclosable at this stage. Defendants are entitled to copies of the
recording but not to transcripts/summaries. The prosecution file would contain a transcript/full
summary.

The examples in reference to ‘remaining investigation material’ would be privileged. In addition, the
following would not be disclosable as either privileged or sensitive material: anything which
indicates the investigative process adopted by POL, information sources, internal POL security
personnel files, internal correspondence between investigators lawyers and security, audit processes
and process documents (reasoning behind prosecution decisions).

Start of Court Proceedings

The SPMR is not sent anything other than the summons before the hearing. The Advanced Disclosure
is provided at the first hearing. This usually contains a case summary, transcript/summary of
interview and key witness statements/ exhibits. As you say, if the case proceeds to a trial or to the
Crown Court a full (paginated) bundle of evidence will need to be prepared.

End of Court Proceedings

Transcripts are very rarely obtained. The most common reason for obtaining a transcript would be
for an appeal and then it is likely to be limited to only the parts of evidence/judgment relevant to any
appeal.

Ihave discussed the matter with Simon and his concern is that if any contents of the prosecution file
is given to SS, SS will be encouraged to second guess the foundation on which the conviction was
founded which would be out of the scope of the mediation scheme and will also give rise to the

potential dangers of appeal risks which we recently identified.

I think it would be beneficial for you to discuss this further with Simon, he is due back into the office
at around 12.30pm today.

I trust this assists.

Kind regards

POL-BSFF-0008537
POL00149417
POL00149417

Laura

Laura Pinkney

CartwrightKing

meer SOLICITORS —

Birmingham I Derby I Leeds I LeicesterI London I Milton Keynes I Nottingham I Sheffield I Tyneside
www.cartwrightking.co.uk

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE

srmation. If you have received
mn email, do not copy it or its contents to anyone

y privileged ir

\d regulated by the

Solicitors R

We cannot guarantee that this e-mail and any attachments are virus-free, but you should please
check.

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailt«
Sent: 29 October 2014 10:42
To: Belinda Crowe
Cc: Tom Wechsler
Subject: Prosecution Docs [BD-4A.FID20472253]

"3 Laura Pinkney

Belinda

I've spoken to Laura at CK about what documents we should expect to see in a prosecution / prosecution file. Below is a
short summary of the documents that may exist.

Laura — if I've got any of this wrong, please say!
Pre-Court proceedings

e Disclosable material will probably be limited to interview transcripts.

e The remaining investigation material (eg. internal reports, investigation notes; advices on charging, etc.) are likely
to be privileged.

e As always however there is a degree of grey in what is privileged and what is not.

Start of Court proceedings:

e The SPMR will be sent a Summons setting out the Charges against them -— this will contain little detail of the
factual background.

e Before the first Court hearing, the SPMR will be sent a short case summary, a summary of any interviews or
interview transcripts and maybe but not usually some basic witness statements. This information is to show that
there is a "case to answer" and is relatively limited in scope.

e  Atthe first hearing, the SPMR can plead guilty in which case no further documentation will be produced /
disclosed (see below).

e Ifthe SPMR pleads not guilty then a full Court process will follow. More detailed documents and statement may
be produced but this is entirely dependent on the nature of the case and how far the case progresses.

End of Court proceedings:

POL-BSFF-0008537_0001
POL00149417
POL00149417

e No written judgments are given (either where the SPMR pleads guilty or where there is a full trial and the SPMR is
found guilty) — orders and judgments are given verbally.

e  Itis usually possible to obtain a transcript of any verbal decision of the Court but this is not always done and so
we may not have a transcript in any given case.

e If there is a confiscation order, this will be in writing.

In summary, my view is that in cases where Applicants’ plead guilty at an early stage, the only relevant and disclosable
documents will likely be interview transcripts (which is pretty much what we've been providing to SS already). There may
also be some case summaries and Summonses setting out the charges but they will not go into the detailed background
and so won't really assist SS' review.

Happy to discuss how we convert this into a message to Tony / SS about what they should expect to receive from POL's
prosecution files.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally

is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not laura.pinkneyf "GI
soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publicat
and may be unlawful

ted by law. laura.pinkney}
please notify andrew parsonsf

or copying of this communication or atta

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our
registered office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner

to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

POL-BSFF-0008537_0002
