POL00023980
POL00023980

Message

From: Tom Beezer [i

Sent: 21/03/2019 10:

To: Jane Macleod fo GRO} Andrew Parso ‘odric Williams
Subject: RE: Recusal - reactive media statement [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

dane

Not legal points, just touch and feel really.
I would delete highlight and add red.

Reasons for deletion: couid irritate judge further if he remains.

Reasons for addition: without the addition Post Office could be seen as saying it prefers litigation as a method...whereas
the reality is that Post office wants resolution...and it just so happens the only current path to resolution is [itigation. And

picking up Rod’s point with "certain of".

{ think my suggested addition is more important than the deletion ~ as the very thrust of the application is about the
judge's ability to be impartial, but that is said through the mouth of the lawyers and not Post Office directly.

t

Tom Beezer
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

sign up to our e-alerts

Join us for Disrupting Disputes 2.0
20 March 2019 at the British Library

Book your place here

» WOMBLE
/ BOND
DICKINSON

From: Jane MacLeod {
Sent: 21 March 2019 10:20
To: Tom Beezer; Andrew Parsons; Rodric Williams; Amy Prime
Subject: Recusal - reactive media statement

All

The following is the text of a proposed reactive media statement

Many thanks,

womblebonddickinson.com

please scream urgently if there is anything in this that
is problematic for you, as we need to get it to our Board and UKGl etc.

POL-0020459
POL00023980
POL00023980

Jane

“We have reflected in great depth on the proceedings and detailed judgment from the first trial and will continue
to consider all options.

As part of this, we have made an application today for the sitting Judge to be recused from the ongoing and
upcoming trials. We are acutely aware of the significance of this application, but we have serious reservations
about the Judge’s ability to remain impartial in these proceedings.

We will continue with our improvement programme and are urgently considering how we can accelerate this
work and address certain of the criticisms about our operations raised in the judgment. We recognise that we
must always continue to do better in the interests of our customers and postmasters.

We continue to believe that resolution of the group litigation remains the best opportunity to resolve long-
standing issues in order to ensure a stable and sustainable Post Office network for the benefit of the
communities who rely on our services every single day.”

® Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legai, Risk & Governance
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number:

SRR ACO RRR RR CR ROR A A CC ARR RR OAR ROR RR CODA ROR A I CS ROR RR ACCA RO

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

RR fF RR Rf ARR Rf 1029 fF 128 28 RR AK RR R28 2 af aa

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at wy stoffice,co.uk/privacy”

POL-0020459
