POL00294745

POL00294745
From: Paula Vennells[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PAULA. VENNELLS8C63D283-A51 1-46C3-A93E-
DC6F2AE7A78D]
Sent: Wed 26/01/2011 5:46:13 PM (UTC)
To:
Subject: Re: BBC TV - Inside Out

Thx Mike. And could you arrange for everyone copied to have a one page brief on our stance on JFSA. So that we're all saying
the same thing.

Paula

From: Mike Granville

To: Kevin Gilliland; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Paula Vennells; Mike Young; Mike Moores; Susan Crichton; Rod Ismay; Alana
Renner

Sent: Wed Jan 26 18:32:12 2011

Subject: FW: BBC TV - Inside Out

This note is to keep you informed — that the BBC South documentary programme ‘Inside Out’ is proceeding with
running a programme which looks like it is inspired by JFSA cases. David Simpson had spoken with the producer
previously making clear that we didn’t accept there was any case here and explaining the robustness of the system —
but it looks like they are going to run anyway.

David is currently talking to Shane O’Riordain on our approach to responding with respect to the programme — we will
probably try and get more detail about what cases the programme is seeking to feature - I will keep you updated when
we get the Group Media position.

At present this is to keep you in the picture.
Thanks

Mike

Mike Granville

Head of Regulation Strategy
Post Office Ltd

‘=" 14st Floor, Banner Street Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON EC1V 9H1Q

@ Postline:

From: David Simpson
POL00294745
POL00294745

Sent: 24 January 2011 17:57

To: Mike Granville

Subject: FW: BBC TV - Inside Out
Importance: High

Mike — something else to discuss tomorrow!
David

From: Jon Valters [mailto:
Sent: 24 January 2011 17:
To: David Simpson
Subject: BBC TV - Inside Out
Importance: High

Dear Mr Simpson,

Following our recent conversation I thought I'd write to outline what is in our programme as I understand Jaquie
Stenson has now left. I also now have a transmission date for our programme. As I mentioned before we are looking at
subpostmasters who claim they have experienced problems with the Horizon computer accounting system and are
unhappy with the way they have been treated by the Post Office. The subpostmasters we've spoken to have either
been suspended or taken to court.

All the subpostmasters say losses have been recorded by the Horizon computer system and they have been blamed.
Yet they maintain they were not guilty of dishonesty and are unable to explain how the losses occurred. They also
claim they did not get enough help or support from the Post Office or the IT helpline. We are aware of several
individuals who say they did not receive sufficient training on Horizon which is a complicated system to use. One of
the subpostmasters we feature accepts that some of the losses recorded at his Post Office may be down to his
mistakes, but there is still a large amount that hasn't been explained.

An MP we interview in the programme accuses the Post Office of being "hard nosed" in the way it has taken
subpostmasters to court, and suggests that the computer accounting system could be at fault.

We are again offering you a right of reply and would like to invite you to do an interview that we can include in the
programme. This story is now due to be shown on BBC 1 in the south of England on Monday, Feb 7th and any
interview would need to be recorded before Feb 4th 2011 in order to be included.

Yours sincerely,

Jon Valters
Inside Out
BBC TV South

http: bbc.co.uk
This e-mail (and any attachments) is confidential and may contain personal views which are not the views of

the BBC unless specifically stated.

If you have received it in error, please delete it from your system.

Do not use, copy or disclose the information in any way nor act in reliance on it and notify the sender
immediately.

Please note that the BBC monitors e-mails sent or received.

Further communication will signify your consent to this
