POL00095531
POL00095531

POLB(08)41 OPERATIONS FUNCTIONAL REPORT October 2008

RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES:

e Budgets
We have agreed with RMCS to declare a forecast opportunity saving of £567k at
period 6 against the RMCS costs. This is due to continued reduced call volumes and
more efficient ways of working on the helpdesks.

e Web platform upgrade
Latest communication form Group Technology (25th Sept) indicates that the thinking
around the proposed web platform upgrade has changed. The headline is that we are
able to continue with development work for projects that are due for release by March
2009, at which point the existing platform will be ‘frozen' (as it goes out of support). A
new ‘temporary’ platform will be made available from Q1 next year for developments
with a beyond March 09 go-live. An assessment of what this means in actuality for
POL projects is being undertaken.

e Paystation PLUS ‘
Ingenico's best plan was delivered earlier in the week and following an all day
meeting to validate the plan and ensure all activities neéded to deliver were included
POL has accepted it as now baselined. The Sponsor has been made aware, and
although there will now be no benefits seen now this financial year - POL has an
amount of confidence in the plan for Ingenico to deliver.

e CViT ‘Right to Work’ audit
Due to a disagreement over resource between Royal Mail Group & Post Office®
Limited, work on the ‘Right to'Work’ audit for CViIT employees ceased recently.
Following escalation, Post Office Ltd has now loaned a manager to the screening
team so that the audit can resume
Employers in the security industry were asked to commit to an audit of all Security
Industry Authority (SIA) licensed staff at a joint SIA & British Security Industry
Association (BSIA) seminar back.in January 2008. The seminar was in response to
the Home Secretary's announcement that some 10,500 SIA licenses were to be
revoked as a consequence of chécks, which indicated no ‘right to work’. Employers
were reminded of their responsibilities and the penalties for employing illegal workers,
(up to £10k for each individual worker)

e CViT Rate Card Review
Review conducted with finance, further work required on. costing model, this is scheduled for
completion in December. Interim revised rate card agreed and revised rates implemented for
applicable existing customers from November. Average increase is 4.3% or an additional
£350k of income full year (£140k 08/09).

e Operations Quarterly Team Meeting
A number of very positive ideas / suggestions were received at the Operations
quarterly meeting. These will be further developed over the next few weeks and will
address the current £35m OE benefit gap.

e OE Programme cost/benefits
A high level review of benefits delivered to date and those “in plan” for this year has
raised the level of confidence in OE Programme cost / benefits for'this year. We have
revised this years forecast for OE direct and indirect projects up to £8.8m.

« Peterborough depot closure
Peterborough depot closure achieved last week with IB property benefits of £74k FYE
with £37k achievable this year. We are reviewing all other closures to ensure that all
property benefits have been realised.

e Printing of PO Logo
An opportunity has been identified where we could invert the printing of the PO logo
on sales receipts. Initial costing has identified a £700k benefit opportunity. A HLBP is
being worked on.
POL00095531
POL00095531

Crown Office Refurbishment Programme

The first projects in the programme have started on site. With 3 Complex and 6
Simple projects currently in progress: We are on track to deliver between 27 and 33
projects: before the 24th November, with the final number being dependant on
individual project costs not exceeding our legal spend limit.

Costs on the initial projects were originally much higher than forecast, but over £400k
of inaccuracies have been stripped out of the 15 cost plans received to date, bringing
them back on track.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

Fujitsu
CCN negotiations concluded and now ready for sign off after many hours of input,
securing benefits for POL despite late delivery of HNGx against original plan. As part
of.the deal there will be an increase in operating costs this year but it will be fully
recovered against operating costs next year.
Horizon Online
The HNG team ran an exhibition stand and held a seminar session on Horizon
OnlineTM at last weekend's Subpostmaster Exhibition at Olympia. The stands were
very well attended, and the response from delegates to the new system remains
overwhelmingly positive.
The seminar session was a new venture, and two short films were produced to
support both this. and subsequent events. These were completed in very short
timescales,.and it Was heartening that so many key players in POL and the NFSP
were willing to take part at short notice. It was also reassuring that our key messages
continue to be.received and understood. The seminar session was a big success,
with more people in attendance than for the NFSP's own Q&A session!
HRSAP Development
Chaired first development forum held with POL Stakeholders; Group Technology and
Steria. New process now in place and forward plan agreed for both October and
November releases. All agreed this is now back on track
Track & Trace
Working with RMG Service Delivery a major issue with the deployment of the.
Smartpost web service change to support the RMG Track and Trace project was
resolved. The revised change was successfully implemented last weekend.
PCI
The approach we have developed to meeting the payment card industrial data
security standards has been written up by a number of organizations e.g. Corporate
IT Forum and the British Retail Consortium as an example of good / best practice.
Under this approach we are minimizing the incremental spend by ensuring that PCI
and ISO security are maintained and managed in the same cost base. For example
we estimate that we will spénd less than £4m across all channels to bring ourselves
into line for requirements, the DVLA face a bill of £12.5m on their web channel alone.
With the agreement of the Head of Government Services we have offered the DVLA
some support and advice.
Project Arsenal
This was successfully deployed on the 8th September. A series of post Arsenal
deployment daily operational conference calls were completed with no major issues
identified
PIN pad
The Marketing Managers Meeting has been briefed on our proposed business
strategy for PIN pad procurement and gave their full support. The strategy was
pulled together by C&IS following a workshop with nominees from the Product
Teams.
Routers
We have restricted the number of offices who will have their routers installed out of
hours. The ofiginal plan was to cater for 2500 offices, in working with the Commercial
Agency team, we have kept the overall number of offices (including Crowns etc.) to
just less than 2000, and they were able to verify the selected offices or suggest
alternatives. This will feed in as a cost saving for this aspect of the project.
C&IS Monthly Changes.

2
POL00095531
POL00095531

100 Programmed changes

242 Ops Publication outputs

27 High level blueprints were reviewed at this week's forum

13 New Change Requests raised at this week’s Business Change Control

Board

e Fleet Costs
An exercise to challenge vehicles services monthly accounts has been undertaken
and this period we are reclaiming £68k as a result of vehicle services failing to
compile with the agreed contract.

e Peterborough Depot Closure
The Depot closed as planned on Friday 3rd October, without any IR Issues and whilst
maintaining Quality of Service throughout the closure period, which is a tremendous
achievement. There are a few issues still with the redeployment of the staff from the
Depot to other RM Units, which are being taken fonward by HR and local
management

e Sick Absence Procedural Change
Following 12 months of strict stakeholder management we are now moving forward
with a change to the sick absence procedure, and this will involve Drivers who are not
directly involved in attacks being issued with stage warnings.
This has the potential to significantly reduce absenteeism and also costs of covering
sick absence by several hundred. thousand pounds per annum. Mark Homewood,
Principal Unit Manager for London Easthas ledon ~
the project with support from Mark Plant Area Manager South, and Teresa
Beckingham HR Business Partner.

e Chester CVIT
Agreement reached locally with the CWU to cease the Night Operation at Chester CVIT
Depot and this will commence following the transfer of Safenet to Royal Mail. It will
reduce the opening hours of the Depot and reduce staff costs somewhere i in the region of
£75K per annum (full year effect).

e Operating Losses
YTD losses at period 5 are £764k against a target of £898k. Reimbursements from
Royal Mail Group, (for special delivery items lost in their pipeline), reduces the YTD
loss figure by £228k, giving a ‘true’ supply chain operating loss figure of £536k. Cash
Centre, CViT & Bureau operating losses are at their lowest ever recorded figures,
with robbery losses accounting for £433k of the total (a 98% increase year on year).
Supply chain and the security team are working in partnership to manage this
growing trend.

« Cost Reduction in Stock
A business saving of approximately £25k annually was identified for ceasing the
Standing Order provision of transaction stock to branches. We have completed a
survey of branches, which has had a 46% response rate to date. Of those returned,
70% of branches said they no longer require a Standing Order. 617 Standing Orders
have now been cancelled with a reduction of 5,720 stock lines being issued each
month.

0000

e Trunking review
Trunking review 08/09 forecast benefits of £50k against use of external carriers for
coin movements. Potential to achieve additional savings. (Up to 6 heads) by
converting two man trunking services to single, subject to CWU agreement being
achieved. Further benefits are dependent on the resolution of the charging
mechanism for coin movements by the Royal Mint. Benefits could increase to £100k.

e Depot Closures
Planned benefit of £65k against Oxford closure removed from forecast. 08/09 benefit
forecast £595k subject to PIR completion.

e Skynet
The Skynet feasibility project will report W/C 13" Oct and high level figures and
advantages look encouraging. Savings of c£95k with improvements in service levels to
branches have been identified.

PROJECT/PROGRAMME UPDATE:
POL00095531
POL00095531

IT Roadmap -.SAP Rationalisation
We had. been reviewing the responses from Steria and Fujitsu for Dev and Support
and Fujitsu for Hosting and validating all associated costs to create a business. case.
The supplier input has been patchy, with no stand-out candidate for Dev and Support.
Crown Office Relocations
e Cirencester
On track to open on the 10th November 2008, but this is subject to BT
availability in the new shopping mall. A last minute change by the retail line.
from CMS to a traditional single queue layout has resulted in aborted costs.
e Paddington
Contract has been let for the construction to start in early November, with a
planned opening in February 2009.
e Peterborough
’ Negotiations.have been successfully concluded with the local council giving
POL a contribution of c90% towards the cost of the relocation of the branch.
As soon as the case, currently being prepared, has been approved by the
POLIC and Group Property. Contracts will be exchanged on our:new unit and
on our vacation deal.

Mike Young
