POL00139702
POL00139702

Meeting: 30 October 2013

Attendees:
Team/Function Attendees
Legal Rodric Williams (RW)
Jarnail Singh (JS)
Andrew Bolc of Cartwright King (AB)
Kayleigh Harding (KH)
Financial Services Centre (FSC) Rod Ismay (RI)
Andy Winn (AW)
Security Rod King (RK)

Communications

N/A

Network Anne Allaker (AA)

Nick Beal (NB)
Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Jeff Burke (JB)
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) N/A

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps

Prestbury GP looking to review. Confirmation from Helen Rose nothing
received of concern with regards to Horizon data.

ATM Gluing Assured by COP today update to be provided and circulated to

Case lawyers and AA.

2 additional branches - £650 issue, £11,000 issue — not clear if

connected to same person.

Rhigos Branch

Angela met with SPM — wife acting as temporary SPM and branch
reopened. Balancing support till Jan 2014 — dealt with within
Network.

Further action on hold.

Post & Go

Investigation for 6 weeks, concluded. Awaiting review on
recommendations.

GP to discuss with Roger and report back.

4A_27600922_1
POL00139702
POL00139702

Belfast Refresh

Project manager Bob Dilitath. Integrity of data to be maintained
and in accordance with best practice. To be updated further in due

course.

Nelson

Being dealt with within Network. Support visit 31/10/13. Kath
Alexander visiting with Field team to iron out further queries.
Action to either be closed or agreement reached on how to take
forward. Does not appear to be Horizon related.

Terms of repayment to be agreed if appropriate.

No further losses accruing.

Pontycymer

Field support in place. 2-3 visits. Concerns alleviated re Horizon
related issues. Field support advisors advised SPM where he has
gone wrong. SPM working with POL. Field support visit today.
Possible further action - Someone to be put in temporarily or field
support sent in until back on track and not suffering losses.

Martin Griffiths

To be left open to see if any further information received over the
next few weeks. Next stage - possible involvement in Coroners
Court investigation. Branch support issues may be identified and
dealt with by Angela's team — not within remit of this call.

Stock
reconciliation

Highlighted in a further report - Swindon were not checking
pouches as they did not have Horizon number to check against.
Improvement issue. Not a substantial problem within the business.

Carluke Post
Office

Mr and Mrs Durhan — attempting to retrieve papers, proving
difficult. Went through lower Court in Scotland in 2004 — not a
court of record, no transcript or recording available. Attempting to
obtain papers from the Police. Crown Officer has put in an official
request for papers. Lindsey McNeil at BTO believes they may
have an electronic report but response awaited.

Cartwright King to update further in due course.

Lake Post
Office

Letter sent to RW, to be reviewed.

4A_27600922_1
POL00139702
POL00139702

New Issues Identi

Name Area Issues/Observations/Comments

AW FSC No issues

JB IT&C No issues

AP and KLH2 Legal No issues

RK Security No issues

JS Legal No issues

RW Legal SB team — Fujitsu making running changes due to errors on

system or non-functionality — to come forward during the telecom.
Some issues resolved by one part of business without other areas
being aware of it.

JB to discuss with SB

NB Network No issues

KD could not make call. Fleckney — chasing to ascertain what has
gone on and updates. KD to keep NB updated.

KD capturing all other issues re Horizon — no updates this week.

AB of CK Legal No issues

Action Points
Prestbury — GP to review and update further in due course.

ATM gluing case — AW to circulate update to lawyers. Update to be provided on next week's call.
Post and Go — GP to review report, discuss with Roger and report back.

Belfast Refresh — RW to update further with any updates.

Nelson — GP to update further following field visit.

Pontycymer — GP to update following further field visit.

Martin Griffiths - to be kept open and updated further in due course by GP or SB.

4A_27600922_1 3
POL00139702
POL00139702

Carluke Post Office - Cartwright King to update further in due course.

Lake Post Office - RW to review email and provide update.

Fujitsu — JB to discuss with SB running changes made to the system and request these are fed back into
the call.

4A_27600922_1
