POL00022456
POL00022456

Post Office Limited
148 Ole Street
LONDON

ECAV 9HO

Confidential

Sir Anthony Hooper
Matrix Chambers
Griffin Buildings
London

WC1R 5LN

By special delivery and email to GRO

10 March 2015
Dear Sir Anthony

initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme ("the Scheme")

The current status of the Scheme is that all Applicants have submitted their Case Questionnaire
Responses and Post Office has finished ail its Investigation Reports. Second Sight is still producing
its Case Review Reports ("CRRs") and has given assurances that it is on schedule to complete these
on time.

The Working Group is continuing to decide on whether to recommend cases for mediation albeit
without the assistance of JFSA who have registered a standing vote in favour of mediation on ail
cases whilst declining to fully participate in the discussion of those cases at Working Group meetings.
CEDR is managing cases through the mediation process as the Working Group has decided that it
has no role in that process.

Post Office has decided that we will put forward for mediation all cases remaining in the Scheme
except those that been subject to a previous Court ruling. Having now completed ail our
investigations, Post Office has not seen any evidence that we believe would lead to a successful
appeal of any Court ruling. In this regard, Second Sight has expressly acknowledged that matters
relating to criminal law and procedure are outside its scope of expertise. There is therefore no
reasonable prospect of mediation assisting with the resolution of the complaints raised in those cases.

In light of this change and as discussed at our meeting on Friday 6 March 2015, Post Office has
decided to close the Working Group with immediate effect. CEDR will continue to be engaged to
oversee the mediation process but Post Office's engagement of Second Sight will cease with effect
from 10 April 2015. We will be writing to Second Sight regarding the work to be delivered over the
next month and with our proposals as to how Second Sight could support Applicants thereafter.

I have sent similar letters to both Second Sight and JFSA notifying them of these changes.

Thank you for accepting the appointment as Chair of the Working Group. Your advice and guidance
over the last 18 months has been of enormous assistance to all those on the Working Group and your
stewardship of the Scheme has been highly valued by Post Office.

Yours sincerely

Jane MacLeod

General Counsel
For and on behalf of Post Office Limited

www, postoffice.co.uk

