To: Duncan Hine

From: Paul Rich

IN CONFIDENCE

POL00031279
POL00031279

al

tH
Bob Peaple
Bob King {to action) 7 I
Alan Shepherd tan > ‘
Wendy Powney ww {
Basil Shall

1 February 1996 Xr

i

\

ole

SUBJECT: IT CONCURRENCE/SUPPLIER EVALUATION

I thought it best to confirm our conversation yesterday (31 January) so that everyone
is clear:

4A

Concurrence: We are all clear that Group iT will have to give concurrence to the
Board as part of the MaPEC approval process. We always knew that, and the
agreement I came to some time ago with Alan Shepherd was that he would give
this but rely greatly upon Basil Shall’s view of the fit with PO policies, and the
technical operability of the new sysiem. We have been following this process
during the evaluation process to date. You confirmed that you saw this route
continuing, and with you and Wendy as they new players now in this.

Basil’s recent notes following his ‘listening’ sessions with suppliers are
perturbing in this respect, and we need to know urgently from him and Wendy if
these will prejudice this process, If he believes it will, then we must have great
care with regard to the probity of the procurement process to date (for example, at
shortlisting stage) and be careful, as you said. to distinguish between technical
acceptability, and what is ‘best’ comparatively.

Evaluation: You confirmed that you wish to remain part of the Evaluation Board,
and do not wish to get involved in the detailed process that is planned to be
undertaken by the Programme's evaluation team. However, you do wish - at the
Board - to be able to understand the technical context of what the team will then
be saying, and so react intelligently and helpfully.

Meeting suppliers: Towards both the above, we agreed then that the purpose of
you meeting suppliers was to listen and understand their solutions before the
Evaluation Boards. This was not then part of the evaluation process, nor any type
of concurrence ‘hurdle’. Bob King will now arrange such meetings, making clear
this purpose, and advise the evaluation team accordingly.

PAUL RICH
