POL00162032
POL00162032

From: Mark R Davie:

Sent: Fri 16/08/2013

To: Alana Renner[é i Alana Renner[é
Subject: Fwd: Update

Hi Alana

Just to say I hope you are feeling ok. If you need more time please take it - the team are across things. Do give

me a shout if you would like to chat things through over the weekend (we leave on Sunday morning)

All best wishes

Mark

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: <mark.r.davies(,
Date: 16 August 201
To: Paula Vennells

W alden
Martin E

, Sophie Bialaszewski
, Martin Humphreys

Subject: Update

Paula

Tam on leave as of this evening until Sept 4 so I wanted to give you an update on where things
are. I have copied the comms lead team, and Sophie for public affairs (and any queries anyone
copied has, please do follow up with me tonight/tomorrow).

CWU: I met Tom and Martin E this week to feed in my thoughts ahead of the Board session. I
think there will be great value in this session - a chance to reflect on why we are where we are and
deep dive all options for next steps.

Following the announcement of the latest ballot result, I have written to the CWU comms team -
in a conciliatory fashion - to highlight the risks to customers from their public messaging. Nina's
team are across preparations for potential strike action. Superbriefers will be in the 70 franchise
branches on Tuesday to update on process (comms to announce this have gone out this week).

I believe some members of Exco believe we are not being sufficiently forthright in the dispute. I
tend to disagree - it is generating limited coverage in media terms and I am not sure an aggressive
stance would be of benefit. I know this will be discussed next week so please do call if you would
like to discuss further.

Additionally, Richard has been working with Fay on comms on the CMA ballot which has gone
POL00162032
POL00162032

out to middle managers.

Horizon: we are preparing to next week make a proactive announcement on re creation of the
mediation panel. This will be targeted at media which have previously covered the issue with a
view to taking control of the communications. Ruth will work up a statement. This will also
trigger approaches to MPs to invite them to discuss the process with Angela, again with the aim
of taking control of the issue.

We are getting media calls about the cases which have been dropped, and this points to the need
to get the mediation panel story out there.

RMG prospectus: We are working with legal on this. The section on risks is very problematic for
PO. The PR team are across it and I have asked Mike to also work on it from his perspective.

Public purpose engagement: Working towards announcing engagement process on 30th
August working with the Public Engagement Working Group. Comms will be through our BAU
channels and information about how to get involved will be on our website.

Corporate Brand: Met with Stewart around potential advertising our corporate message, and now
working on a combined Brief which defines objectives, in advance of a workshop to discuss
channels, messages, positioning and KPIs.

Strategy: the team are well prepared for the strategy announcement and have been working on
narrative with Sue's team. The top lines we would push when announcement comes are:

- acceleration of NTP

- protection for community offices
- expansion of network

- focus on customer benefits

The priorities for the next two weeks, in parallel with the negotiations, will be to continue work
on the public/internal narrative, the announcement action plan and the Q&A which will sit behind
the announcement.

We must be realistic - the proposals at present, even if agrees with NFSP, will not prevent noise.
But I do feel we are developing a strong story to support them.

Interim results: work is now underway for the half year results, with finance. From a comms
perspective, this will be led by RZW team for design and production (online only) and Mike's
policy team for content. Nina and the team will recommend the media approach closer to the time
depending on the media and political environment. On the ARA, we've been getting copies our to
stakeholders and MPs, and I'm sending a copy to each member of SLT.

Cost reduction: we are planning a scene setting piece of comms from Chris for today, to be
followed by a programme of weekly/fortnightly updates. RZW is also working on a plan for
leadership behaviours comms/engagement. In terms of comms and cost reduction I have asked
RZW, Nina and Hazel to work with marketing and digital to seek ways to cut duplication and also
improve engagement with SPMRs by streamlining and quality controlling the way we
communicate with the network. We need a gating process which will quality control and plan
network communications more effectively - and I think this has potential to reduce costs.

T hope this helps.
POL00162032
POL00162032

Cheers
Mark

Sent from my iPhone

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,

please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
