POL00144848
POL00144848

From: Parsons, Andrew. GRO

Sent: Thur 27/06/2013 9 PM (UTC)

To:

Ce:

Subject: RE: POL - Horizon issues

Attachment: _DOC_27054824(1)_Letter to SPMR - Zubeir.DOC

Attachment: _DOC_27054780(1)_Letter to SPM - Willen.DOC
Rodric

I've reviewed the SPMR letters. I've attached mark-ups of two of the letters which show the suggested amendments
that should be made across all the letters.

The amendments are:

To insert an opening paragraph that explains POL's investigation and highlights the fact that we have sought
to protect SPMRs from any harm in the interim period.

To remove the word "problem" and to replace this with the less dramatic word: "issue".

I don't think we should apologise in the letters. I know this sounds hard but in apologising we are admitting
some degree of culpability. I think we should maintain a more cold, procedural approach to correcting what is
effectively an accounting irregularity.

In some circumstances it appears that the error caused a transaction record from a former SPMR at a branch
to be carried over into the records of a later SPMR at the same branch. In my view this is a dangerous
admission, as the complete separation between SPMR records is a cornerstone principle of ensuring Horizon's
integrity. Although this has happened and is completely explainable, I don't think we ever want to expressly
document this.

I considered removing some of the technical language around what caused the error. However, on reflection, I think
this level of detail displays transparency and the robustness of POL's approach (even if the SPMRs don't fully
understand it)

Kind regards

Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Ben Thorp [mailto:

Sent: 25 June 2013 11:14"
To: Parsons, Andrew
Ce: Rodric Williams
POL00144848
POL00144848

Subject: POL - Horizon issues

Andrew

By way of very brief introduction, my name is Ben Thorp. I am a Bond Dickinson secondee (from the Newcastle office)
currently working with Rodric Williams in POL’s Legal team for the next few weeks.

We have received the attached query from the business regarding historical issues a very limited number of branches
had with Horizon. POL intends to refund any losses caused by these issues, but not seek to recover any gains.

Could you please review the letters and let Rodric and me have any comments you may have, particularly in the
context of the Spot Reviews?

If you would like to discuss anything arising from your review, please do give either Rodric or mea call.

Kind regards,
Ben

Ben Thorp I Legal I Tel. :
1* Floor, 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Je a I SSDS II III III IDO IO IID IID ISDS II IOI ISO IIIA.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this em:

The information in this e-m
and any attachments,
use, dissemination, distribution, publication or c

1 and any attachments is confidential and may b

only is authorised to
fas soon as possible and delete any
ay be unlawful

ly privileged and protected by law. rodrie.w

notify andrew. parsons
‘of this Communication or attachments is prohibited and

you are not rodric. williams
copies. Unauthor

Any files at
which may be

(0 this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
used by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment,

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our n

office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of mem ames is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer toa
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT tion number is GB123393627.

cred
nber of

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

