POLO0110162
POL00110162

Message

From: Parsons, Andre\ GRO Yee
on behalf of — Parsons, Andrew; GRO GRO :
Sent: 14/09/2015 16: “
To: Rodric Williams

Subject: RE: BBC Panorama [CMICK-UR-FID86735 10] 7

Rod

Yes. This goes too far.

Although in practice POL's procedure is to only make remote changes with SPMR consent, it is technically possible to
make changes without consent.

Given that remote access could also include transaction corrections, I also don't believe we can make the

statement about what happened in the three prosecutions. Further, we no longer have the transaction data for these
branches so cannot say for certain that a balancing transaction was not conducted in those branches without the SPMR's
consent.

In short, I would delete the addition.

A

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 14/09/2015 17:42

To: Parsons, Andrew

Subject: FW: BBC Panorama [CMCK-UK.FID8673510]

Hi — CMS have folded in one of Mark Davies’s comments on what the “whistleblower” said about remote access (see
attached and highlighted text below }. Am I right that it goes too far?:

The Programme further states by reference to statements made by Richard Roll who had worked at Fujitsu, that
financial records were sometimes changed remotely without the postmaster knowing. Mr Sweeney goes on to state that
“Post Office has always said that simply can’t happen’ and invites the conclusion that what Post Office has said in
relation to remote access is “untrue”, a particularly damaging allegation. This is not an accurate or fair reporting of Post
Office’s formal statement to Panorama. As made clear in the statement, Post Office can correct errors in and/or update
a branches accounts by inputting a new transaction (not editing or removing any previous transactions). It is also
possible to update the software remotely. However, any such changes made are completely transparent and would be
done with the postmaster’s knowledge. Post Office categorically denies any allegation that remote access to the Horizon
system had any involvement in the losses which were the subject of the prosecutions featured in the Programme.
Although Mr Sweeney included Post Office’s statement that it is not possible to edit the transactions as recorded by
branches, in the context of the other statements made, Post Office’s response was not fairly represented in the
Programme. Had Post Office’s response been fairly represented, this would have provided appropriate context for the
comments made by Mr Sweeney and Mr Roll.

POL-0108027
POLO0110162
POL00110162

“ Rodric Williams
Solicitor, Corporate Services

Post Office Ltd
20 Finsbury Street, Londen EC2Y 9AQ

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 11 September.201.5.14:01.
To: Susan BARTY (_
Subject: FW: BBC

Thanks Susan — I've now been through this and it looks good.
Could you or Tom please give me a quick call so we can tidy up a couple of points before I circulate it internally. it won’t
take jong...

“ Rodric Williams
Solicitor, Corporate Services

Post Office Ltd
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y S9AQ

From: BARTY, Susan [mailto
Sent: 10 September 2015 19:40
To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Reid, Tom

Subject: BBC Panorama [CMCK-UK.FID8673510]

Rodric

Thanks for spending time on the phone on this earlier. I attach an amended letter to the BBC. The first
pdf is a comparison against the version I sent yesterday, and the second pdf is this version against the
earlier draft. (1 have, however, just amended the date to read “September”.}

I did not include a paragraph about the programme portraying the events as current, as they do refer to
this being in the past, although it is not clear how long ago. But, for example, it says “There’s been a bit
of a crime wave sweeping middle England”.

Do let me know if there are any more comments or if you would like to discuss this further?

Best wishes

Susan

Susan Barty
Partner

POL-0108027
POLO0110162
POL00110162

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP I Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street I London EC4N 6AF I United Kingdom

www.cms-cmck.com
www.cms-lawnow.com

2A 4 fo 28 28 ff RR ff RR fo ERR fH RR ff RR oR aa GR

CMS has 59 offices around the world, located in Aberdeen, Algiers, Amsterdam, Antwerp, Barcelona, Beijing,
Belgrade, Berlin, Bratislava, Bristol, Brussels, Bucharest, Budapest, Casablanca, Cologne, Dubai, Dusseldorf,
Edinburgh, Frankfurt, Geneva, Glasgow, Hamburg, Istanbul, Kyiv, Leipzig, Lisbon, Ljubljana, London,
Luxembourg, Lyon, Madrid, Mexico City, Milan, Moscow, Munich, Muscat, Paris, Podgorica, Prague, Rio de
Janeiro, Rome, Sarajevo, Seville, Shanghai, Sofia, Strasbourg, Stuttgart, Tirana, Utrecht, Vienna, Warsaw,
Zagreb and Zurich.

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a member of CMS Legal Services EEIG (CMS EEIG), a European Economic
Interest Grouping that coordinates an organisation of independent law firms. CMS EEIG provides no client
services. Such services are solely provided by CMS EEIG’s member firms in their respective jurisdictions.
CMS EEIG and each of its member firms are separate and legally distinct entities, and no such entity has any
authority to bind any other. CMS EEIG and each member firm are liable only for their own acts or omissions
and not those of each other. The brand name "CMS" and the term "firm" are used to refer to some or all of the
member firms or their offices. Further information can be found at www.cmslegal.com

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with
registration number OC310335. It is a body corporate which uses the word "partner" to refer to a member, or an
employee or consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications. It is authorised and regulated by the
Solicitors Regulation Authority of England and Wales with SRA number 423370 and by the Law Society of
Scotland with registered number 47313. A list of members and their professional qualifications is open to
inspection at the registered office, Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street, London EC4N 6AF. Members are either
solicitors or registered foreign lawyers. VAT registration number: 974 899 925. Further information about the
firm can be found at www.cms-cmck.com

The contents of this e-mail (including any attachments) are confidential and may be legally privileged. If you
are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, any disclosure, copying, distribution or use of its contents is strictly
prohibited, and you should please notify the sender immediately and then delete it (including any attachments)
from your system. Notice: the firm does not accept service by e-mail of court proceedings, other processes or
formal notices of any kind without specific prior written agreement.

2A I I 22121 2K RR fF 1K 2 RR 1 2 RF BFK 0 08 ff BF 312K 08 0 2 ROR RR BG aR RR

POL-0108027
POLO0110162
POL00110162

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JOH IESG SOIC IORI ISI II ODI III ODI I ISI SOD I AIS ADIOS AI

Monse consider fhe e

coil and any attach

POL-0108027
