POL00423514
POL00423514

Appendix F - Internal Audit Report Whistleblowing Process
POST OFFICE LIMITED - INTERNAL AUDIT REPORT

AUDIT TITLE: Whistleblowing Process
REFERENCE: 2018/19-11
DATE ISSUED: 2 January 2019

Executive Summary

Background

Whistleblowing is an essential safety valve and forms part of a business’s internal control environment.
At Post Office the General Counsel has overall accountability to the Board for the implementation of
controls ensuring that Post Office meets its whistleblowing obligations.

Post Office utilises a company called Expolink Ltd (previously InTouch Ltd) to manage its
whistleblowing hotline facility. Any whistleblowing reporting received via Grapevine, Customer Support,
Executive Correspondence Team and NBSC is e-mailed to a secure address monitored by the Financial
Crime Team.

Scope

The objective of this audit was to assess the design and operating effectiveness of the controls over
the Whistleblowing process. The audit assessed the following scope areas:

Governance arrangements

Staff awareness and understanding
Managing whistleblowing concerns
Management information and reporting

The agreed terms of reference is attached as appendix 1.
Conclusion

The Whistleblowing process is well managed by the Financial Crime Team and monitoring and reporting
has been improved since they assumed responsibility a year ago. The further improvements, both in
progress and highlighted here, will help ensure that Post Office colleagues have confidence to use the
Process when appropriate.

Management Comment

“Post Office takes seriously its obligations to provide a safe and confidential framework within which
whistleblowing reports can be made. The improvements identified by the audit are helpful and will be
addressed to ensure that all Post Office employees and those others to whom the policy applies, feel
able to report instances of wrongdoing or other behaviours which do not meet Post Office’s standards.”

Jane MacLeod - Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Satisfactory

POL-BSFF-0238329
Internal Audit Report: Whistleblowing Process

Summary of Findings

POL00423514
POL00423514

January 2019

The table below provides a summary of the findings and their ratings.

Finding Rating” I Action Owner Date
Scope Area: Governance
Arrangements
Opportunities to enhance the
1. I Whistleblowing Policy and supporting P3 Sally Smith 31/7/19
guidance
2. I Lack of signed Expolink contract P3 Vitor Camara 31/3/19
Scope Area: Staff Awareness and
Understanding
3, I Lack of a mechanism to confirm staff p2 Sally Smith 31/3/19
awareness
Lack of targeted training and clear
4. guidance for whistleblowing investigators p2 Jane MacLeod 31/3/19
Scope Area: Management
Information and Reporting
5. Lack of formal root cause analysis P2 Vitor Camara Complete

“Pi = High Priority, P2 = Mediurn Priority, P3 =

Page I 2

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238329_0001
POL00423514
POL00423514

Internal Audit Report: Whistleblowing Process January 2019

Detailed findings and agreed actions
Scope Area: Governance Arrangements

Post Office practices good governance over its Whistleblowing arrangements and maintains appropriate
levels of confidentiality. The Policy and supporting guidance would be further improved with minor
amendments and updating.

1. Opportunities to enhance the Whistleblowing policy and supporting
guidance

Finding (P3)

The Whistleblowing Policy was most recently updated in July 2018 and is broadly in line with
good practice. The policy included old contact details for the independent whistleblowing
charity, Public Concern at Work (PCAW), which has also since changed its name to ‘Protect’.

The policy would benefit from the addition of the following good practice points:

* Clarification that any so-called ‘gagging clauses’ in settlement agreements do not prevent
colleagues from making disclosures in the public interest;

e The method and type of feedback that a whistleblower can expect to receive after making
a report, including an explanation that anonymous whistleblowers will not ordinarily be
able to receive feedback and that any action taken to look into a report could be limited;

« An indication a of the time frame for investigating and responding to reports raised (we
note this information is captured by the Financial Crime team, however it is not currently
reported); and

* Clarification that the whistleblower does not need to provide evidence in order for the
report to be investigated.

Supporting guidance in the form of a whistleblowing process document was being drafted at
the time of the audit. A review of this draft highlighted that, whilst the end to end process
for regular reports was fully covered, there were no defined criteria for the reporting of
serious incidents (Policy states that these must be reported to the Chair of the Post Office
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee).

Risk

There is a risk that staff are not aware of the process for investigating whistleblowing
reports and the support and protection available to them if they make a report, potentially
resulting in whistleblowing concerns not being reported.

Agreed Management Action
The updates will be addressed and reflected in the July 2019 Policy review which is due
before the July 2019 RCC and ARC meetings.

Action Owner: Sally Smith
Date: 31 July 2019

2. Lack of a signed Expolink contract and evidence of review
Finding (P3)

The 2017/18 Whistleblowing Report to the ARC (dated July 2018) indicated that the
Expolink contract renewal would be finalised in 2018/19, however, a signed copy of the
contract and evidence of review could not be produced by either PO or Expolink. A review of
e-mails provided during the audit indicated an historic lack of clarity over operational
responsibility for the contract.

Additionally, there was a need to reflect the changes since the original agreement in GDPR
and a need to update the Data Processing Agreement, including Post Office's General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR) clauses. This work is still being progressed.

Page I 3 Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238329_0002
Internal Audit Report: Whistleblowing Process January 2019

POL00423514
POL00423514

Risk

There is a risk that the existing Expolink contract does not meet Post Office's needs and
data protection requirements.

Agreed Management Action

The document is currently with the PO GDPR team for updating of the relevant clauses.
Once this has been done the terms of the Data Processing Agreement will need to be
finalised and the contract signed and stored in line with PO contract processes.

Action Owner: Vitor Camara

Date: 31 March 2019

Scope Area: Staff Awareness and Understanding

The levels of awareness and understanding across the business is difficult to assess without regular
communications and survey activities. Standardisation of investigation processes across all areas of the

business will benefit all investigating managers and add robustness to the process.

3. Lack of a mechanism to confirm staff awareness of whistleblowing
arrangements and inform future awareness campaigns

Finding (P2)

A whistleblowing awareness campaign was launched in May 2018, which included a branch
focus article for directly-managed branches (DMBs), an intranet article, yammer posts and
whistleblowing awareness posters in customer support centres, supply chain sites and DMBs.
We were advised that a further awareness campaign is planned for December 2018, however
a whistleblowing communications plan had not been documented at the time of audit to define
the key messages and target audiences for this campaign.

At the time of audit there was no mechanism in place to confirm and measure staff awareness
of Post Office's whistleblowing arrangements and to gauge the success of the May 2018
awareness campaign. (We noted that the number of whistleblowing reports increased in June
2018 following the campaign, from two reports in May 2018 to six reports in June 2018,
dropping to an average of two reports in each of the next three months).

Risk

There is a risk that whistleblowing concerns are not reported because staff are not aware of
the Whistleblowing Policy and process, and potentially unethical and / or unacceptable
behaviour may go unreported.

Agreed Management Actions
The next survey is scheduled for Q4 (January 2019) and a comms and awareness plan is
being produced to address the need to improve awareness across the business at all levels.

Action Owner: Sally Smith
Date: 31 March 2019

Page I 4 Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238329_0003
Internal Audit Report: Whistleblowing Process January 2019

POL00423514
POL00423514

4. Lack of targeted training and clear guidance for whistleblowing
investigators

Finding (P2)

Whilst all Post Office staff are required to undertake annual Anti-Bribery and Corruption
training, which covers the organisation's whistleblowing arrangements, there is no additional
training provided to staff with responsibility for investigating whistleblowing reports.

We appreciate that investigators are senior staff with responsibility for managing and
administering their teams on a day-to-day basis, however, targeted training for these
colleagues would help to ensure that whistleblowing investigations are being conducted
consistently across the organisation and key messages are being communicated and adhered
to.

The Whistleblowing Policy states that investigations should be conducted in accordance with
the Investigations Policy available on the Post Office intranet. Review of the Investigations
Policy identified that it had not been reviewed and/or updated since September 2016.

Risk

There is a risk that potentially unethical and / or unacceptable behaviour occurs within PO
due to root causes and mitigating actions not being identified and implemented.

Agreed Management Action

Jonathan Hill and Ben Foat will agree the approach to update the Investigations Policy. This
will then be subject to external legal review by Cartwright King (solicitors) before presentation
to the RCC and ARC for formal adoption.

Action Owner: Jane MacLeod
Date: 31 March 2019

Scope Area: Management Information and Reporting
Regular and relevant MI and reporting is key to the understanding of the potential underlying

issues

that are of concern to those raising whistleblowing reports. Visibility of any action taken as a result of

reports is essential to maintain the credibility of the process.

5. Lack of root cause analysis and action plans to address recurring cases
Finding (P2)

The period six Financial Crime team report to the Whistleblowing Officer referred to a Speak
Up line report related to allegations of theft against a postmaster and stated that similar
reports had been previously received about the same subject. Although the report noted
that the matter was being investigated, no root cause analysis had been performed and
specific actions had not been identified to try to prevent similar cases occurring in future.

Risk

There is a risk that potentially unethical and / or unacceptable behaviour continues within
the organisation due to root causes and mitigating actions not being identified and
implemented, respectively.

Agreed Management Action

A revised suite of MI has been produced and implemented, which is provided to the
Whistleblowing Officer on a monthly basis and is consolidated into the regular RCC and ARC
reporting.

Action Owner: Vitor Camara

Date: 31 January 2019 Completed

PageI 5 Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238329_0004
POL00423514
POL00423514

Internal Audit Report: Whistleblowing Process January 2019

Distribution List

Executive Sponsor: IJane MacLeod - Group Director of Legal Risk and Governance
Distribution: Paula Vennells - Group Chief Executive
Mo Kang - Group HR Director
Sally Smith - Head of Financial Crime
Audit Team: Garry Hooton
Deloitte Co-source
Johann Appel
Key Dates: ToR Agreed: September 2018
Fieldwork: 8 October 2018
Close Meeting: 10 November 2018
Draft Report: 21 December 2018
Final Report: 02 January 2019
ARC scheduled: 29 January 2019
Page I 6 Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238329_0005
POL00423514
POL00423514

Internal Audit Report: Whistleblowing Process January 2019

Appendices

Appendix 1 - Terms of Reference

Background:
Whistleblowing is an essential safety valve and forms part of a business’s internal control

environment.

At Post Office the General Counsel has overall accountability to the Board for the implementation of
controls ensuring that Post Office meets its whistleblowing obligations.

Post Office utilises a company called Expolink Ltd (previously InTouch Ltd) to manage its
whistleblowing hotline facility. Any whistleblowing reporting received via Grapevine, Customer Support,
Executive Correspondence Team and NBSC is emailed to a secure address monitored by the Financial
Crime Team.

Key Risks:

Legal and regulatory

Unethical behaviour of employees

Financial mismanagement

Theft / fraud

Misreporting

Failure to protect confidentiality of whistleblower

Scope of Audit:

Governance arrangements
. Roles and responsibilities and accountabilities for governance, including the appointment of those
with responsibility for whistleblowing arrangements and designated contacts for raising concerns.
° Process to develop the whistleblowing policy, including the appropriateness of stakeholders
consulted in their development.
. Definition of the scope of the policy, including the individuals and the types of concerns to which
the policies apply, e.g. Consideration of concerns and grievances.

Staff awareness and understanding

. The process to provide communications, learning and guidance to raise awareness and support
staff’s understanding of how to manage whistleblowing concerns.
. The processes to provide learning to designated contacts on the whistleblowing processes,

including consideration of legal rights and duties owed to third parties concerned.
Managing whistleblowing concerns

. The process to record, manage and respond to concerns, including feedback on the outcome and
remedial action.
. The processes to securely manage information related to concerns.
Management information and reporting
. The processes to monitor, report and escalate concerns to those charged with governance.
. Measurement of staff awareness of the whistleblowing policies.
° Identification of themes arising from concerns raised and the development of action plans to

address their root causes.

Timeline:

Pre Work: September 2018
Field Work: is October 2018
Draft report: 30" October 2018
Final report 12* November 2018

Audit Team:

Garry Hooton - Audit Manager

Ben Gedge - Co-source support (Deloitte)
Johann Appel - Head of Internal Audit

Page I 7 Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238329_0006
POL00423514

POL00423514

Internal Audit Report: Whistleblowing Process January 2019
Appendix 2 - Report and findings rating guide
Audit finding rating descriptions:

Ratings Description

PL Issues arising referring to important matters that are fundamental and material

(High to the system of internal control. The matters observed might cause a system

riority) objective not to be met or leave a risk unmitigated and need to be addressed as

P a matter of urgency.

P2 Issues arising that if not addressed may in time adversely impact the controls

(Medium environment.

priority)

P3 Issues arising that would, if corrected, improve internal control or efficiency in

(Low general but are not vital to the overall system of internal control.

priority)

Report ratings:

The specific rationale for the report opinion rating will depend on a variety of factors including:

The number of control issues identified

The priority rating given to these issues

The significance of the risks attaching to the area under review

The overall status of the control environment for the business area under review

We will categorise our report opinion according to the below rating:

Ratin, Description
Generally appropriate design and operation of the key controls tested
with only minor control weaknesses or process inefficiencies

identified.

Some weaknesses in internal controls which need resolving. A
number of non-compliance issues with internal and external
guidelines and weaknesses in records, systems and controls were
identified.

Inadequate internal control environment which requires
management attention and improvement as priority. A high number
of non-compliances with internal and external guidelines and
weaknesses in records, systems and controls were identified.
Examples may include reputational damage or inappropriate use of
assets.

Major breakdown in internal control environment which requires
urgent Senior Management intervention. A significant number of
non-compliances with internal and external guidelines and
weaknesses in records, systems and controls were identified. Non-
compliance with regulatory/contractual requirements, significant
reputational damage or significant inappropriate use of assets.

Page I 8 Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238329_0007
