POL00031810
POL00031810

Electronic memo
To: Nicholas Samuel/e/POSTOFFICE, x
cc: Chris P Young/e/POSTOFFICE, Marc Reardon/e/POSTOFFICE,

Hard Copy To:
Hard Copy cc:

Date: 24/05/2002 10:17

From: Andrew J Perkins

Subject: Cost challenge:- CCN965 'Change to stock unit cash on hand total time’
Nick,

I am the owner of the above CCN. I believe that we may have some grounds for challenging some of
the costs of this CCN .

By implementing this CCN we would, in effect, be fixing a Pathway bug (PC0076101) .
—————ee—eGES{CY_—_

The CCN states, Para 2 page 2 ‘The consequence of this is that the LFS Counter job..... will correctly
generate a default null value for that outlet,..."

However this is NOT currently working as (Quoting from email from Pathways' LFS Service manager,
Deirdre Conniss ) 'Since the clock changed at the beginning of April, a bug is showing which causes
the previous day's declaration to be sent instead of the 'incomplete'’ (i.e. null) ONCH'

This is causing serious problems for the roll-out of MRP as CHD cannot identify which offices are
non-conforming. Pathway have marked the bug as 'Urgent' and had intended to produce a fix in July.
However I believe that Pathways latest position is that that implementation of the fix could affect the
S20 release date and is competing with changes for Network Banking and so would be a large risk for
the business.

Taaeofere my sositon woulrbe that we should ask for reduction in the cost of the CCN on-theee-
grownes: ~

Marc Reardon has spoken to me regarding this and he said he will phone you on Monday morning as
I believe you have a change control board.on Monday?

Your view would be much appreciated.

Andrew N fonby, on He growls ideale
te CACON ub will
LFS Product Manager Cua Ke Na for Fs br

Post Office Ltd
Change & IS SL on

Room B1, C/O Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Ltd, Forest Road, FELTHAM, Middx, TW13 7EJ. Onk x

STD Phone! GRO_IFax:{ GRO” IMobile{ GRO due He fuck

External Email: ¢ GRO ] het We enegpapcatal
uli be deluge) .

POL00031810
POL00031810

Impact Assessment Due Date I _ 27/05/2002

Programme Impact Assessment Change Control Note/Request No: 0965
Form

Change Request Title: Change to Stock Unit Cash on Hand LFS total time

Business Owner: Andrew J Perkins Tel:
Fax:

Impact Assessment:

No impact on my area im
(If no impact tick the box, sign and date the form and return)

Accept [X ] Reject [_ I

Provide estimates for your area to make the change

Mandays effort to implement the change
Cost (£k)
Earliest possible implementation date

Dependencies

Other Documentation:
(If you know of any additional documentation that could be affected by the change please specify)

Tim Vause - ACCEPT
e Horizon System User Guide
e LFS Training Workbook

Additional Comments: Documents/papers attached C

(Tick box if additional papers or documents attached to your impact)
Paul Martin - ACCEPT No comment
Nicola Wood - ACCEPT
A problem currently exists (P10000797) which relates to the daily cash declarations. A bug
in the system is causing identical cash declarations to be transmitted to SAPADS on
consecutive days. Fujitsu have stated that this only occurs where branches have failed to
meet the End of day and therefore this Change would assist in the resolution of this
problem. If the change is not implemented the problem may not be fixed until S20 thus
preventing the successful roll out of MRP to timescale. Those branches experiencing the
problem cannot be rolled out onto MRP (A copy of the problem description is available if
desired)

Impact Assessor I Network Support Composite
Signature I Tony Willis
Date I 27/05/02
Return completed form to the Change Control 2™ floor, Calthorpe House, 15-20 Phoenix Place, London WC1X 0DG

iaformdoc Version 3 September 97
POL00031810
POL00031810

4 Thee Cli 9 eyedia 4 Be
Sp lluwiny Keyry

Electronic memo :

To: Brenda John/e/POSTOFFICE, Lisa Brownsdon/e/POSTOFFICE,

ce: Liz J Tuddenham/e/POSTOFFICE, Nicholas Samuel/e/POSTOFFICE, John D
Cole/e/POSTOFFICE, Bob Booth/e/POSTOFFICE, Chris P . ov
Young/e/POSTOFFICE, Marc Reardon/e/POSTOFFICE, \ p Cues,

Hard Copy To: Wha

Hard Copy cc:

Date: 30/05/2002 09:33 gr PF
From: Andrew J Perkins ss G
Subject: REJECTION CCN965 ; OF Yo

Dear Alll, ogo’ ee lo

Following comments from a number of yourselves it is my intention to reject the above: CCN with the evi}
following statement to go toF ‘ujitsu $ Services:- ——ee ——_———*>~—_ 3 r

I'm not convanced by FS Pathways request for a 2% reduction in SLAs as shown below: ~ . ZB ot
© "1% reduction due to reddctior’in processing ti ie by 2 hours"~noteuea where FS get the two Gi
hours from ~believe most oF oar praneies core st 5:30pm most days, allowing for the 30 minutes Pays
before harvesting suggests a reduction of mins at most, given this - hence reduction should be wr
at least half the proposal if any,as we need to question whether this reduction in processing time

will really lead to such an impact on service levels - depends on processing timescales etc so
believe POL should be convinced more here and provided with evidence based-on current actuals. ae

\uey
/ e 1% reduction due to levels of outlets switching of at the end of day - without accepting whether or Ne
/ not this happens - it definitely isn't a result of this change and the level and impact of switch off ay
should be no different to now - hence not an acceptable rea reason for seeking a service reduction. _ Salk

i ing the service is based on data available at the outlet - if the system is not te ce =
itched on then i believe that FS could legitimately say the data was not available and hence
not include in the SLA performance anyway. This point would need checking out with Horizon .
commercial before sharing with FS as it could open a wider debate about how this service Seve
level is actually measured now. The first point under the bullet should be sufficient to argue 3°
against this 1% part of the reduction anyway _ &

i
/o The current Service Level is already based around data being available by 19:00 (not before), PolIwe fist
/ believe therefore that this service level would have been based on data being available at 19:00 of owt,

I anyway a ruthie eeunen for not accepting any ieee at all, however, peearmneverny sy ~

Asecond point but not strictly my remit - I believe the ongoing cost should be questioned as I think Wylees .
some of the other services eg APS, TPS may require a call to be made to poll data after/around 7pm +,

on which this poll could piggy-back, - are we sure we aren't going to be charged for something thatis 7. WA
already there - shouldn't we be asking for a reduction in current charge reflecting the saving of the 5 th
earlier LFS polling call? elas

In conclusion, I think we should reject at this stage but need to push for a speedy way forward given

the dependencies of FP, planned roll out and efficiency requirements of the ed To this end we to
cris, Fo Ue avetel by Porte a Su OPlank. com
Ge,
dy we Why ony Clune varie, (WA to Pann ieta
* oferd Net enc firped

~~ Taner.
POL00031810
POL00031810

will probably accept some service level reduction if need be in the future - just not as much as this on
the basis stated in the CCN
POL00031810
POL00031810

“\

Electronic memo
To: Andrew J Perkins/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
cc: Ruth Strickland/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Andrew

Winn/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
Hard Copy To:
Hard Copy cc:

Date: 13/05/2002 09:34

From: Nicola Wood

Subject: RE: MRP related problems
Andrew

Here is the response from Deirdre. I'm afraid it doesn't actually tell us anything specific about the
resolution of the problems. I am not happy that this is being treated with sufficient urgency and will be
looking to escalate the problems today. I will keep you posted on any progress.

Thanks
Nicola

--- Forwarded by Nicola Wood/e/POSTOFFICE on 13/05/2002 09:23 ----

To: Nicola Wood/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
ce: "Wright John (BRAO1)" ¢ GRO Panesar Nina
¢ GRO i

Hard Copy To:
Hard Copy cc:

Date: 10/05/2002 16:17,

From: Conniss Deirdre j GRO H
Subject: RE: MRP related problems

Nicola

I apologise for not getting back to you earlier.
Please find below my response to your queries.
PC0074884

1) The problem with the weekly cash flow report occurs only on inactive
stockunits. The workaround therefore is to ensure that all current
declarations are redeclared at least once per week.

2) I am slightly puzzled by your request for a target date for the
implementation of the workaround. Any Post master who raises this issue with
the HSH, should be given the above instructions since it is documented on
the Known Error Log and has been since Sth June 2001. In terms specifically
of the LFS pilot, I am not quite sure of the correct process, since the
outlets are being closely monitored by yourselves. Did you want me to submit
an article to Counter News?

3) Given your progess that, following the full rollout of the MRP, the
POL00031810
POL00031810

report might become redundant, I have placed it on a list of fixes which are
allocated to Futures ie future date of delivery not fixed. I have already
indicated that there is no scope within current plans to fix a low priority
bug before the end of the year. If you will provide me with a definite date
when it is required, I will go back to Development and confirm the most
suitable delivery date.

PC0075409

As we discussed when you originally indicated your wish to raise a problem,
we do not normally agree to raise a problem where the change is being dealt
with under normal incident management processes. However I have agreed to
raise this problem in view of the impact on the MRP pilot. In terms of
priority for clearance however, this problem is still competing with changes
for Network Banking. I am aware of the urgency and developers have been told
that a fix will be required asap.

1) The Fujitsu problem number is PC0076101.
2) Detailed description of the problem.

It is important to note that there are circumstances where it is valid for
the declaration made on a Wednesday to be identical to that made on a
Tuesday. This will be the case, when the office is closed on Wednesday and
open on Tuesday. A proportion of the occurrences will be related to that.

It is also important to note that, in the course of the pilot, it has been
established that a significant number of offices are performing their cash
declarations after the cut off point for their office ie making "late"

declarations.

If the system was working SOERECEY  ablinininlasnasnesiinsianienereretines
generate an incomplete ONCH. lence is that since the clocks changed
at the begi i i fous:

From this detailed explanation, therefore it would appear that the problem
specifically relates to the system failing to cope properly with PMs doing
late declarations. Resolving this problem and delivering a fix, would NOT
provide the SAPADS system with more data with which to calculate their
deliveries. It would simply lead to i i fyi

PM has made an incomplete 01

3) I do not know the answer on what is required to resolve the problem. As
soon as I have it, I will pass it on.

4) I have stressed to the developers the urgency of the problem. Until the
diagnostic work is completed, I am not in a position to promise any fix
date. I have asked the developers to "pencil" in BI2R, which is the most
urgent release currently for Counter release.

Bug relating to timestamps on declarations.
This is no longer a problem. An issue was raised late last year, whereby
there was evidence that a large number of PMs were doing their cash
declarations at 2am in the morning. On investigation, this turned out to be
a problem which had been identified in testing Release S10, whereby the 2am
reload of the counters also rewrote the cash declaration. There were also a
few postmasters in December, who actually WERE doing declarations late at
night during December, presumably because of the Christmas rush. The reason
why it is still appearing on the minutes of the LFSORF is due to a lapse on
my part in that I have had an action to confirm what release the fix was
supplied in for some time. It is old history.

I apologise once again for failing to get back to you before.

Deirdre Conniss
Fujitsu Services APS, TPS and LFS Service Manager.

(internal)
(external)

(mobile)

POL00031810
POL00031810

Please note tha’ 902, my E-Mail address is

deirdre .conniss } Please change it on any
distribution lists which you may have. Thank you.

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents
are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not
guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted or that it is
virus-free.

----- Original Message-----
From: nicola .wood{
Sent: 09 May 2002 1

H[mailto:{ GRO. }

Cc: andrew.j.perkins ruth. strickland,__

Subject: MRP related problems

Deirdre

I am concerned that the MRP problems that we have been discussing are not
progressing sufficiently urgently. We need to understand the current status
and

timescales in order that we can make a decision upon the rollout of MRP.

Can you provide updates to the following by COP tomorrow (Fri 10th May)

PCO074884

You were going to confirm what instructions we can give to branches with
dormant

stock units in order to prevent the Weekly Cash Flow Report being incorrect.
Have

you progressed this any further ? Although not urgent to MRP rollout, we do
need a

target date for implementation of the workaround and another target fix date
for

implementation of the fix to rectify this problem.

Please provide
1. An update on the progression of the instruction / workaround

2. A target date for implementation of the workaround

3. A target date for implementation of the fix in order to ensure the report
functions as it should.

PINICL 75409

I raised this as a problem with you last week and am still awaiting
confirmation

that it has been accepted. This has huge implications to the decision to
rollout

MRP further into the Network as it makes it very difficult to identify
whether

branches are conforming to the procedures or not.

Please provide
1. The Fujitsu Problem Number allocated

2. A detailed description of the root cause of this problem, how and why it
occurs

3. A description of what is required to resolve the problem

4. A target fix date for this problem (This MUST be as soon as is possible)

Thirdly, I have been told of a further 'problem' regarding a bug relating to
time

stamps on cash declarations. I would like some details as to the impact of
this

problem.

I appreciate that you may not be in a position to provide answers to all of
these

question by COP tomorrow, however I would like as much information as you
can

provide.
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee

only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose,
reproduce,

copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this

in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your
system.

POL00031810
POL00031810
POL00031810
POL00031810

Horizon Change Request Form Change Request Number:

Change Request Title: Change to Stock Unit Cash On Hand LFS total time.

Authorised Person: Originator: Owner:
Chris P Young Andrew J Perkins

Tel. No.
Fax. No.

Business Reason for Change Request:
To tackle the ongoing of non-conformance within outlets of producing their daily ONCH report
which is currently preventing the further roll-out of MRP/LFS.

Description of Change:

There is substantial evidence of offices failing to complete their end of day cash declaration
within the current 30 minute ‘window’ at the close of business.

The consequence of this is that a ‘null’ declaration is harvested by Fujitsu Services (Pathway)
Ltd.

This change requires Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Ltd. to make a change to the time that LFS
totals the Stock Unit Cash On Hand Statements created in the outlets. (as currently defined in
Schedule KO1 Para 3.1.3).

It is intended that the service (and therefore paragraph 3.1.3 in the Codified agreement) be
changed to:-

“When the Outlet completes the end of day process, that is at 19:00, LFS shall total the Stock
Unit Cash On Hand Statements created in the Outlet”

It is recognised that Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Ltd may not be immediately able to define the
impact on its network of such a change and for this reason is requested that the change be
implemented for an initial trial period of one calendar month in order such impacts to be fully
assessed after which time the change to be impacted fully.

Consequence and/or Cost of Non-acceptance:
(A statement of what the impact will be if the change is not implemented)
The LFS and MRP Pilots currently underway will not be able to be extended further.

Should the Change be sent to ICL Pathway without Initial Sponsor/Business Assessment?
No
(f 'Yes' state reason why).

Urgent: Yes Reason for Urgency : Change requirement currently a
(Yes/No) dependency for LFS and MRP roll-out
Document(s) Affected: (Give full reference and version number and attach appropriate

annotated sections of the document.)

Contract Schedules

Codified Agreement Schedule K01- LFS Service Definition
V1.4

Contract Controlled Documents

Contract Reference Documents
Shared Documents

Date Change Request Raised:
Proposed Implementation Date or Release: ICL Pathway to advise of earliest possible
implementation date.

POL00031810
POL00031810

EMERGENCY IMPLEMENTATION DATE:

SUBMISSION DATE: 20" May 2002

APPROVALS REQUIRED:

PATHWAY APPROVAL DATE POCL APPROVAL DATE

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF IMPACT ASSESSMENTS:

This CCN is raised in response to CR R0248 which requests that a change is made to the time
when the outlet 'LFS Cash on Hand Statement' job is run.

This will change the current business rule in section 3.1.3 of Schedule K01 and set the run
time of the 'LFS Cash on Hand Statement' job to after 19:00 for all outlets. Changing the
start time will result in an additional network connection for the majority of outlets and this
will result in additional network charges as shown below.

It should be noted that changing the start time of this job will reduce the elapsed time
available for the transfer of the cash statement details. In addition it is believed that a number
of outlets are switching their counter systems off after end of day or at weekends/bank
holidays. This takes place before the proposed new time for the LFS job and accordingly the
transactions from these outlets will not be available. An estimate of the number of outlets is
shown below.

It is noted that POL has advised that they do not wish to change the associated service level of
98% delivery by 23:59. However the reduction in the time to process and transfer the LFS
transactions and the likelihood of a number of outlets switching their systems off before the
LFS job runs means that Fujitsu Services' ability to meet this service level is reduced.

It is proposed that there should be reduction in the associated service level to 96% to allow
for these conditions.

Fujitsu Services accept this change subject to the adjustment to the associated service level
being accepted as described below.

OVERALL IMPACT ASSESSMENT: HIGH+MEDIUM+ LOW,

CCN No: 965 Page: 1

POL00031810
POL00031810

ICL PATHWAY CHANGE CCN NO: 965
CONTROL NOTE (CCN) -

SHEET 1

CCN TITLE: CHANGE ADMINISTRATION USE ONLY.
Change to Stock Unit Cash on Hand I CR NO: R0248a

LFS total time CP NO: 3236
IMPLEMENTATION DATE EXPIRY DATE:

OR RELEASE: BI2R 10" June 2002

CCN RAISED BY: Dave Cooke DATE: 17/05/02

EMERGENCY IMPLEMENTATION DATE:

SUBMISSION DATE: 20" May 2002

APPROVALS REQUIRED:

PATHWAY APPROVAL DATE POCL APPROVAL DATE

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF IMPACT ASSESSMENTS:

This CCN is raised in response to CR RO248 which requests that a change is made to the time
when the outlet 'LFS Cash on Hand Statement' job is run.

This will change the current business rule in section 3.1.3 of Schedule KO1 and set the run
time of the 'LFS Cash on Hand Statement’ job to after 19:00 for all outlets. Changing the
start time will result in an additional network connection for the majority of outlets and this
will result in additional network charges as shown below.

It should be noted that changing the start time of this job will reduce the elapsed time
available for the transfer of the cash statement details. In addition it is believed that a number
of outlets are switching their counter systems off after end of day or at weekends/bank
holidays. This takes place before the proposed new time for the LFS job and accordingly the
transactions from these outlets will not be available. An estimate of the number of outlets is
shown below.

It is noted that POL has advised that they do not wish to change the associated service level of
98% delivery by 23:59. However the reduction in the time to process and transfer the LFS
transactions and the likelihood of a number of outlets switching their systems off before the
LFS job runs means that Fujitsu Services’ ability to meet this service level is reduced.

It is proposed that there should be reduction in the associated service level to 96% to allow
for these conditions.

Fujitsu Services accept this change subject to the adjustment to the associated service level
being accepted as described below.

OVERALL IMPACT ASSESSMENT: HIGH/+MEDIUM+ LOW

CCN No: 965 Page: 1
POL00031810
POL00031810

REASON FOR CHANGE:

The current LFS business rule states that the 'LFS Cash on Hand Statement' job will run at
the Outlets scheduled End of Day plus 30 minutes (or 19:00 whichever is earlier). A
recent review by POL has identified that many outlets whose EOD is before 18:30 are
not completing this activity before the LFS job runs. It is also the case that the End-of-
Day time set in POL reference data for some outlets is not correct.

The consequence of this is that the LFS counter job which runs just after the outlet's (EOD +
30 minutes) will correctly generate a default null value for that outlet, and this will be
transmitted to POL's SAPADS system. /

The POL MRP programme requires these daily cash declarations, and it is believed that
changing the LFS job time will allow outlets the time to complete this activity before the
outlet LFS job runs.

DETAILS OF CHANGE:
1) Change to LFS job time

The Counter Scheduler, which controls the run times of outlet jobs, will be changed to start
the LFS Cash declaration job after 19:00.

The current operation will remain unchanged - i.e. This job will take the outlet's Cash
Declaration if present, or generate a default null value, and transfer this to SAPADS via TMS,
the Horizon data centre's and the POL FTMS gateway. No transaction will be sent to
SAPADS for an outlet that switches their counter system(s) off.

2) Additional Network connection

An additional replication / network connection will take place in the majority of outlets on the
majority of days due to the creation of the LFS Cash Statement transaction after 19:00. This
will create approx. 76,000 additional calls per week (330,000 calls per month). The charge
for each call is 2.5p up until 30/11/2002 after which the charge reduces to 0.4p.

3) Adjustment of Service Level

a) At present the average time for running the LFS job is approx. 17:00 (based on
7days/week closing times as defined in ref. data). The change to 19:00 will reduce
the time available for transferring and processing the LFS transactions by approx. 2
hours. It is proposed that a 1% reduction of the service level should be allowed to
compensate for this.

b) Analysis by Fujitsu Services has shown that there may be at least 100 outlets
switching their systems off at end of day / weekends / bank holidays. This will
prevent a job timed to start at 19:00 from running which will affect the Service Level
achievement figures. It is proposed that a further 1% reduction of the service level
should be allowed to compensate for this.

This will result in an overall revised Service Level of 96%.

CCN No: 965 Page: 2
POL00031810

POL00031810

PROPOSED REVISION TO WORDING OF CODIFIED AGREEMENT:

1) The business rule in Schedule K01 para. 3.1.3 will be changed as follows :-
Current Text

"When the Outlet completes the end of day process, that is close of business plus thirty (30)
minutes or 19:00 whichever is earlier, LFS shall total the Stock Unit Cash On Hand
Statements created in the Outlet."

Proposed new Text

“The contractor shall complete the LFS end of day process [after] 19:00 and LFS shall total
the Stock Unit Cash On Hand Statements created in the Outlet”

NB: It is proposed that the word 'at' in POL's proposed new text is changed to ‘after’ (as
shown above). This will allow outlets to complete their Cash Declarations up to 19:00 and
for the LFS job to run after 19:00.

2) The associated service level in Schedule K08 para. 3.2 is changed as follows :-

Daily Cash on Hand details

MAT changed to 96% to SAPADS by 23:59 day A.
TR changed to 93% to SAPADS by 23:59 day A.

ACCEPTANCE / IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE:

This change can be implemented approx. 4 to 6 weeks after approval of the CCN.

PA/TEM/007, Version 3.0, Sheet 1

CCN No: 965 Page: 3
POL00031810

POL00031810
ICL PATHWAY CHANGE CCN NO: 965
CONTROL NOTE (CCN)
SHEET 2
CCN TITLE:
Change to Stock Unit Cash on Hand LFS total time
COSTS TO POCL: (Including non-recurring charges and new or amended charges)
Task Man-days £
One Time Charges
Change Counter Scheduler and unit 1 @£ 841 =£ 841:00
test
Live System Test 4 @E 841 = £ 3,364:00
Product Integration, build and release 2 @E 841 = £ 1,682:00
Sub-total 7 £5,887:00
20% Contingency £1,177:40

TOTAL: £ 7,064:40

Ongoing Charges

Additional Network connection £41,234:00
charges from 01/07/02 to 31/11/02
Additional Network connection £ 15,840:00 per 12 months.

charges for 01/12/02 to 31/11/03 and
for each subsequent 12 month period.

IMPACT SUMMARY Impacts on Related Agreements and Services

Payment Plan/Terms of Payment:

One time charges - 100% on completion.

Ongoing Network charges - The charges will be paid in annually in advance, and will be
adjusted pro rata from the actual implementation date of the Counter Scheduler change.
These ongoing charges are subject to RPI.

Documentation:

Codified Agreement Schedules Affected:
K01 : LFS Service Definition

New Contract Controlled & Referenced Documents: None

Documents Quality Reviewed: ¥ESANO

Reference Title Version & Date

Reason for Document Update: N/A.

Affected Contract Controlled/Referenced Documents: None

Reference Title Version & Date

Other Affected Documents (for information only): None

Reference Title Version & Date

Deliverables: N/A

Personnel: N/A

CCN No: 965 Page: 4
POL00031810
POL00031810

Existing Timetable: N/A

Implementation Plans: N/A

Security: N/A

Risk: N/A

System Support: N/A

System Management: N/A

Standards: N/A

Accommodation/Location: N/A

Charging Mechanism:

Where cost estimates are included, these are quoted as a mid-point estimate of the work to be
carried out by ICL Pathway. The eventual charge will be made on an ‘actuals’ Time and
Materials basis using the same man-rates. A 20% contingency has been included in the CCN
to allow for reasonable variation around the mid-point estimate. The estimate is set so that
the ICL eventual charge is as likely to be lower as higher than the estimate excluding
contingency. The contingency is included to provide allowable headroom for invoicing
purposes against a purchase order. Above this level, ICL Pathway would have to apply for
additional approval via a new CCN.

Service Delivery Criteria: N/A

Service Levels: N/A

POCL Responsibilities: N/A

Contractual Issues: N/A

Other: N/A

PA/TEM/007, Version 3.0, Sheet 2

CCN No: 965 Page: 5
POL00031810
POL00031810

. Impact Assessment Due Date 27/05/2002

Programme Impact Assessment Form Change Control Note/Request No: 0965

Change Request Title: Change to Stock Unit Cash on Hand LFS total time

Business Owner: Andrew J Perkins Tel:
Fax:

Impact Assessment:
No impact on my area CJ
(If no impact tick the box, sign and date the form and return)

Accept LC] Reject i}

Provide estimates for your area to make the change

Mandays effort to implement the change
Cost (£k)

Earliest possible implementation date

Dependencies

Other Documentation:
(If you know of any additional documentation that could be affected by the change please specify)

Additional Comments: Documents/papers attached CJ
(Tick box if additional papers or documents attached to your impact)

Impact Assessor

Signature
Date

Return completed form to the Change Control 2™ floor, Calthorpe House, 15-20 Phoenix Place, London WC1X 0DG

iaformdoc Version 3 September 97
POL00031810
POL00031810

G

Electronic memo
To: Andrew J Perkins/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
cc:

Hard Copy To:
Hard Copy cc:

Date: 23/05/2002 15:20
From: Brenda John
Subject: Re: CCN 965 comments

see comments below

Brenda

sorererocororoneeoeo-= Forwarded by Brenda John/e/POSTOFFICE on 23/05/2002 15:23 ----
To: Brenda John/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE

ce:

Hard Copy To:
Hard Copy cc:

Date: 21/05/2002 17:09
From: Jon Bishop

Subject: a) Re: CCN 965 for impact

Brenda

The following comments were made by Keith Barney, Head Of Inventory Management.

CCN NO 965

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF IMPACT ASSESSMENTS:

Paragraph 2 - Surely it is only replacing a scheduled connection 30 minutes after closing.

Paragraph 3 - Why will changing the start time of this job reduce the elapsed time available for
transfer of the cash statement details. I didn’t think they were supposed to switch off. If not then this is
a conformance issue.

DETAILS OF CHANGE

3 -- Surely there is no reason why this job cannot be completed within the 5 hours available - No
reduction in standard is warranted.

PROPOSED REVISION TO WORDING OF CODIFIED AGREEMENT
Proposed New Text -- Provided there is an end time for completion of the transfer.

Please do not hesitate to contact me if you require further clarification.
Regards

Jon Bishop
ADS System Owner Team

Post Office Ltd - CHD
3rd Floor

Royal London House
22 - 25 Finsbury Square
London

EC2A 1NL

Postline:I___ GRO

External Email

POL00031810
POL00031810
POL00031810
POL00031810

96S

Impact Assessment Due Date

Programme Impact Assessment Form Change Control Note/Request No: 0965

Change Request Title: Change to Stock Unit Cash on Hand LFS total time

Business Owner: Andrew J Perkins Tel:
Fax:

Impact Assessment:
No impact on my area {J

(If no impact tick the box, sign and date the form and return)

Accept I_I Reject

Provide estimates for your area to make the change

Mandays effort to implement the change
Cost (£k)

Earliest possible implementation date

Dependencies

Other Documentation:
(If you know of any additional documentation that could be affected by the change please specify)

Additional Comments: Documents/papers attached Cf

(Tick box if additional papers or documents attached to your impact)
This is rejected because there is no reference to schedule K 08 para 3.2, row 4.( this needs to be
included)

Impact Assessor I Horizon Contract Author

Signature
Date I 22.05.02.

Return completed form to the Change Control 2 floor, Calthorpe House, 15-20 Phoenix Place, London WC1X 0DG

iaformdoc Version 3 September 97
POL00031810
POL00031810

I 1G

Electronic memo
To: Andrew J Perkins/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
cc:

Hard Copy To:
Hard Copy cc:

Date: 23/05/2002 15:23
From: Brenda John
Subject: Re: CCN 965 comments

see comments below

Brenda

--- Forwarded by Brenda John/e/POSTOFFICE on 23/05/2002 15:26 —----——~

To: Brenda John/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
cc: Sue Lowther/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
Hard Copy To:
Hard Copy cc:

Date: 22/05/2002 17:25
From: Gary Dooley

Subject: =) Re: CCN 965 for impact

No information security impact, as I assume that capacity and load-balancing schedules have already
been undertaken to ensure that this increase in traffic can be managed successfully.

Regards

Gary

Information Security Specialist
Services Group
Business Systems

GRO

Brenda John
POL00031810
POL00031810

Brenda John To: Dick Brazear/elPOSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Paul
: OGorman/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, John
B20 110 BRC UROSTOEEIGLaP Se IOFFICE Mike G
Harris/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Keith K
Baines/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Marc
Reardon/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, BSM Change Control@POSTOFFI
Nicholas Samuel/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Adrian
Donnelly/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Jeanette
Brown/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Phil Norton/e/POSTOFFICE@POST(
Graeme Seedall/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Lisa
Brownsdon/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, OPTIP Team@POSTOFFICE, G
Dooley/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Liam
Jacques/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Mark R
Knight/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, John D
Cole/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Mark Burley/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTO
Rashpal Dhesi/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Clive
Readie/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Barry R
Evans/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Jon Bishop/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTC
Tony Hills/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Jim H
Smith/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Lynn
Sawyers/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Lynsey
Wright/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Andy J
Jones/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Karen
Rogers/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Tom
Fitzgeraldie/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Beverley
Dunnie/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Mike J
Hannonle/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Graham C
Ward/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, John D
Cole/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Tracey
Mulholland/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE

ce:
Subject: CCN 965 for impact

Please see CCN 965: Change to Stock Unit Cash on Hand LFS total time your forms by
27/05/2002.

Andrew Perkins because of the financial position of Post Office Ltd, you should note that any
discretionary spend incurred as a result of this Change Control Note will need to be agreed and signed
off at Director level and that budgetary provision will need to be agreed and certified with Finance
before the Change Control Note can be approved and signed off. As part of the processing activity,
the Change & IS Change Control will be required to confirm with Finance that the change proposal is
covered by a current business case and to confirm with the Business / Technical Design Authority that
it is consistent with Post Office Ltd Strategy.

Can you Also forward me the budgetary details cost centre code etc
Regards

Brenda
ATTACHED: 965.DOC
