POL00121881
POL00121881

Message
From: Helen Dickinson [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HELEN. DICKINSON 1C9E08E1-9F10-43C1-8F95-S2ES0B40E8ED]
Sent: 04/07/2012 10:47:12
To: Sharron L Jennin; Christopher G Knight
{ Jim Coney
Fa ; Gordon Y Grant.
Subject: FW: New process for dealing with Horizon data requests - ARQs
Morning All,

Please see below the new instructions for dealing with ARQ discs.
Could you all clear out your cupboards and return what are not required to Casework by SD.

Many thanks

From: Jane M Owen

Sent: 04 July 2012 09:54

To: Jason G Collins; Keith Gilchrist; Helen Dickinson

Cc: Steve Bradshaw; Alan X Simpson; Maureen Moors

Subject: New process for dealing with Horizon data requests - ARQs

Dear All

It has come to light that we are failing in our process for the retention and destruction of ARQ requests. As such
T have re-written the process, with guidance from Alan Simpson, to ensure compliance in line with the audit
requirement.

Part of the new process applies to the Security Ops managers so could I please ask you to ensure that the points
below are cascaded to them as soon as possible.
In addition this will mean that any disks relating to a closed case and which are currently being stored locally

need to be forwarded to the Casework Team as soon as possible.

7) Retention of the disks which relate to prosecution cases need to be disposed of in line with the Criminal
Procedures & Investigations Act (CPIA) guidelines (see below) and it is the responsibility of each
Security Manager to ensure that these are followed.
POL00121881
POL00121881

5.8 If a criminal investigation results in proceedings being instituted, all material which may be relevant must be
retained at least until the accused is acquitted or convicted or the prosecutor decides not to proceed with the case.

5.9 Where the accused is convicted, all material which may be relevant must be retained at least until:
- the convicted person is released from custody, or discharged from hospital, in cases where the court
imposes a custodial sentence or a hospital order;
- six months from the date of conviction, in all other cases.

If the court imposes a custodial sentence or hospital order and the convicted person is released from custody or
discharged from hospital earlier than six months from the date of conviction, all material which may be relevant
must be retained at least until six months from the date of conviction.

8) When disks are no longer required they should be returned to the casework team at Salford, via Special
Delivery (as part of the audit trail) for logging, and subsequent formal destruction. An audit log will be
maintained by the casework team to this effect. Any information/data relating to obsolete/redundant
disks that may have been copied/stored on your computer’s hard drive must be deleted.

9) An annual audit/check will be undertaken, by the casework team, of all disks that remain ‘live’ in the
field and records maintained and updated accordingly.

Just to confirm - any disks out in the field relating to a closed case where the green jacket has already been
returned to Casework need to be sent in asap.

Disks that are with a current case need to be returned only when the case is closed and need to be associated
with the relevant green jacket when returned to Casework.

Any issues please let me know.

Regards

Jane

Jane Owen
Security Manager
Grapevine

Post Office Ltd

Spread the word...

CRUG A 4004

top the crime

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (5) and may contain &
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.

I you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message.

