POL00026004

POL00026004

Message

From: Alisdair Cameron [alisdair.cameron(,

Sent: 16/05/2019 11:27:21

To: Watts, Alan [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP .
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Alan.Watts]; Ben Foat [Ben.Foat!_ GRO

cc: HSF Post Office [/O=EXCHANGE/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.

(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=HSF Post Office6e6]; Thomas Cooper [tom.cooper}
Subject: RE: Privileged & Confidential frome

Thanks, so we remain at risk that only Coulson will adjudicate our right to appeal? Al

Al Cameron
Interim Chief Executive

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

From: Watts, Alan <Alan.Watts}_
Sent: 16 May 2019 12:12

To: Alisdair Cameron <alisdair.camero!
Cc: HSF Post Office <HSFPostOffice
Subject: Privileged & Confidential

Al, Ben

We had a brief chat with Helen Davies QC earlier to start to get her up to speed on the issues in the case. She has read
very little but did have a few observations that I thought you would be interested to hear:

e She agrees with the strategy of keeping more arguments on the table at the hearing before Fraser next
week. There is a difference between taking arguments that are well-versed to the trial judge and taking them
cold to the Court of Appeal.

e She is keen to work out if there is anything that can be cut before we apply to the Court of Appeal — the appeal
will be of more interest if it looks more manageable.

e The discrete factual points and procedural unfairness may not be worth pursuing — but obviously further
reading in needed.

e She thinks the first key point — good faith — will be of interest to the Court of Appeal.

e She agrees that removing the request to replace the Managing Judge was the right thing to do.

@ She has not heard of 3 Lord Justices being asked to consider an application for leave (neither have we) so this
will need thought

e She mentioned, colloquially, that in her experience the Court of Appeal almost always rejects applications for
permission to appeal recusal decisions in harsh terms. So, without having read it, she is unsurprised by
Coulson's harsh treatment.

Next step is for us to meet with her next Thursday afternoon once she has had a proper opportunity to read in.

If you have any questions please let us know.

POL-0022483
POL00026004
POL00026004

Regards

Alan

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and its subsidiaries and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are separate member firms of the
international legal practice known as Herbert Smith Freehills

This message is confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. If you are not the intended recipient you must not disclose or use the
information contained in it. If you have received this email in error please notify us immediately by return email or by calling our main switchboard
ind delete the email

Further information is available from www.herbertsmithfreehills.com, including our Privacy Policy which describes how we handle personal
information.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC310989. It is authorised
and regulated by the Solicitors' Regulation Authority of England and Wales whose rules can be accessed via www.sra.org.uk/code-of-conduct page.
A list of the members and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at the registered office, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London
EC2A 2EG. We use the word partner of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP to refer to a member of Herbert Smith Frechills LLP, or an employee or
consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications. Herbert Smith Freehills LLP's registration number for Value Added Tax in the United
Kingdom is GB 927 1996 83

RCFE ICCC RR RI ICCC ROR oR RICCI 0 OR OR ICR OR oR OR C00 OR OR CCB OR OR CES

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

SRR CC RR 28 RR ACR RR A I FRR RR A CSR RR RI ACG A ROR RR CAC ARR RR CACO

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

POL-0022483
