POL00029709
POL00029709

Message
From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd} GRO '
on behalf of I Angela Van-Den-Bogerd ~
Sent:
To:

cc:
Subject: RE: Post Office Mediation Claims.
Attachments: Re: Rivenhall

All,

I believe the attached is the e-mail chain referred to by Steve Darlington. In terms of transaction
corrections/acknowledgements we have explained these in the factfile so it should be clear that these need the branch to
accept the 1 ‘A on the Horizon system as it doesn’t automatically make any adjustments. It is the statement below that
does in my view require further exp!

anation. Red ~ do we already have this explanation logged somewhere? Andy Winn
infers that we have used this in court at some time?

“Fujitsu have the ability to impact branch records via the message store but have extremely rigorous procedures in place
to prevent adjustments being made without prior authorisation - within POL and Fujitsu These controls form the core of
our court defence if we get to that stage.”

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

@ 148 Old Street, LONDON, ECV 9HQ
©}

S

© @postoflicenews

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 08 April 2014 19:42

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Andrew Parsons; Andy Holt; Rodric Williams
Cc: Chris Aujard; David Oliver1

Subject: Fwd: Post Office Mediation Claims.

Please see below. Not yet decided about whether to postpone this week's WG call but does anyone know anything
about the email being quoted below about remote alteration of figures in branch? I think that this is a new one on me.

Andy P, can we please chase CK for a response on the Rose report point.

Best wishes

POL-0026191
POL00029709
POL00029709

Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

Begin forwarded message:

From: Ron Warmington <_
Date: 8 April 2014 17:30:
To: ‘Belinda Cr
Cc: <mediatio: H
Subject: FW: Post Office Mediation Claims.

Agenda item for this week's WG call perhaps?

Regards, Ron.

From: Steve Darlingto!
Sent: Tuesday, April 08, 2014
To: 'Ron Warmington’

Cc: Post Office Group
Subject: FW: Post Office Mediation Claims.
Importance: High

0 PM

Dear Ron,

As Priti has stated in her last sentence we are seeking a stay on the time limits on all cases under review due to the
implications of POL's non-disclosure of system-generated transactions and Horizon’s integrity issues.

The ‘Helen Rose Report’ is of critical significance to all cases. The information contained within it is a compelling case for
such a stay in its own right. When combined with the Andy Winn/Alan Lusher email in the case of Ward which explicitly
states that Fujitsu can remotely change the figures in the branches without the SPMs’ knowledge or authority, the case

for a general stay is overwhelming.

We ask that the Working Party considers this request as a matter of urgency in order that we do not prejudice our
clients’ cases by omitting what is clearly information of the utmost general significance,.

We also request that the Working Party demands that POL acts quickly to provide the information requested in Priti’s
email immediately so that the mediation process is not hindered further.

Regards

Steve Darlington BA (Hons) ACA
Finance Director

POL-0026191
POL00029709
POL00029709

1010 Great West Road, Brentford, TW8 8BA
www.howe.co.uk

POL-0026191
