POL00222427
POL00222427

From: Jane MacLeod _ GRO

Sent: Mon 16/02/2015 6:39:29 PM (UTC)
To: Matthews, GavinI
Ce: Rodric Williams[,
Subject: RE: CCRC letter - Subject to privilege [BD-4A.F1D20472253]

Thanks Gavin
I'll see what we can set up for first thing Thursday morning.

Jane

From: Matthews, Gavin [:._
Sent: 16 February 2015 18:20
To: Jane MacLeod

Cc: Rodric Williams

Subject: FW: CCRC letter - Subject to privilege [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Jane

Andy Parsons has forwarded on your message below and as I have been working closely with Rod and Brian Altman
QC on this matter I thought I would offer up a few initial thoughts on the CCRC response:

1. It neatly circumvents both questions POL asked in the letter under response — clearly there is no individual
applicant challenging his/her own prosecution so that must mean that the CCRC considers that there are
“exceptional circumstances" which justify this investigation though they do not say so explicitly and their
response is very weak.

2. It is also clear that at this stage the CCRC have no idea of the documentation they are looking for save for the
Altman report - I suspect their plan is to start there and then to ask for more and more documentation as they
go along.

3. We can disclose the Altman report subject to all the protections of s25 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1995 ie it
must not be disclosed without our consent (note that there are limitations on this).

4. In relation to the Horizon system, that is a very wide definition of documentation. They will have seen the
Second Sight report from July 2013 because SS published that. In my view that documentation is not relevant
to their search. What is relevant is the review process POL went through after production of the SS report and
the subsequent disclosure process carried out by Cartwright King — we need to think about "guiding" them in
that direction but only to a sample of files.

5. Overall we need to consider how far POL pushes back on this latest letter — the danger is that once we open
the door to them we will find it hard to close it!

These are my preliminary views and I am happy to join a conference call with you/Rod any time this week (although I
am out of the office on Friday)

I hope this helps
Kind regards
Gavin

Gavin Matthews
Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Bord Didkingow

Direct:

POL00222427
POL00222427

Mobile:
Office:

GRO

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Jane MacLeod [} GRO. 4
Sent: 16 February 2015 16:27

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Parsons, Andrew

Subject: CCRC letter - Subject to privilege

Rod,

Please see attached letter from the CCRC. Essentially they are looking for sight of the Altman report although see the
paragraph on p2 where they state that they expect that this would also cover the Horizon system.

Based on previous discussions, I think we will need to disclose the Altman Report although we should ensure that this
disclosure does not waive privilege. The letter also enclosed a copy of the ‘Formal Memorandum: Disclosure by the
Commission’ (available at http://www. justice.gov.uk/downloads/about/criminal-cases-review/policies-and-
procedures/casework/disclosure-by-commission.pdf) which sets out at p22 the considerations around privilege.

In relation to the Horizon system, we should consider what can be provided around this; would any of Second Sight’s
own reports assist on this?

I note you are out of the office until Thursday and I am off from Thursday! Its possible I could do a call before 10 on
Thursday morning or on Friday afternoon.

Let me know what works for you.
Thanks,

Jane

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

ote ee ote we
POL00222427
POL00222427

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential
nail and any attachments. If you are not jane.macleod
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copy

only is authorised to
- “has soon as possible and delete any
this Communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful

access this e-

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or dar
hich may be eaused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited li
office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, wher
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equi

lity partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered
a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
tration number is GB1 23393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.

