POL00121455
POL00121455

Security Managers’ Guide to the Prosecution Support Office

This guide provides an overview of the ways of working and relationship between Business Unit
Security Teams and Prosecution Support Offices, and covers roles, responsibilities and services. It
will be supplemented with a more detailed workbook which will be issued by the end of June.

Section 1 Types of case This section give an overview of the types of investigation
case and the actions and responsibilities of PSO and BU
Security staff in each.

Section 2 PSO Services This section gives an overview of the services provided by
the PSO.
Section 3 PSO Contact List This section contains PSO staff details, office locations

and phone numbers.

Section 4 PSO Process Maps This section contains copies of the process maps detailing
the ways of working within the PSO.

Section 1 Types of case

On completion of an initial investigation, projects will fall into one of 3 main categories,

A) those requiring advice on prosecution,

A) those which do not require prosecution advice but have uncovered issues which need to be pursued by way
of the conduct code, or

A) those which have identified no prosecution nor conduct related issues.

Each category is dealt differently and a summary of necessary actions and responsibilities is shown below.

AL Cases in which prosecution advice is required.

This relates to investigations during which sufficient evidence is obtained to suggest that someone has
committed a criminal offence, and a decision has to be made whether or not prosecution should ensue.

Such cases should be reviewed and quality checked within the Business Unit Security Team in
accordance with the standards set by that team. The designated person within the team must prepare a
written recommendation on the most appropriate course of action, and page it into the file. The name
and address of the Conduct Manager should also be recorded in the file and an envelope addressed to
him or her enclosed. The file should then be submitted to the local PSO to progress.

Note Business Unit Security Teams retain responsibility for ensuring that all interested parties are
advised when a member of staff is suspended from duty.

B. Cases in which no prosecution advice is required but issues which need to be pursued by way of
the conduct code have been identified.
0

SM guide to PSO. May 2001
POL00121455
POL00121455

This relates to investigations which do not reveal evidence that someone has committed a criminal
offence, but one or more issue proper to be dealt by way of the Conduct Code has been identified.

Again such cases should be reviewed and quality checked within the Business Unit Security Team. In
addition Security Managers or other designated persons within the Business Unit Security Team must
ensure that the conduct issues are progressed. This includes providing the appropriate Conduct
Manager with relevant information such as reports, statements or records of interview.

Cc Cases in which no prosecution advice is required nor have any issues which need to be pursued by
way of the conduct code have been identified.

This relates to investigations which do not reveal evidence that someone has committed a criminal
offence, nor identified any issue proper to be dealt by way of the Conduct Code.

Again such cases should be reviewed and quality checked within the Business Unit Security Team.
The case should be closed on SIMS, normally by the Line Manager of the investigating officer or other
designated person within the Business Unit Security Team. A standard form (PSO 22A) confirming
that all aspects of the case have been finalised should be completed and paged into the file which
should then be sent to the local Prosecution Support Office (PSO) for storage. More detail on case
closure and file storage in Sections 2 and 3.

Section 2 Services provided by PSO

1. Progressing Conduct issues

PSO staff will send conduct reports and copies of the record of interview to the Conduct Manager. BU
Security staff must ensure that conduct reports and records of interview are contained within the file
and are easily identifiable. They should also ensure the name and address of the Conduct Manager is
recorded in the file as well as an envelope addressed to him or her. On conclusion of the conduct case
PSO staff will obtain details of the decision and advise the BU Security Team and Legal Services
accordingly. They will also ensure that a debarment notice is issued and that all relevant information is
captured within Consignia.

2. Obtaining advice from Legal Services

PSO staff will circulate files to Consignia Legal Services (CLS) for advice and on receipt will copy
this to the appropriate Designated Authority Manager (DAM).

3. Obtaining prosecution decisions

PSO staff will send copies of the report, record of interview and advice provided by CLS to the
Designated Authority Manager (DAM). On receipt PSO staff will copy the prosecution decision to
CLS and the BU Security Team. In the event that the DAM disagrees with CLS advice, PSO staff will
return the file to the BU Security Team to liaise with both parties and agree the way forward.

4, Progressing no prosecution decisions
Where the decision of the DAM is not to prosecute nor administer a formal caution, PSO staff will
return the file to the BU Security Team to deal as necessary and ultimately authorise case closure,
which is dealt at sub-section 22 .

5. Progressing prosecution cases

Where the decision is to prosecute, PSO staff will return the file to the BU Security Team to deal with
1

SM guide to PSO. May 2001
il.

12.

13.

POL00121455
POL00121455

CLS instructions. In Scottish and Northern Irish cases there will be no CLS instruction merely a
request to report the matter to the appropriate prosecuting authority. Once the report has been
submitted BU Security staff must report the prosecuting authority reference number to the PSO. This
will enable PSO staff to obtain progress reports as necessary. PSO staff will provide support in
progressing cases and preparing them for court as described in this document.

Issuing formal cautions

There are 3 sub-processes:

i) cautioning adults in England or Wales

i) cautioning in Northern Ireland

i) cautioning juveniles in England or Wales.

In all 3 cases PSO staff will return the file to the BU Security Team to administer the caution, which in
scenarios (ii) and (iii) will be arranged through the Police. The file should then be returned to the PSO
to process Non-Police Agency (NPA) reporting forms and to capture the relevant information within
Consignia. PSO staff will liaise with the Police about NPA forms as necessary

Progressing arrest cases

Due to the time constraints involved BU Security Teams should continue to liaise directly with CLS in
arrest cases. PSO staff will provide support as appropriate and will prioritise to ensure CLS needs are
met.

Processing Non-Police Agency reporting forms

BU Security staff should complete NPA forms and submit them to their local PSO who will ensure that
all relevant information is captured within Consignia, and will arrange the processing of the forms with
the Police.

Obtaining previous convictions of witnesses

This service is only available through the PSO at Croydon. CLS or BU Sccurity staff may request
checks through the PSO Manager at Croydon. PSO staff will conduct checks automatically where
CLS advise a contested case. The results will be copied to CLS and the BU Security Team. BU
Security staff should continue to complete a Self-Disclosure Form CS 202.

Obtaining summonses
PSO staff will collate “dates to avoid” and obtain summonses from courts.
Serving summonses

On receipt of summonses PSO staff will forward them to BU Security Teams for serving, together with
a reminder to complete Antecedents Form CS033 and NPA Forms I + 2, and to prepare and serve
charges to be taken into consideration (TIC) as appropriate.

Obtaining fingerprint evidence

BU Security staff must liaise with FSS and obtain a quote for the work required. This quote should be
submitted to the PSO with authority to proceed and the relevant exhibits, unless these have already
been lodged with the PSO. PSO staff will complete the necessary paperwork and arrange the
examination, ensuring that continuity of evidence is maintained. Continuity statements will be provide
as necessary. Alternatively BU Security Teams may deal direct with the supplier Forensic Science
Services (FSS).

Obtaining forensic evidence

v

SM guide to PSO. May 2001
17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

POL00121455
POL00121455

As 12 above
Support with standard witness statements

PSO staff will build and maintain a database of contacts who have provided “standard” statements,
together with example statements. BU Security staff requesting assistance will be given contact details,
and if available, an example statement. If the database does not currently hold an appropriate contact,
PSO staff will identify and obtain one using the Corporate Clients and Key Accounts Managers
network. The contact will be added to the database and a copy of the statement filed for future
reference.

Typing

This service is only available through the PSO at Croydon. This facility extends only to records of
interview, either audio tapes or hand-written notes. Form CS 108 should accompany all requests.

Obtaining video evidence

This service is only available through the PSO at Croydon. The PSO Manager and the SSU
Procedural Support Manager are trained to copy and edit video tapes. PSO staff will ensure continuity
of evidence is maintained where the video tape in question is or may become an exhibit, and will
provide continuity and specialist statements as necessary. Form TEC] should accompany all requests.

Support with major or time consuming cases

PSO staff will, subject to capability in terms of skills and volume of work, provide support in such
cases. This may include preparing schedules or other routine tasks. All requests must first be
discussed with the PSO Manager and terms of reference agreed. PSO staff will ensure continuity of
evidence is maintained and will provide statements as necessary.

Witness Management

PSO staff will maintain a database detailing witnesses in cases being prosecuted by CLS, and will
liaise with them as necessary, for example advising changes to trial dates or that they are no longer
required as a witness. To enable PSO staff to fulfil this responsibility, BU Security staff should
enclose in the file a complete copy of all witness statements, sides A and B. Sensitive witnesses will be
handled in consultation with BU Security staff. PSO staff will, on request, provide witnesses with
advice on completing Expenses Claim Forms.

Exhibit management (receipt)

PSO staff will receive and store exhibits and provide continuity statements as necessary. BU Security
staff should seal exhibit bags before submitting them to the PSO. Large clear polythene bags and
numbered seals are available from the PSO for large exhibits. Exhibits should either be transferred by
hand or posted using the Special Delivery service.

Preparing committal/jury bundles

CLS requests for committal/jury bundles will be directed to BU Security Teams in the first instance.
The appropriate team member will prepare a witness list and an exhibits list and forward it to the PSO.
PSO staff will then liaise with CLS and produce final versions of the bundles and ensure that witness
CRO checks have been completed. They will then photocopy the requested number of bundles and
distribute them as instructed by CLS.

Prosecution outcomes

SM guide to PSO. May 2001
22.

23.

Note

24,

26.

27.

28.

29.

POL00121455
POL00121455

PSO staff will obtain regular updates in Scottish and Northern Irish prosecution cases . Once the
outcome of a case, regardless of the Criminal Justice System concerned, PSO staff will ensure that all
relevant information is captured within Consignia and, if appropriate, report the outcome to the Police
on Form NPA3. They will also advise the BU Security Team and the DAM of the outcome, and will
advise witnesses that the case has concluded.

Case closure

BU Security staff should close cases on SIMS and complete a Form PSO 22A which they should page
into the investigation file. In completing this form they are confirming that all aspects of the case have
been finalised. The file should then be sent to the PSO for filing. BU Security Teams will have their
own case closure authority levels and protocols.

File storage

BU Security staff should send closed cases to the PSO where staff will arrange storage with ROMEC.

PSO will only accept “jacketed” cases set up in accordance within current Corporate Security
policy. At present all cases are “jacketed” but this may change.

File retrieval

BU Security staff should request retrieval of a file through the PSO. PSO staff will arrange retrieval
and despatch the file as requested

File destruction

ROMEC will advise the PSO of files due to be destroyed. The PSO Manager will authorise
destruction, obtain a destruction certificate and advise the BU Security Team accordingly.

Audio Master Tape Storage

BU Security staff should submit Audio Master Tapes with Form CS23 to the PSO for storage. PSO
staff will ensure that all information on the form and tape are recorded correctly before storing them.
The tape will be destroyed once its’ retention period has expired.

Audio Master Tape retrieval

BU Security staff should direct requests for the retrieval of Audio Master Tapes to the PSO Manager.

Before returning the tape PSO staff will ensure that the tape seal is intact and the details agree with the
original Form CS23. If there is a discrepancy the matter will be referred to the PSO Manager to liaise
with CLS and the BU Security Team, otherwise the tape will be returned as requested. PSO staff will

provide continuity statements as necessary.

Tape destruction

PSO staff will arrange tape destruction once the retention period has expired, and obtain destruction
certificates.

Obtaining previous convictions of suspected persons
This service is only available through the PSO at Croydon. CLS or BU Security staff may request

checks through the PSO Manager at Croydon. PSO staff will conduct checks automatically on receipt
of a decision to prosecute. The results will be copied to CLS and the BU Security Team.

SM guide to PSO. May 2001
POL00121455
POL00121455

30. Exhibit management - retrieval from store

BU Security staff or CLS may request retrieval of exhibits, which will be sent by Special Delivery or
collected by BU Security staff. PSO staff will provide continuity statements as necessary.

31. Exhibit management - return to store
PSO staff will receive and store exhibits and provide continuity statements as necessary. BU Security
staff should seal exhibit bags before submitting them to the PSO. Large clear polythene bags and
numbered seals are available from the PSO for large exhibits. Exhibits should either be transferred by
hand or posted using the Special Delivery service.

32. Exhibit and production disposal
Following the outcome of a prosecution or on request by BU Security Teams, PSO staff will arrange
disposal of exhibits or productions. Instruction will be sought from the appropriate BU Security staff
and CLS.

33. Exhibit and production management - Scotland and Northern Ireland

This is not a service provided by the PSO. BU Security staff are advised to lodge exhibits or
productions with the appropriate prosecuting authority when they submit their report.

34. Audio tape copying
PSO staff will copy audio tapes on request from CLS or BU Security staff.
Section 3 PSO Contact List
See attached

Section 4 PSO Process Maps

See attached

SM guide to PSO. May 2001
