POL00123743
POL00123743

From:
Sent: Fri 31/07/2015 8:56:13 PM (UTC)
To: Christopher G Knightf
Wisef_
Ce: posecurity.intelligence,
Subject: FW: Governance Meeting & Other
Attachment: Intelligence Team
Attachment: Governance Meeting - Case Action Points.docx
fyi

Elaine Spencer
Security Programme Manager

Post Office Limited
Future Walk

Chesterfield S49 1PF

elaine.spenc

For Government Security Classifications
OFFICIAL please use:

elaine.spencer!

From: Dave Posnett

Sent: 31 July 2015 10:07

To: Aftab Ali; Ashlie Colman; Jim Coney; Joel Watson; Andrew S McCabe; Elaine Spencer; Post Office Security
Cc: Rob King; Amy Quirk; Helen Dickinson

Subject: Governance Meeting & Other

All,
A few things from yesterday’s governance meeting:

e Jane McLeoud (General Counsel) is looking to sign off the prosecution policy in the next month
or so.

e Business still apparently has an appetite to have a prosecution policy.

e SME is essential for virtually all cases in future (aside those where there is absolutely no room
for manoeuvre e.g. audit shortage £50k, admissions to £50k, evidence to show £50k [such as
deposits into accounts, written record of what’s been taken and when, etc]).

e Fujitsu contract expires and will be closed down 2016/2017 ... so business to decide whether
cost effective and viable to appoint Fujitsu SME (as it will take many months to imbed and new
service provider will be on board in the near future). But an SME will be needed for the new
service provider so appointment will factor this in.

e Panorama is still currently planned to broadcast 10" August, focussing on Horizon integrity.

¢ Joel will be taking over the POL/RMG engagement, quarterly meetings, etc — please flag
anything/everything RMG related to Joel.

e Joel and Helen will be taking over the Horizon Integrity biweekly calls with others in POL -
please flag anything/everything Horizon related to Joel and Helen.
POL00123743
POL00123743

e Liaison case will sit with the Intelligence Team and they will farm out any operational work that
needs doing (e.g. witness statements, etc). They will determine case raise, will retain case and
close when appropriate.

e Security incidents (concerning the South Team at present) will be graded by the Intelligence
Team. If a grade 1 then the incident will be farmed out to Security Manager for visit/other
operational activity. Grade 2 and 3 will not be dealt with by Security Manager. Further email
expanding on this is associated.

In terms of live cases (and factoring in the above), I associate actions which are required for a number
of cases. Please note which cases are yours and what actions are required. Where cases are to be
transferred to the Intelligence Team, can you please send in any hard copy paperwork, green jackets,
etc to Chesterfield. Any electronic documents luding event logs with relevant contact details)
should be forwarded to posecurity. intelligence: So, the case should be a nice,
comprehensive, easy to understand package (with additional report if necessary) in order that the
Intelligence Team can make sense of what it’s about and hit the ground running. Can you ensure that
all cases transferring to the Intelligence Team are transferred by 14" August. This provides a 2 week
window which should be achievable and also sits nicely with the Case On Hand submissions due by
20" August.

Elaine,
I’ve highlighted in yellow for ease of reference where a case will or may be coming into the
Intelligence Team.

Security,
Clearly some cases are moving from one SM to another (e.g. Marks cases) and some are moving to
the Intelligence Team. You may wish to update your records accordingly.

Finally,

Rather than just leave in a couple of weeks and then Joel takes over, we’ve agreed that he will start
undertaking my work from next week. That way I will be around to support, assist, etc and he will
have a better understanding as he moves into my role more independently. I’m meeting with Joel
next week by way of a handover, but from Monday can you direct any communications, queries, etc to
Joel (you can cc me if you wish).

Regards,

Dave Posnett
Security & Investigation Team Manager South
Accredited Financial Investigator

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London, EC2Y 9AQ

