Message

From: Paula Vennells:

on behalf of — Paula Vennellsi.....
Sent: 30/06/2013 2:

To: Theresa Iles }

Subject: Fwd: Board Call and SS
Ppo

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells <
Date: 30 June 2013 11.

Martin Edwards

Susan Crichton < GRO >

Ah - my fault! Poor comms - we had decided exactly that and rather than send a written brief at this
stage, we thought it would be better to wait to get a steer from Alwen's meeting with Janet.

Susan as I think you know is seeing SS on Monday pm, so it makes sense for her to update the Board
after that.

If Alwen and Martin could give some thought to an outline discussion brief for the Board, we can go
through after the Janet meeting.

I hope you are all enjoying the glorious weather!
Paula
Sent from my iPhone

On 30 Jun 2013, at 10:20, "Alice Perkin:

Thank you for this.

i will think before the call how best to structure the time available.

Does the reference to the VC meeting on 11 July mean that we are definitely not seeing
him on the 4th? {I hadn't heard.)

i think we will have to tell the Board about SS as there is a danger that we could be ina
difficult situation in the midst of all this and before we will have another opportunity to
tell them. And we do owe them an update. Please can I ask you to think about we
should say, and to let me know beforehand how you intend to describe the situation? If
you want to bring Susan C on to the call, that would be fine.

{ hope you are both getting something of a weekend.

All the best

Alice

From: Alwen Lyons [mailtd GRO

Sent: Saturday, June 29, 2013 12:19 PM

POL00098817
POL00098817

POL-0098400
; Paula Vennells

Kevin Gilliland I
rategy and funding update 28th June

Apologies the earlier email was sent in error and included an incomplete update from
Paula.

Completely my fault.

Please disregard and accept this as Paula's weekly update

Thanks
Alwen

Dear All,

Strategy and Funding update: 28" June 2013:

NFSP engagement and negotiation:

¢ — Discussions with the NFSP have continued this week. We have
completed two “negotiation” meetings to discuss the range of
financial / non-financial levers available to us to build buy in of
NFSP members to the scheduled mandated approach. Alongside
this we have also had further meetings to ensure the NFSP
understand all elements of the strategy including the financial
headlines for the Post Office over the plan period. This has been
useful in ensuring they understand the constraints this brings
especially in relation to cash flow.

e We have a further meeting planned with the NFSP on Tuesday
next week with more to follow. We will continue to ensure that
BIS remain fully aware of the discussions with NFSP and aligned
to our approach in relation to this. Our objective remains to
gain commitment from NFSP to support to the scheduled
mandated programme approach.

e Internally, we continue to model and explore alternative
options around the NFSP levers that were discussed with the
Board.

BIS_/ ministerial engagement:

e We continue to work very closely with the BIS team to gain full
ministerial agreement to the strategy, especially in relation to
Network Transformation. The last few days have focused on
ensuring the thinking behind the scheduled modernised

POL00098817
POL00098817

POL-0098400
POL00098817
POL00098817

approach is understood and that the messaging of this thinking
is clearly set out. We have also worked through how this
thinking should be best set out for ministerial discussions on
this over the next two weeks. This has included setting out the
thinking behind the mix of levers open to us to buy in support
from the NFSP and how this would impact the overall funding
request.

@ We have also completed further discussions with BIS on our
approach to network expansion, community branches and retail
support to branches. This thinking continues to be received very
positively on the joint understanding that these form positive
components of the overarching story around the transformation
of the network.

¢ The BIS team had an internal meeting with Jo Swinson (JS) and
Vince Cable(VC) this week. His questions around NTP and the
scheduled approach were aligned with those which JS had
raised in our early meetings. Specifically, he is looking for:

o Reassurance that we have explored alternative options
before concluding that we need to move to a scheduled
approach

o Evidence that shows that we cannot delay this until after
an election

o Understanding of how we propose to manage the ‘noise’
around this change in approach

We have material prepared on each of these areas and are now
working with the BIS team on how we structure this for
presentation initially with JS and then with VC. The VC meeting
is scheduled for the 11‘ July and will be a joint Post Office and
BIS meeting.

e Looking into next week this work will continue in preparation
for key ministerial meetings the week commencing 8" July.

KPMG audit:

¢ KPMG have now submitted their report to BIS. We have
already received headlines from this and these have been
communicated previously, however we have a session planned
for next week for KPMG to present back to us formally.

Update on Board discussions from last week:

e The Strategy and Funding mandate has been updated and
circulated to all Board members

e The Mutualisation Timeline has been circulated, all comments
received accommodated in an updated document which is now
ready to send to BIS

e The Network Team continue to work on improving the
openings rate. Specifically this week they have:

o On capacity improvement: brought together
Procurement, Legal and Property to develop the

POL-0098400
POL00098817
POL00098817

approach for appointing a Post Office panel of
builders. Legal and Procurement are also looking at
how we can leverage this longer term process to allow
us to use existing POL suppliers in the short term to
help agents currently going through the opening
process.

o On sustaining the pipeline for conversion: have closed
Q1 more than 50 contracts ahead of target. This sets
up the programme well for the increase in planned rate
in Q2 as the pipeline starts to come through. Being
ahead of the contracts target early in the year also
gives us the best opportunity to increase the opening
rate as the year progresses

Board Phone Call
e A Board phone call has been scheduled for late Monday
afternoon. The team have no specific requests from the Board
this week. The call will therefore provide the Board with the
opportunity to discuss the above areas and to gain additional
insight and update from the Team as required. We suggest
using the headings set out above to structure the discussion.

Thanks

Sue

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If
you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered
Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0098400
