POL00447910
POL00447910

Post Office Limited
(“the Company”)
Terms of Reference of Risk and Compliance Committee

The Risk and Compliance Committee (RCC) is a standing committee of the
Strategic Executive Group (SEG). Its authority is subject to the powers and duties
of the Company Board, as set out in the Articles of Association and the Framework
Document.

A. Purpose

1. The purpose of the RCC is to support the SEG in fulfilling their
responsibilities in the effective oversight of risk management, internal
control and assurance, and compliance in the Group.

B. Duties and Responsibilities

2. The RCC shall review and approve for recommendation (where
applicable) to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee all papers and
decisions prior to submission to the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.”

3. The RCC shall also:
Risk Management Framework

i. Review the effectiveness of the risk management framework and
maintain oversight of the development and implementation of the
components of the risk management framework;

ii. Monitor the current risk exposures of Post Office Group and advise on
future risk strategy;

iii. Review the identification and effective management of current key
risks and identified mitigating actions and regular reviews of emerging
risks.;

iv. Review areas of risk, which should include enterprise and linked
intermediate risks.>

v. Review and approve for recommendation to the Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee the draft annual risk management framework;

1 The Group is defined as Post Office Limited and its subsidiary undertakings: Post Office Management Services
Limited (Post Office Insurance) and Payzone Bill Payments Limited. For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee
is responsible for overseeing the Historical Matters Business Unit.

2 See the Board Table of Delegated Authorities for decisions requiring Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
approval.

3 This includes, but is not limited to, Strategic risks, Governance risks (including those related to the financial
services businesses operated by the Group and the Company's joint venture (First Rate Exchange Services
Holdings Limited), Operational risks, Legal risks, Health & Safety risks (including pandemics), Financial risks,
Commercial risks, People risks, Technology risks, Information risks, Security risks, Change risks, Reputation risks
and Marketplace & Brand risks.

INTERNAL 1
POL00447910
POL00447910

Post Office Limited
Terms of Reference of the Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC)

v.

vi.

vii.

Review and approve for recommendation to the Audit, Risk
and Compliance Committee the draft annual internal audit plan;

Review risk reports from subsidiaries, as appropriate;

Review and approve for recommendation to the Audit, Risk
and Compliance Committee the draft risk section of the Annual
Report and Accounts;

Internal controls and assurance

viii.

xi.

Review the adequacy of the Group’s internal controls and make
recommendations for the improvement of the Group’s internal
controls, processes and systems (including financial controls);

Monitor the implementation of key recommendations and
management action plans;

Review and approve for recommendation to the Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee Key Group Policies;*

Review and approve Non-Key Group Policies;>

Fraud, Theft and Ethics

xii. Review with management their fraud assessment, detection
measures and their investigation of illegal acts, as appropriate;

xiii. Review any summary of frauds, thefts and other irregularities of
any size;

xiv. Review with the internal auditors the results of any review of the
compliance with the Group’s codes of ethical conduct and similar
policies including whistleblowing;

Compliance
xv. Monitor compliance with legal and regulatory obligations,

including any significant breaches and horizon scanning for
changes in the legal and regulatory landscape; and

* Key Group Policies are those that require Board/Committee sign-off due to legal or regulatory obligations. A
list of Key Group Policies can be found on the Intranet.
5 Non-Key Group policies are operational policies that do not require Board/Committee sign off

INTERNAL
POL00447910

POL00447910
Post Office Limited
Terms of Reference of the Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC)
Other
xvi. Review and approve for recommendation to the Audit, Risk &

Compliance Committee the Group Insurance provision (including
any renewals).

Cc. Reporting Responsibilities

4. The RCC shall ensure the timely and appropriate reporting to the SEG, the
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and Board (as requested).

5. The minutes of each RCC meeting shall be noted at the subsequent meeting
of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.

D. Authority
6. The RCC is authorised to seek any information it requires from anyone in

the organisation in order to perform its duties including calling anyone to
the meeting to be questioned as required.

INTERNAL 3
POL00447910
POL00447910

Post Office Limited
Terms of Reference of the Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC)

E. Composition and Governance

Membership
7. The RCC shall consist of:
i. Group General Counsel (Chair)
ii. Chief Transformation Officer
iii. Retail Engagement Director
iv. Group Chief People Officer
v. Finance Director, Commercial

(or those holding positions with responsibility for such roles, howsoever
named).

8. In the event the Chair cannot attend a meeting, the Committee may
nominate a member present to chair that meeting only.

9. Members of RCC may send a nominee to deputise on their behalf with prior
approval of the Chair.

10. The following individuals shall be permanent invitees of the Committee:
i. Compliance Director;
ii. Head of Risk;
iii. Director of Internal Audit;
iv. Financial Controller;
v. Group Legal Director; and
vi. Group Assurance Director.

(or those holding positions with responsibility for such roles, howsoever
named).

11. Permanent invitees may send a nominee to deputise on their behalf with
prior approval of the Chair.

Quorum
12. Quorum shall be three members of RCC.

Committee Secretary
13. The Company Secretary, or his or her nominee, shall act as Secretary to
the RCC and shall attend all meetings to keep minutes and record actions.

Frequency

14. The RCC shall meet at least six times a year and as otherwise required.
Meetings shall be planned in accordance with key reporting and financial
planning dates.

Governance
15. Meetings may be held in person or by telephone or other electronic means,
so long as all participants can contribute to the meeting simultaneously.

16. Notice of each meeting shall be given to all those entitled to participate at
least three working days before the meeting.

INTERNAL 4
POL00447910
POL00447910

Post Office Limited
Terms of Reference of the Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC)

17. In exceptional circumstances, written requests for approval by RCC may be
circulated by email, if agreed by the Chair.

18. Meetings for the RCC will be convened by the Secretary in consultation with
the Chair. The Secretary will be responsible for setting the venue date and
time of meetings in conjunction with the Chair. All papers supporting the
meeting will be issued in good time, three working days in advance of the
meeting date.

19. Minutes of each RCC meeting will be circulated to all members of the RCC.

20. The attendance of other Group employees for part or the whole of any RCC
meeting shall be solely at the discretion of the Chair.

F. Annual Review and Approval

21. The RCC will undertake an annual review of its performance and the Terms
of Reference. The outcome of these review will be recommended to the SEG
for approval (notwithstanding amendments approved by the SEG whenever
so required).

Approved by: Date: Version: I Effective from:
Group Executive July 2016 1.0 July 2016

Group Executive 8 December 2020 2.0 9 December 2020
Group Executive 6 July 2022 3.0 7 July 2022
Group Executive 7 June 2023 3.1 8 June 2023
Strategic Executive Group 19 June 2024 3.2 20 June 2024

INTERNAL 5
