POL00041544
POL00041544

Message

From: Rodric Williams [i
Sent: 16/11/2017 11:38:
To: Andrew Parsons [f
Subject: RE: Horizon article
Looks good.

l'll pick up with her the BEIS piece.

Sent from my Windows Phone

From: Andrew Parsons
Sent: 16/11/2017 11:27
wi

Horizon article

Jane

The Legal Gazette loves to sensationalise any vaguely interesting judgment by the Courts. I doubt this carne from
Freeths but is just par for the course reporting by the Gazette. They write one these stories every week. If you read the
comments below the article, you'll see that the genera! reaction is that the judge’s position is unreasonable, rather than
criticism of us / Post Office.

in terms of penaities, this was a shot across the bow by the judge and nothing more. The judge's only power is to refuse
to give Post Office its costs or to order Post Office to pay Freeths costs.

My and Tony's view is that the substantive positions we are taking are reasonable. This is a question of optics. We are
not getting credit for the reasonable stances we are taking and so need to work harder in getting our proposals out to
Freeths at an early stage. This is unusual for a Defendant, but it's what the judge wants.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Wombie Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

womblebonddickinson.com

A]

POL-0038026
POL00041544
POL00041544

To: Andrew Parsons; Rodric Williams; Melanie Corfield; Mark R Davies; Mark Underwood1
Subject: Fwd: Horizon article

All

Please see email and link below. Clearly briefed by Freeths. I need a response to go back to BEIS, but I’m
concerned we didn’t get a heads up on this from the Legal Gazette, so we need to think about the best way to
challenge them on balanced reporting.

Jane MacLeod
Group Director Legal, Risk & Governance
Post Office _

From: Callard, Richard - UKGI <.
Sent: Thursday, November 16, 2017 10:
To: Jane MacLeod

Cc: Patrick Bourke

Subject: Horizon article

7 AM

Hi Jane — I was rather concerned when reading the article below. Clearly one shouldn’t believe everything one reads in
the press, but how real is the threat of draconian penalties, and how big could they be?

https://www.lawgazette.co.uk/law/change-your-attitude-judge-threatens-litigators-with-draconian-costs-
penalties/5063694. article

R

Richard Callard I Executive Director I Post Office and Green Investment Bank Shareholder Teams
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

PA: Daphne.Fraser_

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

2A I 2 2 RR RF AIA RR 2B I OF RR RI CDF RR RF CSA RGR OR GG RGR RR CESS

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POL-0038026
POL00041544
POL00041544

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2A ICCC RRR I I CR ERR A I ISA RRR I ISOS RRR I SBF RRR ICCD RGR RR I COEDS

Meuse consider the environment! Bo you need fe print dais ox

nithorised to
any 2opies

Wonsbi
as chooks before op

tiem sofware

1d Dickinson (JK) LLP accepts no
ig any attachment,

s e-niail will

files atiached 4
6 or damage wi

checked by us wit

sad carry out yo

2 vaused by software viruses 3

owny

may

Content of this email which does uot relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither gives sior endorsed by it

namber OC21766[, Our registered office
she

This email is sert by Womble Boud Dicks

{UID LLP whist i
fist of me
umber is GB 123393)

aul and Wales und

bers’ names is of

me parrisiex to ref

nt whe is of

LPis fave flames provie

able Bond Dickinson @ p sexviees
i UK, and elsewtiere aroun
gate, another Worsh
‘er forties

iid

3 of wor ems
egal

Dickinson ext or omissios

actice law. Please see yeye.acomblebonddickinson cc

rinsen (ntemationa

Womble Bond Dickinson U

POL-0038026
