POL00447908
POL00447908

From: Owen Woodley.
Sent: Mon 22/07/2024 7:58:49 AM (UTC)
To: Murray, Carol Af
Ce: Simon Jeffreys ¢ a:
(GRO Nick Readf""~ :
Subject: RE: Proposed changes to Internal Audit governance arrangements
Hi Carol

Thank you for your letter. I am replying on behalf of the management team, having stepped up as Acting CEO from

last week.

We have carefully considered the points you make but continue to believe that our approach is the right one for the
short term. I know that Nick has discussed the immediate rationale for this with Johann as our Director of Internal

Audit.
Best wishes.

Owen

Owen Woodley
Acting CEO

3" Floor,
100 Wood Street
London, EC2V 7ER

From: Murray, Carol Aj
Sent: Friday, July 19, 2024 1
To: Simon Jeffreys (
Subject: Proposed changes to Internal Audit governance arrangements

attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Dear Simon,

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking links or opening

Please find attached a letter raising concerns with the proposed changes to Internal Audit’s Governance

Arrangements within Post Office Ltd.

Regards,
POL00447908
POL00447908

Carol

Carol Murray

Pronouns: she / her / hers

Partner I Risk Advisory I Deloitte LLP
i] M GRO }

GRO www.deloitte.co.uk

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C30367S. Its registered office is 1 New Street
Square, London EC4A 3HQ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom affiliate of Deloitte NSE LLP, a member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private
company limited by guarantee ("DTTL"). DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL and Deloitte NSE LLP do not provide services to

clients. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about to learn more about our global network of member firms. For details of our professional regulation please see Regulators. A list of

members of Deloitte LLP is available at Companies House.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. Its for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipients), please notify datasecurityreport Jand destroy this message immediately. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from
error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a =. “Jemail account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union

You can understand more about how we collect and use (process) your personal information in our Privacy Notice.

Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP
engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.
