MISC2014 Apr 2021

Personal banking

Cash withdrawal (Chip and PIN - debit card
and POca)

+ Ask the customer to insert their card into the PIN
pad

+ From the 'Home Screen' select ‘Chip & PIN’, then
‘Withdrawal’

+ — Ask the customer how much cash they wish to
withdraw.
Input the required value and press ‘Enter’

+ — Ask the customer to confirm the value by
checking the value displayed on the PIN pad and
enter their PIN

+ Check if the transaction is authorised or declined
and ask the customer to remove their card

+ If the transaction was authorised, count
out the cash value agreed, and hand it
with the receipt to the customer

+ — Settle the transaction to ‘Fast Cash’.

Cash deposit (Chip and PIN)

+ Ask the customer to insert their card into the
PIN pad and confirm they wish to deposit cash
into that account

+ From the 'Home Screen’, select ‘Chip & PIN’,
then 'Cash Deposit!

+ — Ask the customer how much they wish to
deposit. Accept the cash from the customer,
count it and confirm the deposit value with the
customer

+ Enter the value of the deposit and press ‘Enter’

+ Re-enter the value of the deposit and press
‘Enter’.

+ — Horizon checks that the two figures match. If
they do not match, you will be asked to re-enter
the value again

+ Horizon will confirm the cash deposit and
amount:

+ If itis correct, press ‘Confirm’
+ — Ifitis incorrect, press ‘Re-enter Amount’

+ Ask the customer to confirm the value
displayed on the PIN pad by pressing 'Enter’

+ — Settle the transaction to 'Fast Cash’, put the
cash deposit in your till and give the customer
their receipt

POL00028043
POL00028043

Section 4 Banking V1.2

peer ee ee ee ee eH HG

I Remember: An online cash withdrawal can only be I
Tused when the customer has confirmed they wish to I
I withdraw cash, if they are paying by debit card then I
I settle to debit card. I

ee I

peer ee ee ee ee eH HG

1 Remember: Banking transactions cannot be
I reversed, so please take extra care when keying in 1
the value of the transaction

eee I

jee ee ee we ee ee HK

Declined transactions

+ If the transaction is declined, acknowledge
the Horizon Online screen message and
Horizon Online will print two receipts

l

I

l

!

+ Hand the customer the declined transaction
receipt and advise them to use an alternative

card and/or contact their bank/other !

financial institution (phone numbers are I

available on Horizon Online Help) I

+ Retain the signed receipt in branch for 2 years 4

+ For declined cash withdrawals, please ensure I
you don't give the customer any cash I

+ For declined deposits, please remember f]
to return the cash to the customer

Pes e eee ee eee ee
Note: For deposits, some customer cards are swiped
I rather than using the PIN Pad and some customers 1

will need to enter their PIN to confirm the value

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying. distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,
POL00028043
POL00028043

Section 4 Banking V1.2 2 MISC2014 Apr 2021

Cash deposit (barcoded deposit slip) E

+ Obtain a barcode deposit slip and the cash from
the customer

+ Count the cash to be deposited and verbally
confirm the amount of the cash deposit with the
customer

+ From the ‘Home Screen’ scan the barcode on
the customer's deposit slip

+ Input the amount of the deposit
+ Settle to ‘Fast cash’ and put the cash in your till

+ — Horizon will print two receipts. Hand the
customer their receipt along with their

barcoded deposit slip. Please do not datestamp r
the deposit slip Note: Santander customers may have two

barcodes on their deposit slip. Always scan the top
barcode first, followed by the second barcode

eee I

aa cash deposit (personalised deposit
slip)

+ Ask the customer for their pre-printed,
personalised deposit slip and cash. Check that
the value of the cash agrees with the value
entered on the deposit slip

+ From the ‘Home Screen’, select ‘Banking’, then
‘Manual Cash Deposit’

+ Select the relevant bank from the list displayed

+ Enter the Sort Code and the 8 digit Account
Number. Confirm the customer's bank details
and press ‘Enter’

Note:
For 9 digit account numbers drop the first digit
For 7 digit numbers add a zero as the first digit

i: 4 e=f——T]
+ Follow the Horizon on-screen prompts for any == oe =
other details required = —— Saal
+ Enter the value of the deposit into Horizon and —_ one

press ‘Enter’

+ — Settle the transaction to ‘Fast Cash’ and put the
cash in your till

esas DE VIVA GIIVIATIIGT)

+ Hand the customer their receipt and the original 1. Head Office Collection Account (HOCA) code
deposit slip. Please do not datestamp the + Serial number
deposit slip 2. 6 digit Sort Code
3. 8 digit Account Number
A, 2 digit Transaction Code
Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying. distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,
MISC2014 Apr 2021

POL00028043
POL00028043

Section 4 Banking V1.2

Personal banking: cheque deposits

Cheque Deposit

+ Ask the customer for the sealed cheque deposit
envelope, make sure the sort code and account
details have been completed by the customer

+ From the 'Home Screen’ select ‘Banking’, then
‘Cheque Deposit Envelope' and enter the Sort
Code and Account Number

+ Check the bank displayed on Horizon matches
the envelope being presented. If not, advise the
customer that they need to use the correct
envelope

+ Datestamp the front of the deposit envelope
and place it in your drawer. Give the Horizon
receipt to the customer

peer ee ee He He HK KG
Note: The deposit slip will indicate which

bank the cheque is to be paid into, to allow
the appropriate envelope to be used !

— eh Sm) cet: ee fet, cot ey oy ll

If a customer presents a plain envelope to deposit
cheques:

Ask the customer which bank they wish to deposit
their cheque into and offer an appropriately branded
envelope from the supply kept behind the counter or
refer the customer to their bank for further envelopes.

Note: To see which bank envelopes you can stock go
to Horizon Online Help, ‘Stock Codes’, ‘Transaction
Stock Catalogue’ ‘Banking Services’ or look on Branch
Hub

Remember: The brand of the envelope needs to be the
same as the customer's bank, as shown on the deposit

slip. Never offer an envelope branded by one bank for
deposit into the account of another.

Northern Ireland Branches - There is an option for
‘Danske’.

Remember: If a customer wishes to present
a sealed envelope without a pay-in slip this
should be accepted and processed. Please make
the customer aware they should include their
sort code and account number on the reverse
of the cheque and advise the customer that
it could delay the credit to their account

5S et Sa ee

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying. distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,
POL00028043
POL00028043

Section 4 Banking V1.2 4 MISC2014 Apr 2021

Business banking

Plastic Bank Note Envelopes (PBNEs) -
Santander customers only

Some customers have an indemnity agreement in
place with Santander which allows them to deposit
cash in plastic bank note envelopes (PBNES). If the
customer has an indemnity agreement in place, you
will have received a letter from the Banking Support
Team to confirm this.

seasons

+ The customer will present you with a magnetic i, customers name and account lumber
. ‘ ; Customer's site name/reference

Stripe card, paying in book or slip and the cash, 3. Datestamp with the name of the branch, date
which can be a mixture of PBNEs, coin or loose and cashiers initials
notes sealed in an oddments envelope - you 4. Customer penature to say they have checked
can't accept a mixed cash and cheque deposit and sealed the PBNE

+ Take the deposit value of the sealed oddment
envelope and value of PBNEs and check the
value against the paying in book

peer eee ee ee ee

Note: Contents of sealed oddment envelopes Remember: PENEs need fo be opened and checked ©
and PBNEs don't need to be opened and I or remitted to the cash centre for checking, within 7
counted at the time of acceptance I calendar days of the transaction taking place. This is 1

Ipeth —_ Aaad h to ensure that the customer is notified of a
#  Swilpeithe magnetic stripe care’ and enter'the L_ discrepancy within the 7 day indemnity period.

deposit value onto Horizon Online

+ Give the customer their card, paying in book
and Horizon Online receipt

Black pouch deposits - Santander customers
only

+ The customer presents you with a black pouch
with a ‘sealed container advice’ barcoded book
or magnetic stripe card

+ Check the number of pouches agrees with
number recorded on the ‘sealed container
advice’ and there is no evidence of tampering

+ Check the sealed container advice is filled in
(see image) a acinowtesged

+ Sign and datestamp the barcoded book and
return it to the customer or swipe the magnetic
stripe card and give the customer the Horizon
Online receipt

1. Name of the account holder, account number,
branch reference (if any)

Number of bags received

Manager's signature

edad

+ Keep the pouch and check the contents later
the same day. If there is a cheque included,
these are to be processed separately as a
cheque deposit envelope

Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence
The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted
POL00028043
POL00028043

MISC2014 Apr 2021 5 Section 4 Banking V1.2

Change giving

All change giving transactions are a notes for coins exchange service.

Customers can visit any branch to request change and you should provide the service if you can operationally spare
the change.

To guarantee that change will be available for either of the change giving services, a customer must be registered
by their bank and visit their assigned post office. If a customer has been assigned to your branch, you will receive a
change giving mandate that identifies the customer and advises their initial change order and frequency.

Change Giving Standard

+ Swipe the magnetic stripe card or scan the
barcoded document presented to you by the
customer

+ — Check the notes against the value of change
needed by the customer - they will provide you
with a breakdown of what change they need

+ Input the total value into Horizon Online and
complete the transaction.

+ Count out the bags of change to the customer
and give them the Horizon Online receipt

Change Giving Lite

+ Select ‘Banking’ and ‘Change Giving Lite’

+ Select the customer's bank from the list of =

————
participating banks and follow the on-screen aS ra a
prompts

gs aise ee

+ Check the notes against the value of change \
needed by the customer - they will provide you
with a breakdown of what change they need

+ Input the total value into Horizon Online and
complete the transaction.

+ Count out the bags of change to the customer
and give them the Horizon Online receipt

Note: £5 notes can be included in the change orders 7
for both Change Giving and Change Giving Lite
customers. !

—_ eee eee

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,
POL00028043
POL00028043

Section 4 Banking V1.2 6 MISC2014 Apr 2021

Mis-key

If you input a value greater than the cash received and you have settled the transaction, please inform the customer
that unfortunately an over-credit has been made to their account and it needs to be corrected.

Please ask the customer:
+ whether the value of the over-credit is less than the withdrawal limit on the customers card
+ if they are aware of the PIN to allow a withdrawal to take place
+ _ if they are happy to perform a withdrawal that corrects the over-credit

If these apply, a withdrawal can be made to balance the over-credit amount.

If it is not possible to correct the over-credit with the customer, please follow this process:

+ Inform the customer that unfortunately an over-credit has been made that cannot be reversed

+ Contact the Branch Support Centre on 0333 345 5567, they will take the transaction details and provide you
with a reference number for the incident

+ Inform the customer that their account will be adjusted by their bank/financial institution

+ Print off a duplicate receipt

+ Write the Branch Support Centre reference number on both the customer's and the duplicate receipt
+ Keep the duplicate receipt

+ _ Issue the customer with a Miscellaneous Receipt P1091. Record the appropriate information and get a signature
from the customer

Please note: Under no circumstances should a direct approach be made to the customer at their home/office location
or via social media to recover the funds, even if you know the customer well.

By following the correct process, Post Office will be able to support you and we'll work with the Partner Banks to try
to recover any mis-keyed funds. There is no guarantee that the funds will be recovered and the customer will have to
confirm the error with their financial institution.

For more information go to Horizon Online help: ‘Banking & Financial Services’, ‘Banking Services, ‘Errors (Including
Error Messages and Transaction Errors)’, ‘Keying Errors’

Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence
The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted
