Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

Appendix 7 to 7.4 Dealing with
Defence Solicitors & Complaints
by Suspects

Version 1.0 Final
March 2011

Review Date: March 2013

Ray Pratt
Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Securi

Mob !
voile I GRO

POL00104893
POL00104893
Contents

Key Accountabilities

1. Pre-Interview Disclosure to Solicitors

2. Private Consultations When it is Suspected that the
Suspect has Evidence on them

3. Dealing with a Pre-Prepared Statement

4. Representations by Solicitors

5. Requiring Solicitors to Leave an Interview

6. Complaints from Suspects

Change Control

Glossary

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 7 to 7.4 Dealing with Defence Solicitors s Complaints by Suspects (7.4.7)- BMV

POL00104893
POL00104893

ae

SYHX va
Key Accountabilities

POL00104893
POL00104893

Who is
accountable?

What do I have to IWhen do I have

do?

to do this?

How do I do
this?

All members
of Royal Mail
Security

Ensure you comply I Ongoing

with these
procedures

As detailed
within these
procedures

© Royal Mail 2011 Ap;

POL00104893
POL00104893

Dealing with Defence Solicitors & Complaints by Suspects

1. Pre-Interview Disclosure to Defence Solicitors

1.1 There is no requirement to disclose to the defence solicitor
all the evidence against their client before an interview
commences. It is the decision of the Investigator how much to
disclose and when. It is a legitimate tactic and quite
acceptable to conduct a staged disclosure. A staged disclosure
is where compelling evidence (such as CCTV) is held back from
the initial disclosure in order to get the suspect’s initial
account of events without revealing all the available evidence.
This may prove that the suspect is prepared to lie until
confronted with compelling evidence.

1.2 Investigators should note that if they decide to carry out a
staged disclosure, the solicitor may advise their client,
during the interview, not to answer any questions about matters
which have not been disclosed to them, until they have had the
opportunity to discuss the evidence with their client. Should
a solicitor ask if they have received full disclosure the
Investigator should inform them that they have had appropriate
disclosure and they would now like to interview their client.

1.3 The disclosure strategy should be part of the interview
planning process.

Private Consultations When It Is Suspected That the Suspect Has
Evidence on Them

2.1Generally a suspect is allowed to consult a solicitor in
private at any time. If a suspect wants to consult privately
with a solicitor and it is thought that they have on them
evidence of an offence, then it is quite likely that the
suspect will try to distance themselves from the evidence by
attempting to dispose of it. Accordingly where it is thought
that the suspect has evidence on them, the suspect should be
asked to consent to a search of their person before allowing a
private consultation. If they refuse then the consultation can
take place as long as the Investigators remain in line of sight
of the suspect. If not then the question of arrest will arise.
Further details on arrest can be found in the Criminal
Investigation P&S 7.1 Suspect Approach & Arrest.

3. Dealing with a Pre-prepared Statement

3.1 If during the course of an investigation an Investigator is
handed a pre-prepared statement it should be read out on tape
at the commencement of the interview or subsequently when it is
handed to the Investigator. The preferred order to read out
the statement is suspect, solicitor then an Investigator. The
statement should be signed and dated by the suspect.

3.2 The suspect should be asked if the statement is a true account
and if they are going to rely on it. The statement should be
identified as an item of evidence. Investigators should then
consider how the pre-prepared statement affects their interview
and whether they need to suspend the interview to consider
“topics” for discussion. The interview should then continue

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 7 to 7.4 Dealing wit Solicitors & Complaints 0 - Page 4 of 8

Be

.2

POL00104893
POL00104893

treating the pre-prepared statement as the suspect’s “first
account”.

Representations by Solicitors

Solicitors may make “representations” on behalf of their
clients. Representations can be made orally or in writing.
The aim of the representation is to influence an Investigator
to think or act differently or persuade others to do so. They
can be made about such things as;

4.1.1 The circumstances surrounding the arrest of a suspect.
4.1.2 The strength of evidence against the suspect.

4.1.3 The failure to make a full disclosure to the solicitor.
4.1.4 The suspect’s welfare or fitness to be interviewed.
4.1.5 The need to question or continue to question the
suspect.

4.1.6 The suitability of an appropriate adult and or
interpreter.

Should a representation be made by a solicitor then it, and the
response to it, must be recorded either on tape, or in the
notes of interview, or in a notebook. (If in custody a record
should be made in the custody record). Investigators will be
better able to deal with representations effectively if they
have a good understanding of the PACE Codes of Practice.
Representations can be confused with complaints, (complaints
generally are in respect of mistreatment of the suspect whereas
representations are made in respect of such things as the
strength of evidence, or obtaining preferable treatment for the
suspect or advancing the suspect’s defence). If there is
confusion the Investigator should establish with the solicitor
whether they are making a representation or a complaint.
Complaints should be dealt with separately using the complaints
procedures which are detailed below in Section 6 below. If
still in doubt investigators should speak to the Criminal Law
Team (CLT).

Requiring Solicitors to Leave an Interview

Solicitors may only be required to leave an interview if their

conduct is such that the interviewer is unable to properly put

questions to the suspect. However, it must be borne in mind

that solicitor’s only role is to protect and advance the legal

rights of their client and as such they may;

5.1.1Intervene in order to seek clarification.

5.1.2 Challenge an improper question.

Challenge the manner in which a question was put.

Advise their client not to reply to particular
questions.

5.1.5 Give their client further legal advice.

Examples of unacceptable conduct by solicitors include

answering questions on their client’s behalf or providing

written replies for their client to quote. If an Investigator

feels that a solicitor’s conduct is unacceptable they must

suspend the interview and seek advice from a Senior

Investigation Manager (SIM) or the CLT. Should a particular

solicitor be excluded from an interview then the suspect should

be offered legal advice from an alternative solicitor.

an

.1.3
1.4

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 7 to 7.4 Dealing with Defence Solicitors 4 Complaints by Suspects (7.4.7)- RM V1.0 - Page 5 of 8
POL00104893
POL00104893

5.2 If in police custody and it is thought that a solicitor’s

behaviour is unacceptable the Investigator should advise the
custody officer who will take steps for a senior police officer
to be consulted.

Complaints by Suspects

If in the course of an interview a complaint is made by or on
behalf of the interviewee, concerning the provisions of the
PACE Codes of Practice then the complaint should be recorded in
the interview record and reported to a SIM, or if at a police
station the custody officer, as soon as practicable . If the
former applies the Investigator should telephone the SIM in the
interview room with the tape machine running and if available
the speaker phone on. If at a police station again the tape
machine should be left running as the custody officer will no
doubt want to enter the interview room to speak with the
suspect. Continuation of the interview is at the Investigators
discretion pending any action that the SIM or the police
consider appropriate.

If the complaint is about a matter not connected with the PACE
Codes of Practice, the decision to continue is at the
Investigator’s discretion. If the Investigator decides to
continue with the interview, they shall ensure that the
complaint is recorded on the interview record and tell the
suspect that the complaint will be brought to the attention of
a SIM (or if at a police station the custody officer), at the
conclusion of the interview. When the interview is concluded
the Investigator must inform a SIM (or if appropriate the
custody officer) about the existence and nature of the
complaint as soon as practicable. If the Investigator decides
to report the complaint immediately they should act in
accordance with the paragraph above.

If at any time the suspect alleges assault or the use of
unreasonable force, or it comes to notice that a suspect has
been mistreated, then a SIM (not connected to the enquiry) must
be informed as soon as practicable. Additionally, arrangements
must be made for a health care professional to examine the
suspect. (If at a police station the matter must also be
reported to the custody officer).

If in accordance with the provision of this section a
complaint has been brought to the attention of a custody
officer then the Investigator must also ensure that they inform
a SIM as soon as practicable.

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 7 to 7.4 Dealing with Defence Solicitors 4 Complaints by Suspects (7.4.7)- RM V1.0 - Page 6 of 8
POL00104893
POL00104893

Change Control

Final

1.0

Ray Pratt

Michael F Matthews
March 2011
Internal

ee
Security

___ Date_ ]
March 2011

Ray Pratt

Distribution List

All Royal Mail Security via vi March 2011
Security Sharepoint

Documentation History
v.l
Final
Mar 2011
Mar 2011
Document Change History
vi Document Prepared in RM Layout
Glossary

ition or Term

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 7 to 7.4 Dealing wit

POL00104893
POL00104893

CLT Criminal Law Team

PACE Police & Criminal Evidence Act 1984
SIM Senior Investigation Manager
Document Summary

If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F Matthews
Royal Mail Sec

GRO

Postline:
STD:
Email

Royal Mail 2011 App

1d

Dealing

