POL00316007

POL00316007

From: Mark R Davies[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MARK R DAVIESA80D7269-659B-4 1 D0-9C80-
68D9DE4FA7C5D38]

Sent: Wed 20/05/2015 1:58:17 PM (UTC)

To: Matthew Bardoft,

Cc: Melanie Corfield[rt”

Subject: RE: BBC Panorama IV request

Hi Matt

Yes that is the report. I’d also direct you to our written evidence to the BIS select committee and also our detailed
response to the parliamentary debate held last December. Mel can send these to you.

As you know Second Sight produced its final report earlier this year. These are confidential documents concerning the
individual complaints being reviewed through the scheme. However, given your interest in this matter, we will
provide the report (and our response) on request on the basis that, whilst they can of course be used for background,
confidentiality is preserved and the documents are not reproduced, and that the privacy of individuals is respected.
Can you let me know?

I will let you know about the interview bid in relation to Paula. In the meantime, I would reiterate my offer to provide
a full face to face briefing: as you say there is a lot of material on this subject and I do think that this would be

beneficial. I would be happy to discuss the terms on which this could take place: elements could be on the record.

In order to support your work I would also like to offer you an (on camera) interview with my colleague who led the
investigations into the cases put forward to the Mediation Scheme.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Best wishes
MArk

From: Matthew Bard
Sent: 20 May 2015 14:43
To: Mark R Davies

Cc: Melanie Corfield
Subject: RE: BBC Panorama IV request

Hi Mark

I believe I do have the Post Office’s final report. Am I right in saying that it is this one that you are referring to?
http://corporate.postoffice.co.uk/sites/default/files/SCHEME%20REPORT%20-%20FINAL.PDF

In terms of the time frame for an interview with Paula Vennells, we would do our best to accommodate her
availability to arrive at a mutually convenient time. It might be easiest if you give us some dates when she could spare
an hour in the first two weeks of June. At this stage we are still working our way through the (extensive) published
information on this subject. Once we have done that we will be in a position to send over more detail about what the
interview would cover and what the programme might include.

We would like to keep the Post Office’s response to our investigation on the record. If there are elements about
which we are unclear that are not best resolved by way of an interview, then an attributable briefing may well be a
POL00316007
POL00316007

good way for us to understand and fairly represent the Post Office’s position. I think it would be best for us to discuss

this once we are clearer about the detail of the programme.
Thanks again for your help.

Matt

From: Mark R Davies [__ _ GRO _ _
Sent: 20 May 2015 10:39

To: Matthew Bardo

Cc: Melanie Corfield

Subject: RE: BBC Panorama IV request

Thanks Matt.

Can you let me know your timescales for an interview with Paula: i.e. how far in advance of broadcast would you like

to do this, if we can work it out?

Can you let me know whether you’ve got our March 2015 report on this issue and whether you need a copy? Please

don’t hesitate to contact me or Mel on this or any other query. We will get back to asap on the interview bid, but it’s
worth adding that we’d be more than happy to arrange a briefing for you with relevant Post Office colleagues to talk
through the issues and questions you’ve posed (and any others). Can you let me know whether you and Mr Sweeney

would like to do this?

Best wishes
Mark

From: Matthew Bardo
Sent: 20 May 2015 10:36

To: Mark R Davies

Cc: Melanie Corfield

Subject: RE: BBC Panorama IV request

Thanks Mark. We'll be in touch.

From: Mark R Davies
Sent: 19 May 2015 17:

To: Matthew Bardo

Cc: Melanie Corfield

Subject: FW: BBC Panorama IV request

Dear Matt

Just to say, many thanks for your email. We will of course consider your bid and get back to you asap. In the

meantime, we stand very ready to help with any query for your programme, and really appreciate the early notice.

I suspect you will have seen the (perhaps lengthy!) Post Office reports on this issue, but if not I would be happy to

pass them on. I have also copied this to my colleague Mel.

We will be in touch asap, but in the meantime, please don’t hesitate to contact me with any queries or specific

questions in addition to those in your email and Mr Sweeney’s letter.

Best wishes
Mark Davies
POL00316007
POL00316007

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

1st Floor

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

From: Matthew Bardo [:..
Sent: 19 May 2015 11:52

To: Pressoffice

Subject: BBC Panorama IV request

Hi Suzette
Thanks for your help on the phone earlier.

Please find attached the interview bid from John Sweeney for the attention of Paula Vennells, as discussed. I’d be
grateful if you could confirm you've received this.

You can reach me at this email address or on
Regards
Matt Bardo

Producer
BBC Panorama

http://www.bbe.co.uk
This e-mail (and any attachments) is confidential and may contain personal views which are not the views of

the BBC unless specifically stated.

If you have received it in error, please delete it from your system.

Do not use, copy or disclose the information in any way nor act in reliance on it and notify the sender
immediately.

Please note that the BBC monitors e-mails sent or received.

Further communication will signify your consent to this.

POL00316007
POL00316007

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Je SR ID ISDS IIIS IO III IID IIIS IDI IO III ISO IOI IO IIIB

JES OB ID IIIS IIS IIS IIIS III III III II III III III III

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
