POL00151662

POL00151662
Message
From: Rodric Williams!
on behalf of — Rodric Williams
Sent: 18/03/2015 13:13:06
To: Jane MacLeod
ce: Jessi Patrick Bourke
‘Gavin.Matthews'
Subject: Fw: Horizon

Jane - please see the email below from the CCRC. Two things of note:

1. CCRC want to meet; and
2. CCRC have now received applications from convicted postmasters.

lam trying to progress with BD/Brian Altman QC the discussion we had on Friday so that ideally we have a con early next
week which considers both how we get comfort over the safety of past prosecutions, and our further engagement with
the CCRC.

in the meantime, I propose responding to CCRC's email by acknowledging receipt, noting that I'm out of the office for
the rest of the week but that I have forwarded the email internally so that we can respond early next week (if that's
acceptable).

Do you agree?

Kind regards, Rod

From: StuartF I
Sent: Wednesday,
To: Rodric Williams
Subject: Horizon

Hi Rodric

I trust this email finds you well.

I have a couple of things which I hope you can help me with.

Following discussions with Sally Berlin, the CCRC Director of Casework, we think that perhaps it may be useful to arrange
a meeting between CCRC and POL so that we can better establish the issues and clarify the level of CCRC involvement.
Is this something that you would be amenable to?

Secondly, we have now started to receive applications from individuals who may be affected by any Horizon issues. As is
standard practice, the Commission will send out a section 17 request to any prosecuting authority for information and the
preservation of material relating to an applicant. When dealing with CPS, we send both hard and electronic copies. Do
you have an appropriate email address for your legal department that we could use for these requests?

Many thanks

Frazer
POL00151662
POL00151662

Frazer Stuart

Commission

w: http://www. justice.gov.uk/about/criminal-cases-review-commission

The Criminal Cases Review Commission
5 St Philip's Place

Birmingham

B3 2PW

The information contained in this e-mail and any files transmitted with it is
confidential and is intended for the use of the person(s) or entity named above.
If you are not the intended recipient of this communication, any disclosure,
copying, distribution, or any action taken in reliance on it is prohibited and

may be unlawful. If you have received this communication in error, please
return it immediately to the sender by replying to it and then delete the
message from your computer.

We may monitor the content of e-mails sent and received via our network for the
purposes of ensuring compliance with policies and procedures.

Viruses: Although we have taken steps to ensure that this e-mail and attachments
are free from any virus we advise that in keeping with good computing practice
the recipient should ensure they are actually virus free.

The original of this email was scanned for viruses by the Government Secure Intranet virus scanning service
supplied by Vodafone in partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) This email has
been certified virus free.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
