POL00101586

POL00101586

Message

From: Rwarming

Sent: 26/11/2014

To: <mediation’,

Subject: Fwd: Post Office cases - update
All FYI.

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: "ARBUTHNOT, James"
Date: 26 November 2014 08:50:
Subject: Post Office cases - update

Dear Colleague

On Monday 17 November Oliver Letwin, Andrew Bridgen, Mike Wood and I met Paula Vennells,
the CEO of Post Office Ltd, and some of her staff to discuss progress of the mediation

scheme. Also present at the meeting was Alan Bates of the Justice for Sub-Postmasters
Association. I think it would be fair to say that it was not an easy meeting from anyone's point
of view.

The MPs expressed concerns about the Post Office’s challenging too many issues before cases
even went to mediation, and we suggested that where the independent investigators, Second
Sight, recommended that a case should go to mediation, there should be a presumption that
that would then happen.

The Post Office said that they had done exactly what they had said they would do, and that in
challenging cases within the Working Party they were doing what had always been set down as
the process of the Working Party (though this point was questioned by Alan Bates).

In relation to our suggestion about a presumption in favour of Second Sight’s recommendation,
Paula Vennells said she would consider it and would take the matter to the Post Office Board. I
believe we should give her the opportunity to do that. The media are wanting to talk, but I
intend at the moment not myself to give interviews until the Post Office has had a reasonable
time — not open-ended - to consider it.

Iam sorry to relay this disappointing news, but I do believe that there still is a chance to bring
this very unhappy saga to a conclusion which will not satisfy everybody but which will be better
for most than before we embarked on it.

On a different point, it does seem unlikely that resolution will have been reached by the General
Election, at which, as you may know, I shall not be standing. I have (with the agreement of
the MPs mentioned in this letter) discussed the matter with Kevan Jones, who would in due
course be happy to take over from me the leadership of the matter. I am sure he will have
your full support, as he will mine.

As soon as I have more news I will be in touch.

Yours ever,

James

POL-0101169
POL00101586
POL00101586

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons.

London SW1A OAA

UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have
received it in error, please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised
use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no
liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail.

POL-0101169
