POL00027684
POL00027684

To: Paula Vennell
Ce: Kevin Gilliland,
From: Chris Aujardfime
_0=mms_ou=exchange+20administrative+20group+20+ 28fydibohf23spdit+29_cn=recipients_cn=christopher+20aa0452485-80b7-40d2-
ade7-6f6feae 1 9cc3f88@c72a47.ingest.local]

Sent: Fri 15 11 2013 6:02:02 PM (UTC)

Subject: FW: Mediation Scheme - Resources

Angela Van-Den-Boger

Hi Paula — you asked for a quick end of day update on our push to get extra resources for the mediation scheme. The position as at
5:30 was that:

°

Kevin has confirmed he is supportive, and has agreed in principle to release individuals

Ata practical level it looks like Drew McBride (?) will be able to release many (we think possibly up to 10}, but not all, of

the 14 individual requested

* Drew apparently understands the bigger picture but expects the NT “go-lives” to ramp up in Q4 and which is
when this resource comes into play.

e The fall-back position is to use some of resource in John Scott's investigation team — this will be explored with him on

Monday morning

°

Overall status: no need for your intervention at this stage, but if individuals can’t be identified for release by, say, Monday
lunchtime I would suggest that we should get together with Chris D and Kevin to agree a way forward.

Happy to speak on the phone if you want to.
Cheers.

Chris

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Sent: 15 November 2013 17:21
To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Kevin Gilliland
Subject: FW: Mediation Scheme

Chris,

As agreed I have discussed the resource request with Drew Mcbride this afternoon. His view is that he will be able to
release some of our request but not the 14 people we have requested. I am about to send him information about
geographical requirements as this will aid his discussions with his team. Drew will come back to early next week. In the
meantime I'll have a chat with John Scott to see if we can tap into his investigation team resource.

lll keep you posted.

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

iD) 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V SHO

® Post Office stories

i) @postofficenews
POL00027684
POL00027684

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Kevin Gilliland

Sent: 15 November 2013 14:54

To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: Fwd: Mediation Scheme

Hi Chris,

It's picked up your message - been tied up.
Below are the emails setting out how we're taking this fwd.
I hope this works for you?

Regards,

K

Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd!
Date: 14 Novembe
To: Kevin Gillilan
Subject: Re: Mediation

Thanks Kevin,

I fully understand the wider picture although I do believe the respective process timelines are helpful to each other so
should not adversely affect the NT deliverables.

The mediation of the cases is at the end of the process so Q1 which I believe is better in releasing people for this
purpose.

Ml pick up with Drew & Michael to discuss the detail.

Thanks
Angela

From: Kevin Gilliland

Sent: Thursday, November 14, 2013 02:35 PM
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Subject: Re: Mediation Scheme

Hi Angela,

lam happy and supportive of the principle and understand there is a pressing need to do this. However, I am
also concerned about the potential impact this will have on NT and would want assurances from Michael and
Alasdair that this wouldn't affect our numbers. I suggest to speak to them and drew on this basis. And
similarly on the level 4s. I am not currently in a position to release Nick as he has a huge role to play in
POL00027684

POL00027684
leading and supporting the NFSP through the NT and mou/framework discussions.
Happy to discuss.
K
Sent from my PRONG enintninecnnnnenncinennn
On 13 Nov 2013, at 22:06, "Angela Van-Den-Bogerd" : GRO > wrote:

Hi Kevin,

I understand Paula has had the discussion (albeit briefly) with you regarding splitting Project
Sparrow so that Chris is sponsor for Project Sparrow with Belinda as Programme Director; you
become Programme sponsor for the Business Improvement work with me as Programme
Director for this. I'll book some time in with Jackie so we can get together to discuss the finer
detail of this programme and the Detica work which I am proposing should become a worksteam
of this programme.

In the meantime as part of project Sparrow we have been mapping out the timeline for the cases
that have come into the Mediation Scheme to determine the workload and the resources
required to deliver the cases through the Scheme process within the agreed timeline. We have
until now been running the investigation of the mediation cases with limited resource from the
Network team but with a higher than expected number of cases and with the complexity of
and/or time it will take to investigate the cases we need to extend this team by 14 people to a
team of 18 if we are to fulfil our role in preparing the cases for mediation and in some cases
reaching closure on these cases before they go to mediation. The people we need to undertake
these roles effectively are the FSAs and their team leaders from the audit & training team.
These individuals have the experience and skill set required to investigate the cases and will be
highly credible with Second Sight as we start to initiate their exit from the Scheme. Some of the
Security investigation team may be appropriate in this space also and I will have this
conversation with John Scott.

This would be resource seconded to Project Sparrow until end March/early April. I appreciate
this may cause a potential tension with the new NT strategy however as the FSA resource is
back ended in the process this would I hope not adversely affect the NT pipeline. I haven't as
yet had any such conversation with Michael or Drew as I wanted to run this by you first. Are you
happy for me to approach Michael and Drew to discuss the detail further?

There is a second stage to the Mediation Scheme and that is the mediation process itself. This
is where we have a POL representative supported by a POL legal representative negotiating
with the applicant the appropriate settlement of their case as part of the mediation day. These
need to be Senior Managers with sound experience of the agency network and the Spmr
contract. We are therefore looking for level 4 and above to perform this role. To cope with the
number of mediation cases that come through the Scheme I suggest a team of 10 POL
representatives will give us the coverage we need. Again given the role requirements these
individuals would predominately sit within your directorate - people such as Nick Beal and Craig
and some of the Regional Managers. We are currently identifying those individuals who match
the role profile. To mitigate the impact on Network I suggest we look for a commitment of a
month at a time from individuals which will enable them as individuals to manage 2 mediation
cases per week so on average 8 cases each. Are you comfortable with this proposal ?

I appreciate I've not previously had this conversation with you and given your workload currently
I felt it best to send you this note in advance of a further conversation. Do you have any time
tomorrow to pick up this discussion?

I'd appreciate your thoughts on the above.

Thanks
Angela
POL00027684
POL00027684

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships
<image009.jpg>

<image003.png> 148 Old Street, LONDON,
EC1V 9HQ

<image004.png> GRO I Mobex:

<image005.png>

<image006.png> Post Office stories
<image007.png> @postofficenews
<image008.png>
Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and

privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not
the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

