POL00337626

POL00337626

Contract Management Team Contract Approval IT Quick Reference
Guide

March 2021

* The process must be completed for all legally binding documents entered into by the business.

* There are some limited exceptions, so read this before you decide if you need to enter into the process:

Non-disclosure agreements where the Post Office standard template is
used and any amendments made are within the house position

No approval is required, provided the standard terms are not amended
loutside the house position. A copy of the standard templates can be
found here on the Legal Intranet Page. These should be executed by the
business via Docusign Function on Web3. If executed via wet signature,
the business must upload a copy on Web3.

[Amendments or variations to existing contracts which do not change
the cost to Post Office, Post Office’s liabilities, the parties’ obligations or
the contract term (i.e. purely operational changes).

No formal approval is required, however Contract Managers are
expected to ensure relevant stakeholders, including the Contract
(Owner, are aware of changes affecting them. These may be
lexecuted by the business via Docusign on Web3. If executed via wet
signature, the business must upload a copy on Web3.

NB: Any Termination Assistance Period needs a CAF.
POL00337626
POL00337626

CAF Checklist

Q Have you engaged with the relevant stakeholders and let them know the eCAF is coming? For finance please
ensure Rag knows and he will prep Kathryn. Please use the stakeholder email to inform stakeholders.

QO) Ensure the signature box for POL is empty, sometimes your details are in there, the boxes need to be blank.

QO) Ensure the doc to be signed is saved in WEB3 in PDF format within the referenced file above. All attachments
must be PDF’s.

Q Contract title should mention the CMN Number.

Q Ensure Counterparties include the supplier and the email ID of the supplier signatory.

Q Ensure totals and dates are all aligned.

QO) Ensure WEB3 contract reference is included in the “additional approver oversight” box.

QO) Ensure you include, legal, financial and project sign off emails within the eCAF.

O) Declarations can be left blank if not applicable.

QO Make sure the correct counter party (individual) is shown who will sign the contract. If this has to change it
you might need to resubmit the CAF.

Q Ensure correct Confidentiality Level has been chosen — choose Internal.

O) Remember to extract any embedded files and upload separately — if you go over the limit Co-Sec can add
more.

O) Save the document to Web3 — in the file entry insert the eCAF #
CAF Checklist - To Note

¢ You can save the form and come back to it, but you cannot edit the CAF
after submission. You must ensure all the details are correct. If submitting
after having saved the form, please note it may take up to 10 minutes for
your CAF to appear in your 'In Progress CAFs' list.

* You will need to know the details of your contract including; anticipated
cost and Post Office Group’s liabilities/indemnities.

* You must have a final PDF of the contractual document(s) for signed. Draft
documents will be rejected.

¢ You can check your CAF's approval status within the app under In Progress
CAFS,

¢ If you have any questions, please email cafi GRO

POL00337626
POL00337626
POL00337626
POL00337626

Contract Approval Process

Key Points, reference and guidance links

* No contract should be executed (signed) without the appropriate governance procedures being followed. In most instances, this will be by
the completion of the Contract Approval Process.

* No individual should sign a contract who is not an authorised signatory. The Company Secretariat retain a list of authorised signatories.
* The links below sets out the acceptable methods of execution and the requirements around each method.

* The only exception to this is for standard non-disclosure agreements which may be signed by business units and copies provided to the
Company Secretariat.

* Aguide on Contract Approval Signatures is here.

* Aguide on POLIT Exceptions is here.

* Spend Approval Limits & Required Approvals are here.

* Authorised Signatories and IT Delegated Financial Authorities (DFA) is here.
* Liabilities guidance is here.

* CoSEC CAF and Web3 Approvals information is here.

* Execution of Deeds information is here.

* Contract Records information is here.

* Hints & Tips guidance is here.

* Further Information and guidance can be found here.
POL00337626
POL00337626

Contract Approval Process — Steps 1-2

Obtain required/relevant information about your Complete the Contract Approval Form (CAF)
contract, liaise with relevant stakeholders and

create Web3 Contract Record * For Post Office Limited , complete this via the CAF

Submission App - here.

* Engage with Legal and/or Procurement, Finance and any other * Ensure that you upload/attach contract for signature to
relevant stakeholders Stakeholder Template the eCAF/CAF but, include any embedded documents,
* Agree draft contract (ideally drafted on Web3, otherwise EF attachments, appendices separately.

create a Web3 Contract Record, complete header level details. * Make sure all documents are in their final form — this
means NO tracked changes, highlighting, comments,
square brackets, draft markings etc. and they match the

same as Web3 uploads.

* Uploaded document(s) to be signed mark ‘FOR EXECUTION’ in
order for CoSEC to sign.

* Inthe section “Add counterparties” — insert details of the

supplier signatory (email address) * Do not upload Risk Notes

* Add Confidentiality Level — choose Internal * Check your signature block

* Documents may only be uploaded to the eCAF as PDF’s

* Save document to Web3 - in the file entry insert the eCAF # and there is a limit of 5 documents at SMB per

document. If your requirements exceed these limits,

pl i iu can and then email

with the additional documents
mber. The Company Secretariat can

then upload for you.

POL00337626
POL00337626

Contract Approval Process — Steps 3-6

Submit Contract Approval Form (CAF) to Approvers Contract Execution by CoSEC

* For Post Office Limited , approvals will be sought

ti tically via the CAF Submission App - here.
automatically via tne ubmission App - here * CoSEC will then execute the contract in line with the

* Web3 Ref. must be included in Oversight Box on CAF =, Contract Execution Policy via Web3 and the signed copy
Submission App will automatically save to Web3.

* Progress may be checked in the ‘IN PROGRESS’ section of * Contract Execution Points
the app.

Contract Approval Form (CAF) approved by CoSEC Submit Web3 Contract record for Approval

* For Post Office Limited, your CAF will automatically be sent to I ° pa Sorliigalone tac lbante twets Conmecereed
CoSEC once fully approved. for approval (if not submitted within the deadline, CoSEC
will reverse the approval and reject the CAF.

* Contract Manager must include the eCAF Ref No. on the

CAF Ref Box in Web3 (generated upon submission of the
CAF)

* If the contract is a variation, the Contract Manager must
enter the eCAF/CAF reference number for the variation
in the document description on Web3

