POL00458687
POL00458687

Westbrook, Mark (UK -

Sent: 2014-07-21T11:58:42Z

Importance: Normal
Subject: RE: Draft Report - Release to Bond Dickinson LLP and Cartwright King LLP
Received: 2014-07-21711:58:48Z

Hi Rod — thanks for this. There is a light-weight process for your solicitors in this regard, which we will progress whilst
you're away.

I would however like to get the report into a final version (or at least an agreed “final draft”) before sharing
externally. Are you ok for us to receive and process such changes that you’re on with and then share the ‘final draft’
version from that point?

All the best

Gareth

UK Futures
How can UK business drive growth?
http://www.deloitte.co.uk/ukfutures:

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C30367S. Its registered office is 2, New
Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), a UK private company
limited by guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal
structure of DTTL and its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient(s), please (1) notify it.security.uki FO. by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying
or use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email Communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a
Deloitte UK email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s)
to the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.
From: Rodric Williams [mailto’
Sent: 21 July 2014 12:23
To: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester); Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)
Subject: Draft Report - Release to Bond Dickinson LLP and Cartwright King LLP

Gareth, Mark,

So that we can share your draft Report with our solicitors to enable them to provide Post Office Ltd with legal advice,
can you please send through “release”/ “hold harmless” letters for:

Gavin Matthews, Partner
Bond Dickinson LLP
Oceana House

39-49 Commercial Road
Southampton SO15 1GA

-and-
POL00458687
POL00458687

Martin Smith, Partner
Cartwright King LLP
Majority House

51 Lodge Lane,

Derby DE1 3HB

Alternatively, please let me know if such letters are not required.
Kind regards, Rod

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

®

Post Office stories

@postofficenews

©®®@eO0

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
