POL00393882

POL00393882
Service Management Framework
oe ege
Definition
I [

ROSS CONAN

PROCESS
Author Nicholas Embling — Reference HOR/BSM/FMK/007
Version 0.7 Classification I Working Document
Date Status Draft
Authority Signature Date
POCL Andrew Radka
ICL Stephen Muchow

Pathway

POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

0.1. TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. Introduction.

2. Service Management.........cseesseeee

3. Standards.

4. Policy...

5. The Service Management Framework Structure....

6. Maintenance and Development.

0.2. © DOCUMENT HISTORY

Version Date Details

0.1 5/5/99 First draft for comments

0.2 Updated as a result of meeting 6/5/99

0.3 24/5/99 Format updated

0.4 27/5/99 Updated following BA withdrawal and POCL / ICL Pathway
planning workshop 26/5/99

05 30/6/99 Updated following review by the Framework Steering Group
10/6/99

0.6 13/8/99 Amended to reflect separation of cross domain processes; for formal
review by POCL and ICL Pathway.

07 18/8/99 Updated by Framework Steering Group - issued for formal review by
POCL and ICL Pathway

0.3. REFERENCE DOCUMENTS

Doc. Title Reference

Ref.

1 Service Management Framework - Problem Management HOR/BSM/FMK/003
2 Service Management Framework - Incident Management HOR/BSM/FMK/002
3 Service Management Framework - Bi ess Continuity CS/POL/001

4 Service Management Framework - Change Management HOR/BSM/FMK/006
5 Service Management Framework - Configuration Management _I HOR/BSM/FMK/???
6 Service Management Framework - Service Review Not yet produced

7 Service Management Framework - Performance Reporting Not yet produced

0.4 DISCLAIMER

This is a Working Document. As such it is without prejudice to any of the parties, and
nothing contained herein shall be deemed or construed as affecting existing contractual

Page 0 of 10

HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

obligations or creating new contractual obligations between any of the parties.

Page 1 of 10
HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

1. Introduction

1.1 Purpose of this Document
This document introduces and defines the functions of Service Management and
the Service Management Framework. The Framework defines the strategy,
policies and principles that govern the development of Service Management
process models and enable co-operative Service Management by POCL, and ICL
Pathway.

1.2 Audience
The document is intended to introduce the Service Management Framework to
anybody involved in the design, development or management of the Services
that will be subject to Service Management, and to provide the context within
which the other Framework and Cross Domain Process documents can be
understood.

1.3. Background
Development of the Service Management Framework commenced to cater for
the tripartite Horizon and Benefits Payments project, which has since been
abandoned. However, it is recognised that Service Management continues to be
essential to support the environment that will be created by the successor POCL
/ ICL Pathway project to automate the Post Office network.

Regardless of contractual provisions, Service Management is an operational
imperative.

It is necessary for POCL and ICL Pathway to co-operate to agree the principles
and boundaries for Service Management. The Service Management Framework
represents those agreements.

1.4 Documentation
There are a number of issues that need to be considered in relation to the
framework documentation:
* contractual status of the documents;
e whether the documents are jointly developed, developed by one party, or
individual documents developed by either party;
« document standards and appearance;
* sponsorship, ownership, change authority.

2. Service Management

2.1. The Concept
Service Management is a set of methodologies that enable the effective support

Page 2 of 10

HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

of services. It is not intended to replace line management of services, but
provides ways in which:

¢ deviations from normal service can be managed;

¢ difficulties in using the service can be managed;

* changes to the service can be managed;

* and provides processes for reporting on and reviewing the service.

2.2 Application - The Framework
In order to function effectively between different organisations, Service
Management requires a high degree of co-operative working. In recognition of
this POCL and ICL Pathway have agreed the need for a set of common
understandings, and to embody and document these understandings in a
Service Management Framework.

The Framework consists of seven disciplines:

« Incident Management;

« Problem Management;

e Change Management;

e Service Configuration Management;

e Business Continuity Management;

Service Review;

e Performance Reporting and Management Information.

Each framework document contains definitions of policy, principles and
terminology. Each framework document is underpinned by a Cross Domain
Process, defined at a high level, such that it is not specific to any particular
organisation configuration or software release.

It is intended that both POCL and ICL Pathway will build these common
understandings, principles and processes into their Service Management
structure, and create procedures, systems and organisations to make this
happen. The resulting work procedures and organisation structures must
demonstrably conform with the policy, principles and processes defined in the
framework documents.

The document structure is shown in the diagram below.

Page 3 of 10

HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

POCL, Pathway

Joint Documents

Documents Documents
Framework
Cross
Domain
Process
- ~*
POCL Pathway
Process Process
1 _
POCL Pathway
Working Working
Procedures Procedures

Processes and procedures will cross refer and conform to relevant operational,
commercial and design references, for example:

e Business Rules;

e Interface Agreements;

« Assurance Programmes;

e Service Level Agreements (or Operational Level Agreements).

2.3 Structure of Framework Documents

Each Framework document describes a Service management discipline, and will
follow a consistent structure:

1. Introduction

1. Terminology

1. Policy

1. General

3. Standards

The Service Management Framework is based on Service Management as
defined by the Service Management Forum (ifSMF) in the IT Infrastructure
Library (ITIL). The ITIL definitions have been adapted by the POCL Service
Management Development team to the specific requirements of the management
of Horizon Services.

Page 4 of 10

HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

4. Policy
The Service Management Framework represents policy for POCL and ICL
Pathway, and governs the detailed development of working procedures for
Service Management within each organisation.

The Horizon Service Review Forum will act as sponsors and change
authorisation board for the Framework.

The working procedures developed from the Framework are subject to end to
end assurance testing. In order to facilitate the assurance programme POCL and
ICL Pathway will make available staff equipped with detailed working
procedures.

5. The Service Management Framework Structure

5.1. Descriptions
The Service Management Framework is described in documentation at various
levels. Paragraphs 5.2 to 5.10 provide brief descriptions of the Framework
documentation, brief definitions of the Service Management disciplines, and a
list of the Framework and subsidiary documents for each discipline.

5.2 Incident Management

5.2.1. Summary and Purpose of Documentation
Guidelines and arrangements for managing the identification,
registration, analysis, resolution and escalation of Incidents across the
interactive service domains of POCL and ICL Pathway.

5.2.2 Definition
Incidents are individual day to day events resulting from:
¢ faults or failures in equipment, software, services or procedures;
© user error;
¢ user requests for advice and guidance.

Such an event may be resolved locally or be raised as an Incident. An
Incident will be deemed to exist when it is logged on a POCL or ICL
Pathway Incident Management system.

Incidents are managed via a framework of function specific services,
fronted by Help Desks. Once a solution or temporary procedure has been
applied and accepted the individual Incident will be closed.

5.2.3 Documentation

¢ Incident Management Framework POCL

Page 5 of 10

HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

5.3. Problem Management

5.3.1 Summary and Purpose of Documentation
Guidelines and arrangements for managing the identification,
registration, analysis, resolution and escalation of problems across the
interactive service domains of POCL and ICL Pathway.

5.3.2. Definition

A Problem is a record of an underlying cause which may result in
Incidents.

A Problem potentially exists when a defect in the specification, design,
production, implementation, or use of any of the service components
results in any aspect of the service not meeting expectations.

A Problem will be raised when the impact of the defect (e.g. the level and
severity of the related incidents) is substantial enough to warrant action to
eradicate it.

A Problem will be deemed to exist when it is logged on a POCL or ICL
Pathway Problem Management system.

A Problem will be closed when it has been agreed that the underlying
cause has been fixed or removed.

5.3.3 Documentation
¢ Problem Management Framework POCL

5.4 Change Management

5.4.1. Summary and Purpose of Documentation
Procedures for requesting, impacting, authorising and implementing,
change in the live service environment, and for escalating issues
associated with the operation of the change process.

5.4.2 Definition

Change Control will be exercised over all aspects of the Services. There
will be two ways in which change is managed:
¢ Pre-Defined Change
For change types that are predictable and are likely to occur on
multiple occasions, pre-defined change procedures may be developed.
¢ Individual or “Ad Hoc” Change
Changes that do not have a pre-defined procedure for implementation,
for example, the introduction of a new generic service will be subject
to full impact assessment and will be authorised individually by
agreed authorities.

Page 6 of 10

HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

5.4.3 Documentation
¢ Change Control Framework POCL

5.5 Configuration Management

5.5.1 Summary and Purpose of Documentation
The methodology for defining, storing, reporting and controlling the
Configuration. (In general, POCL and ICL Pathway will do this
independently, however recognising each other as customers of the
process.)

5.5.2 Definition

Configuration Management provides and maintains a definition of the
key elements of the service, and provides a discipline for supporting the
control and management of their components throughout their life-cycle.
An essential product is the definition of the links and dependencies of
each Configuration Item, which helps to identify the likely impact of any
change to the Configuration.

5.5.3. Documentation
¢ Configuration Management Framework POCL

5.6 Business Continuity

5.6.1. Summary and Purpose of Documentation

Guidelines and arrangements that safeguard the live service environment
against serious disruption.

5.6.2 Definitions

Business Continuity Planning is the method for identifying things that
could go wrong with an end to end service and putting appropriate
safeguards in place. The safeguards will generally fall within one or more
of the following areas.
¢ Resilience
In-built design features to ensure that if a single component of a system
or service fails there is little or no impact upon the end user, customer
or client.
¢ Recovery
The arrangements for quickly restoring a failed system or service to its
normal state
¢ Contingency
Interim procedures to keep the business going whilst a failed system or
service is being recovered.

Business Continuity Management is the management of major failures

and disruptions across an end to end service. This supports the

Page 7 of 10

HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

immediate referral of Major Business Continuity Incidents to senior
managers and the subsequent controlled and co-ordinated invocation of
Recovery and Contingency arrangements.

5.6.3 Documentation
Service Management Framework - Business Continuity ICL Pathway

5.7. Performance and MIS Reporting

5.7.1. Summary and Purpose of Documentation
A generic digest of all the Performance and MIS reports, including details
of media, formats and production schedules.

5.7.2 Definition
Performance and MIS reports to be produced in order to inform POCL
and ICL Pathway of the performance of Horizon Services.

5.7.3 Documentation
None at present

5.8 Service Review

5.8.1 Summary and Purpose of Documentation

A generic plan for the Service Review meetings that take place between
POCL and ICL Pathway. To include terms of reference, key inputs and
outputs, and key dependencies. Encompasses a process for input to the
Service Improvement process, which will be run in parallel with the
Problem Management process.

5.8.2 Definition
A pre agreed schedule of meetings that take place between POCL and ICL
Pathway in order to review the Horizon Services, and to identify and
sponsor improvements to the Services.

5.8.3. Documentation
POCL will develop a framework document.

6. Maintenance and Development

6.1. Ownership

The Service Management Framework and all associated policy, processes,
procedures and documentation are sponsored by the Horizon Service Review
Forum.

6.2 Change Authority

Change Authority is vested in the Horizon Service Review Forum, with the
exception of any change proposal that includes a change to the role of the

Page 8 of 10

HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
POL00393882
POL00393882

THE SERVICE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

Forum; which change may in any case have contractual implications, and thus
authority will be vested in a higher Change Control Board (yet to be decided).

6.3 Review

The Service Management Framework will be reviewed annually by the Horizon
Service Review Forum.

Page 9 of 10

HOR/BSM/FMK/007 Draft 0.7
