POL00069878
POL00069878

Nicola McSherry

From: mandy.talbot = GRO

Sent: 01 December 2006 15:10

To: Stephen Dilley

Subject: Re: Castleton and cases where allegations have been made about HORIZON

Stephen these are Juliet's details if you need more detail.

Title : Miss

Name : Juliet McFarlane
Division/Function : Company Secretary's Office
Section : Legal Services
Job Title : Principal Lawyer
Address : Royal Mail Corporate Security
6a Eccleston Street
Victoria
LONDON
SW1W 9LT

Postline : I
Std : t GRO Mobile :
Fax: Voicemail

External Email: juliet. mcfarlane: GRO
Juliet McFarlane Leseeescnereeninnnenimmmnnnneed

Rob Wilson head of criminal law says so far as the Singh case is concerned we offered no evidence because when
the p&A dockets were examined a significant number had been removed by the DWP in circumstances where they
could not be traced. There were other issues concerning the orders but no challenge to the Horizon.

Hope this helps.

Rob Wilson
Head of Criminal Law

Regards

Mandy

Dispute Resolution
Company Secretary's Office
Royal Mail Legal Services
148 Old Street

London EC1V 9HQ

GRO

“External Email: mandy.talbot. GRO;
ae Forwarded by Mandy Talb3t/é/POSTOFFICE on 01/12/2006 15:03 -----

Juliet McFarlane .
To: Mandy Talbot/e/POSTOFFICE@;

01/12/2006 14:46
Subject: Re: Castleton and cases where allegations
have been made about HORIZON(Document link: Mandy
Talbot)

2

POL00069878
POL00069878

Mandy

Thomas is my Case.

He was charged with Theft of £48,454.87. He blamed the on-line banking system claiming that reports had
several transactions showing NIL transaction. This was looked into and the investigator remained of the opinion
that the entries were deliberate & to facilitate fraud. Mr Thomas's expert examined the Horizon I understand from
the officer that he took no issue with the system and informed the officer that we would be hearing no more. No
Defence expert report was served.

Following the visit Mr Thomas's Solicitor offered A Plea to False Accounting that in doing so he would not blame
Horizon. This was accepted to avoid the cost of a trial.

He was sentenced to nine months imprisonment. Confiscation proceedings have commenced.
NB

I understand Rob has replied to you reSingh

Do you have the relevan name re Carshalton?

Juliet

Juliet McFarlane
Criminal Law Team

Mandy Talbot

To: Juliet McFarlane/e/POs

01/12/2006 11:58 cc: stephen.dilley,
Subject: Castleton and cases where allegations have
been made about HORIZON

Juliet can you drop me a line urgently to let me have your comments about why these cases were dropped if they
involved allegations about the HORIZON system at all. We need this urgently because we have a civil trial which
challenges HORIZON on next week. I know that there is not a lot of information to identify the cases but please let
me have what you can.

Thanks

Mandy Talbot

Dispute Resolution
Company Secretary's Office
Royal Mail Legal Services
148 Old Street

London EC1V 9HQ

>>>> Castleton.pdf attachment was removed from this email <<<<

FEOF ISIS ORI IESE ISI OIE IASI ORIESISKICI OEIC REISE SEA I IIR III KIKI

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

2
POL00069878
POL00069878

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
SEES OOO ESS IRIO REISE IEOCIORIE IEE ORERO ERIKS II IATA ICI EA RACK ARK AAA
