POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
CONTENTS

PAGE i-i4 LIST OF RULES, POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS, FORMS. & PROPERTY ISSUED

SECTION

1 CONTRACT AND STATUS

2 REMUNERAT {ON

3 ABSENCE FROM OFFICE

4 ABSENCE ON HOLIDAY - HOLIDAY SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE

5 ABSENCE - TO ATTEND TERRITORIAL, FORCES RESERVE, ETC, TRAINING
6 ABSENCE FOR JURY SERVICE

7 S1CK ABSENCE SCHEME - SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE

8 STATUTORY SICK PAY SCHEME

9 RESIGNATION AND RETIREMENT

10 NATIONAL INSURANCE

1 INJURY RESULTING FROM CRIMINAL ATTACK

12 RESPONSIBILITY FOR POST OFFICE CASH AND STOCK

13, PREMISES

1h HOURS, ATTENDANCE, ETC

15 ASSISTANTS

16 DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION, CORRESPONDENCE AND INTERVIEWS
17 PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES: BETTING AND CAMBLING: POLITICAL

ACTIVITIES

18 NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES AND APPEALS PROCEDURES

19 OFFENCES: SUSPENSION: ENQUIRIES BY OFFICERS OF THE INVESTIGATION

DIVISION

20 INFECTIOUS ({NCLUDING CONTAGIOUS) DISEASES

a TELEPHONE FACILITIES
22 QUALITY OF SERVICE
23 COUNTER AUTOMATION

On the last day of the Subpostmasters appointment this contract must be handed
to the officer conducting the transfer of cash and stock on behalf of Post
Office Counters Ltd.

POL00003858
POL00003858

I
'
I
\
i
I
I
I
I
i

D2.1/4/1

POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

LIST OF RULES, POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS & FORMS ISSUED

Postal Instructions M2 AQ0CO-6021; 80012; CO000-0016 DO00O-0015; }
F0000-0012; GO000-0028;
HO000-0019; KO000-0014; LOOOO; MO000-00125 I

PO000-1020 I
Postal Instructions M3 H1001-10033 H1012-1020
Postal Instructions L5 £0011 orDO011-0016
Post Office Rules B6 or B6{a)
Copies of forms:~ P690; P91; P2412(b)s P2H13(a)s P2413(b).
Copies of Circulars and Notices issued since 10

Copy of the current issue of the Post Office Guide and compendiums
Counter Attack PL (B) 3728
Security for Subpostmasters
Postal Instructions -
LSD, Sub Office Cash Account, Remittance and telephone account
M2A, Cash, Stamps, Cheques, Postage, Nat Ins, Stamps
M2B, Pensions and Allowances
M2C, Postal Orders
MD, Saving Certs, Gift Tokens
M2E, Bonds and Stocks, Premium Bonds
MaF, SAYE
M2G, Savings Bank
M2H, Gi robank
N2K, Broadcast Licence
M2L, Other Licences
M2P, Treatment of postal packets/parcels overseas/Inland Services.
M2R, Acceptance of Meter Post
M6D, Storekeeping

D2.1/1/2
POL00003858
POL00003858

Item of property loaned to the Subpostmaster by Post Office Counters Ltd

Stamp portfolios ....esseeeeeee se ecbesee een eeeeeeaeeeeneeeeeeees sabes eee eeeeeeeeneeeeee eee eenee

Tape for measuring parcels ..ssesesseueeseneueserseseee erst eeeee een eens nen eres ee eet een ne eeee ene i

Parcel scaleS .essceseseaees dete e eee e ene eeneeees PoeereeRUESCESCCCOCSUSSOOOOSOCOOOOOOCOOOOSESIS
Stationery cabinet(s) ....ssccssecereeeseereeeeees PTETES SEE Eee rere rere errr reer rere errr erry
2 drawer, 3 drawer or 4 drawer metal cabinet ..... veeeee see eedceneeeeneneeeneeneeneeeeneeneeeeee
Letter scales . pee eeeee ee eree re irerr err esti rerr eres tert rr eee ee errr errr rere

Spring balance and weights 1x10g, 2x20g, 1x50g, 1x100g i
Test Weights 1x50g, 1x100g, 1x100g, 1x200g, 1x500g, 1x500g, 1kg, 2x2kg, 1x5kg

Stee] datestamps ..

India rubber pad .

Rubber pad 9x9in (for use at public counter) .

Brush for cleaning metal datestamps

Window notice frame (11 5/8) x 9in or 13 1/8 x 1/8 ins) ....

Duplicate letter box key .

Home safe key sseseesees

Official stamp-selling machine key ....

Telephone Handsets ...ssseeeereesneaenens

Mailwork Office Only

Post Office cycles and acceSSOries .sceseeeeecececeeeereeneneresneceenereeesneanensnen eee en es

Fire buckets Containing Sand ssscscscecccccssccterresase ren see seers eens seer eee n eee ea esses sna seas

Asbestos blanket in CaS@ weseceeeeeeeee PoeeUeSOUSEOCEESOECSCOOEOEOSOOOOOSESOOOOOCOSSOS OES

D2.1/4/3
POL00003858

POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 1
SUBPOSTMASTERS' CONTRACT AND STATUS;
CONTRACT
1, The contract is a contract for services and consequently the
Subpostmaster is an agent and not an employee of Post Office Counters Ltd.
2, All references to Subpostmasters are to be construed as {including
Subpostmistresses unless otherwise stated or {mplied from the context
3. The Subpostmaster must provide and maintain, at his own expense,
reasonable office accommodation required by Post Office Counters Ltd, and pay
also at his own expense, any assistants he may need to carry on Post Office
Counters business.
4, The hours of attendance (liable to variation) are:-
weet e ee en et Oe toes seeseees
seeeeee ees tOees ‘on Sundays
seeeee eee etOsereeeueeee
wneeeeeesetOsecevensees ‘on Bank Holidays
seceeeeeeetOseereeenes.0M week days ston.

ste rereneetOne ++.0n Public Holidays
seseeeeeestOsseseeseessOM sevceeevessdays, except when registered items or parcels are on hand

for despatch, when it may be necessary to attend at .....+pm.

5. The Subpostmaster is not obliged to attend the sub-office personally but he is required,
whether he is there or not, to accept full responsibility for the proper running of his
sub-office and the effictent provision of those Post Office services which are required to be
provided there, Retention of the appointment as Subpostmaster is dependent on the sub-office
being well managed and the work performed properly to the satisfaction of Post Office Counters
Ltd.

6. The Subpostmaster is informed at the time of his appointment of the classes of business he
is required to provide. He must also undertake, if called upon to do so later, any other class
of business not required at the time of his appointment but which Post Office Counters Ltd may
subsequently and reasonably require him to do, except that Post Office Counters Ltd may not
require him to undertake mailwork where the Subpostmaster did not undertake to do so as part of
the terms of his appointment.

7. If Post Office Counters Ltd alters the services to be provided or withdraws a service the
Subpostmaster has no claim to compensation for any disappointment which may result from the
change.

8. The terms of the appointment of Subpostmaster do not entitle the holder to paid sick or
annual leave, pension or to compensation for loss of office.

9, If on resignation of his appointment the Subpostmaster disposes of his private business
and/or premises in which the sub-office is situated, the person acquiring the private business
and/or the premises or exchanging contracts in connection with the purchase of the private
business and/or premises will not be entitled to preferential consideration for appointment as
Subpostmaster,

D2.1/1/4

a,

POL00003858
POL00003858

10 Should the Subpostmaster desire to resign his Office he must give three calendar months
notice in writing failing which he shall be liable to bear any expense incurred by Post Office
Counters Ltd in consequence, The Agreement may be determined by Post Office Counters Ltd at any
time in case of Breach of Condition by him, or non-performance of his obligation or non-provision
of Post Office Services, but otherwise may be determined by Post Office Counters Ltd on not less
than three months notice,

11 The Subpostmaster will display a vacancy notice in the Sub-Post Office window at the time of
his resignation if so required by the District Manager,

12. The Subpostmaster's initial remuneration will be in accordance with the official figures of
business found to be warranted at the last revision,

PO RULES & POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS

43. SECTIONS 1-23 contain the general terms of a Subpostmaster's appointment. Post Office
Counters Ltd issues the Subpostmaster with rules and Postal instructions which deal with the
various classes of Post Office Business to be transacted at his sub-office.

14 The rules provided for the instruction and guidance of Subpostmasters must be kept up to
date, They must be carefully studied and applied. No breach of rules will be excused on the
grounds of ignorance.

15 Operational rules are intended for the instruction and guidance of both the Subpostmaster
and the staff which he employs at his sub-office. The Subpostmaster must ensure that his
Sub-Office Assistants carry out their duties in accordance with the rules and instructions
affecting their respective duties,

16 Certain Postal Instructions are supplied to mailwork offices for the use of the postmen
employed there and should be kept in a position where they are readily available for reference.
These particular instructions and rules do not apply to Subpostmasters.
17 Duties ~ The principal duties at present required have been marked on the following list:-
Sale of Postage Stamps. Filling and clearing of Stamp-Selling machines.
Treatment of Postal Packets, including Overseas Parcels
Despatch and receipt of Mails

Business connected with:

Postal orders Telephone Accounts
Pension Allowances Telephone Saving Stamps i
Saving Certificates Nattonal Insurance t
Savings Bank, Government Stock and Annuities Premium Savings Bonds i
Television Licences local Taxation Licences

Television Licence Saving Stamps Girobank

Motor Vehicle Licence Saving Stamps Community Charge.

CONTRACT - CHANCES AND AMENDMENTS

18 Changes in conditions of service and operational instructions, including those which are
agreed with the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, wit] appear from time to time in Counter
News or by amendment to thé Contract. Such changes and instructions are deemed to form part of
the Subpostmaster's contract.

DISTRICT MANAGER
19 All instructions received from the District Manager should be carried out as promptly as
possible,

END

D2.1/4/5

POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUN’

SECTION 2

REMUNERAT! ON

GENERAL

1. ASubpostmaster is paid according to the amount of work which is transacted at his
sub-office.

FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT

2. Remuneration is paid monthly, in arrear, normally at the rate of 1/12 of the annual
remuneration, by bank credit transfer.

3. The amount of work undertaken at a sub-office is assessed periodically. The Subpostmaster's
remuneration may be increased or decreased accordingly, except that if the work done is below a
specified level, a fixed minimum payment will be made.

REVISIONS

4, The assessment of work done for the purpose of a periodic revision of remuneration is
undertaken in the following way.

5. Every major item of work undertaken in sub-offices has been assigned a “unit credit" eg the I
unit credit for the payment of a pension is 3. The amount of the unit credit assigned to a i
particular transaction is intended to reflect the amount of time required to complete the
transaction and any associated accounting work, A list of the items of work to which unit
credits have been assigned and the current amount of those unit credits, which is applied
uniformly for all sub-offices, is at APPENDIX 1, The amount of any unit credit may be increased
or decreased, after negotiations with the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters; a new unit
credit or cash allowance will similarly be introduced when Subpostmasters are required to ;
undertake any major new item of business,

6. Information about the number of transactions for those items of work listed at APPENDIX 1
undertaken at the sub-office, over the 12 month period of which the reviston fs being prepared,
are extracted from accounting records,

7. The number of transactions of each item of work whfch has been performed is multiplied by
the unit credit assigned to that item of work, Total unit credits are so determined for every
item of work, at APPENDIX 1, They are totalled and increased by 3% to allow for other minor
items of business which do not justify a specific unit credit, The figure which results is the
final total of unit credits applicable to the office concerned.

8. The annual amount of remuneration to be paid in respect of the sub-office is determined by
reading from a table which lists the annual amount of remuneration payable in respect of any
final total of unit credits. This table, called the unit scale, is published (as a supplement to
Counter News, The cash figure given by the unit scale is called the "scale payment.)

9, In addition to the scale payment determined according to paras 5 to 8 above, certain cash
allowances may also be paid. The circumstances in which such allowances are paid, and their
value, are also set out in a supplement to Counter News.

10. The scate payment is in respect of the provision of Post Office Counter services during the
hours of opening.

D2.1/1/6
POL00003858
POL00003858

FREQUENCY WITH WHICH REVISIONS ARE UNDERTAKEN

11. The procedure described at paras 5 to 9 is normally undertaken at every sub-office, and the
Subpostmaster’s remuneration adjusted accordingly, at yearly intervals (the "annual revision").

DATES ON WHICH ANNUAL REVISIONS ARE QUE

12, Annual revisions in the area controlled by The District manager are carried out according to
a rota. Every office occupies a particular place in that rota and the date when the revision is
due is fixed accordingly. 1t does not depend upon the date when the Subpostmaster was appointed,
and may not be altered, except that: the District Manager may bring forward the date of an annual
revision by not more than 3 months. If he does so, and the revision results in a reduction in
the Subpostmaster's remuneration, this reduction will not be made until the "old" revision date,
unless the appointment has become vacant in the meantime;

1

INFORMATION ON WHICH REVISIONS ARE BASED

13. The dates on which revisions may be due, and the corresponding period from which records of
work done will be used are:

DATE ON WHICH REVISION DUE: PERIOD FROM WHICH RECORDS USED:

1 January Year Ended the preceding 30 September
1 February " " "

1 March " “ 31 December
1 April " " " i
1 May I
1 June " " 31 March
1

1

1

1

t

1

" ” "

July " " °
August
September " " 30 June i
October " " "
November
December " " 30 September

14. Normally the actual record of transactions carried out in the sub-office over the
appropriate 12 month period is used in assessing remuneration, and the Subpostmaster must supply
certain information for use in the revision. However, certain adjustments may be made to the
Figures actually recorded.

15. Where a type of work (eg savings bank work) has been entirely withdrawn in the course of the
year covered by the returns of work or subsequently, but before the due date of the reviston, no
unit credits for this work will be included in the final total of unit credits used for
determining the future scale payment. However, unit credits based on the annual equivalent of
the work performed up to the date of withdrawal will be {ncluded in the final total of unit
credits used in calculating any arrears of remuneration which may be due.

16. Where there has been a temporary increase in the work undertaken at a sub-office for
whatever reason, the increase in the work will be included in the figures of business used at the
time of the next revision,

17, When a sub-office is temporarily closed (except to allow the Subpostmaster to take a
holiday) or a particular type of work is suspended for a period falling within the year covered
by the returns of work, the actual figures of work done fn the 12 month period will be increased i
proportionately in order to cover the temporary closure or suspension of business.

18, Where a Subpostmaster receives unit credits for scheduled attendance between 6am and Sam,
attendances during the revision period will be averaged when assessing remuneration.

19, Details of the figures on which an annual revision has been based are given to the
Subpostmaster before any adjustment is made to his remuneration.

pasar I
POL00003858
POL00003858

BACK-DATING OF RESULTS OF REVISIONS

20, 1€ following an annual revision the Subpostmaster's remuneration is to be increased, then
this increase is backdated to a date 6 months before the date on which the revision was due.
Arrears of remuneration are paid accordingly.

21, \f following an annual revision the Subpostmaster's remuneration is to be decreased, the
reduction will come into effect only from a current date, ie the date on which the revision is
finalised and implemented.

INTERMEDIATE REVIS{ONS

22, A Subpostmaster will not normally be allowed to claim a revision of remuneration between
annual revisions. However, where he can demonstrate exceptional circumstances, which cause a
major change in the volume of business transacted (eg closure of @ neighbouring office or other i
clearly identiftable change) the claim should be submitted via the District Manager to Post I
Office Counters Business Headquarters who will have sole discretion to decide whether an abnormal 1
change in business has occurred. Where Post Office Counters Ltd is satisfied that such a case
exists any intermediate revision will attract arrears to the date of the increase in work, which {
must not be before the previous revision,

ADJUSTMENT OF REMUNERATION FOR NEW TYPES OF BUSINESS

23. If a new class of business is required to be undertaken at a sub-office, except at minimum
payment sub-offices (see para 3), an estimate is made of the additional amount by which the new
work is likely to increase the Subpostmaster's annual remuneration, The estimate is arrived at
by taking the figures for the new business transacted during the month following its introduction
and multiplying appropriately to produce an annual figure. Two-thirds of the estimated increase
in remuneration should be paid as soon as possible after the introduction of the new work. The
increase is adjusted as appropriate when figures of business for a full year are available.

24, No change is made at minimum payment sub-offices except where the new class of business
warrants a higher minimum payment. This higher rate {s paid from the date of introduction of the
new business.

SEASON SUB-OFFICES

25, Where a sub-office is regularly open for part of the year only, remuneration will be paid
for the period of opening only. The minimum payment for the class of office or half the
estimated remuneration, whichever is the greater, will be paid provisionally and, at the end of
the season, the remuneration will be revised on the basis of the actual work performed.

SUBPOSTMASTER'S PERSONAL BUSINESS
26, Full credit is normally allowed for the personal Post Office business of a Subpostmaster and

members of his household, but Post Office Counters Ltd reserves the right to withhold credit for
part of such business at its discretion,

RETURNS COMPLETED BY SUBPOSTMASTERS FOR REVISION PURPOSES

27, Subpostmasters will be notified by the District Manager of the periods during which counts
of items for revision purposes are to be undertaken, It is essential that Subpostmasters
complete and return these records without delay; failure to do so may adversely affect
calculation of the Subpostmaster's remuneration.

D2.1/1/8
POL00003858
POL00003858

CANVASS ING

28, Canvassing of persons, firms or companies or any action having the object of inducing the
transaction at a sub-office business of persons, firms or companies residing at or carrying on a
business at a place nearer to another Post Office, or the delivery of stamps or postal orders at
the premises of persons, firms or companies is forbidden, Remuneration may be withheld in respect
of any business obtained by a Subpostmaster in breach of this rule.

QUESTIONS ABOUT REMUNERATION

29, If a Subpostmaster considers that the foregoing rules have not been correctly applied in the
case of his office he should make any representations to the District Manager.

(APPENDIX 1 FOLLOWS)

D2.1/4/9 I

Description Unit credit

POL00003858

POL00003858

APPENDIX 1
Remarks

1 Letters posted across the counters. These
items of business are now formed into a
baseline traffic figure comprising of
traffic for the following posted items,
taken from four quarterly counts of traffic
recorded on forms P2313 in 1986, or a
subsequent weeks count, whichever fs the
later.

Inland Letter Packets.

(a) Unbundled adhesive stamped items above 275
the minimum weight step tendered for

individual weighing (as for inland letter

packets (b)).

(b) Unbundled adhesive stamped items within 7.5 per
the minimum tariff weight step tendered for 20 items
individual weighing at the request of the

customers and accepted across the counter for
transmission by letter post.

(c) Adhesive stamped items, irrespective of 1.5

weight, presented for posting at the counter
in bundles tied with string or held with
rubber bands which do not require individual
treatment by the Subpostmaster,

Overseas letter packets

(a) Unbundled adhesive stamped items, bearing 3.25
a customs declaration, tendered for individual
weighing as for (inland Letter packets (b).

(b) Unbundled adhesive stamped items not 1.5
bearing a customs declaration form, excluding
postcards and officially approved air letter

forms, tendered for individual wefghing as for
(Inland letter packets (b).

{c) Adhesive stamped items, irrespective of 1.5
weight (presented as for Inland letter packets
fe).

The baseline traffic figures were
formulated from an estimate of the
yearly traffic based on a weeks
traffic taken 4 times in 1986 to
secure a fair average. The
multiplier was then applied to give
an annual figure, including an
allowance of 4 additional weeks
for Christmas pressure. Subsequent
to 1986 Subpostmasters/District
Managers were able to undertake a
special one weeks traffic count.

Multiplier of 10.5 applied to
bring it to an annual equivalent
(ie 0.75 x 14).

Multiplier of 5.25 applied to
bring it to an annual equivalent
Ge 7.5 x 14)

Multiplier of 21 applied to bring
it to an annual equivalent (ie 1.5
x 14)

The yearly traffic for overseas
letter packets was derived from
the same count as intand letter
packets,

Multiplier of 45.5 applied to
bring it to an annual equivalent
(ie 3.25 x 14)

Multiplier of 21 applied to bring
it to an annual equivalent
(ie 1.5 x 21)

Multiplier of 21 applied to bring
it to an annual equivalent
(ie 1.5 x 21)

D2.1/1/10

Description

Unit credit

POL00003858

POL00003858

APPENDIX 1
Remarks

Meter franked correspondence handed in over

the counter.

(a) Bundles

{b) Pouches

Recorded delivery items posted

Reply Paid Packets posted

2 Compensation fee parcels
3. Overseas and insured parcels

4 Personal Account Cheque Deposits
5 Discount wholesale stamp packs

6 Registered letters posted

7 Ulster Savings Certificates repaid

8 Postage stamps sold

9 Mi1k tokens issued

7.5 per
20 ttems

4S

5.5

19.50
per £10

7 per 10

The yearly traffic is calculated
as for letter packets.

Multiplier of 7 applied to bring
it to an annual equivalent
(ie 0.5 x 14)

Multiplier of 42 applied to bring
it to an annual equivalent
(ie 3 x 14)

The yearly traffic is calculated
as for letter packets, A
multiplier of 17.5 is applied to
give an annual figure.

(fe 1.25 x 14)

This traffic was derived from the
balance of traffic outstanding
when Discrete Parcels were
extracted from the Baseline,

This credit covers postage stamp,
stamped stationery sales and
philatelic items as well as stamps
supplied for stamps supplied for
vending machines,

D2.1/1/11

POL00003858

POL00003858
APPENDIX 1
Description Unit credit Remarks
10 Citizen Band Radio Licence stamps sold 4 Annual traffic based on number of

licence fee stamps sold

11 National Insurance stamps sold 5.5 per £10 Sales rounded up to next £10.
12 No of pensions paid 3
13. Allowance paid (fe Navy, Army, Air 2.5

force and Police pensions, family and i
supplementary allowances) I

14 PSB warrants repaid 6.25
15 Savings bank deposits and withdrawals 6.5 I
16 No of ONS Dividend Warrants cashed 4 I
17 DNS Other Stock and Bond payments 6.5

18 Savings Certificates repaid 9.5

19 Premium Savings Bonds repaid and each 1.5

prize paid
20 Motor Vehicle Licence stamps supplied 2.75 per £10 Sales rounded up to next £10

(less returns)
21 No of National Savings Stamps encashed 4

22 Television licence savings stamps 10.5 per £10 Sales rounded up to next £10
supplied (less returns)

D2.1/1/12
POL00003858

POL00003858
APPENDIX 1
Description Unit credit Remarks
23 Local Taxation licences sold 5.75
24 Television licences sold 6
25 Motor Vehicle licences issued 13
26 Thomas Cook's/Visa Travellers cheques
supplied (less returns) 3.75
per £139
27 «International money orders
4.5
28 Postal Orders supplied (less number
returned) 1.5
29 Postal Orders paid 1
30 Postal Orders in excess of 5,000 paid 0.5
jn batches where a docket is used
31 Cashing other Bank cheques 4
32 Girobank deposits, inpayments and 4,25 Number of transactions
Transcash transactions
33 Girobank deposits, inpayments and 1 per £98 This credit is in addition to the
Transcash transactions aggregate value normal Girobank deposit, inpayment
and Transeash credit of 4,25 units
and Girobank rent/rates voucher
and card credit of 4 units.
34 Girobank coloured social security
payment orders. 3.5
35 Girobank outpayments and withdrawals 4,5
36 Girobank rent/rate voucher and card 4
payments
37 Phonecards 7 per £10
38 No of Telephone Subscribers' accounts 3.5
paid
39 Telephone Saving stamps supplied (less 6.5 per £10 Sales rounded up to next £10
returns)
40 RMSD items accepted 1.5

D2.1/1/13

POL00003858

POL00003858

APPENDIX 1

Description
Unit credit Remarks

Mailwork Offices

41 Business reply/freepost/postage

forward parcels 1 The annual traffic is based on the
number of daily entries which have
been made on the relevant docket.

42> Mailwork:

Posted

- No of unregistered letters etc for one week
which are subjected to a sorting office

process (plus 6% to cover ‘Christmas
pressure').

Delivered

- Average number of unregistered letters ete
for one week (plus 6% to cover ‘Christmas
pressure').

Average number of unregistered letters etc
for one week (plus 6% to cover Christmas

pressure’).

Average number of registered parcels registered
weekly (from Irish Republic) x 4

Average number of inland COD items weekly x 18

Average number of recorded delivery and RMSD items
weekly x 1.5

Average number of telephone directories weekly

x3.
43 Scheduled day attendance between 0600 and 700 No separate attendance on a
0900 hours weekly, weekday counts as less than half

an hour where it is contiguous
with the standard hours of
attendance, eg 0845-0900. (More
than one attendance within any
half hour counts as one half
hour only).

Early morning attendance, broken
by a period of one hour or less
will be regarded as continuous
for purposes of payment.

D2.1/1/14

POL00003858
POL00003858

APPENDIX 1
Description Unit credit Remarks
44 NHS Prescription Charge Refunds 5
45 Refunds on Mono TV Licences 7

D2.1/4/15

POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 3

SUBPOSTMASTERS' ABSENCE FROM OFFICE

GENERAL

1, A Subpostmaster, under the terms of his contract, is not obliged to
render personal service and is therefore free to absent himself from the

office, provided he makes suitable arrangements for the conduct of the office
during his absence.

2. He should notify the District Manager on form P2593 when he will be away
for a period of more than 3 days and give the name of the person substituting
for him.

3. A Subpostmaster's responsibility for the proper conduct of the office, or
for any losses occurring during his absence, is in no way diminished by his
absence from the Sub-Office. He must make proper provision, at his own
expense, for the conduct of the office while he 1s away, but assistance
towards the cost of his own substitution is provided, in respect of certain
absences, under the terms outlined in other relative sections listed below:-

SECTION 4 Absence on holiday
SECTION 5 Sick Absence
SECTION 6 Absence on Territorial Training

END

D2.1/1/16
POL00003858

POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

1, A Subpostmaster is not entitled to annual leave as such, but subject to
the following conditions he may claim reimbursement of the necessary cost of
his substitution when taking a holiday, To qualify for reimbursement, the
Subpostmaster must be able to certify that he renders on average not less than
18 hours personal services each week.

2. The reimbursement of the costs of substitution is paid as a Holiday
Substitution Allowance and the maxima payable are published annually in
Counter News. The sum reimbursable is the net additional cost necessarily
incurred by the Subpostmaster in providing during his own absence for the Post
Office duties which he personally performs.

3. To assist Subpostmasters to overcome the difficulties sometimes
experienced in obtaining suitable substitutes in a particular year the holiday
substitution allowance extends o a period of 2 years. The holiday periods
for which the costs of substitution are payable are:~

4, For a Subpostmaster with less than 10 years service; a total not
exceeding 7 weeks in a period of 24 months beginning 1 April in every odd
year; 7 weeks for this purpose consists of 42 weekdays plus not more than
7 associated Sundays.

5. For a Subpostmaster with 10 years or more aggregated service; a total not
exceeding 8 weeks in a period of 24 months beginning 1 April in every odd
year; 8 weeks for this purpose consists of 48 weekdays plus not more than

8 associated Sundays.

NOTE: Subject to the above limits on holiday periods, Subpostmasters may claim
reimbursement of substitution costs for absences of less then 3 days, provided
that claims are aggregated and made quarterly.

6.  Proportionate adjustments will be made to the period for which
reimbursement can be claimed when a Subpostmaster qualifies for the higher
allowance during the 2 year cycle.

7. Subject to the limits in para 3,4 & 5, as Subpostmaster is free to take
up to the maximum of the period for whtch he may claim holiday substitution
allowance at any time during the. 2 year cycle provided that he makes suitable
arrangements for the conduct of the office during his absence. A further
cycle will recur in every odd year.

8. The Subpostmaster must do his best to find his own substitute and make
all necessary arrangements for his absence, which should be notified to the
District Manager on form P2593. In cases of difficulty the District Manager
or the Secretary of the local Branch of the National Federation of
Sub-Postmasters may be able to give the names and addresses of local people
known to be willing to offer their services as holiday reliefs to
Subpostmasters, Responsibility for concluding agreements with such people
remains with the Subpostmaster concerned.

D2.1/1/17

POL00003858
POL00003858

CLAIMS FOR REIMBURSEMENT

9, The Subpostmaster must submit a formal claim for reimbursement of the
holiday substitution allowance on forms P2340 and P2340(A) (obtafnable from
the District Manager) within three months of the end of the period of
substitution to which the claim relates, except in the cases as in 11.1 where
claims should be submitted quarterly. He must certify:-

9.1 that he has taken a holiday both from the Sub Post office and from
his private business during the whole period covered by the claim;
and

9.2 That, in respect of the services he provided as Subpostmaster, he
has actually and necessarily incurred additional expenditure
equating to the amount claimed, in respect of a paid substitute or
substitutes with the -eption of members of his family who normally
participate in the sub office work other than merely occasionally.

10 Claims for refundment of substitution costs for absences of less than 3
days (see Note at paragraph 5) should be submitted on form P2340 and P2340(A)
at the quarter end, showing the separate dates of absence and the costs of
substitution incurred.

11. Where a Subpostmaster is employed by the Post Office either on a full or
part-time basis, eg Auxiliary Postman, it is essential, in view of the terms
of the certificate required as a condition of refundment of the cost of his i
substitution as Subpostmaster, that he should be absent from all Post Office
work during his holiday as Subpostmaster, l

12. A Subpostmaster who holds more than one sub-office appointment and who
satisfies the general conditions entitling him to claim reimbursement must
also satisfy the further condition that he is absent from all his sub-offices
at the same time, ie irrespective of the number of sub-office appointments
held, he shall only be entitled to claim reimbursement for a total period of:-

12,1 not more than 7 weeks in the 24 months beginning 1 April in every
odd year, if he has Tess than 10 years services i

12.2 not more than 8 weeks in the 24 months beginning 1 April in every
odd year, if he has 10 years or more aggregated service.

13 Only one claim for reimbursement is admissible and not one claim per
office held.

14, Reimbursement of the cost of annual holiday warranted under the foregoing
rules will be suitably restricted in respect of a Subpostmaster's first and
Jast 2 years of appointment to amounts proportionate to the actual pertods of
appointment during those years; any overpayments which may thus occur will be
recovered subsequently.

PREPARATION OF CASH ACCOUNTS DURING ABSENCE ON HOLIDAY

15. A Subpostmaster fs allowed to dispense with the preparation of cash
accounts on up to 3 occasions in each accounting/financial year during his own
absence on holiday. On one occasion a cash account may cover up to 3 weeks
transactions, and on two additional occasions 2 weeks transactions.
Alternatively, on two occasions a cash account may cover up to 3 weeks
transactions. In no circumstances may two occasions be consecutive.

D2.1/1/18
POL00003858
POL00003858

16. Applications to dispense with cash accounts should be made on form P2639,
to District Managers at least 2 weeks before the date of absence, but they can
only be allowed when the 2 or 3 weeks involved fall within the same accounting
period. (The accounting periods are shown in the front of the cash book).

17, “Despatch of Accounts" instructions to cover the period concerned will be
supplied by FC4.3/CAG Chesterfield and for Scotland, Scottish Accounting
Office ADI,

18, [t will not be possible to dispense with 2 consecutive cash accounts when
one or both of them, or the next account that would be due, is for longer than
a normal cash account week, eg Christmas and New Year, However, applications
to dispense with one account at such times will be considered,

19, Where a cash account is prepared during the Subpostmaster's absence on
holiday and fs signed by a substitute on his behalf, a note to this effect
should be made on the Account,

END

D2.1/1/19
{
POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD i

TRAINING I

1, A Subpostmaster who renders an average not less than 18 hours personal
services each week may be reimbursed with the cost of providing a substitute,
up to the maximum of the appropriate Holiday Substitution Allowance in force,
for an additional period of absence of up to 12 working days and 2 assoctated
Sundays in each year, to attend for training at a Territorial, etc, camp.

2, Claims should be made on form P2340 and P2340(A)} on which the
Subpostmaster must certify that he has spent the whole period covered by the
claim in full-time training with the force concerned and that he has actually
and necessarily incurred additional expenditure to the amount claimed. In {
all other aspects, the conditions relating to the payment of Holiday
Substitution Allowance apply (see Section 4).

3. A Subpostmaster who enlists for whole time service in HM Forces is
required to resign his appointment.

4,  Territorfal, ete forces which are recognised for the purposes of
retmbursement of additional substitution costs are:-

ARMY

Regular Army Reserve of Officers
Army Reserve - Section D
Territorial Army

ROYAL NAVY

Royal Navy Reserve
Royal Naval Auxiliary Services
Royal Naval Retired and Emergency List Offices {
Royal Marines Reserve

Royal Fleet Reserve

Women's Royal Naval Reserve

Queen Alexandra's Royal Naval Nursing Services Reserve.

ROYAL AIR FORCE

Royal Auxiliary Air Force
Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve

Royal Air Force Reserve of Officers
Royal Air Force Reserve - Class &
Princess Mary's Nursing Service Reserve
Royal Observer Corps

END

I
I
H
I

D2.1/1/20
i
POL00003858
POL00003858

COUNTERS LTD

ABSENCE FOR JURY SERVICE

1. A Subpostmaster who receives a summons to serve on a jury should notify
his District Manager immediately, and should inform him of the arrangements
which he proposes to make for the conduct of the work of the sub-office in his
absence.

2. Where exceptionally the Subpostmaster is unable to find a substitute and
the Sub-Office is temporarily closed on account of the absence of the
Subpostmaster on jury service, the scale payment for the period of the closure
will be withheld.

3.  Subpostmasters attending for jury service should claim from the court any
allowances for which they are eligible in respect of travelling and
subsistence and, where appropriate, compensation for loss of remuneration. If
a Subpostmaster is in need of advice as to the allowances to which he will be
entitled, he should seek if from the official responsible for the issue of the
summons.

END

D2.1/1/21

POL00003858
POL00003858

TUTION ALLOWANCE

SUBPOSTMASTER'S SICK ABSENCE

1. A Subpostmaster is not required to give personal service and {s not
entitled to sick leave as such. However, subject to certain conditions and
limitations described below, he is entitled to claim sick absence substitution
allowance, in respect of the costs of substitution necessarily incurred, when
he {s absent from his sub-office through illness. i

CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS

2, Wf{th the exception of women over 65 and men over 70 years of age, all
Subpostmasters who give 18 hours or more personal service a week, who are
absent from their sub office through fliness, are eligible to claim Sick
Absence Substitution Allowance. The maxima rates payable are published from
time to time in Counter News. The allowance 1s payable subject to, and in
accordance with, the following conditions:

3, The allowance will be payable when the period of any continuous sick
absence amounts to three weeks (21 days including Sundays) or more and it will
be paid retrospect‘ vely for all but the first week (seven days including
Sunday) of absence.

4. Payment of the allowance will be limited to an aggregated period of 13
weeks (91 days including not more than 13 associated Sundays) in any
consecutive period of 12 months.

5, Where a Subpostmaster is incapacitated by en accident or iliness which
results, or is likely to result, in a continuous absence beyond 13 weeks,
District Managers may authorise payment of the allowance to be extended up to
a maximum period of 26 weeks (182 days including not more than 26 associated
Sundays) in any one period of 12 months. Where a Subpostmaster has already i
received up to 12 weeks of the Sick Absence Substitution Allowance entitlement

in the previous 12 months he may, because of an absence resulting from an

extended {llness, be entitled to an allowance up to a maximum of 26 weeks in

any one period of 12 months.

6. Where a Subpostmaster's period of reimbursement of sick absence
substitution costs is extended beyond 13 continuous weeks, such extension will
be reviewed periodically. Under no circumstances will a Subpostmaster be
allowed to aggregate separate periods of sick absence beyond 13 weeks in any
one period of 12 months.

7. The maximum allowance payable will be the total amount calculated by
applying the Subpostmaster's appropriate Holiday Substitution Allowance rate
for the period for which sick absence allowance is payable, or the actual
additional costs of substitution incurred for the same period, whichever is
less.

8. The maximum amount of the allowance for the period of absence for which
an allowance is payable will be abated, where applicable, by the statutory
national insurance sickness benefit or maternity allowance and earnings
related supplement received by the claimant in respect of the same period.
Details of these are recorded on DSS forms 8S12 and BF168 which should
accompany the Subpostmaster's claim for the substitution allowance (see para
10), Where however, a Subpostmistress receives a NH Maternity Grant, the
substitution allowance should not be reduced by the amount of that grant.

D2.1/1/22
POL00003858

POL00003858

(Note: Statutory national insurance sickness benefit means that benefit
which {s payable to a person otherwise than in respect of another person who
is a child or an adult dependent.) Where a Subpostmaster is not eligible for
DSS benefits, a medical certificate should accompany the claim for payment of
the substitution allowance.

9.  Subpostmasters holding more than one Sub-Office appointment will be
entitled to claim the allowance in respect of only one appointment.

10. Any Subpostmaster who qualifies for the sick absence substitution
allowance and can produce evidence to show that substitution costs were
incurred should submit a claim to the District Manager after he has been
absent for three weeks. Thereafter he should claim the allowance at the end
of each subsequent period of absence of four weeks (or at the end of the
period of absence if that is reached earlier). Claim forms will be supplied
by the District Manager on request.

PERIODS OF SICK ABSENCE OF LESS THAN 3 WEEKS

11. Where an eligible Subpostmaster as defined above is absent sick for a
period of less than three weeks, and does not qualify for payment of the sick
absence substitution allowance, he will be free to claim, in respect of any
substitute for him, Holiday Substitutton Allowance for the period of absence
up to the limit of any outstanding balance of his HSA entitlement. Forms
P2340 and P2340(A) should be used by Subpostmasters when making these claims.
The amounts payable will not be the subject to abatement of any national
insurance sickness benefit received, Any period of sick absence for which HSA
(as distinct from Sick Absence Substitution Allowance) is paid will count
against the HSA entitlement.

D2.1/1/23

POL00003858
POL00003858

STATUTORY SICK PAY SCHEME i
INTRODUCTION

1, Under the terms of the Social Security and Housing Benefits Act 1982
employers are responsible for statutory sick pay arrangements in respect of
their employees. An employee is {nterpreted as including office holders who
receive emoluments liable for income tax under Schedule E. Subpostmasters
come within this category and consequently Post Office Counters Ltd is obliged I
to comply with the conditions of the Act. I

2. The use of the words ‘employee’ and ‘employer! are used in the context of
this particular piece of legislation and do not in any way alter the
Subpostmaster's status an an independent contractor.

GENERAL

3. Under the terms of the Scheme most Subpostmasters will not get State
sickness benefit for their first twenty efght weeks of sickness in each tax
year. Instead they will get statutory sick pay, known as SSP, from Post
Office Counters Ltd, SSP is paid at a flat rate, There are 2 weekly rates
and eligibility depends on an employee's average earnings over a specified
period, There are no allowances for dependants. SSP {s taxable and subject
to NI contributions.

EXCLUSIONS
4. A Subpostmaster will not get statutory sick pay ff he comes within one
of the following groups. If a Subpostmaster falls within one of these groups

he should still notify his District Manager about his sickness,

A Subpostmaster reaches the end of his entitlement to SSP from Post
Office Counters when:

(a) Subpostmasters who have already had twenty eight weeks of SSP from Post
Office Counters Ltd in a tax year in any one period of incapacity for
work (referred to as PIW) (linked or unlinked);

{b) his linked PIW with Post Office Counters Ltd has run for 3 years.

{c) she is pregnant and reaches the ‘disqualifying period’,

(d) his contract for service ends

(e) Subpostmasters who fall sick in a country outside the EEC

(f) he is no longer incapable of work, ie he returns to work or stops
sending certificates of incapacity

(g) he is taken into legal custody

D2.1/1/24
POL00003858
POL00003858

QUALIFYING CONDITIONS

5 Statutory sick pay can only be paid for qualifying days. It has been
agreed with the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters that qualifying days
for Subpostmasters will be those days on which they are normally required to
provide services as detailed in Section 1 of this contract, Where
Subpostmasters are required to give services for only part of the day, that
day will count in full for statutory sick pay purposes. For the majority of
Subpostmasters there will be six qualifying days in each week (Monday to
Saturday). If a Subpostmaster is in doubt about which days are regarded as
qualifying days he should seek confirmation from his District Manager.

6 The entitlement of a Subpostmaster to SSP, rests on 6 qualifying
conditions, all of which must be fulfilled.

(a) The Subpostmaster must have notified his District Manager of his absence
(b) Days sickness must be days of incapacity
(c) The Subpostmaster must provide evidence of incapacity.

(d) Period of incapacity for work (PIW) must be formed and PIW consists of 4
or more consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays,
when a Subpostmaster {s incapacitated for work. It is immaterial for this
purpose whether or not the Subpostmaster would normatly have worked on those
days. PIW's which are separated by 8 Weeks (56 calendar days) or less are
linked and count together as a single PIW,

(e) when a Subpostmaster falls into one or more of the categories listed
below he will be excluded from receiving SSP.

(4) he is excluded from receiving SSP. A Subpostmaster who has been
excluded cannot return to SSP entitlement during the course of a
PIW, nor at the start of a PIW which links with a previous one
during which he was excluded even though he ceases to be a member of
an excluded group.

(i) Over State pension age

A Subpostmaster who is over State pension age (65 for a man, 60 for a
woman) {s excluded from SSP. However, if when a Subpostmaster reaches
State pensfon age he has a PIW which links with a previous one, he will
be entitled to SSP for as long as his PIWs continue to link.

(ii) Short contract workers

A Subpostmaster whose contract of employment is for a specified period
of 3 calendar months or less is excluded from SSP. However, if the
contract does not at first exceed 3 months, but a Subpostmaster works
past the time stated in the contract so that the total period worked
becomes more than 3 calendar months the employee becomes entitled to SSP
as soon as it is known that the total period will be more than 3 calendar
months.

Gia) Low average earnings

A Subpostmaster whose average earnings are less than the lower earnings
limit for Ni contribution liability is not entitled to SSP, When one PIW
links with a previous one, the first day fn the earlier PIW is used for
calculating an employee's average earnings.

D2.1/1/25 I

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vit)

(viii)

(ix)

(x)

POL00003858
POL00003858

Recent State benefit entitlement

A Subpostmaster who has received, or in some cases claimed but
not received, certain State benefits within the 8 weeks period
before the first day of a PIW is not entitled to SSP. The
benefits are:

- sickness benefit

- invalidity benefit

- severe disablement allowance

- state maternity allowance (but not statutory maternity I
pay)

- unemployment benefit, but only in very limited
circumstances.

No work done

A Subpostmaster who has done no work under a contract of
employment is not entitled to SSP under that contract. \f he
is a new employee and he reports sick before he takes up duty,
he is not entitled to SSP. However, if he reports for work on I
his first day of service, but goes sick on the second, he is
entitled to SSP if he fulfils the other qualifying conditions,

Trade dispute

lf a Subpostmaster is participating in a stoppage of work due
to a trade dispute, he may be excluded from SSP.

Pregnancy

There {s a "disqualifying period’ during which the
Subpostmistress is not entitled to SSP. The ‘disqualifying
period’ begins with the 11th week before the expected week of
confinement and runs for 18 weeks, This is the same as the
period for entitlement to state or statutory maternity pay to
which the subpostmistress is entitled provided she fulfils the
appropriate conditions.

Already been due 28 weeks SSP from former employer(s)

A Subpostmaster is excluded from SSP if he gives his District
Manager a leaver's statement (SSP 1(L) showing that he has been
due 28 weeks SSP from his former employer(s) and the gap
between the first day of the PIW (with the new employer) and
the last day of SSP shown on the leaver's statement 1s 8 weeks
or less.

Abroad outside the EEC

A Subpostmaster who is abroad outside the EEC at the start of a
PIW is not entitled to $SP. He is excluded even if the Piw
links with a previous one when he was in the UK,

Legal custody

A Subpostmaster who fs in legal custody on the first day of a
PIW is not entitled to SSP, ‘Legal custody' means that the
person concerned is detained, usually arrested and/or in
prison. A person who fs voluntarily helping police with thetr
enquiries {s not excluded. A Subpostmaster in legal custody is
not entitted to SSP even if his PIW links with @ previous one
when he was not in legal custody.

D2.1/1/26
POL00003858
POL00003858

(f) Days of incapacity to be a qualifying day
1€ a Subpostmaster becomes incapable of work part way through a day, thet
day cannot count as a qualtfying day unless he has not commenced work on

that day.

NOTIFICATION OF SICKNESS

7. A Subpostmaster or his representative must inform his District Manager by
telephone of his incapacity for work on or before his first working day of
sickness irrespective of whether he is entitled to statutory sick pay.

8 Subpostmasters, including those nominated by limited companies,
who hold more than one appointment, must notify the appropriate District I
Manager who is responsible for the collection of primary National Insurance
contributions in respect of of his appointments. (see sect. 10 para 1).

9. If a Subpostmaster is late in giving notification of sickness, he should
advise the District Manager of the reason for the delay. If the District
Manager is not satisfied with the reason given for the delay, any period of
sickness prior to the date of notification will not count for the purposes of
statutory sick pay. If a Subpostmaster 1s not satisfied with the District
Manager's decision on this matter he may apply to the Department of Social
Security for a ruling. If a Subpostmaster does not qualify for statutory sick
pay, he will on notification of sickness be sent a form SSP1(E) by his
District Manager.

EVIDENCE OF SICKNESS

10. Subpostmasters must provide Post Office Counters Ltd with evidence of
incapacity for work by means of efther a doctor's medical certificate or by a
self certificate if the incapacity is less than eight deys. A proforma to be
used for self certification can be obtained from the District Manager.

11, Subpostmasters must notify their District Manager when they cease to be
sick,

END OF ENTITLEMENT TO STATUTORY SICK PAY

12. When a Subpostmaster has exhausted his entitlement to statutory sick pay
he will be sent a form SSPI(T), on which, if he fs still sick, he can claim
state sickness benefit from the Department of Social Security.

RULES OF PAYMENT

13. In accordance with the Act, Post Office Counters Ltd fs obliged to abate
any remuneration due by the appropriate amount of statutory sick pay. The
effect of this will mean that for the first eight weeks of sickness,
remuneration will be paid in full and that statutory sick pay will be regarded
as 'notional', Consequently although statutory sick pay will be regarded as
Inotional’ the total remuneration paid the Subpostmaster will continue to
attract income tax and National Insurance contributions in full.

DUAL EMPLOYMENT

th, If a Subpostmaster who s sick is also employed efther by the Post Office
(eg as an Auxiliary Postman) or another employer, and provided national
insurance contributions are paid separately for each employment and all other
conditions are met, he must claim statutory sick pay in respect of both his
Subpostmaster services and other employments.

D2.1/1/27
POL00003858
POL00003858

SICK ABSENCE SUBSTITUTION SCHEME

15 The provisions of this Scheme, which are set out in Section 5, remain
except that no claim will be entertained unless the District Manager has been I
properly notified of the Subpostmaster's sickness. Claims for retmbursement [
for up to 28 weeks! sick absence will not be subject to abatement in respect
of statutory sick pay. Claims for reimbursement for a period of sickness
which does not attract statutory sick pay will continue to be subject to
abatement,

END

D2.1/1/28
POL00003858

POL00003858
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 9
RESIGNATION AND RETIREMENT.
RESIGNATION
1. A Subpostmaster who wishes to resign his appointment must give 3 calendar

months! notice in writing. If he does not give such notice Post Office
Counters Ltd may require him to pay any expense which it incurs in providing
temporary arrangements to cater for the business which would normally be
expected to be transacted at the sub-office during any part of the 3 month
notice period.

RETIREMENT

2. There is no specific age limit for the retirement of a Subpostmaster.

3, Unless indicated otherwise by the District Manager, a vacancy will be
advertised at the existing sub-office premises.

4, Subpostmasters at offices earning 125,050 units or more are required to
make an introductory payment to Post Office Counters Ltd as a condition of
appointment.

END

D2.1/1/29
POL00003858

POL00003858
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
CLASSIFICATION
1 For national insurance purposes, a Subpostmaster is regarded as an office

holder with emoluments chargeable to income tax under Schedule E, As such,
all Subpostmasters are liable to make national insurance contributions in
accordance with the provisions of Class 1.

Class 1 contributions comprise 2 parts:~

(a) the Primary contribution which is generally known as the employee's
contribution.

(b) the Secondary contribution which is generally known as the employer's
contribution.

PERSONS TAKING UP AN APPOINTMENT AS A SUBPOSTMASTER

2 A11 persons on taking up an appointment as a Subpostmaster should supply
the District Manager with their national insurance number by means of 2 Nt
number card, form P&S and/or P60 (see Teaflet NI217) and also any current
certificate of Earner's non/reduced rate Iability that they may have. Where
for one reason or another a new Subpostmaster does not provide a NI number,
the action outlined in the Employer's Guide to National Insurance
Contributions (NP1S) will be followed.

CONTRACTING OUT

3 Under the Social Security Act 1975, pensions for retirement, widowhood
and invalidity consist of 2 parts:-

(a) basic pension

(b) an additional pension related to an employee's reckonable earnings
between the lower earnings limit and the upper earnings limit.

4. An employer may contract his employees out of that part of the State
Scheme which provides an additional pension if the Occupational Pensions
Board 1g satisfied that his occupational pensions scheme meets the
conditions required by the Act. As Subpostmasters are not employees of
post Office Counters Ltd they are ineligible to belong to the Post Office
Staff Superannuation Scheme and therefore are not contracted out of the
State Scheme,

D2.1/1/30
POL00003858
POL00003858

CONTRIBUTIONS

DSS leaflet NP1S “Employer's Guide to National Insurance Contributions"
gives a guide to the contribution arrangements.

6 Provided that earnings reach or exceed the lower earnings limit, a
Subpostmaster will be lfable to pay primary contributions on all earnings
up to the upper earnings limit atr-

(a) the standard rate; or

(b) the reduced rate (see para 8)3 or

(c) is not liable for contributions because he/she is over pension age
or has made other arrangements (see para 9).

MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS
7 There is no longer a right to choose to pay reduced rate contributions.

However, a woman entitled to pay at the reduced rate for the 1977-78 tax year
continues to be able to do so for subsequent years unless:-

(a) she revokes her election;
{b) as a married woman her marriage ends in divorce or annutment;

(c} she becomes a widow and after the {nitial period becomes entitled to
widow's benefits

(4) during 2 consecutive tax years which fall after 5 April 1978 she was
neither liable to pay a Class 1 contribution nor was self-employed.

DSS will provide a certificate authorising deductions of a Class I
contributor's contribution at the reduced rate. As Post Office Counters Ltd
will be held responsible for any deficiences in contribution, deductions will
be made at the standard rate unless the Subpostmistress produces a valid
certificate.

NON LIABLE SUBPOSTMASTERS

8 No contributions are payable by men over 65 or women over 60 and in such
circumstances DSS will normally issue a certificate of age contribution.
However, if some other definite evidence is being held to show that a
Subpostmaster has reached age 65 (60 for a woman) his/her deductions may be
ceased even though a certificate of age exception has not been produced,

9 The Secondary contribution (see para 2) is due at the same rate
regardless of the Subpostmaster's rate of contribution or even where he is
non-liable.

ARREARS OF REMUNERATION

10. Arrears of remuneration resulting from a revision or other payments made
to adjust remuneration paid in an earlier month, will be treated as part of
the total remuneration in the month in which the payment is made, regardless
of the period for which they proper to. This applies whether or not the
additional payments are made regularly.

14 Where arrears of remuneration are due to a former Subpostmaster national

insurance contributions will be caloulated from the weekly contributions table
published by DSS.

D2.1/1/31
POL00003858
POL00003858

DEATH OF SUBPOSTMASTERS

12 Contributions are not payable on any remuneration that might be due to @
Subpostmaster's estate after his death,

HOLIDAY AND SICK ABSENCE PAYMENTS
13. Contributions are not due on any payments made under the holiday

substitution or Sick Absence Substitution schemes because all payments are
made in respect of specific costs actually incurred. ]

SICKNESS BENEFITS

14 NI Contributions continue to be payable when a Subpostmaster who fs sick
continues to receive his scale payment. Nt sickness/industrial injury
benefits received are not assessable for NI contribution,

SUBPOSTMASTERS WITH MORE THAN ONE EMPLOYMENT

15 Primary Class I contributions are normally payable in respect of each
job including other Sub Office appointments for which earnings exceed the
lower earnings limit, unless a current form RD 950 has been received from OSS.
Even where a form RD950 is held, POCL is obliged to collect Secondary Class I I
contributions,

SUBPOSTMASTERS SUSPENDED FROM OFFICE AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT REINSTATEMENT

16 Any payment withheld during suspension and subsequently paid upon
reinstatement should be treated as part of the total remuneration in the
earnings period in which it is paid regardless of the pertods to which it
relates. The NI contribution rate current at the time of payment should be
applied.

CHANGES IN NATIONAL INSURANCE STATUS
17 In the event of a change or impending change in national insurance
status, a Subpostmaster should consult his local DSS office as soon as

possible.

18 The following are regarded as changes in status:

(a) WOMEN:

Divorce In these circumstances the Subpostmistress must

Annulment advise DSS and Post Office Counters Ltd

Marriage

Wi dowhood see para 8

Re-marriage

Retirement age Towards the beginning of the tax year in which 3 woman
reaches age 60 and again at the approach of the 60th
birthday, a Subpostmistress will be asked to consult DSS
so that a certificate of age exception may be issued if
appropriate (see also para 9).

(b) MEN:

Retirement age At the approach of the 65th birthday the Subpostmaster

will be asked to consult DSS so that a certificate of age
exception may be issued if necessary (see also para 9).

D2.1/1/32
POL00003858
POL00003858

DEFERMENT OF NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE

19 tn all cases where a Subpostmaster seeks to enhance his retirement
pension by a deferment of NI retirement date (normally the 60th birthday for
women, the 65th birthday for men) see DSS leaflet N192 - or where he wishes to
cancel his deferment, the Subpostmaster should be asked to consult his local
DSS office so that the necessary arrangements can be made and certificates of
age exception obtained.

RESIGNATION/TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT

20 When a Subpostmaster resigns or has his contract terminated the
Guaranteed Minimum Pension will be preserved by DSS.

MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS

ral There will be no Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) for a married woman or
a widow who has retained the right to pay the reduced rate of NI contribution.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION TO PAY AT REDUCED RATE
22. When a married woman or widow revokes her election to pay NI

contributions at the reduced rate the GMP will accrue only on the
contributions she pays efter revoking her election.

f
A

ACTUAL EXPENSES INCURRED

23 Subpostmasters who are asked by their District Manager to give details of
the expenditure which they incur in providing Post Office services should do
so with all haste. Such information will be restricted to Post Office
Counters Ltd and Department of Social Security.

END

D2.1/1/33
POL00003858

POL00003858
COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 11
INJURY RESULTING FROM CRIMINAL ATTACK
REPORTS
1. 1 @ Subpostmaster or one of his Assistants is injured in an attempted

robbery of Post Office property a report should be made at once to the
District Manager however slight these injuries may appear to be, In addition,
jn order that entitlement to National Insurance (industrial Injury) benefit
may be preserved it is important that the OSS should be informed without
delay.

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD PERSONAL INJURY INSURANCE SCHEME

2. The scheme has application to Subpostmasters and their registered
Sub-Office Assistants enabling benefit to be claimed where bodily injury is
sustained as as result of an assault (including shooting) by a person in the
furtherance of theft of Post Office property or activities against Post Office
Counters Ltd.

3. For the purpose of the scheme, registered Sub-Office Assistants are those
Assistants:-

(a) whose commencement of employment has been reported to the District
Manager on form P250 and thereafter recorded on form P356W at 1 April
each year as being employed on Post Office work full-time, part-time,
occasionally, or

{b) whose employment as a temporary Assistant or Subpostmaster's substitute
has been reported to the District Office on form P250.

(c) No contribution towards the premium cost is required from any injured
person.

EXCLUS TONS

4. The policy does not cover:-

(a) Bodily injury sustained whilst under the influence of intoxicating liquor
or drugs other than drugs taken in accordance with treatment prescribed
and directed by a qualified registered medical practitioner but not for
treatment of drug addiction;

(b) any consequence of pregnancy or childbirth;

(c) any pre-existing physical or mental defect or infirmity;

(4) war risks

BENEFITS

5. Details of the benefits are set out in Appendix 1. They apply only to

bodily injury which results in death or serious injury to a Subpostmaster or

registered Sub-Office Assistant resulting from assault (including shooting)

inflicted by a person in the furtherance of theft of Post Office property or
activities against Post Office Counters Ltd during the 24 hours of each day.

D2.1/1/34
POL00003858
POL00003858

CLAIMS

6. Claims must be made by the injured person (or his personat
representative) within 3 months of the date of the injury direct to the
insurer, Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society Ltd, MAC Department, Surrey
Street, NORWICH NR1 3MS, Claim forms are available from the District Manager
d fonal Federation of Sub-Postmasters, I

ne ent

7.  \t is the insurer and not Post Office Counters Ltd who fs responsible for
meeting claims and Post Office Counters Ltd is under no obligation whatsoever
to make any payment to an insured person or his personal representative in

respect of any claim made under the insurance polfey. For a clatm to be I
eligible, death or disablement must have occurred within 24 months of the date
of the injury. All claims must be made in accordance with the terms of the
insurance policy.

8. Copies of the policy are held by POCL/FC3/Counters Insurance
Chesterfield, the Headquarters of the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters
and each District Manager. Copies may be inspected on request.

NB: The above description of the Personal Injury Scheme is brief and
explanatory only. It does not set out the complete terms of the policy. In
the event of any conflict between the policy and this description, the policy
is to prevail.

COMPENSATION: CRIMINAL INJURIES COMPENSATION BOARD

9 The Government's scheme for compensating victims of crimes of violence is
administered by the Criminal injuries Compensation Board, whose address is;
GRO ; Details of
the scheme can be obtained from the Board, Office of the Department of Social
Security, Department of Employment and Productivity and Citizens Advice
Bureaux, Injuries which occur in Northern Ireland, the Channel [stands and

the {ste of Man are outside the scope of the scheme,

(APPENDIX 1 FOLLOWS)

D2.1/1/35
POL00003858

POL00003858
APPENDIX 1
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
1, Death £27,000
2, Permanent Total Disablement resulting in inability to follow any occupation. £27,000
3. Loss of /loss of use of limb(s) ete and permanent Disability in accordance expressed as
with the following permanent disabilities:~ a percentage
of £27,000 i
PERMANENT TOTAL DISABLEMENT I
Total loss of sight of both eyes I
Total incurable insanity
Loss of both arms or both hands
Complete deafness of both ears of traumatic origin
Removal of lower jaw
Loss of speech 100%
Loss of one arm and one leg
Loss of one arm and one foot
Loss of one hand and one leg
Loss of both legs
Loss of both feet
PERMANENT PARTIAL D1SABLEMENT
HEAD
Loss of osseous substance of the skull in all its thickness: expressed as
a percentage
of £27,000
= surface of at least 6 sq om 40%
- surface of 3 to 6 sq cm 20%
~ surface of less than 3 sq cm 10%
Partial removal of the lower jaw rising section in its entirety or half of
the maxillary bone 40%
Loss of one eye 40%
Complete Deafness of one ear 30%

D2.1/1/36
POL00003858

POL00003858
APPENDIX 1
UPPER LIMBS RIGHT LEFT
Loss of one arm or hand 60% 50%
Considerable loss of osseous substance of the arm (definite and incurable lesion} 50% 40%
Extensive loss of osseous substance of the two bones of the forearm (definite 40% 30% I
and incurable Tesion) I
Total loss of thumb 20% 15%
Partial loss of thumb (ungual phalanx) 10% S% I
Total amputation of forefinger 15% 10% I
Amputation of two phalanges of forefinger 10% 8% I
Amputation of the ungual phalanx of forefinger 5% 3% I
Simultaneous amputation of thumb and forefinger 35% (25%
Amputation of thumb and finger other than forefinger 1N$ 10%
Amputation of two fingers other than thumb and forefinger 12% 8% I
Amputation of three fingers other than thumb and forefinger 208 15% I
Amputation of four fingers excluding thumb 45% = 40%
Amputation of the median finger 10% 8% I
Amputation of a finger other than thumb, forefinger and median 1% 3%
I
LOWER LIMBS expressed as a :
percentage of
£27,000
Amputation of thigh (upper half) 60%
Amputation of thigh (lower half) and leg 50%
Total loss of foot (tibio-tarsal disarticulation) 40%
Partial loss of foot {sub-ankle-bone di sarticulation) 40%
Partial loss of foot (medto -tarsal disarticul ation) 35%
Partial loss of foot (tarso-metatarsal disarticul ation) 30%
Loss of osseous substance of the knee-pan with considerable separation of the 40%
fragments and considerable difficulty of movements in stretching the leg.
Loss of osseous substance of the knee-pan while the movements are preserved 20%
Shortening of the lower limb by at least Som 30%
Shortening of the lower limb by at least 3 to Scm 20%
Shortening by 1 to 3cm 10%
Total amputation of all the toes 25%
Amputation of four toes including big toe 20%
Amputation of four toes 10%

expressed as a
percentage of

£27,000

D2.1/1/37
POL00003858

POL00003858
APPENDIX 1
Amputation of big toe 10%
Amputation of two toes 5%
Amputation of one toe other than the big toe 3%

Permanent disabilities not mentioned above shall be compensated in accordance with their
seriousness as compared with the of those mentioned, the occupation of the Insured Person not

being taken into consideration.

The partial or total "functional" disablement, not specifically dealt with at item 3, of a limb

or an organ is treated like the partial or total loss of the said limb or organ.

The total compensation payable in respect of several disablements due to the same accident is
arrived at by adding together the various sums but shal! not exceed the total sum insured, fe the

unit of benefit under item 2 of the Schedule of Benefits.

& lf the Insured Person is left-handed the percentages set out above for the various disabilities

of the right upper limb and left upper 1{mb will be transposed.

“Permanent Total Disablement" shall include Permanent Total Disablement arising from nervous

disorder arising from assault (including shooting).

END

D2.1/1/38
POL00003858

POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS 1.1D

SECTION 12

RESPONSIBILITY FOR POST OFFICE STOCK AND CASH

CREDIT STOCK OF STAMPS ETC

1 The Subpostmaster on taking up his appointment {s supplied with suitable Post Office stock,

the amount of which is fixed by the District Manager.

CASH BALANCE

2 The Subpostmaster is permitted to hold Post Office Counters Ltd cash normal to meet payments
at his sub-office after due allowance has been made for expected receipts and in accordance with

official accounting and security instructions,

3. The Subpostmaster is expressly forbidden to make use of the balance due to Post Office
Counters Ltd for any purpose other than the requirements of the Post Office services and he must,
on no account apply to his own private use, for however short a period, any portion of Post
Office Office Counters Ltd funds entrusted to him. He must also be careful to keep the Post
Office money separate from any other monies. Misuse of Post Office Counters Ltd cash may render

the offender Mable to prosecution and, or, the termination of his Contract of Appointment.

ACCOUNTS:

4 The Subpostmaster must ensure that accounts of al] stock and cash entrusted to him by Post
Office Counters Ltd are kept in the form prescribed by Post Office Counters Ltd. He must
immediately produce these accounts, and the whole of his sub-office cash and stock for inspection

whenever so requested by a person duly authorised by the District Manager.
SECURITY OF CASH, STAMPS ETC
5 The Subpostmaster is held strictly responsible for the safe custody of cash, stock of all

kinds and other Post Office Counters Ltd property, papers and documents, whether held by himself

or by his Assistants, and should keep them in a place of security, especially at night.

D2.1/1/39

POL00003858
POL00003858

6 The Subpostmaster is responsible for maintaining a standard of security sufficient to enable
him to meet the obligations laid on him by para 5 for the safe keeping of Post Counters Ltd cash i
and stock placed in his care. If any circumstances arise which lead him to doubt whether he can

do so he should immediately consult the District Manager. }

7 In deciding the standard of security which it would be reasonable to require under para 6
Post Office Counters Ltd will have regard to (a) the circumstances {n which the Subpostmaster was
appointed, and in particular the standard of security then accepted; (b) the length of time since
his appointment; and (c) any particular circumstances affecting the sub-office which appear to be

i
i
H
I
i
i
relevant, }
I
i

8 All vouchers for payments eg Postal Orders, Allowance Dockets etc, should be placed in a
suitable receptacle (cardboard box or strong envelope), labelled "Paid Vouchers" and at the close
of business kept separately from cash and stock in another secure place, such as a locked drawer

or cupboard.

9 The Subpostmaster must be careful to keep his stocks of all kinds In such a manner that they

remain in good condition. The stocks must be protected against damp and dust.

10 Datestamps used for authenticating documents (eg postal orders) or stamping correspondence
must be kept in a position on the counter where they are out of reach of members of the public.
When not needed for work they must be locked away.

11 Precautions should be taken to guard against the risk of fire,

LOSSES

12 The Subpostmaster is responsible for all losses caused through his own negligence,
carelessness or error, and also for losses of all kinds caused by his Assistants. Deficienctes

due to such losses must be made good without delay.

13 The financial responsibility of the Subpostmaster does not cease when he relinquishes his
appointment and he will be required to make good any losses incurred during his term of office

which may subsequently come to light.

D2.1/1/40
POL00003858
POL00003858

GAINS.

14 Surpluses may be withdrawn provided that any subsequent charge up to the amount withdrawn is

made good immediately.

THEFT OR BURGLARY

15 If a theft or burglary fs committed or attempted at a sub-office, whether or not of ficia
cash or stock is stolen, the facts must be reported at once to the Police and to the District
Manager by the person who first makes the discovery.

MISSING OR STOLEN STOCK

16 If a Subpostmaster considers that any stock items have been accidentally lost, or stolen he
should make a report, in accordance with Appendix 1, as quickly as possible to the District
Manager.

RELIEF

17 COUNTER LOSSES A Subpostmaster may exceptionally not be required to make good the full
amount of certain losses at his office. If he feels entitled to relief in making good a loss he

should apply to the Area Manager.

18 THEFT OR BURGLARY The question of granting relief will depend upon whether the

Subpostmaster has taken reasonable precautions to safequard the official cash and property

19 FRAUD All cases of fraud or attempted fraud should be reported immediately to the Ofstrict

Manager.

(APPENDIX 1 FOLLOWS)

D2.1/1/41
MISSING OR STOLEN STOCK

ACCIDENTAL LOSS

if at any time any items of stock (including stock of no intrinsic value such as motor vehicle
licences) {s found to be missing. Steps must at once be taken to ascertain what has happened to
the missing items, The serial numbers must be ascertained (see 2(a)) and verified by examination I
of items in stock, and the requisition forms examined to discover whether or not any of the items
purport to have been issued out of sequence. All the requisition forms for the previous 3 months
must at the same time be impounded and held for instructions. If, after careful search, the
missing items cannot be found and are thought to have been mistaid only, or inadvertently
destroyed, 2 preliminary report of the loss giving the serial number of the items in question :

must be sent to the District Manager.
STOLEN ITEMS

1 If as a result of burglary, break in, theft, or suspected theft, any items of stocks are

missing the facts should be reported as quickly as possible to the District Manager.

2. The further details which will be required, and which should be obtained and submitted to

the District Manager at the earliest opportunity, are as follows:

(a)

(b)

{ec}

(4)

fe)

POL00003858
POL00003858

APPENDIX 1

The denominations, total values and serfal numbers of the missing or stolen items, so

far as they are known, with serial numbers of any remaining stocks,

A statement as to whether the date stamp of the sub office has been stolen, and if so,
particulars of the type in {t when stolen, If the date stamp has not been stolen a
statement should be given which should intimate whether there is reason to believe that

it has been used upon the stolen items.

A specimen impresston of the date stamp and, if it was stolen, particulars of the type

in it when stolen.

A statement of the circumstances which are thought to show that a theft has been
committed and of the supposed date, time and method of commission. !t should include,
if possible, written report from the person who last saw the missing items and the
person who first discovered the loss. The former should say when the items were last
seen, in what place and in what kind of receptacte (locked or unlocked) they then were.
The latter should state how and when the loss was discovered and describe exactly the
condition of the place and of the receptacle from which the items were apparently

taken.

Particulars of any cheques, including the transaction for which they were accepted.

END

D2.1/1/42
POL00003858

POL00003858
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD I
SECTION 13
PREMISES
i
i
I
I
1. The Subpostmaster must, at his own expense, provide premises in which such reasonable office i

accommodation and fittings as Post Office Counters Ltd may require are made available for

carrying on the Post Office Counters business.
TENANCY 7
2 The Subpostmaster must hold the premises either as owner or on a tenancy subject to at least
one quarter's notice. Exceptions are sometimes allowed as to tenancy where the premises are
owned or held on a suitable tenancy by the spouse of the Subpostmaster or where the sub-office is
transferred to a near relative of a Subpostmaster of long service who holds the premises on a
suitable tenancy.

3 The Subpostmaster must also at his own expense:~

- clean, decorate and maintain the sub-office premises inside and out to a good standards

= Hight and heat the sub-office premises;

7 exhibit the sub-office title (ie "... POST OFFICE") in large painted letters in a prominent

position outside the building.

- in Wales exhibit an external bi-lingual sign "Swyddfa'r Post/Post Office's

~ Gf required, provide convenient space for a letter box;

- {Ff required, provide, where no security screen of a type approved by Post Office Counters
Ltd already exists, for the installation of such a screen, Post Office Counters Ltd will
provide and pay for the components of the screen and the Subpostmaster will be responsible

for its erection to the satisfaction of the District Manager and for its maintenance. On

installation the screen witl become the property of the Subpostmaster.

D2.1/1/43
-~

ALTERATIONS TO SUB-OFFICE PREMISES, ACCOMMODATION

4 The Subpostmaster must not, without the prior agreement of the District Manager :-

. move the sub-office to premises other than those in which it was situated at the time of his

appointment;

- alter the accommodation for carrying on the work of the sub-office from that agreed at the

time of his appointment.

NOTICES, PUBLICITY ETC

5 The Subpostmaster must display in a position visible to the public at all times:

an up-to-date window notice indicating hours of opening which is supplied by the District

Manager; other notices and leaflets, as required by Post Office Counters Ltd.

6 The Subpostmaster must permit Post Office Counters Ltd to provide (in addition to an

security screen - para 3) any improvements in the standard of security which it dectdes to

be necessary and for which it 1s prepared to pay.

RESITING OF POST OFFICE SECURITY EQUIPMENT

7 Where any agreed re-arrangement of sub-office accommodation and/or fittings - see 4 -
jnvolves the moving of Post Office security equipment the Subpostmaster's contribution to the

cost of doing so will be decided as follows:~

NATURE OF ALTERATION CONTRIBUTION REQUIRED
OF SUBPOSTMASTER

(a) Subpostmaster wishes to improve Post NIL
Office accommodation and District Manager

agrees improvement is desirable.

(b) Subpostmaster has no alternative but to NIL
move his premises or alter them to meet

requirements beyond his control.

POL00003858
POL00003858

D2.1/1/44

POL00003858
POL00003858

(c) Subpostmaster wishes to re-arrange his 50%
private accommodation, which will neither

increase nor improve the Post Office

accommodation, but will require security

equipment to be moved.

(d) Subpostmaster wishes to re-arrange his 80%
private accommodation, which will reduce

Post Office accommodation, though not to t
a level unacceptable to the District
Manager, but security equipment will need '

to be moved.

The above scale is intended as a rough guide only and District Managers have discretion to fix

the level of contribution according to the circumstances of each particular case.

RESIDENCE

8 A Subpostmaster who does not reside on the premises must satisfy his District Manager that
he has made proper provision for the safety of Post Office Counters Ltd cash and stock entrusted
to his care. If residential accommodation is associated with the sub-office the Subpostmaster

must inform the District Manager if he does not occupy it himself, or if he ceases to do so, and

must immediately inform the District Manager if at any time it becomes vacant.

MAILWORK OFFICES

9 At mailwork sub-offices where Post Office employees work on the premises, the Subpostmaster

will in addition be required to provide at his own expense:~

- Access to lavatory facilities

~ Facilities for washing, including a supply of hot water, eg a kettle of hot water where
running water 1s not available.

- Hat and coat pegs

~ Facilities for making tea, if required

- Adequate lighting and ventilation

- Adequate heating in winter.

D2.1/1/45
POL00003858
POL00003858

10 The Subpostmaster as occupier of the premises, is required to provide most of the above
facilities under the provisions of the Offices, Shops and Railway Act 1963. It is likely that
the presence of postmen on the premises will require the Subpostmaster, as occupier, to comply

with other provisions of this Act. In addition duties are laid down in Sections 3 and 4 of the

Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, as regards persons not in his employment. Bearing in mind
that the responsibility is his, it fs fn the Subpostmaster's best interest to be aware of the

various requirements of these Acts,

ADVERTISEMENTS

11 A title, which might suggest that Post Office Counters Ltd is concerned in the management of

the Subpostmaster's private business, such as "Post Office Stores", must not be used. k

12 No advertisement may be exhibited in the part of the premises used for Post Office Counters

business which relates tor-

= alcoholic Tiquors (for or against)

= betting, gambling and football pools

- any illegal business or matter

- any controversial matter, an advertisement for which might suggest the Post Office supported

one side or the other.

- any commercial business which operates services of a kind conducted by the Post Office.

13 Otherwise Post Office Counters Ltd is not concerned with the display of commercial
advertisements in the sub-office providing that they are not placed in such position as to impair
the security or the facilities for transacting Post Office Counter business. In cases of doubt

the matter should be referred to the District Manager.

END

D2.1/1/46
POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 14

HOURS OF BUSINESS

introduction

1 The actual hours of opening of any individual sub office are set by the District Manager in
accordance with the following rules. I

The Subpostmaster must not without permission vary the hours of public business set by the
District Manager.

I
i

Standard Counter Hours of Service

2. The standard hours during which the Subpostmaster may be required to open his office in
order to transact all kinds of counter business appropriate to his office are:

Monday to Friday 0900 - 1730

. Saturday 0900 - 1230 or 1300 (depending on tocal circumstances)

Lunchtime and Half Day Closure (Monday to Friday)

3. At the Subpostmaster's request the District Manager may authorise the closure of an office
within the times staged in paragraph 2:

3,1 For up to 1 hour at lunchtimes, at times agreed between the District Manager and
Subpostmaster.

3.2 On 1 afternoon per week (normally Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday but, in exceptional
circumstances Monday to Friday) from 1300 onwards.

Extended Hours
4 Where a Subpostmaster wishes to conduct Post Office business outside standard hours,

District Managers will consider such requests taking into account the normal shopping pattern in
the locality and the proximity of other post offices

5 Where a District Manager considers non standard hours may be more appropriate for a
particular office but the Subpostmaster disagrees, the Subpostmaster may If he wishes trial a
rearrangement of the opening hours. A trial period should not extend beyond three months.

Suspension of Mid-week Half-day Closing during the Christmas and New Year Period and (where
applicable) on the Thursday preceding Good Friday

6 The District Manager may, on his own initiative or at the request of the Subpostmaster,
suspend any mid-week early closing on any day or days between 18 and 31 Docember (Christmas Day
and Boxing Day excluded) and on the Thursday before Good Friday, Additional payment will be made
by Post Office Counters Ltd for such opening.

Local Holidays and Tuesdays after Bank Holidays

7 District Managers will review the concession under which some offices close on Local
Holidays or on Tuesdays after Bank Holidays. Where this no longer matches customer needs the
concession will be withdrawn,

D2.1/1/47

POL00003858

POL00003858

Advertising of Holidays

8 The times at which a sub office is closed for National or local hotidays should be
prominently advertised at the office concerned.

Payment for those Periods outside those mentioned fn Paragraph 2 above - non Mailwork Offices

No additional payment will be made by Post Office Counters Ltd for any opening outside standard
Counters! hours other than that attracted by the extra business transacted.

Separate arrangements exist for those offices which provide a mailwork facility, and these are
described in Post Office Rules A2.

D2.1/1/48

POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD I

SECTION 15
ASSISTANTS
GENERAL

1A Subpostmaster must provide, at his own expense, any assistance which he may need to carry
out the work in his sub-office.

2. Assistants are employees of the Subpostmaster, A Subpostmaster will be held wholly
responsible for any failure, on the part of his Assistants, to apply Post Office rules, or to
provide a proper standard of service to the public. He will also be required to make good any
deficiency, of cash or stock, which may result from his assistants! actions.

ASSISTANTS! CONDITIONS OF SERVICE

3 Wages, hours, holidays etc, are a matter to be settled between Subpostmaster and the t
assistants concerned. However, they should be no less favourable than those enjoyed by shop
assistants generally fn the same district. Post Office Counters Ltd reserves the right to
intervene {f such conditions are considered inequitable.

4 The Subpostmaster is responsible, as employer of his assistants, for complying with the
provisions of any legislation which imposes obligations on employers.

AGE

5 Asa general guide no person under 16 years of age should be employed on Sub-Office work, or
have access to mails, unless however there is no reasonable alternative to the part-time
employment of an Assistant under 16 years of age.

SUITABILITY OF APPLICANTS - REFERENCES

6 in the light of the Subpostmaster's responsibilities, set out at para 2 above, he is
strongly recommended to satisfy himself of the character and suitability of an applicant for
employment as an Assistant before a firm offer of employment is made. Generally the
Subpostmaster should:-

(a) obtain proof of the identity of the applicant, eg birth or marriage certificate, unless the
applicant is knowns

(b) seek information from the applicant about any conviction or finding of guilt for any offence
in a Court of Law (including Juvenile Court or Court Martial), In this connection the i
Subpostmaster should be aware of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 which restricts I
the information that needs be given;

{c) enquire whether the applicant has ever been employed by the Post Office, worked for another
Subpostmaster or held sub office appointment. If the former then details of such employment
should be entered on form P250 (see para 8) and a reference awaited from the District
Manager. !f previously the applicant has worked at another Sub-Post Office, including as a
Subpostmaster, details should be given on form P250 and a reference in respect of that
employment sought from the Subpostmaster concerneds

(d) obtain references from a1] previous employers or schools attended over the last 3 years or
from the last employer where the applicant has been employed during the whole of that
period,

D2.1/1/49
i
POL00003858
POL00003858

7 When seeking references the Subpostmaster {s advised to enquire if the applicant had found
to be completely trustworthy and ask the reason for his Teaving that employment, {n some
instances a Subpostmaster might have to employ an Assistant before the procedures suggested above
are completed. Bearing in mind the complexities of current employment legislation a
Subpostmaster in such a situation is recommended to offer initially only short term employment
pending receipt of satisfactory references etc. I

8 The Subpostmaster must notify the District Manager of his intention to employ a new
Assistant on Post Office Counters Ltd work or when an Assistant ceases to be employed in the }
sub-of fice.

PERSONAL DECLARATION

9 Before any person (including a member of the Subpostmaster's family) fs allowed to have
access to mails or to perform, either temporarily or permanently, any Post Office work, he/she
must make a personal declaration on form P13 (see SECTION 16 APPENDIX 2),

The declaration of the Subpostmaster's Assistants and of any members of his family who perform
Post Office duties should be signed in the Subpostmaster's presence in circumstances which will I
help to fix the occasion and the declaration in the memory of the signatory. The declaration
should be made with proper deliberation and the Subpostmaster should stress its importance and
witness the signature. A signed and witnessed copy of the form should be given to the signatory
at the time and he should be advised to preserve it carefully.

Forms P13 can be obtained from the District Manager as required and must be returned to him when
signed.

SUB-OFFICE ASSISTANT ACCUSED OR SUSPECTED OR DISHONESTY ETC

10 In cases where an Assistant is accused or suspected of dishonesty or any other offence such
as wilfully delaying postal packets, the Subpostmaster must report the particulars to the
District Manager as soon as possible and await instructions. If the report is made by telephone
it must be confirmed in writing as a matter of urgency.

11 In cases where a person employed by the Subpostmaster has been guilty of misappropriating
Post Office Counters Ltd money, any sum which may be tendered by, or on behalf of, the offender
may be accepted but a receipt must be given showing that the money is held pending possible
investigation and without prejudice to any action that Post Office Counters Ltd may be advised
to take, The Subpostmaster should be careful not to take any action which may be liable to
prejudice the question of legal proceedings. A copy of any receipt must be kept for reference.

UNSUITABLE PERSONS

12 In order to help prevent the employment of unsuitable or dishonest persons on Post Office
work, a Subpostmaster must notify the District Manager if he dismisses an employee on these
grounds, or if his enquiries about an applicant for employment give him reason to believe that
the applicant 1s an unsuitable person. Brief particulars of the evidence should be forwarded to
the District Manager who will decide what steps should be taken to prevent the applicant
obtaining employment elsewhere in the Post Office or at another sub-office.

13 Where Post Office Counters Ltd has good reason to believe that it would not be in its best
interests for a particular person to have access to Post Office Counters Ltd cash and stock as a
Sub-Office Assistant it may call upon the Subpostmaster to:

(a) refrain from offering that person a post if not already employed;

(b) ensure that that person is not further employed on Post Office business if employed.
OUTDOOR POSTAL WORK

14 For any outdoor postal work required, provision is made either by the employment of staff in

the direct employ of the Post Office or by a special allowance to the Subpostmaster for the
engagement of casual Tabour,

D2.1/1/50
POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 16

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION, CORRESPONDENCE AND INTERVIEWS

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

1 The unauthorised disclosure, or use directly or indirectly, of any information or document
which has come to the knowledge of a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant throuah the work of
his Sub-Office legislation or the Official Secrets Act (see para 3). I

2 Subpostmasters and their employees must not disclose any information regarding postal
packets passing through the post except to the person(s) to whom such packets are addressed; nor
may they make known information that may come to them officially concerning the character,
standing, or responsibility of individuals or firms, or the private affairs of any person.

PERSONAL DECLARATIONS

3

(a) A11 Subpostmasters on taking up appointment and newly recruited Sub-Office Assistants are
required to sign a Personal Declaration (form P13) which reminds them of the duty of the Post
Office to ensure that all communications and items entrusted to it reach the people for whom they
are intended promptly and safely, and that the information in them reaches no one not entitled to
jt, The Personal Declaration also brings to the notice of newly appointed Subpostmasters and
Sub-Office Assistants on taking up employment their obligations under the Official Secrets Acts '
and vartous Post Office and Telegraph Acts, Extracts from these Acts are reproduced at Appendix }
1 and 3. A copy of form P13 is at Appendix 2. I

(b) A Subpostmaster on termination of his appointment is required to sign a Declaration (P301)
as a reminder that the provisions of the Official Secrets Acts continue to apply to him after he H
has left in respect of all the information which he has acquired or to which he has had access by
virtue of his appointed position as Subpostmaster, A copy of form P301 is at Appendix 3.

(c) Subpostmasters and Sub-Office Assistants are given a copy of their P13 and Subpostmasters,
on termination of their appointment, additionally of form P301 for retention as a reminder of
their importance and of the message they contain. The duty not disclose information is imposed
by the relevant Acts, not by the Personal Declarations, Consequently no Subpostmaster or
Sub-Office Assistant can avoid these legal obligations by refusing to sign form P13 (also for
Subpostmasters form P301) or attempting to revoke or disclaim his signature on the form(s).

4 Any request made by the Police or any other authority or by a private person for information
which may be confidential, or may concern matters connected with the duties of another
Subpostmaster or a Post Office employee, or with regard to the address of a person who resides,
in the neighbourhood should be referred immediately to the District Manager.

CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC NEWS MEDIA

5 The Post Office has a duty to safeguard its own interests and those of its employees and
sub-office personnel in relation to material which is published in the news media, The Public
Relations Department of the Post Office is primarily responsible for deciding whether the Post
Office should enter into public correspondence and for ensuring fair and accurate presentation of
facts about the Post Office and its services; comment by other persons fs undesirable and in
particular, untrue, ill-informed or reckless comment will not be allowed to go unchallenged.
White recognising the right of any individual to comment publicly on matters of general interest
therefore, the Post Office expects Subpostmasters and their employees who wish to comment upon
matters affecting the Post Office to exercise those right in a responsible manner, Subpostmasters
must ensure, when communicating with the press or offering comment which may be broad cast on
radio or television, that their comments do not go beyond the accepted bounds of propriety and
are not likely to cause embarrassment or to mislead the public. The District Manager should be
asked to advise in cases of doubt.

D2.1/1/51
POL00003858
POL00003858

6 A Subpostmaster wishing to communicate with the public news media should be guided by the
following:=

(a) there must be no unauthorised disclosure of official information (see para 1)5

(b) views and opinions expressed publicly must not bring the Post Office or its employees or any
other Subpostmaster into disreputes

(c) 3 Subpostmaster offering unauthorised public comment must make it clear that he is
commenting in his private capacity and not on behalf of the Post Office.

7 A Senior Representative (as defined in the national agreement on facilities for recognised
unions) may wish from time to time to represent the views of the National Federation of
Sub-Postmasters, particularly on matters affecting his Branch/Committee/Federation. In doing so
he must indicate his position as a Federation spokesman and give his own name.

8 Particular care 1s necessary when offering spontancous comment to press or broadcasting
reporters or interviewers.

PUBLICATION OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

9 No Subpostmaster may, without the District Manager's permission, use information derived
from official records or experience for the purpose of publishing any document, book, play or
article, broadcasting on radio or television, producing or exhibiting 2 film or photographs,
giving @ talk or lecture or taking part in a public discussion,

CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE PUBLIC

10 A Subpostmaster should not, without the permission of the District Manager, write to or
interview members of the public on Post Office matters other than for the purpose of correcting
an error committed at his own sub-office.

OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

11 No Subpostmasters may, without permission, make an official document or a letter from the
public, or any other document which may come into his hands offictally, the subject of Tegal
proceedings.

USE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION OR POSITION FOR PRIVATE PURPOSES
12 No Subpostmaster may use his position to further his private interests, or act in any way

which might give rise to the suspicion that he has used, for private purposes, information
available to him in his capacity as Subpostmaster.

BREACHES TO BE REPORTED

13 A Subpostmaster must report to the District Manager any case in which there appears to have
been a breach of the above rules by anyone employed by him on Post: Office duties at the
sub-of fice.

(APPENDICES 1-3 FOLLOW)

D2.1/1/52
POL00003858
POL00003858

APPENDIX 1
SUMMARY OF EXTRACTS FROM ACTS OF PARLIAMENT

POST OFFICE ACT, 1953

(SECTION 57) as amended;

1 IN ENGLAND, WALES AND NORTHERN IRELAND If any person engaged in the business of the Post
Office secretes a postal packet in course of transmission by post, he shall be guilty of a

misdemeanour and be liable to Imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.

(The offences of theft or destruction of a postal packet are covered by the Theft Act, 1968 or
the Criminal Damage Act, 1971. Persons convicted on indictment for such offences are liable
under the retevant sections of those Acts to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or

in some cases for life.

2 IN SCOTLAND If any person engaged in the business of the Post Office steals, or for any
purpose whatever embezzles or secretes a postal packet in course of transmission by post, he
shal! be guilty of a misdemeanour and be Iiable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven

years.

(SECTION 58(1)

3 If any person engaged in the business of the Post Office, contrary to his duty, opens, or
procures or suffers to be opened, any postal packet in course of transmission by post, or
wilfully detains or delays, or procures or suffers to be detained or delayed, any such postal
packet, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanour, and be liable to imprisonment for a term not

exceeding two years or to a fine, or to both.

(SECTION 59)

4 If any person employed to convey or deliver a mail bag, or a postal packet in course of
transmission by post, or to perform any other duty in respect of a mail bag or such a postal

packet:-

a) Without authority whitst so employed, or, whilst the mail bag or postal packet 1s in his
custody or possession, leaves it, or suffers any person, not being the person in charge thereof,
to ride in the place appointed for the person in charge thereof in or upon any vehicle used for
the conveyance thereof or to ride in or upon a vehicle so used and not licensed to carry

passengers, or upon a horse used for the conveyance on horseback thereof

b) Is guilty of any act of drunkenness whilst so employed;

D2.1/1/53

POL00003858

POL00003858

APPENDIX 1
c Is quilty of carelessness, negligence or other misconduct whereby the safety of the mail bag

or postal packet 1s endangered;

d Without authority collects, receives, conveys or delivers a postal packet otherwise than in

the ordinary course of posts

e Gives any false information of an assault or attempt at robbery upon hims or

f — Loiters on the road or passage, or wilfully misspends his time so as to retard the progress
or delay the arrival of a mail bag or postal packet in the course of transmission by post, or
does not use due care and diligence safely to convey a mail bag or postal packet at the due rate

of speed;

He shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds (twenty pounds in

Northern Ireland).

(SECTION 87)

5 "Postal packet" means a letter, postcard, reply postcard, newspaper, printed packet, sample

packet, or parcel, and every packet or article transmissible by post, and includes a telegram.

APPENDICES 2 and 3 FOLLOW)

D2.1/1/54

POL00003858
POL00003858

APPENDIX 2
PERSONAL DECLARATION (P13)

To be made by all persons on entering employment in the Post Office.

DUTY OF THE The first duty of the Post Office is to ensure that letters, parcels,
POST OFFICE and all other communications or items entrusted to it reach the people
for whom they are intended promptly and safely, and that the information

in them reaches no one not entitled to it.

To help the Post Office to render this essential service to the

community, the Law makes certain provisions of which the more important
are stated overleaf. It 1s important for you to know and understand I
those provisions, not only for your own sake, but also in order that you i
should not, through any fault or omission on your part, enable or tempt

others to break them,

NON-DISCLOSURE OF It is illegal to disclose official information without authority. A
OFFICIAL INFORMATION person engaged in Post Office work must not disclose any information
which he/she obtains as a result of that work, unless he/she has written

permission to do so,

You shall neither during your employment with the Post Office nor for a
period of 1 year after that employment ceases, disclose to any other
person, firm, or company, or publish or broadcast or use for your own
benefit any confidential information relating in any way to the
activities, operations or business methods of the Post Office, except as

previously authorised in writing by the Post Office.

YOU SHOULD READ CAREFULLY THIS STATEMENT AND THE ONE OVERLEAF AND THEN

SIGN YOUR NAME TO THE DECLARATION BELOW

In the presence of
Signature

Rank

Note: The person signing this form should sign with his ordinary signature in the presence of
a Supervising Officer. The Subpostmaster should witness the signature of persons
employed at a Scale Payment Sub-Office.

D2.1/1/55

SAFETY OF
POSTAL PACKET

SECRECY

POL00003858
POL00003858

APPENDIX 2 I
It is an offence to STEAL, SECRETE or DESTROY a letter, parcel or any other

postal packet in course of transmission by post, and heavy penalties,

including terms of imprisonment are provided for such offences.

It is also an offence to OPEN or DELAY (without proper authority) a letter,
parcel or any other postal packet in course of transmission by post, and

penalties of fine or imprisonment are provided for such offences,

CARELESSNESS, NEGLIGENCE or other mis-conduct which endangers the safety of a

mailbag or postal packet is likewise a punishable offence,

Under the Official Secrets Act 1989, it is an offence for a Government
contractor (including any employee of a Government contractor) to make a
damaging disclosure relating to security or intelligence. A damaging
disclosure may relate to defence, international relations or information
received in confidence from another state or international organisation, or
which results or is likely to result in the comission of offences, or which
is of information which relates to or was obtained by special investigatfon
powers, It is also an offence for Government contractors (and their
employees) to fail to safeguard or improperly to retain or provide access to
documents or articles containing information which 1t would be an offence
under the Act to disclose. A Government contractor means any person or body

who is employed in the provision of goods or services for the Crown.

When a person transfers from one post to another, he must surrender al?
documents connected with the post he is leaving, except those issued to him
for his personal retention, When he leaves the Post Office all official
documents must be given up, with the exception of those which he has been
authorised to retain,

All the above conditions apply to all persons with access to any official
information, not only while the access continues, but also after {t ceases, et

by termination of employment.

D2.1/1/56

POL00003858

POL00003858

APPENDIX 2
Any person who handles information about identifiable living people which is

processed automatically (eg on a computer or word processor) may also commit
an offence under the Data Protection Act 1984 if he/she improperly obtains,
holds or discloses any such information, or if he/she improperly transfers it

outside the United Kingdom.

(APPENDIX 3 follows)

D2.1/1/57

POL00003858
POL00003858

APPENDIX 3

OFFICIAL SECRETS

DECLARATION TO BE SIGNED BY ALL PERSONS CEASING TO BE EMPLOYED ON POST OFFICE WORK, ALSO BY OTHER
PERSONS ON CEASING TO HAVE ACCESS TO SECRET INFORMATION.

My attention has been drawn to the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 which is set out

on the back of this document, and I am fully aware that serious consequences may follow any

breach of those provisions.

1 understand:

1 that the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 may apply to me after my appointment

has ceased;

2 that information which I have acquired owing to my official position may be information

which is covered in Sections 1-8 of the Official Secrets Act 1989.

For a period of one year after my employment with the Post Office ceases I shall not disclose to
any other person, firm or company, or publish or broadcast or use for my own benefit any
confidential information relating in any way to the activities, operations or business methods of

the Post Office, except as previously authorised in writing by the Post Office

I hereby dectare that I have surrendered any document made or acquired by me owing to ny of ficia

position save such as I have written Post Office authority to retain,

Signed .

sence eee RAMs eeccccesecereessnssenaneeeareeeeesesreeee

Permanent Home Address (ine postcode)

see nesceneeceeeessaessessesererssseseraraceesreces Date.

Official Address

Signed in The Presence Of

evevueneeereesecsssasacecesteseeetererepessasenes RANK ceeeee eer eeeee

D2.1/1/58
POL00003858
POL00003858

i
(BLOCK LETTERS) I
Forename(s) cesesescessecceresueneseceeeeerseenree
(BLOCK LETTERS)
Date of Birth veccssccseeccercsuseseneesersserees Date of Leaving vee.s+. {
EES NSE SDT EE OOOO SST SSSTESECCOTSCOSESOOOSSOO SSS 19.06 I
Regd No of Appt Papers Keep until

I

7

D2.1/1/59
POL00003858
POL00003858

APPENDIX 3 I

THE OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT 1989

Under the Official Secrets Act 1989, it fs an offence for a Government contractor (including any
employee of a Government contractor) to make a damaging disclosure relating to security or
intelligence. A damaging disclosure may relate to defence, international relations or
information received in confidence from another state or international organisation, or which
results or is likely to result in the commission of offences, or which is of information which
relates to or was obtained by special investigation powers. It is also an offence for Government
contractors (and their employees) to fail to safeguard or improperly to retain or provide access
to documents or articles containing information which it would be an offence under the Act to
disclose. A Government contractor means any person or body who is employed in the provision of

goods or services for the Crown.

D2.1/1/60
POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD I

SECTION 17

SUBPOSTMASTERS' PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES:

BETTING AND GAMBLING: POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES i

1A Subpostmaster must not undertake in 2 private capacity any business, or allow anyone else

to undertake business, on the premises in which a sub-office is situated.

(a) which {s connected with the acceptance or delivery of parcels;

(b) such as Buflding, Provident or Friendly Society business which involves the receipt of money

on deposit;

(c) generally which is of the kind which Post. Office Counters Ltd requires him to provide for

itself.

2 If an opportunity occurs to a Subpostmaster in his private capacity, to provide on his
premises facilities for the collection of money from, or payment of money to, members of the
public on behalf of a third party, he should consult the District Manager in order to determine
whether or not the business can be undertaken as a Girobank service. If Girobank are unable to
gain this business within a reasonable time, the Subpostmaster will be free to conduct it in his

private capacity.

BETTING AND GAMBLING

3 A Subpostmaster or Sub Office Assistant should not:

(a) bet or gamble by means of the post (betting by private telephone off the Post Office part of

the premises is permissible);

{b) take part in racing etc pool or competitions or betting at "fixed odds" on football matches

{there is no objection of participation in ordinary football pool competitions).

D2.1/1/61
POL00003858
POL00003858

4 A Subpostmaster should not on the premises in which the sub-office is situated:

(a) allow or provide for gamblings

(b) conduct any business with a turf commission agency or a football or turf pool agency.

5 A Subpostmaster or Sub Office Assistant may in a private capacity take part in or act as a
promoter or as an agent for promoters of such lotteries as are permitted under the Lotteries and
Amusements Act 1976 and in Northern Ireland in part 111 of the Betting and Lotteries Act
(Northern Ireland) 1957, The onus of ensuring that the law is complied with rests with the
person concerned tn the promotion and conducting of the lottery and the sale of tickets. Tickets
for such lotteries must not be sold over the sub-office counter nor must the Post Office be used
in any way for advertising purposes, eg in giving addresses at which tickets are available, nor

must advertisements include the words Post Office, Sub-Post Office or Subpostmaster.

LICENCED PREMISES

6 A sub-office may not be situated in premises for which an ‘on’ licence allowing for the sale
of drinks, other than in a restaurant, has been granted, unless the premises have been clearly
divided so that Post Office customers do not need to go through the licenced premises. There is

no objection to the Subpostmaster holding an 'off! licence provided the liquor is sold in closed

vessels.

POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

7 A Subpostmaster is free to take part in any national and local political activities subject

to the following conditions :~

(a) he must not engage in or allow his assistants to engage in political activities whilst

engaged on Post Office business or on the sub-office premises;

(b) he must not exhibit any notice soliciting votes for any particular candidate or with a party
or political object either in the sub-office or on any vehicle under the control of the Post
Offices and no leaflet or address with a party or political object may lie or be exhibited within

the sub-office.

D2.1/1/62
POL00003858
POL00003858

8 A Subpostmaster who intends to stand for Parliament must notify the District Manager
accordingly at the earliest opportunity. He must cease to have connection with the running of
the sub-office from the day he is nominated when the office will be placed on charge. On receipt I
of the notification the District Manager will inform him of arrangements whereby he may name a
deputy to act as Subpostmaster should he be elected, If he is elected he will be able to resume
office when he ceases to be a Member of Parliament, provided he has complied with the

arrangements for naming a deputy and the sub-office has not been closed through normal changes

during his absences should he fail to comply with these arrangements he will be regarded as

having resigned on the day he is elected, if he is not elected he may resume office after the

election result has been declared. A Subpostmaster who is elected retains the right to resume
office after he ceases to be a Member of Parliament, provided the break in his service does not

exceed 5 years.

USE OF THE NAME "POST OFFICE"

9 A Subpostmaster must not use the name "Post Office" in connection with any of his private

business activities or in such a way as to imply that the Post Office fs in any way connected I

with these activities.

CANVASS ING

10 A Subpostmaster must not canvass persons, firms or companies who reside or carry on business
at a place nearer to another post office, to transact Post Office business at his sub-office.

Nor must he deliver items of Post Office business to customers' premises.

EMPLOYMENT IN THE POST OFFICE OR THE CIVIL SERVICE

11 A Subpostmaster or a Sub-Office Assistant may not be employed in the Post Office if his

duties would bring him into contact with the work of the sub-office,

BORROWING AND LENDING MONEY

12 A Subpostmaster must not borrow from or lend money to any Post Office employee, Nor should
he become security for any Post Office employee in raising @ loan, The loaning of money to

persons drawing pensions or allowances on the security of their order books is also strictly

forbidden.

D2.1/1/63
POL00003858
POL00003858

USE OF POST OFFICE EMPLOYEES IN PRIVATE BUSINESS

13 A Subpostmaster must not engage Post Office employees to undertake any work whatsoever
connected with the Subpostmaster's private business at any time when they are employed in Post

Office duties.

NOTE:- In view of the implications of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1976 the agreement of

the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters has not been sought to the terms of this Section.

END

D2.1/1/64
POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD H

SECTION 18

NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES : APPEALS PROCEDURES

ALLEGATIONS OF NON-COMPLIANCE OR NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES

1 Except in cases in which civil or criminal proceedings are contemplated and without
prejudice to any subsequent proceedings, the Subpostmaster will be afforded an opportunity of I

giving a written explanation of any allegation of non-compliance or non-observance of the rules

which may have been made against him.

2 The Subpostmaster may at the discretion of the Area Manager, if the Subpostmaster wishes to
do so, discuss the allegations with the Area Manager and may be accompanied by a friend while
doing so. The friend must be aged 18 or over and cannot be someone involved in the enquiry. The

friend must be a Subpostmaster, sub-office Assistant or Post Office employee ~ and can be the L

local NFSP representative.

3 Repeated breaches of the rules, even ff minor in themselves, may lead to the determination
of the contract, and a record will be kept by the Area Manager of any written warnings tssued to

the Subpostmaster.

REPRESENTATIONS ON POST OFFICE MATTERS

4 A Subpostmaster should address to the District Manager any representation he may wish to

make having reference to his duties, remuneration or any other Post Office matter.

APPEALS

5 If the Subpostmaster is dissatisfied with the result of his representation he may appeal to
the District Manager. Should the Subpostmaster feel dissatisfied with the outcome of this
appeal, there is a further appeal (in cases of summary termination only) to the “Appeals

Authority" whose deciston is final.

D2.1/1/65
POL00003858
POL00003858

APPROACHES TO PERSONS OUTSIDE THE POST OFFICE

6 Until the Subpostmaster has exercised his final right of appeal, he should not ask persons
outside the Post Office to take up the case on his behalf although this does not prevent a
Subpostmaster from obtaining advice from the NFSP or any other outside person. The Subpostmaster
should not detain Post Office papers or allow them out of his custody for the purpose of such

consultation without the permission of the Area Manager.

END

D2.1/1/66

POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 19

OFFENCES: SUSPENSION: ENQUIRIES BY OFFICERS OF THE INVESTIGATION DIVISION I

1 Dishonesty is viewed most seriously and any Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant believed
to have carried, or taken part in, an act of dishonesty against Post Office Counters Ltd may be
prosecuted. Furthermore, any Subpostmaster so involved renders himself liable to summary

termination of his contract, The case of an Assistant Post Office Coynters Ltd may recommend to

the Subpostmaster that the Assistant should no longer remain in his employ on Post Office

Counters business.
ARRESTS AND CONVICTIONS
2 A Subpostmaster must report to his District Manager if he is arrested and refused bail, or {
ff he is convicted by a Court of any criminal offence (except a traffic offence for which the
penalty has not included imprisonment).

{MMORALITY AND OTHER MATTERS OF PERSONAL CONDUCT

3 It is the aim and practice of Post Office Counters Ltd to maintain, to the maximum extent

compatible with needs of service to the public, an attitude of non-interference in the private
lives of Subpostmasters. However, where facts come to light calculated to cause public scandal
or grave embarrassment to the Post Office in connection with a Subpostmaster's private conduct,

the question of his fitness for retention in office may have to be considered.

SUSPENSION FROM OFFICE

4 A Subpostmaster may be suspended from office at any time {f that course {s considered
desirable in the interest of Post Office Counters Ltd in consequence of his: (a) being arrested,
(b) having civil or criminal proceedings brought or made against him, (c) where irregularities or
misconduct at the office(s) where he holds appointment(s) have been established to the
satisfaction of Post Office Counters Ltd, or are admitted, or are suspected and are being

investigated,

5 Where a Subpostmaster is suspended his remuneration in respect of any period of suspension

will be withheld so long as such suspension continues,

D2.1/1/67
POL00003858
POL00003858

6 On the termination of the period of suspension whether by termination of contract or
reinstatement, the Subpostmaster's remuneration in respect of that period may, after
consideration of the whole of the circumstances of the case, be forfeited wholly or in part. If
remuneration is paid any rent or other expenses which may have been paid to him in respect of the
continued use of his premises for Post Office purposes during the period of suspension will be

deducted.
CRIMINAL CONDUCT : REPORTING
7 If a Subpostmaster has knowledge or suspicion of dishonesty or other criminal conduct

affecting the Post Office on the part of any person including a Sub-Office Assistant or a Post

Office employee he must, if there is any apparent need for immediate action, at once tell the

District Manager confidentially of his knowledge or suspicion.

INDUCEMENT TO ACT CONTRARY TO RULES

8 If any person should try to induce a Subpostmaster or a member of his staff to act contrary
to the rules (if, for example, he should be asked to datestamp covers irregularly with a view to

either himself or the offender afterwards enclosing therein betting slips or other communications
relating to the result of some race, game or sport) he should, while avoiding compliance (save in
the case described in para 9, also avoid putting that person upon his guard by definite refusal.

The Subpostmaster should as soon as possible tell the District Manager what has happened giving a
full report and description of the person so that an immediate report can be made to POID and

instructions sought.

9 A Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant who is asked irregularly to put in course of post
for despatch or delivery from his own office a cover already date-stamped, addressed to a betting
agent, and presumably already containing a betting slip or other communication respecting the
result of some race, game or sport, should accept 1t and with it any bribe offered for
compliance. He should at once initial the cover and hand it and the bribe to the District

Manager, to whom he should report as provided in the last sentence of para 8.
THEFTS BY STRANGERS
10 A Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant who sees a theft of Post Office property committed

by a stranger should inform the Police of the facts and then report the matter to his District

Manager as soon as possible.

D2.1/1/68
POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 2

REMUNERAT! ON i

GENERAL

1, A Subpostmaster is paid according to the amount of work which is transacted at his
sub-of fice.

1

FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT

2. Remuneration is paid monthly, in arrear, normally at the rate of 1/12 of the annual
remuneration, by bank credit transfer.

3, The amount of work undertaken at a sub-office 1s assessed periodically. The Subpostmaster's
remuneration may be increased or decreased accordingly, except that if the work done is below a
specified level, a fixed minimum payment will be made.

REVISIONS

4, The assessment of work done for the purpose of @ periodic revision of remuneration is
undertaken in the following way.

5. Every major item of work undertaken in sub-offices has been assigned a “unit credit” eg the
unit credit for the payment of a pension is 3. The amount of the unit credit assigned to a
particular transaction is intended to reflect the amount of time required to complete the
transaction and any associated accounting work. A list of the items of work to which unit
credits have been assigned and the current amount of those unit credits, which fs applied
uniformly for all sub-offices, s at APPENDIX 1, The amount of any unit credit may be increased
or decreased, after negotiations with the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters; a new unit
credit or cash allowance will similarly be introduced when Subpostmasters are required to
undertake any major new item of business.

6. Information about the number of transactions for those items of work listed at APPENDIX 7
undertaken at the sub-office, over the 12 month period of which the revision is being prepared,
are extracted from accounting records.

7. The number of transactions of each item of work which has been performed is multiplied by
the unit credit assigned to that item of work. Total unit credits are so determined for every
{tem of work, at APPENDIX 1, They are totalled and increased by 3% to allow for other minor

items of business which do not justify @ specific unit credit. The figure which results fs the I
final total of unit credits applicable to the office concerned,

8. The annual amount of remuneration to be paid in respect of the sub-office is determined by I
reading from a table which lists the annual amount of remuneration payable in respect of any
final total of unit credits. This table, called the unit scale, is published (as a supplement to
Counter News. The cash figure given by the unit scale {s called the "scale payment.)

9. In addition to the scale payment determined according to paras 5 to 8 above, certain cash
allowances may also be paid. The circumstances in which such allowances are paid, and their
value, are also set out in a supplement to Counter News.

10, The scale payment is in respect of the provision of Post Office Counter services during the
hours of opening.

D2.1/1/69

POL00003858
POL00003858

FRIENDS AT INVESTIGATION DIVISION INTERVIEWS

16 At all interviews between Investigation Division officers and a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office
Assistant, the interviewing officer will first introduce himself, explain the nature of the

enquiry, then ask the person to be interviewed if he wishes to have a friend present. The

introduction and explanation are necessary first steps so that the person to be interviewed knows.
what is involved when he makes his free personal choice whether to ask for a friend to be present

at the interview or not.

17 A friend invited to attend an Investigation Division interview must be aged 18 or over and
cannot be someone involved in the enquiry. The friend must be a Subpostmaster, Sub-Office
Assistant or Post Office employee - and can be the local NFSP representative, To avoid
unreasonable detay and to ensure that interviews will not commence until a friend, if requested,
is present, the person being interviewed will be asked to nominate alternative friends if the one

first (or subsequently) chosen is not available or may be involved in the enquiry.

18 If a person being interviewed declines to have a friend present when asked but changes his
mind later, he may ask for a friend to be called at that stage. If he is not questioned as @
suspected person at the outset (ie not under caution), but fresh evidence emerges during the

interview which gives reasonable grounds for suspicion, the Investigation Division officer will

make this clear and explain that he proposes to continue his questions after caution. Before the

caution is given the Investigation Divisfon officer will ask if the presence of a friend is

desired during the remainder of the interview.

19 A friend may only attend and listen to the questions and answers, He must not interrupt in
any way, either by word or signal; if he does interrupt he will be required to leave at once and
the interview will proceed without him. Whatever is said at the interview is to be treated as in
strictest confidence. The friend may take notes of the interview but he must keep the notes in
the strictest confidence. The only communication the friend ts entitled to make on behalf of the I
person who has been questioned will be in the form of a written "in strictest confidence"
statement which may be submitted by the latter, in support of any official appeal which the
person questioned may desire to make in connection with the methods followed at the enquiry. No
‘other communication about the interview {s allowed (unless made by permission of the Post Office)
as it might constitute a breach of the Official Secrets Acts. The questioned officer may,
however, if he so desires, communicate the friend's statement to the National Federation of

Sub-Postmasters in strictest confidence.

D2.1/1/70

POL00003858
POL00003858

SEARCHES I

20 If a person agrees to his property or house being searched by Investigation Division staff
the Investigation Division officer will ask, before the search is carried out, if he wishes to

have a friend present.

21 Investigation Division officers have no authority to search a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office
Assistant or their homes unless they have first obtained the agreement of the person concerned or
they have obtained a warrant to do so, In practice Investiation Division officers only seek
authority or permission to search when {t is deemed absolutely necessary or in the interests of
the person involved (eg as a pointer to their innocence). If search by consent is carried out
during the course of enquiries which do not substantiate any suspicion that may have been

directed at a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant, he will be handed at a later stage a written i

apology for any inconvenience caused, coupled with a statement that he readily agreed to the

search and that nothing which would cast any doubt on his honesty was found.

END

D2.1/1/71

POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 20

INFECTIOUS (INCLUDING CONTAGIOUS) DISEASES

INFECTIOUS DISEASES

NOTIFICATION

1 If the Subpostmaster or his Assistant is suffering from, or suspected to be suffering from,
an Infectious disease, the circumstances should at once be reported to the District Manager, A
Subpostmaster or Assistant who is suffering from an infectious disease is expected to take proper

precautions against the spread of infection and if in doubt on any point to consult his doctor.

2 If a Subpostmaster or Assistant is suffering from plague, smallpox, cholera, diphtheria,
erysipelas, scarlet fever, typhus, typhoid fever, measles, paratyphoid fever or poliomyelitis
(infantile paralysis), respiratory (pulmonary) tuberculosis, or any other infectious disease made
notiffable as rubella (German measles), chicken pox, mumps, scabfes, pediculosis (head and body
lice) or {mpetigo, absence from the sub-office is necessary until such time as he is able to
submit a medical certificate that he is no longer a source of infection to others. (Except in
the case of respiratory (pulmonary) tuberculosis, for which special arrangements apply, 2

“elosed" National Insurance certificate is sufficient for this purpose.)

DISINFECTION

3. In the case of a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant suffering from any of the infectious
diseases referred to in para 2, the advice of the Local Public Health Department should be sought
immediately the ctrcumstances come to light, with regard to disinfection on Post Office premises
or other measures which may be thought necessary, The Local Public Health Department shoutd be
{invited to undertake such disinfection or other measures, There will usually be no charge, but

if the question of a charge arises, a report should be made to the District Manager.

4 If counter stock has been handled by the person concerned or exposed to infection, it should
be placed under cover and the Local Public Health Department should be informed of its
approximate value and of what it is composed (notes, coins, stamps, postal orders, etc). The
need for adequate safeguard during any disinfection advised should be pointed out. Any steps
advised by the Local Public Health Department should be taken and until the stock is certified to

be free from infection it should not be issued to the public.

D2.1/1/72)

POL00003858
POL00003858

5 1f the Local Public Health Department advises disinfection and is unable to undertake the
work at once, the advice should be obtained on the interim measures (if any) desirable with
regard to official or private articles of property which may have been contaminated by the

patient.

6 In the event of difficulty in obtaining immediate advice from the Local Public Health

Department, the District Manager should be consulted.

7 If the Local Public Health Department should require the temporary closing of the
sub-office, the District Manager will issue instructions as to the stock, etc. In such cases the i
question of continuing payment of the Subpostmaster's emoluments subject to a deduction in

respect of any saving in expenses, will be considered on its merits. i

CONTACT WITH INFECTIOUS DISEASE OR SUSPECTED INFECTIOUS DISEASE

as

8 Only the most exceptional circumstances necessitate absence from the sub-office and a person
who has been in contact with scarlet fever, measles, German measles, whooping cough, chicken pox

or mumps need not stay away.

9 If a Subpostmaster or Assistant has been in contact with any other notifiable infectious

disease the fact should be reported to the District Manager.

10 The person concerned need not remain off duty unless the Medical Officer of Health has

advised him to do so.

11 If, however, a Subpostmaster or Assistant has been in contact with diphtheria and a swab has
been taken, he should stay away from the office pending instructions from the District Manager,

to whom al] the circumstances should be reported immediately,

12 Where absence from the office is necessary, because of contact with infectious disease, an

immediate report should be made to the District Manager.
13 If a Subpostmaster or Assistant who has been in contact with an infectious disease feels ;
unwelt soon afterwards he should consult his medical adviser immediately. The District Manager's

authority should be sought if this necessitates closing the sub-office.

14 A Subpostmaster or Assistant who has been in contact with infectious disease should avoid

further contact with the patient suffering from the disease.

D2.1/1/73

POL00003858
POL00003858

SUB-OFFICE ASSISTANTS

15 The above Rules apply both to the Subpostmaster and to his sub-office Assistants. If
enforced absence is considered necessary, a sub-office Assistant must absent himself from his
Post Office Counter Business duties. {!n such cases, the question of meeting any loss sustained
by the Subpostmaster or the sub-office Assistant in consequence of the latter's enforced absence
will be considered on its merits, !t should, however, be understood that the object of any
payment that may be made by Post Office Counters Ltd in these cases is to prevent there being any
inducement to the sub-office Assistant to come on duty when his presence would be a source of
danger to the public or to Post Office employees with whom he might come in contact in his Post

Office work. Post Office Counters Ltd recognises no other obligation in the matter.

END

I
I
I

D2.1/1/74
POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 21

TELEPHONE FACILITIES AT SCALE PAYMENT SUB-POST OFFICES

PROVISION OF TELEPHONE FACILITIES

1 A Subpostmaster must, in connection with the official business of Post Office Counters Ltd,
and in the interests of security, arrange for the provision of telephone facilities at his

sub-post office. The following facilities are required by Post Office Counters Ltd:~

(a) a direct exchange lines or

(b) an extension plan installation comprising a portable telephone and two sockets: one to be
jnstalled in the sub-post office and the other fn the Subpostmaster's bedroom. (This type of
installation is only required where the District Manager considers it is desirable, as a security
measure, and where the Subpostmaster resides on the premises. However, Post Office Counters Ltd
will not require this type of system to be installed at island and small rural offices where the

District Manager considers that the risk of criminal attack is clearly negligible).

REIMBURSEMENT OF INSTALLATIONS COSTS

2 Post Office Counters Ltd will reimburse the Subpostmaster for costs incurred in the
installation of the required telephone facility provided that excessive expenditure fs not
involved. However in the event that the Subpostmaster decides to have installed a system other
than that required by Post Office Counters Ltd the Post Office contribution to the total
installation costs will be no greater than the cost of installing the facilities outlined in para
1 above, {f a Subpostmaster is required to make provision for an extension plan system as
described in para 1(b) and chooses to have an extension socket in a room other than his bedroom
the Post Office contribution to the installation cost will be no greater than would be incurred

in respect of the installation of a direct exchange line.

RENTAL CHARGES

3 Post Office Counters Ltd on production of a paid quarterly telephone account, will reimburse
the Subpostmaster the rental charges billed by BT including the VAT element (see para 10)
appropriate to the type of telephone facility that the District Manager has agreed is necessary
(see para 1). Rental charges which exceed the levels so authorised by the District Manager I

remain the responsibility of the Subpostmaster. {

D2.1/1/75

POL00003858
POL00003858

CALL UNIT ALLOWANCE

4 Each Subpostmaster is given for each telephone account period an allowance of call units for
official purposes, based on the scale of Post Office business transacted; any part of the
allowance not expended in a telephone account period cannot be carried over to the next. The

Subpostmaster is due to pay for any call units used in excess of this allowance.

5 The standard allowances have been fixed at a level which takes into account the varying

conditions between offices. They also atlow a margin for contingencies,

6 The scale of allowances, retated to the telephone account period, is as follows; the call

unit allowance in column (b) is intended to reimburse Subpostmasters for longer distance calls to

DNS. Girobank etc, where these are not covered by the basic allowance in column (a):

Offices in Official call units Additional call

unit bands: per annum unit per annum I

(a) (b)

i

Up to 85,000 260 NIL :
85,001 - 225,000 360 350
225,001 - 400,000 460 500
over 400,000 560 700

7 Where calls from a sub-post office to its District or Controlling Crown Office are not
within a local call area and are charged on the basis of the distance between the two points, the
standard allowance of official call units (para 6 column (a) will be subject to the following

multipliers:

Distance in miles from District Rate of Multiplier to be applied
or controlling Crown Office charge to offictal allowance
Up to 35 miles a 5

over 35 miles b 14

D2.1/1/76
POL00003858
POL00003858

SUPPLEMENTARY ALLOWANCE

8 A Mailwork Subpostmaster may claim an additional allowance, in respect of calls made in
connection with his Mailwork responsibilities, providing that the standard allowance has been
expended, A claim, supported by documentary evidence should be submitted to the District Manager I

with the telephone account for the period concerned.

EMERGENCY REPAIRS

9 Some British Telecom General Managers are prepared to provide emergency repair facilities

for Subpostmasters, The service allows for attention to faults reported:-

(

=

) Monday-Friday between 1700 and 0800 hours;

(b) Saturday up to 0800 and from 1300 hours;

(ce) all day on Sunday, Public and Bank Holidays.

AN1 other times repair facilities apply. Subpostmasters will be billed for use of the emergency y

service on the normal quarterly bill and District Managers will reimburse these costs on

presentation of the bill.

REIMBURSEMENT OF VAT CHARGES

10 The Post Office will reimburse the Subpostmaster the charges raised for VAT at the standard !
rate, in respect of that part of the total charge related to Post Office services, fe rental, the

free call allowance and emergency repairs.

END

D2.1/1/77
POL00003858

POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 22

QUALITY STANDARDS

1 Post Office Counters Ltd, through its network of post office, aims to give customers and
clients a high quality service. The Subpostmaster must therefore give high priority to service
customers quickly and effictently, and to fulfil the documentation requirements of clients with

accuracy and professionalism,

WALTING TIME

2 The Subpostmaster should ensure that the time for which customers wait to be served is kept
to the minimum, The Subpostmaster should frequently monitor the waiting time customers
experience in his office, and make any adjustments to the staffing pattern accordingly. While
POCL has an overall national objective for customers to wait for no longer than five minutes
before being served, it 1s recognised that customers have different needs and expectations of
waiting time in different offices, and at different times of the day or week. However District
Managers will treat very seriously any evidence which suggests that the Subpostmaster is not
making all reasonable efforts to ensure that customer waiting time is minimised, to meet the

needs of customers locally.

TRANSACT I ONS

3. The Subpostmaster will be responsible for ensuring that transactions are carried out
accurately, that a11 reasonable steps are taken to prevent fraud and that 211 documentation ts
properly completed and despatched at the due time, Where under the terms of its contracts with
{ts clients Post Office Counters Ltd incurs financial penalties as a result of the
subpostmaster's failure in this regard, Post Office Counters Ltd may pass on this additional cost
to the Subpostmaster. The Appendix to this Section sets out the current maxima of the penalties
which can be passed on to the Subpostmaster, In such circumstances, Post Office Counters ltd
will furnish copies of the appropriate documents as evidence in support of any action. Failure
to properly complete accounting and traffic information documents may lead to the exeluston in

whole or in part of business transacted for the purposes of determining payment.

4 The Subpostmaster will ensure that customers are treated fairly, courteously and helpfully,
Persistent failure to meet the high standard of service demanded by Post Office Counters Ltd

could result in termination of contract.

D2.1/1/78

a)

(2)

(3)

QUALITY STANDARDS

SUBPOSTMASTER ERRORS: MAXIMUM PENALTIES

Maximum Penalty

British Telecom
Late despatch of BT Bills with due
account to cut off times and £10 (per summary form)
is demonstrably the fault of the
subpostmaster.
Girobank
2.1 Error notices issued in respect of £18 (per error notice)
PDR (G,6301/G,6302) transactions
Community Charge, (G6403) transactions
Green/Violet Girocheques (C6305/7)
transactions,
2.2 Cashing other Bank's Cheques: Fraud Losses
POCL bears in full losses from fraudulently
encashed ‘other banks' cheques’ where those
cheques have been accepted incorrectly
(eg no cheque card number written on back
of cheque).
Recompense may be sought from subpostmasters
towards losses incurred.
DVLA (MVL offices) only
Licence issued early £7.50 per licence
Incorrect Licence issued £7.50 per licence
Lost tax discs (where
subpostmaster failed to
safeguard properly) £55 per licence
MSC/786

APPENDIX A

POL00003858

POL00003858

D2.1/1/79

}
i
{

(4)

Department of National Savings

DNS may seek recompense from POCL
for fraud losses, where error

by subpostmaster had led to payments
which should not have been made,

for example:~

a) Where a stop payment has been ignored

b) Where a forged date stamp impression
is a bad one

c) Where pass book entries have been
blatantly altered

d} Where the wrong balance figure has
been entered.

Again, depending on circumstances, a contribution can be sought towards

POL00003858
POL00003858

losses incurred.

D2.1/1/80

POL00003858
POL00003858

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 23

COUN’

AUTOMATION
FOR SPSO's (Pilot area only)

GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1 The computer equipment will consist of:
a Terminal equipment eg
Central Processing Unit
Visual Display Unit
Keyboard
Counter Printer
Pin Pad

one, or more, of which will be provided per office.

b) Off Counter equipment eg:~

Office Printer
Modem

2 Computer equipment for Counter Automation will only be installed in those SPSOs selected by
Post Office Counters Ltd.

3 The computer equipment when installed in the SPSO will remain the property of Post Office
Counters Ltd but the Subpostmaster will be responsible for its safe custody.

4 Post Office Counters Ltd may remove the computer equipment at its discretion at any time and
for any reason, not only on a change of Subpostmaster or after evidence of its misuse

5 The Subpostmaster will allow on production of the appropriate authority and at reasonable
times, personnel acting on behalf of Post Office Counters Ltd access for the installation, repair
and removal of the computer equipment

INSTALLATION OF COMPUTER EQUIPMENT

6 The cost of installation will be borne by Post Office Counters Ltd and will include any
necessary alteration that may be needed to shelving or environment in order to facilitate the
satisfactory installation of the computer equipment.

7 Post Office Counters Ltd will not up-grade premises, furniture or fittings which are the
responsibility of the Subpostmaster and are not affected by the installation of the computer
equipment,

8 Where shelving ete provided by the Post Office Counters Ltd for Counter Automation does not
conform to the decor of the counter, the Subpostmaster may provide his own which will be
installed by the Post Office Counters Ltd provided such shelving is made available at the time of
installation.

D2.1/1/81

POL00003858
POL00003858

9 An alternative to Para 8 is that the Subpostmaster would be responsible for such up-grades
which would be carried out at a time agreed with the Post Office Counters Ltd prior to
installation, Failure to meet this date would mean that Post Office Counters Ltd would carry out
the upgrade. Post Office Counters Ltd will only pay for the cost of the installation plus
materials as defined by Post Office Counters Ltd.

10 Before installation the Subpostmaster will be requested to provide secure storage space for
the computer equipment.

THE COMPUTER EQUIPMENT

11 The Subpostmaster will operate and maintain the computer and its equipment as set out in the
Manuals Instructions or Postal Instructions governing its use.

12 Mis-use, incompetent operating, failure to maintain the computer and components, malicfous
use or damage could lead to the equipment being removed from the premises and costs for repairs
levied.

13 Should the computer or any of the components malfunction, the Subpostmaster should report
such incidents to the relevant department.

14 Except in the case of negligence or mis-use of the computer equipment, the Subpostmaster
will not be expected to pay for any repair or replacement.

15 A separate power circuit will be provided by Post Office Counters Ltd from the main
distribution board, This will be solely used to support the computer equipment and be in use
continuousty 24 hours a day.

16 The Subpostmaster is responsible for ensuring that the equipment is kept in a clean
condition. Detailed procedures will be presented on the Training Course.

PREMISES.

17 In the event of a Subpostmaster wishing to alter his post office premises in such a way
which will effect any counter automation equipment, he should, prior to commencing any such
change, obtain agreement to his proposal from the appropriate District Automation Co-ordinator.
Where such alterations are approved by Post Office Counters Ltd, the cost will be borne by the
Subpostmaster.

18 The following companies and departments acting on behalf of Post Office Counters Ltd must
have access to premises for maintenance of the computer equipment, including out of hours in
cases of emergencies; British Telecom, Plessey, Nixdorf, and Post Office Engineering.

19  Subpostmasters are advised to check their insurance liability. Post Office Counters Ltd
will have liability for the computer equipment.

TELEPHONE HELP LINE
20 There is a help line which Subpostmasters can use to resolve any operational problems or as

a general information centre. [t does not replace existing contacts with the retevant District
Manager.

D2.1/1/82

POL00003858
POL00003858

REMOVAL OF COMPUTER EQUIPMENT

21 On removal of the computer equipment and subject to the premises being retained as an SPSO,
Post Office Counters Ltd will plug gaps fn walls, cap holes in the counter and remove shelving as
required.

TRAINING

22 Where an SPSO is selected for Counter Automation, the Subpostmaster and all his staff (full
or part-time) will receive training in the use of the computer and the components.

23 Appropriate payment will be made for attending the training centre.
24 The duration of the training will not exceed 7 hours net.

25 Post Office representatives will be in attendance for a period when the computer first
becomes operational on the SPSO counter.

D2.1/1/83

