POL00129302
POL00129302

Post Office Limited
Security Team Training and Development Policy

Summary

Purpose

This policy confirms the commitment of the Security Team of Post Office Limited to
developing its staff and outlines the arrangements for identifying, resourcing and allocating
training and development opportunities. This policy applies to all Security Team employees
at all grades and bands.

Scope
The policy applies to all employees of the Security Team of Post Office Limited

Version
Draft

Consultation and Approval
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXAXXXXXX

Cross References/Related Policies
e Skills and Competency Matrix
e Training and Development plans
e Induction Training
e Succession Planning
e General Leadership and Management skills
e Advanced Development [including Academia]
e Performance management

Training and Communication Plan
To be communicated via the core brief and made available to Security staff on the Intranet.

Lead Officer

Head of Security
Document title: Version or draft I Date issued: I Owner: Tony Newman Location stored
Security Team number: 01.2 POL Security Team
Training and Draft only Policy: Security Team Post Office Ltd. SharePoint

Development

Policy Document: Andy Baker/Chris G Knight

SECURITY TEAM TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT POLICY

CONTENTS

Summary

1.

8.

Introduction and objectives
Responsibilities for Training and Development
Identifying Training and Development Needs

Meeting Training and Development Needs

Maximising the Effectiveness of Development Acti

The Resourcing of Training and Development
Methods of Staff Development

Application Process and post Development

8.1 Business Support

8.2 Withdrawal from the Course

8.3 Post Development

8.4 Process for completing External Learning Request Form [ELRF]

9.

Appeals

10. Recording, Monitoring and Evaluation of Training
10.1 Recording

10.2 Monitoring

10.3. Evaluation

11. Review

POL00129302
POL00129302

Page 2 of 15
POL00129302
POL00129302

1. INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES

The Security Team of Post Office Limited recognises that the commitment of our staff is vital
to achieving our business strategy. We want all our colleagues to feel proud to be a part of
the Security Team. In light of this one of our key priorities is to build the capability of our
people through improved and tailored learning aligned directly to their development needs.

The Security Team of Post Office Limited recognises the important role of training and
development and is committed to making relevant opportunities available to all staff in
order to:

e Support the achievement of its strategic aims and business plan objectives.

e Ensure continued compliance with relevant legislation in respect of current and on-
going business work streams.

¢ Ensure that it is able to provide the highest quality of service through its skilled and
trained workforce.

e Enable all staff to develop their skills and knowledge to improve their job
performance, increase their job satisfaction and reach their full potential.

e Promote its reputation as a first choice employer and increase its ability to attract
and retain a high quality workforce.

This policy will develop the needs of individuals.and Teams so that members have the
required skills to effectively perform their role and meet career aspirations in line with
Security strategy

The Security Team of Post Office Limited will ensure all staff has equitable access to
development opportunities to meet their needs, in line with its Equal Opportunities and
Diversity Policy. Participation of all groups will be encouraged by promoting the value of staff
development, ensuring thatit is delivered in both a meaningful and accessible manner,
actively working to remove any barriers to participation.

This policy applies to all employees in the Security Team of Post Office Limited.

Page 3 of 15
POL00129302

POL00129302

2. RESPONSIBILITIES FOR TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

The Head of Security and the Security Leadership Team are responsible for ensuring that
this policy is fully implemented, training and development opportunities are resourced
appropriately and organisational priorities for training are identified as they arise and at
least annually.

Line managers are responsible for ensuring that staff have annual performance and
development reviews and meaningful personal development plans. They will also ensure
that training and development needs are reviewed regularly, with documented outcomes,
and any training agreed on the personal development plans is implemented [within the
constraints of the resources available].

They are also responsible for identifying any development needed to enable individuals to
meet their job objectives and for ensuring that adequate time is available to staff to enable
them to undertake this development. They are also tasked with feeding back on the
individuals’ development needs to their line manager through the review process.

Staff are responsible for ensuring that they follow through their personal development plan
and make the most of all the opportunities available to them, both for their own individual
development and to enable them to be more effective in meeting organisational objectives.

The XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX [Security Team Support2?] ~HR?] [Strand Leader?] will advise on
the training and development opportunities available, analyse Personal Development Plans
to assist in the prioritisation of individual and organisational training needs and commission
internal or external development activities where,this is the most cost effective option meet
the needs. It will also monitor training attendance and funding allocations to ensure that
there are no organisational barriers inhibitingyequal access.

Page 4 of 15
POL00129302

POL00129302

3. IDENTIFYING TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT NEEDS

All staff will have an annual performance and development review (see POL Security
Performance and Development Review Policy), including jointly agreeing their development
needs with their manager and recording them in their annual Personal Development Plan. As
part of this process, the manager and individual will need to clarify the time required for the
development activity and agree how this will be protected within the individuals working
hours.

The PDR will cover the development needs of staff in relation to:

e The skills required to meet the Security Team Skills and Competency Matrix

e Any new legislative and policy requirements relating to either the role or Post Office
Limited.

e Any additional skills or capabilities they need to better equip them to contribute to
the priority work areas for Post Office Limited Security.

e Their individual aspirations for career development and any preparation they need to
enable them to carry out higher levels of responsibility to meet succession planning
requirements and targets

In addition to the Personal Development Review.there may be other development needs
identified in the course of the year, including any skills required to meet the requirements of
specific jobs that the individual is working on. These will be identified by the job manager
and, in these circumstances, itwill’be the job manager’s responsibility to ensure that the
time and resources are made available to staff for these needs to be met.

Although participation in development opportunities will normally be jointly agreed, there
may be some training»activities that the Security Team deems to be a mandatory
requirement.

These may include but not be limited to:

e Induction training for’new staff (see the Security Team Staff Induction Policy)

e Training to meet Post Office Limited’s statutory obligations as an employer (for
example, in relation to health and safety etc.)

e Management training (for example in the application of HR policies)

e Training that is required of staff to enable Post Office Limited to meet its business
plan priorities (for example in relation to new policy developments).

Page 5 of 15
POL00129302
POL00129302

3. IDENTIFYING TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT NEEDS [cont’d]

As the resources and available time for training are limited, it may be necessary to prioritise
training needs in any one year. As a general guide, the following priority order should be
applied:

1. Mandatory or statutory training

2. Training to address a gap in the skills/knowledge necessary for the individual to
perform their job effectively (particularly in relation to the Template for the post)

3. Training to address any annual organisational development needs identified that
relate to the individual’s post

4. Training to further improve the individual’s standard of work performance

5. Training to provide any new skills/knowledge that the individual will need to use in
their role in the future

6. Training to support the individual’s longer term career development.

Page 6 of 15
POL00129302

POL00129302

4. MEETING TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT NEEDS

In considering appropriate mechanisms for meeting training needs, the whole range of
development opportunities should be considered, including:

e On the job learning and development (such as participating in a project or job in a
new area, ‘acting up’, secondments, being coached or mentored to develop

e Off the job individual learning (including distance learning, private study and
eLearning)

e Advanced Development education and training (studying towards qualifications).

When deciding the appropriate methods of delivery, the following will need to be taken into
account:

The benefits of the training/development to the organisation and individual

The cost of the training/development

The individual’s preferred learning style

The location and timing of the training/development (taking account of the
employee’s personal circumstances and working pattern)

If it is decided that an external course is the best. way of meeting the training need, the
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX [Security Team Support?] [HR2] [Strand Leader?] can provide advice
on programmes that have been attended and positively evaluated by other staff.

The XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX [Security Team Support?] [HR?] [Strand Leader?] may also
commission training to be run either internally or externally, where it is clear that there is a
significant organisational need.

This will include working.in partnership with other organisations in the local health
community or with education, providers that Post Office Limited already contracts with,
where this would provide value for money.

Where an internal training intervention is being planned, in-house expertise will be used to
deliver it where available»

When external training bodies are used, this will be in conjunction with internal staff
wherever possible, so that they can tailor the training to the organisational context, along
with developing their own expertise for the future.

Any development opportunities that are generally available to Security staff will be
advertised widely through e-mail, the Security Team SharePoint site and any other
appropriate mechanisms to ensure that all Security staff have the relevant information and
opportunity for access.

5. MAXIMISING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
Page 7 of 15
POL00129302
POL00129302

Post Office Limited recognises that personal development will be most effective if staff:

Fully understand why they are undertaking the development opportunity and how it links to
their personal and/or organisational objectives.

e Are clear what is expected of them both during and as a result of the training

e Know how the new knowledge/skills can be applied to their work

e Have the support to implement the changes in the workplace

e Can evaluate their learning and identify any further training or development that
might be needed

e Can share what they have learnt with other colleagues

It is therefore important that the manager fully discusses the development opportunity with
the employee beforehand and that support is given to ensure thatthe new learning can be
integrated into the employee’s work immediately on return to the workplace.

6. THE RESOURCING OF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

Page 8 of 15
POL00129302

POL00129302

For training and development to be effective, it needs to be adequately resourced, both in
terms of appropriate funding and protected time.

A training budget will be held by the XXXXXXXXXXXXXX, which will be used to fund training
activities that have a cost attached. This will cover training under three categories:

1. Short courses (seminars, conferences, workshops, etc)
2. Programmes of longer term study (usually towards a qualification)
3. Development of internal programmes to meet organisational needs.

The latter may include:

e Statutory training and other training to meet Post Office Limited obligations as an
employer(for example, health and safety, induction, et¢)

e Management training and development

e Information and skills to meet new targets, initiatives and policy developments.

e Any knowledge or skills that are required by a significant proportion of staff
(identified by XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX [Security Team Support?) [HR?] [Strand Leader?]
through analysis of the annual Personal Development Plans) and which would
therefore be more cost effective to provide or commission centrally.

There will be a process held at least annually for individuals to apply for funding to support
their short or longer term training needs (see Section 8).

Decisions about resource allocations againstthe budget will be made using agreed
transparent and equitable criteria (to be agreed annually through the Joint Consultative and
Negotiating Committee). These will,be.based on the training priority guidance set out in
Section 3, but tailored to meet any specific organisational objectives and priorities for the
year.

Where resource limitations mean that,training programmes cannot be funded, individuals
will receive feedback and their line manager will discuss with them whether there are
alternative routes for meeting the development need.

In addition funding may be sought for training and development activities for staff who are
employed within their strand but undertaking a different role to support their strands
business plan priorities.

All Line Managers have a role in ensuring that staff have adequate time set aside to meet
their development needs. If staff feel that they are not getting the necessary time, then they
should pursue the published escalation routes for resolution of the issue.

7. METHODS OF STAFF DEVELOPMENT
Page 9 of 15
POL00129302
POL00129302

Learning, as opposed to traditional training, is not solely restricted to formal classroom
based programmes. Individuals should consider the most appropriate method to address

their development needs including those opportunities which present themselves in their

immediate environment.

Learning and development should be closely integrated with the individual’s performance
management cycle including annual and half year performance reviews, and 121s. Each
individual is responsible for maintaining their Personal Development Plan (PDP) which
should be regularly reviewed with their line manager.

Opportunities for learning (note: this list is not exhaustive)

Informal Learning Opportunities

Formal Learning Opportunities

Stretching your role remit

‘Acting up’ / Covering for colleagues
Involvement in a project

Unfamiliar tasks

Networking & Professional
Development

Networking and action learning groups

Keeping up to date with professional
developments

QBU

Developing others/self
Coaching / mentoring
Reflective practice / logs

Discussions

Internal training courses

External training course
Membership of Professional Body
Virtual Learning Centre

PO Lending Library

Conferences

E-learning on PaLMS

8. APPLICATION PROCESS AND POST DEVELOPMENT

Page 10 of 15
POL00129302

POL00129302

Individuals are to identify and agree with line manager their learning and development
needs in line with job requirements and future career plans.

Enrolment for internal courses is via PaLMS or other agreed media in the first instance.
Individuals should enrol within a reasonable timeframe to enable workload to be planned.

Individuals will be encouraged to undertake internal learning courses where possible. Where
an individual cannot find a suitable internal course, they may be able to attend an external
course. Due to the significant cost of external training such decisions will require a discussion
with the individual’s line manager. Relevant external applications should be made using the
External Learning Request Form (ELRF) available on PaLMS (process outlined below). Where
the cost of external training exceeds £1000, the individual may be required to complete a
Sponsorship Application Form (see HR Help for form).

Where a course is over a number of years the Security Team Directorate of Post Office
Limited will commit to financing one year at a time. For each subsequent year of the course
individual and organisational commitment will be reviewed ‘in line with available budget.

Professional Qualifications requests to be made via the Sponsorship Application Form (see
Professional Qualifications and Subscriptions Policy for more details).

8.1 Business Support

Consideration of the level of financial support.to be provided, where relevant, will be
assessed against each application. Financial support»is limited and applications will be
selected and prioritised against business requirements.

Where the cost of a course’ exceeds, £1000, individuals will be required to complete a
Sponsorship Application Form (see HR Help for form) outlining their commitment in
undertaking the course, the business expettations and commitments. Where an individual
voluntarily leaves the..business within 18 months of having completed the course, the
following costs will apply:

e Individual exits within 6 months of course completion — 100% of fees to be refunded to
organisation

e Individual exits between 6412 months of course completion — 66% of fees to be refunded
to organisation

e Individual exits between 12-18 months of course completion — 33% of fees to be
refunded to organisation

8. APPLICATION PROCESS AND POST DEVELOPMENT [cont'd]
Page 11 of 15
POL00129302

POL00129302

8.2 Withdrawal from the course

If an individual withdraws from a business-funded course due to apathy, failure to complete
assignments, failure to attend workshops etc. they will be required to refund any financial
payment made by the organisation relating the specific course. Withdrawal under such
circumstances will be taken into account when considering funding for any future
sponsorship for this individual.

However the student will not be expected to pay where withdrawal is due to:

e Maternity leave
e Long term sick absence
e Mitigating personal circumstances

Under such circumstances further sponsorship would be considered in the future if deemed
business critical to their role.

8.3 Post Development

On completion of the development activity participants will be required)to reflect and
consider if the activity has met their development ‘need.;This will be discussed at the
individual’s next 121. Individuals must be prepared to share knowledge gained from the
development activity which may be through discussion, team meetings, presentation, or
written report.

Line managers will be required to monitor an individual’ performance / application of
knowledge and skills acquired withinthe workplace to identify if the learning outcomes have
been achieved.

8.4 Process for completing External Learning Request Form (ELRF)

1. Individual identifies'relevant course including cost etc. Line manager and individual to
discuss at 121

2. Where line manager approval has been granted, the individual then completes an
ELRF on PaLMS. Where the cost of a course exceeds £1000, individual should
complete the Sponsorship Application Form on HR Help.

3. The request will \be considered based on whether alternative internal learning
resources are available, the course is suitable to the individual/role, whether budget
is available.

4. Where the course is approved, HR Learning & Development (Farnworth) will process
the request.

Page 12 of 15
POL00129302
POL00129302

9. APPEALS

If an individual is aggrieved by a decision relating to the funding/time off for training, they
may appeal direct to the Head of Security in writing clearly stating their reasons for
appealing and be prepared to provide evidence in support of their appeal on request.

Page 13 of 15
POL00129302

POL00129302

10. RECORDING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF TRAINING
10.1 Recording

All staff should record the training and development they require for the year on their
annual Personal Development Plan. This should be signed by both the line manager and the
individual, and a copy should be sent to the XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX [Security Team Support?]
[HR?] [Strand Leader?] so that they can analyse whether there are common training needs
that could be better met through the central commissioning of development activities.

Individuals should also keep a personal record of any learning and:development they have
undertaken during the year in relation to their Personal Development Plan as this will be
required for their Performance and Development Review.

The XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX [Security Team Support?] [HR?] [Strand Leader?] should be sent
copies of all Applications for Funding/Time off for Study, so that they can record and monitor
the external training being undertaken.

10.2 Monitoring

The XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX [Security Team Support?] [HRP] [Strand Leader?] will collect and
analyse information on attendance at internal courses and the allocation of funding for
external training in order to ensure that no particular groups or individuals are unfairly
excluded or disadvantaged’ and that resources are equitably distributed across the
organisation.

The XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX [Security Team Support?] [HR?] [Strand Leader?] will also supply
information to the Security Leadership Team to enable it to assess the impact of the
investment on training and development at organisational level.

10.3 Evaluation

All learning undertaken should have clear learning outcomes. Individuals would be expected
to reflect upon the learning and development activity to ascertain if the learning outcomes
have been met. This may be documented in personal portfolios/reflective logs. Managers
are expected to discuss this process with the individual after the learning has taken place.
Additionally managers will observe the application of knowledge and skills in the workplace
to assess the impact on performance.

Completion and achievement of agreed development plans
Regular 121s taking place

Improved individual performance

Improved team performance

Improved HYS scores (training, job satisfaction etc.)

eceee

11. REVIEW
Page 14 of 15
POL00129302
POL00129302

This policy, which has been subject to consultation with the XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX and
approved by The Security Directorate of Post Office Limited will be reviewed and amended
within XX months as part of the agreed quarterly programme of policy review.

Page 15 of 15
