POL00147961
POL00147961

From: Lesley J Sewell”
Sent: Mon 07/04/2014 7:42:25 PM (UTC)
To: Belinda Crowe
Aujardi i
Subject: Re: Outline objectives, services and deliverables... as discussed

Belinda/Chris

T've looked at the attached and it does seem light. I would suggest that we should agree our approach and
response before we discuss with Deloittes. Can I suggest we discuss at 3 and then meet with them at 3:15.

Lesley
Sent from my iPad

On 7 Apr 2014, at 20:23, "Belinda Crowe"

For information. I have not looked yet.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
Old Street, LONDON, E
stlinet”

Begin forwarded message:

From: "James, Gareth (UK - Manchester)"
Date: 7 April 2014 19:45:00 BST

To: "Belinda Crow
Ce: "Lauder, Chris (UK - Leeds)’
Leeds)"
Subject: Outline objectives, services and deliverables... as discussed

Desourdy, Charlotte (UK -

Good evening Belinda.

As discussed, please find below some of the key words which hopefully frame our discussions accurately
as to the work you would like Deloitte to perform in support of your objectives. We’ve included Rodric’s
words in the Background. I will be progressing the more detailed engagement letter structure around
these principles tonight. Do let me know if we’ve missed anything key from your perspective and also
what times might suite Lesley for a conversation to progress to a final agreed scope tomorrow
afternoon.

All the best

Gareth
POL00147961

POL00147961

Background and Objective:

We understand that You are responding to allegations that the “Horizon” IT system, used to record transactions in Post
Office branches, is defective and/or that the processes associated with it are inadequate (the “Allegations”). In order to
respond to these Allegations (which have been, and will in all likelihood continue to be, advanced in the courts), POL wants
to demonstrate that the Horizon system is robust, fit for purpose, and/or operates within an appropriate control

framework. In response to this, POL have either been provided or have commissioned a number of independent assurance
reviews into matters relating to Horizon’s operating environment and processing integrity. The purpose of seeking input from
Deloitte is to provide, based upon the information made available to us by You, an independently produced summary relating
to these sources of assurance, for presentation to the POL Board and specialist resources to support You in potential further
areas of assessment that You may decide that You require.

Services and Deliverables:
We propose to deliver our work in two parts:
© Part 1 “Summary”: Through review of information provided to us by You and interviews with key stakeholders, we
will obtain a high level understanding of the key circumstances behind the allegations, key risks in the Horizon
processing environment and the corresponding investigations, assurance activities and remediation actions which
POL have undertaken. We will consolidate and summarise these matters in a way suitable for presentation to the
POL Board on the 26" April, highlighting key areas that may place POL’s objectives at risk. You do not require
Deloitte to comment on the quality of the assurance work performed, nor opine on its adequacy, sufficiency or
conclusions.
© Part 2 “Deeper Dives”: Governed by Change Order procedures to our engagement letter, we will supply specialist
resources to support You in further areas of assessment that You may decide You require. Examples of such support
may include, but is not limited t
© Testing on data held within the system audit trails, to (for example) verify conclusions previously draw by
non-independent parties into the extent of known deficiencies;
© Assessment and profiling of system audit trails, to look for characteristics of and trends in unusual
behaviours in the system transactional core;
© Enquiry into the nature and extent of testing of the Horizon system during its implementation;
© Examination and testing of the integrity of dataflows to and from certain external / third party systems;
©. Testing of responses to thematic concerns raised by other independent reviews.
We understand that our work will be produced for use by POL only, and is not envisaged to be shared with any other third
parties.

Gareth James
Partner

Deloitte LLP.

Tel

Mobile:

Data Analytics Website I Finance Analytics Website

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C303675. Its registered
office is 2, New Street Square, London EC4A 38Z, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (
“DTTL"), a UK private company limited by guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see
www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL and its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidenti Iso be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are
not the intended recipient(s), please (1) notify it.security.uki GRO iby forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note
that disclosure, distribution, copying or use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free
from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European
Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the
intended recipient(s) to the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor
endorsed by it.
