POL00196926
POL00196926

Project Sparrow

Having reviewed the arrangements for the delivery of Project Sparrow, there seems to be an urgent
need to:

.

.

Define the scope of the project

Define the success criteria for the project

Put in place adequate and dedicated resources to deliver the project

Establish the Governance and management/accountability arrangements to ensure its
successful delivery

Success criteria
By end March/April:

The majority of Mediation Scheme applications will be through the scheme
Individual outcomes of cases will have remained confidential
We will have produced a final ‘report’ (whether Post Office/Working Group or combination
to draw a line under the Scheme
Second Sight involvement will have ended with:
© POre-established as credible investigators of complaints/problems (endorsed by SS)
Political support for completion of SS involvement
o  JFSA neutral position on SS involvement
Media/political/stakeholder response to completion of the Scheme will be broadly positive
New investigation/intervention/enforcement/ prosecutions arrangements in place,
announced (possibly in the ‘final report’) and operating fully. Includes:
oO. Investigation arrangements
© Intervention arrangements
© Prosecutions policy
o Permanent appeals/mediation scheme in place

Project Sparrow Scope (Sponsoring Director Chris Aujard)
The scope of the project should be confined to:

The Mediation Process and Working Group. Including:
© Participation in the Working Group
Secretariat for the Working Group
Administration of the scheme (maintaining records, issuing letters etc.)
Investigation of applications
Settlements and mediation
Comms, media and stakeholder management
© Policy
Review of criminal cases
Development and implementation of intervention/prosecutions policy, including potiential
permanent ‘complaints handling’ arrangements
Business improvement, but limited to those parts of the processes which are specifically
linked to the Scheme (to be defined).

00000

Outside scope

The wider business improvement programme, led by Angela Van Den Bogerd should not be within
scope of Project Sparrow although there would need to be a close link between this and Sparrow.
Accountability for this programme would rest with Kevin Gilliland as part of Network transformation,
with a close link into Project Sparrow.

POL-BSFF-0034989
POL00196926

POL00196926

Resources
The present resource allocation (which is partly ad hoc) is:
e Angela Van Den Bogerd — Full time on the Business Improvement Programme and the
mediation scheme (member of WG and in managing the investigations process)
*® Suzie McGregor — Full time scheme administrator
© Andy Holt — part-time programme manager
Andy parsons (Bond Dickinson) - on an as and when basis
¢ Belinda Crowe — secretariat to Working Group and strategic support for Paula as chair of the
Steering Group

We also have input from:
© Sophie Bialaszewski (Comms)
® ~Rodric Williams (Legal)

For us to move from reactive to proactive now that we have an Independent Chair who is looking to
progress applications swiftly through the scheme process requires full-time, dedicated resources.
The number of applications already exceeds our planning assumptions (we have 86, with 2 weeks for
the scheme to run).

Full time resources required for the project
A best guess (possibly modest) s we are starting to scope the work in more detail would be that we
require:
Full time
Programme Director, includes:
¢ WG secretariat
e Scheme policy
Programme manager — Andy Holt (currently part time)
Scheme operations — Angela (full time on business improvements)
Legal — Andy Parsons (could we second him in?)
Policy/relations manager — Sophie ( currently assisting)
Executive support — Suzie (already in post)

Additional resources

We also need to scope out the resources required for:
¢ POinvestigations as the cases flow through the scheme pipeline
* PO ‘mediation’ resources

Governance

At present, the Steering Group makes strategic decisions and provides challenge for the project and
there are two weekly meetings of the ‘project team’ to go through what needs to be done. Looking
at the emerging scope of the programme, we should now clarify and tighten the governance and
accountabilities based on the scope of the programme and the more detailed project planning
underway. This will enable us to move from reactive to proactive.

POL-BSFF-0034989_0001
