POL00423526
POL00423526

Appendix G1 - Communication April 2019 - Our Whistleblowing Survey
Results

Our Whistleblowing Survey results

Thank you to those who completed our Whistleblowing Survey. Your responses
have helped us to understand what employees know about whistleblowing at Post
Office and identify improvements we can make. We will be delivering regular
communications and awareness across the business to help improve everyone’s
understanding, but here are some of the key themes we found as a result of your
responses:

1. Not everyone understands what whistleblowing means:
"Whistleblowing" is protected by law and is the act of exposing potential or

actual wrongdoing by reporting it either internally within an organisation, or
externally, for example to a regulator.

Examples of the kinds of wrongdoing that we encourage you to report include:
concerns that someone is putting the health or safety of individuals in the
workplace at risk; someone falsifying official documents; someone committing
fraud against Post Office; or someone taking, offering or paying bribes.

2. Not everyone knows where to find the Whistleblowing Policy:

Click on “Our Key Policies” on the Hub homepage:

@ the hub He Not

Our
key policies

Scroll down to “Whistleblowing Policy” at the bottom of the page, here:

INTERNAL Page 1 of 2
POL00423526
POL00423526

Appendix G1 - Communication April 2019 - Our Whistleblowing Survey
Results

3. Not everyone knows how to report whistleblowing:
There are three ways in which you can report a concern:
1. Contact your line manager or HR Director

2. Contact the Speak Up confidential reporting service run by Expolink
Europe Ltd on I _I or via https://wrs.expolink.co.uk/postoffice

3. Contact the Whistleblowing Officer at whistleblowing( '

4. People raised concerns that reports are not treated confidentially:

Your protections are set out in our Whistleblowing Policy; we will always
support anyone who raises a genuine concern, even if it turns out to be
mistaken. You will not be treated unfairly or liable to disciplinary action as a
result of you raising your concerns.

If you have any questions about the survey, any suggestions or would like further

information, please email whistleblowing: GRO

INTERNAL Page 2 of 2
