POL00448664
POL00448664
POL00448664

Foreword from Nick Read

We're building an inclusive culture
Our Ways of Working

Measures of success

What does it take to be an inclusive leader?
Allyship is important

Language that belongs

Behaviours that don’t belong

Ask yourself the right questions
Inclusive hiring

Ways to create an inclusive interview
Being an inclusive leader

Amplifying talent

: Equity, Diversity Practical ways that you can
and Inclusion page be an inclusive leader

Further reflection

In conclusion

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook
Foreword from Nick Read

We are nothing without you and
your teams — the people who create
and maintain the products and
services our employees, Postmasters,
Strategic Partners and our customers
use every single day. That's why it's
so important we continue to provide
a place where all of you feel you can
thrive. Since focusing on the Equity,
Diversity and Inclusion strategy, the
Leadership team and I have reflected
on both our own behaviours and
actions — but also what it will take

for this business to be truly inclusive,
so we can set ourselves up for a
successful and sustainable future.

We all know that mindsets are not
easy to shift. This playbook is a great
place to begin as it outlines some of
the practical things we can all start
thinking about to make Post Office
even more inclusive. None of this

is revolutionary, but we all need to
recognise that small changes that we
make as individuals can make huge
differences to the people we lead,
both now and in the future.

Nick Read

Nick Read
CEO Post Office

si

A

POL00448664
POL00448664

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook
Diversity has the power to unlock
new ideas and new potential

For us to enjoy the benefits that diversity brings,
we first need to take steps to ensure that everyone
feels included. That means creating a culture where
we embrace different perspectives, backgrounds
and ideas. Above all, we want Post Office and

our Post Office branches to be a place where:

Difference is valued

Everyone has a voice

Everyone feels safe and respected

Inclusion is just part of how we work every day

POL00448664
POL00448664

How do we know that what
we are doing is working?

The Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
(ED&l) team are using data to
measure how we are doing:

In the Annual ED&l

employee survey

Monthly Diversity Dashboard —
current and trend data collected
from SuccessFactors

Annual Ethnicity Pay Gap and
Gender Pay Gap

By tracking the percentage

of employees from under-
represented communities

This information will highlight the
positive changes we're making and
also reveal areas where we need to
improve — and we should welcome
the opportunity to do better.

SuccessFactors personal data

We collect ‘about you’ data, which
gives us an understanding of the
different communities our employees
belong to, such as ethnic group or
sexual orientation; if you want to
find out more here is a short video to
explain why we collect this data and
how we use it.

Disrupting bias

Reflecting on ‘about you’ data in our
everyday decisions, via our diversity
dashboard, helps us to challenge and
prompt our thinking in the moment.
Are we always giving the same.
opportunities to the different types
of people?

POL00448664
POL00448664

Measure progress

As we move forward, we look

to diversify our talent pools and
‘about you’ data is how we'll
measure our progress. It'll show
whether we're attracting, engaging
and retaining under-represented
and marginalised groups, and
whether our representation is
proportionate throughout all levels
of the organisation. Encouraging
your teams to keep their ‘about
you’ data in SuccessFactors up to
date helps us track our success and
identify areas of opportunity. The
‘Personal Information’ data shared
by an employee in SuccessFactors
will never be used to identify that
individual. It is only ever reported at
organisational level and is used by
the ED&l team for analysis, to track
success and to identify opportunities.

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook
POL00448664
POL00448664

Curiosity

Because you want to
get to know different
perspectives and cultures.

Bravery

Because you know
challenging bias

and behaviours is
uncomfortable.

Commitment

Because nothing can be
changed until you face
into it.

Empathy
Because you can
understand and share the
feelings of others.

Professionalism

Because you're authentic
and you know what
shadow you cast.

Influence

Because you can
amplify the voices of
those who don’t fit the
same mould.
Allyship is the act of using your voice and
your actions to identify and address the
oppression, biases and barriers that people
from across different communities experience.

Being an ally means advocating for people and
communities that experience continued marginalisation
and under-representation due to their identities — these
people may include disabled people, people from the
LGBTQ+ community, religious groups, people of different
ethnic backgrounds and women professionals.

Allyship is a role that we must actively engage in, either
visibly or behind the scenes. If we want to call ourselves
allies, we must commit to taking an active role in doing

the work — even when it feels difficult or uncomfortable.

POL00448664
POL00448664

We as leaders, mentors, sponsors, team members,
colleagues and friends must commit to being better allies
if we truly want to create workplaces and a society that
are inclusive and equitable.

Allyship may seem daunting, but our solidarity makes

a difference. Every drop in the ocean matters when it
comes to creating more inclusive workplaces and a more
inclusive society.

This is an excellent video to help you understand why
allyship is important

Language
that belongs

The things we say — and the words
we choose ~ are vital to helping
people feel part of our team.

Language is always evolving, so what's inclusive today
may change tomorrow. For that reason, we can’t give you
a specific list of dos and don'ts, but here are a few things
to be mindful of:

Acronyms can be confusing

These can be hard for people outside your team to
understand, and they may be uncomfortable to speak up
and ask what you really mean.

Try not to use jargon

It can create difficulties for those whose first language
isn’t English, while people with autism may interpret
things very literally.

Try not to make assumptions

If the person you're talking to says they are in a
relationship, say ‘partner’ instead of assuming they have
a boyfriend, girlfriend, husband or wife.

‘Guys’

If there are people in your team who you know this

offends, or you're addressing large audiences,
use terms like ‘everyone’ or ‘folks’.

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook

POL00448664
POL00448664

It’s okay to say...

Black, Asian, gay, lesbian, Muslim and Jewish when
talking about people, if it’s relevant and in the
right context.

He/she/they

When referring to a specific person whose gender
pronoun you know, it’s okay to use ‘he’, ‘she’ or ‘they’. If
not, it’s okay to ask which they prefer.

Try not to downplay the impact of mental health

Terms like OCD, bipolar, psycho or schizo have a negative
connotation; psychopathic tendencies and schizophrenia
are real illnesses that people experience and you never
know what someone is going through.

We won't always get it right — but it's okay to
make mistakes

There is no one-size-fits-all approach and personal
preferences will vary. If we are in any doubt, we just need
to ask what people prefer.

Use inclusive visuals

Post Office Marketing team has a set of inclusive visuals

that can be used for presentations and posters. Use these
to ensure that everyone feels represented.

ps
Behaviours that
don't belong

Non-inclusive behaviours and microaggressions 6.

At the heart of an inclusive workplace is respect
and trust. It means that we understand we can be

our authentic selves (within reason, workplaces are ;

also a place of compromise) without fear of reprisal,
judgement or negative consequences. There are many
ways for leaders to demonstrate inclusive workplace
behaviours. If practised consistently, these inclusive
workplace behaviours foster a professional environment

where people feel valued, recognised and heard. These 8.

positive behaviours create a working environment that
contributes to business success. There are, however,
some behaviours that are not inclusive. This may not be

intentional, however they can have a lasting impact on 9

the people they touch — always be aware of how your
behaviours could be interpreted.

Examples of non-inclusive workplace behaviour:

1. Blaming others for difficulties and not shining
the light on your own communication styles
and behaviours.

2. Inappropriate tone of voice. Aggressive, patronising,
condescending or sneering tone of voice.

3. Inattentive listening. Interrupting, talking over,
criticising in public. On email the ‘cc’ button is
something that is sometimes used to publicly
humiliate or shame someone by including managers
and peers unnecessarily. Not paying attention,
multitasking when talking to someone.

4, Making assumptions before checking the facts.
Ask ‘open questions’ to get behind the issue.
Another behaviour which tends to follow this is
making accusations. “You are always late. You are
lazy and not interested in this job.” Try “You seem
to be struggling with timekeeping. What's going on
for you?”

5. Playing favourites. Not treating people the
same, based on race, religion, gender, size, age,
personality, country of origin, or even personal
preference. Consistency is very important to an
inclusive workplace.

POL00448664
POL00448664

Hi-jacking someone else’s idea. Taking credit for
someone else's work and passing it off as your own.
Even worse is to own the idea and let the originator
do the hard work!

Any kind of harassment or bullying. Bullying,
teasing or harassment based on differences
in race, religion, gender, body size and shape,
age, personality, country of origin, or even
personal preference.

Verbal abuse. Name calling, shouting, verbal abuse
and insulting others. Not following basic etiquette
~ saying please or thank you. It is always the small
things that make a difference.

Unfiltered comments or jokes. Making jokes or
remarks related to difference whether this is race,
religion, gender, size, age or country of origin. In a
multicultural setting, speaking in a language that
others may not understand.

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook
10

10.

11.

12

13.

14,

Command and control supervision. Micromanaging:
not giving a person autonomy to manage their

own workload or trusting them to meet deadlines.
Assigning unrealistic deadlines rather than
collaborating to reach mutual agreement.

Indirect communication. Gossiping or creating
rumours: not dealing with issues directly via
constructive communication, but discussing
behind closed doors or around the water cooler.
Undermining someone's reputation with hints
and innuendo.

Excluding or ignoring. Withholding information that
would help a person be successful, cutting them out
of email chains or meetings. A lack of transparency
can be a power play to create insecurity and
manipulate. This is a form of psychological abuse.

Criticising more than you praise. Not receiving
recognition is a common factor for burnout.

Inconsiderate scheduling. Organising events outside
core hours at times which will impact a specific
demographic e.g. breakfast meetings which may
impact parents.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

POL00448664

POL00448664

Inappropriate social events. Holding team events
with themes that will negatively impact a specific
demographic e.g. rock climbing could impact
older workers or the physically less able, going

to the pub could impact people with ‘no alcohol’
religious beliefs.

Being a bystander. Failing to intervene and stage an
upstander intervention when a specific incident takes
place. Allowing contentious issues to fester.

Letting ego win. Focusing on symbols or
wording of communication which overtly displays
personal authority.

Creating division not cohesion. Playing colleagues
off against each other for stretch assignments or
results. Using uncertainty to manipulate.

Not respecting other people's time. Being late

for meetings and talking over others. Not taking
personal responsibility: blaming the system, others or
the hierarchy.

POL00448664
POL00448664

Ask yourself the
right questions

You can interrupt your natural bias by SEPARATE FACTS FROM ASSUMPTIONS

checking yourself until it becomes a natural

part of the way you think and act. If you make assumptions you're missing half the story.

When making decisions about projects, promotions or

Here are some techniques you can adopt and questions _— People, ask yourself:

you can ask yourself to challenge your bias and check

whether you're being as inclusive as you can be: e ‘What do I actually know about this person?’ as
opposed to ‘What's my feeling about them?’

SUBSTITUTE ¢ What facts from their experience can you use to make
your decision?

In your mind, swap one person for another and ask e Do you make assumptions about what parents want

yourself if you would feel and respond in the same way: from a career, or what they're able to do?

* Would I be saying the same thing about a man?
* Would I be thinking this if they worked full-time?

SWITCH UP YOUR PERSONAL NETWORKS

List the top three people at Post Office who you would go
to for advice or if you had a work related issue:

Do they look or think like you?

* Do you actively seek out points of view different to
yours, or is it too inconvenient?

Who could you go to instead?

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook
POL00448664
POL00448664

12

Inclusive hiring

You have biases - we all do. It’s natural. That’s
why we need to recognise it, then challenge it.

There are many types of unconscious bias - below
are the biases that are most common during the
interview process:

STEREOTYPING When we assume
something of a person because they belong
to a group.

HALO/HORN When we allow one strong
point about the candidate to overshadow or
influence everything else they say.

AFFINITY When we have a more favourable
opinion because the person is like us.

CONTRAST When a stronger candidate
interviews after a relatively weaker candidate
and appears stronger than they actually are.

RECENCY When we recall the most
recently interviewed candidates because
our brains are hardwired to remember the
newest details.

To help you think more about inclusivity when hiring, ask
yourself these questions before you begin:

« Which stages of the process could bias
creep through?

«Have I already got in mind the type of person I'm
looking for?

e Am I placing too much value on someone who will fit
into the team the easiest?

« AmItrying to find someone like the person who was
in the role before?

e Do! automatically dismiss candidates because
of their education, previous employers or
industry experience?

e¢ How will! challenge the recruitment team to shortlist
candidates I would usually not consider?

For some more information on unconscious (and
conscious) bias during the interview process, article one
and article two are two good sources to get you started.

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook

Ways to create an
inclusive interview

Inclusion is a shift in mindset;
a determination to be a better
ally and to do better every day.

Our recruitment team works hard

to present a balanced shortlist of
candidates whenever possible —- we
ask you to consider one or two of the
questions listed below when you are
interviewing potential employees.
These questions highlight cultural
beliefs and differences and give you
a better idea of your candidates’
overall motivation and goals.

We encourage you to ask one or
two of the questions below towards
the end of the interview. Remember
to ask the same questions to all
your candidates.

« What personal values are most
important to you?

* Describe what you consider an
ideal work culture

e Describe your understanding of
diversity and inclusion and how
it's related to this position

* Describe your experience
with diversity and inclusion in
previous companies.

* How have you strived to make
others feel included in your day-
to-day role?

e Describe an example in your
previous work experience
where you have worked with a
diverse team?

e Describe a situation where
you helped resolve an issue
or conflict related to diversity
and inclusion

« Can you tell me about a time
when you were an advocate for
diversity and inclusion at your
previous company?

« How would you approach
advocating for a more
diverse and inclusive working
environment with a colleague
who did not appreciate
its importance?

POL00448664
POL00448664

Here are some tips to help you create an inclusive interview:

DO:

Bias plays a part in how receptive
we are — be aware.

Pair with an interview partner
who is different from you.

Pairing with an interview partner
who looks or thinks differently

to yourself can help balance

our biases.

Focus on consistency

The interview should be the same
for every candidate, regardless of
their gender, race, age or disability.
Ask the same set of questions

and use their answers in a scoring
system to see whose abilities most
closely match the job description.

Think about neurodiversity
Everyone's brain works in different
ways. Allow time for people

to process information and be
flexible in your approach.

You represent our external brand,
you are the ambassador

That means you're one of the first

people they'll see, so you represent
and influence our brand.

‘DON'T:

Don't ask multiple questions
at once.

Overloading them with too much
to think about may not draw their
best response.

Don’t assume

Just because they don't think the
same way that you do doesn't
mean they'll be difficult to work
with. Make efforts to put them
at ease.

Don’t ask for their previous salary

Under-represented people are
paid less, and remember that job
titles and salaries do not always
reflect the level of experience
someone has. The recruiter and
role review process will establish
that role requirements and salary
expectations match.

Don’t hire for ‘Culture Fit’

Hire for ‘Culture Add’ — who
could give a different perspective,
or help us push the Post Office
values even further?

That means you get to decide who
helps us reach our goals — not just
now but in the future too.

For more information on
Post Office recruitment and
processes please refer to the
Post Office Recruitment Hub.

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook
POL00448664

POL00448664
14
Being an inclusive leader
We're putting a lens over the key Here are some points to help you reflect
decisions you make so we can be on your inclusive de n-making:
transparent about our inclusivity.
If you've ever questioned why someone was hired or How do you make decisions on:
promoted, it’s because you're looking for meaning and
the values behind the decisions that were made. As a FLEXIBILITY?
leader, we need to anticipate those questions and be 7 ; , -
sure we challenged the bias that gets in the way of us * Have you ever provided flexible working options
considering different options, and involving different for new roles or promotions?
groups of people, when making our decisions. Ultimately, * Are you a role model for flexibility?
the process behind our actions needs to be crystal clear. * Can you give an example of when you've

helped someone progress by using a flexible
working pattern?

e Do you still think flexible working is only for people
like ‘working parents’?

Can you think of a time when you've left
the office to pick up your children or make a
personal appointment?

e Dovyou actively encourage days to work from
home?

When thinking about part-time workers in your
team, ask yourself: is it better to have some of
them than none of them?

«Be aware of the
policy which can be found on the PeopleHub

How do you make decisions on:
PAY & REWARD?

1. All management grade roles in Post Office are
evaluated and benchmarked against external
market data. Your People Partner can help ensure
that the Reward team are engaged to support
with this.

2. We aim to be a “median” payer in the market, but
we also consider the internal relativities within the
team, business unit and the grade band in general
when giving recommendations.

3. If in doubt or you want advice on an offer or a
salary review, speak to the Reward team or your
People Partner in the first instance.

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook
POL00448664

POL00448664

Amplifying talent

Our inclusive behaviour can help uncover
and express the hidden talents of others.

By understanding different groups of people, we

can discover qualities about them that we were not
previously aware of. This not only increases their
confidence and self-esteem, but it could unlock a talent
that helps you solve a problem.

Mentoring and Sponsorship are good ways that you can
make hidden talent visible.

Mentoring and Sponsorship:

Mentorship is a relationship where a more experienced
employee helps guide and shape another employee
with less experience. Mentors offer advice, guidance
and can be a sounding board for mentees, They

can help the individual make career decisions, work
through a challenge, or be a role model for you to
emulate. While mentorships have traditionally been a
relationship between two individuals, other forms of
mentoring can have the same benefits as a traditional
mentoring connection.

Sponsorship, in comparison, is a relationship between

a protégé and a person who has authority or influence
they can use to help them in their career development or
advancement. A sponsor is an individual who can open
up opportunities. They are not only more experienced,
but can lift you to a higher level in the company. It

can include talking to you about job opportunities,
nominating you for boards or projects, and advocating
for your advancement within the company to senior
leaders or decision-makers within the company.

MENTORING

Studies show that mentoring is key to unlocking
inclusion. Everyone gets a new perspective.

Do you mentor people who are like you? Are they within
your comfort zone or from a ‘familiar’ network?

It's hard to be what you can’t see. People from under-
represented groups may find it more challenging to
aspire to or put themselves forward for opportunities. Do
you mentor anyone from under-represented groups?

Who can you bring into important discussions, or
introduce to influential people, who wouldn't usually
get access?

SPONSORSHIP.

As a leader, you can use your influence to shape the
future of a hidden talent through sponsorship.

We've all heard statements like ‘They just need to get
themselves out there’. It's said with the best intentions,
but if we want others to recognise the talents we know
they have, we can do more to help, such as:

Speak their name when they’re not around
Share their career goals with people who matter
Recommend them for additional projects

Talk about what you've learned from them

Invite them to high profile meetings

Give them speaking slots

Endorse them publicly

Give credit for good work they have done

Why not set yourself a challenge and actively sponsor
one or two people. As stated above, it’s easy to do —
some examples include: speak about them in a positive
way, credit their work, recommend them to work on
special projects, invite them to leadership team meetings
to present on something they've delivered — in general,
be their ‘salesperson’.

t You can also refer to the Post Office Talent Hub
' for information on how to identify and develop
I internal talent.

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook
16

POL00448664
POL00448664

Practical ways that you can
be an inclusive leader

¢ Talk about ED&d in team meetings
- lived experiences
- unconscious bias
- why is equity important?
- inclusive policies at Post Office

«Encourage participation in our diversity
network groups

« Seta Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) objective
for your direct reports, this could be focused on
the environment, our charitable work or something
related to ED& (supporting the Post Office ED&d
Council or the networks, helping deliver change in the
business etc.)

Encourage your team to learn about and participate in
ED&I activities

«Establish a sense of belonging for everyone

e Bean empathetic leader — listen and support

« Forget about ‘fit’ and focus on helping
individuals thrive

«Learn to identify and eliminate microaggressions from
yourself and your team

«Allow the team time to get to know each other

st Office - Inclusion Playbook

What can you do to broaden your horizons?

Branch out and connect with colleagues who are
different from you. Make an effort to speak with
them and be more social with people outside of the
co-workers that you regularly interact with

Attend meetings or events that expose you to
members of different communities

Ask questions that get people to open up; this can
be as simple as listening and then responding with
a question that invites the other person to expand.
When you seem genuinely interested in other
people's lives, they are more likely to let their walls
down and show you their true selves

Consume different media. Look for podcasts, TV
shows, books and movies where the people involved
have different identities from you

Follow a diverse group of people on social media —
don't stick to the things that you already like and are
comfortable with

POL00448664
POL00448664

Further reflection

Does each person in your team get equal access to you?
Is your time driven by business demand or who you like
to spend time with?

Who gets promoted based on potential and who gets
promoted based on performance? Who's had to ‘prove it’
again and again?

Does one person get the benefit of the doubt over others?

Who gets the ‘glamour’ work that opens doors and
ignites careers? Who gets the unsung projects?

In conclusion

Remember that being an inclusive leader means that
you need to do something. It's not enough to read
through this booklet and nod your head in agreement;
good intentions are not enough. Why not re-read the
playbook and identify three or four things that you
know you can put into practice today? — formulate

in your head how you will make those changes and
start now.

Also consider that although many of the things you
have read may seem obvious, making changes to the
way you work, and to inclusion, is something that will
require daily practice until it becomes a habit. Stick
with it, you may make a life-changing difference to
someone in your team.

Make sure to communicate your commitments to your
team so they can support you with your actions and
share your objectives.

Everyone is different — and that's something we
value. Listening and being curious about different
perspectives is at the heart of making Post Office
more inclusive. Our approach is to act with better
intent when we think about our future pipelines, so
managers are encouraged to reflect on their bias that
can get in the way of a fair process.

We aren't asking people to dramatically change

who they are. We just ask that they reflect on and
challenge their behaviours, work practices and
processes so we can be more inclusive. We appreciate
we won't see massive changes overnight - it will take
time to overcome societal barriers and challenges, but
nothing will change if we don't challenge ourselves to
‘be better’.

Do I always give credit to the actual person
who completed the task? Both when giving and
receiving praise.

Who are you nudging to put themselves forward for roles
and opportunities?

Do you always go to the same people to help solve
problems or present and own projects?

Do you know more about some people in your team than
others i.e. birthday, family and partners, interests?

a fF

Post Office - Inclusion Playbook
POL00448664

POL00448664

Ben Spencer-White
