A

cy

Reference information

Death in Service

POL00005776

POL00005776

Policy type Death in Service
Ref.
Date 13" January 2016
Status Draft
Author Sarah Ryan, Contract and Policy Advisor
Owner Paul Inwood, Contract _and Policy Manager
Policy type Contractual
Version 12" February 2016
authorisatio
n date
Review Date _I 6 months after release
Expiry Date _I N/A
Key John Breeden, Stewart Swabey, Jason Collins, Richard Darby, Keith
stakeholders I Bridges, Ann Marie Woodcraft
Approval
Da
Business John Breeden, Stewart Swabey, Jason Collins, 22”
input Richard Darby, Keith Bridges, Ann Marie Woodcraft, Januar
Kjetil Fuglestad y 2016
Assurance I Paul Inwood 12°
Februar
y 2016
Authorised I Paul Inwood 12"
Februar
y2016

Page 1 of 5

F2/92/1
SUBJECT: Death in Servi

PART 1

1.0 Glossary of terms used in this Policy.

Word/term Definition

Postmaster An individual, company or partnership contracting with
Post Office Ltd on a Traditional Contract or Main / Local
Agreement.

Appointment Post Office Ltd.’s process for considering the application

Process and business plan of potential Post Office Postmasters.

Company A Local Post Office® or Main Post Office® Operator

Operator contracted to Post Office Ltd as a company.

HRSC Human Resources Service Centre.

Network A Government investment programme to modernise the

Transformation network of Post Offices around the United Kingdom,
including the introduction of new Post Office Operating
Models.

Operating This term refers to the contract type that applies at the

Models branch and includes, but not is exclusive to SPDO, MSPO,
IFPO, Local Post Office, Main Post Office, Hosted.

Operator An individual, company or partnership responsible for the
operation of a Local or Main branch under an NT
Agreement.

Traditional Contract for the operation of Post Office branches, except

Contract the new model Local and Main agreements. Traditional
contracts include:
Subpostmasters Contract; Community Subpostmasters
Contract; Modified Subpostmasters Contract; Franchise
Agreement; Franchise Independent Retailer Agreement;
Satellite contract; Outreach Agreements; Company
Operated Contract; Local Funded; PayStation Direct
Settlement; PO Essential or Temporary Subpostmasters
Contract

2.0 Introduction and purpose

In circumstances where an Postmaster dies in service, Post Office Ltd.’s (POL) practice
has been to allow the branch to transfer to a suitable family member, subject to the
resolution of the estate and / or probate issues. Generally this will follow the appointment
of a Temporary Postmaster to maintain customer service whilst the estate and / or
probate issues are resolved. The Temporary Postmaster will often, but not exclusively be
a family member, prior to the resolution happening, and all parts of the Temporary
Postmaster Appointment Process still need to be fulfilled. e.g. credit and ID checks etc.
Individual Postmasters and their families have no right of assignment of the Post Office,

therefore any decision on transfer will always be at the discretion of POL.

POL00005776
POL00005776

F2/92/2
POL00005776
POL00005776

PART 2
3.0 Communications with family

Whilst Post Office Ltd should remain sympathetic and mindful of the needs of the family, it
is important to discuss the options available to the family and to put a substantive
contract in place at the appropriate time.

When alerted to the death of an individual who is a Postmaster, the Contract Advisor or
Field team should contact the Human Resource Service Centre to establish the next of kin
and the contact details of the deceased.

Whilst in some cases the family may proactively contact Post Office Ltd to resolve the
temporary solution quickly, in other cases Post Office Ltd.’s Contract and Field Teams may
need to make contact with the family.

The following timescales should be used by Post Office Ltd Contract and Field Teams as a
guide. The Contract Advisor (CA) should determine from the facts of each case, when it is
the appropriate time to contact the next of kin. It is imperative that before any contact is
made the Field Teams and CA’s liaise together to ensure the family are only contacted on
singular occasions i.e. we should not contact them more than once to determine the same
thing.

e within 6 months* of the death in service — initial contact is made with the family by the
CA by telephone to check on the position and determine if they are ready to discuss
making the temporary contract substantive in cases where the temporary Postmaster
now possesses the valid property interest as an outcome of probate.

¢ within 12 months* after death in service - further contact is made by the CA with the
family by telephone to check on the position and advise that Post Office Ltd wish to
discuss the options available for the branch. This should be followed up in writing.

e within 18 months* after death in service - further contact is made by the CA with the
family by telephone to check on the position and advise that Post Office Ltd wish the
family to formally consider the options available for the branch. This should be followed up
in writing.

*These timescales are a guide and are dependent on the individual
circumstances of each case. Consideration should also be given to the wishes of
the family, in the event the estate prefer to progress matters quickly.

4.0 Family Transfer following death of Postmaster

The family transfer concession as a consequence of a death in service, is best
summarised as a supportive gesture by POL towards a Postmasters family. The
Postmasters family should be offered the opportunity to have the Post Office
transferred to a family member, subject to their suitability. The family transfer policy
should be consulted once the family have made their decision.

Generally POL will allow the Family Transfer to take place on the same terms and

Operating Model; however once POL have been advised of the desire for a Family
Transfer to take place, there should be a discussion with the planning team to discuss

F2/92/3
POL00005776
POL00005776

whether the branch can transfer to a new NT model with the agreement of the
incoming Postmaster. Proper consideration should be given in Death in Service cases
and POL should not seek to impose a contract / model change as a consequence of a
death in service.

Discussions can then begin with the new prospective Postmaster as to their options.

It should be noted that the opportunity for a Family Transfer following a death in
service is not available to Company Operators of new model Agreements, as there
are other ways for the company to manage these events. If the legal entity is a
partnership and one of the partners dies, the Partnership is dissolved, therefore
Family Transfers do not apply to partnerships.

For further information on our family transfer policy please refer to the appropriate
policy document.

5.0 Death in Service during Network Transformation

Throughout the Network Transformation Programme there may be occasions where a
Postmaster dies during the transformation process. Whilst all cases must be dealt
with sensitively, it is imperative that communication is sent by the field team (FCA or
AM) to all NT team inboxes to ensure that no further communications are sent to the
deceased or the deceased family.

In all cases the Network Transformation Team will continue to consider cases for Post
Office Ltd Investment and Network Transformation Leavers Payments in line with
Network Transformation policy and on a case by case basis, taking into account the
prior views of the deceased Postmaster and that of the family.

Depending on the stage in the process and the previously elected option by the
Postmaster, the following may need to be considered:

- Contact with the PNO to advise of the current position

- Whether the CRP has been signed and returned

- If no CRP has been signed or returned (simple indication to leave)

- Whether the conversion process has begun

- Whether the PNO has already been appointed

- Whether a new Agreement has been signed by the PNO/converting Postmaster

6.0 Premises

After a death in service, it is important that the ownership and control of the premise
in which the Post Office branch and any associated retail business is considered by
the Contract Advisor, so that any decision in relation to a property interest can be
considered at an early stage.

F2/92/4
POL00005776
POL00005776

In ordinary circumstances it would be expected that the incoming Postmaster would
have full control of the premises, in order that they can discharge all of the
obligations contained in their contract. Where the outgoing Postmaster has had
control of the entire premises, we would expect the incoming Postmaster to exert the
same degree of control. As an example, in most cases it would not be acceptable for
one family member to be appointed as the Postmaster whilst another assumed
control of the premises or retail business.

In the event that the incoming Postmaster was proposing to continue an existing third
party arrangement, it is important that the Contract Advisor understands its nature,
and that it is made clear who has control of the premises and that this is recorded in
writing in the appointment papers.

7.0 Rel: lici

This section details policies that may be related to the information provided in this policy.
This is not an exhaustive list and consideration should be given to other policies that may

apply.

Family transfers

Advertising Vacancies
Appointment Process
Appointment of Temporary Agents

F2/92/5
