POLO0101174
POL00101174

Message
From: Paula Vennells,
on behalf of — Paula Vennel:
Sent:
To:

ce:
Subject:

GRO i

Belinda, thank you for letting me know.

This is not unexpected. Indeed we were preparing our complementary report as you said. We shall just need to move
straight to your third bullet point scenario. The SS report even if redrafted was as I understand it, always going to need a
PO report to go out with it. My single-minded ambition now that we have most of the reports in, is to move through
them as fast and steadily as possible. This at least moves in that direction.

The other areas you raise are the right ones: let's see what advice emerges. And I am happy for you and Chris to decide
what the subsequent action should be. Keep Mark in the loop; and if you need someone more senior - Alice

My only other thought is as you have always done, that you keep BIS fully briefed but additionally, try to get a sense of
what the minister's view is.

Thanks again,
Paula

Sent from my iPhone

On 15 Aug 2014, at 16:03, "Belinda Crowe’ ‘

Hi Paula

Further to our discussion last night, Tony has asked me to email the Working Group to say that he has
decided that Second Sight is to complete its Part 2 report next week and it should then be sent to
applicants. He is not prepared to have a further Working group discussion about it.

I must email the Working Group as Tony suggests even though it is against what Post Office would want
as a process. If I don’t he will and that would jeopardise my position as secretariat and undermine Post
Office’s position.

I think we can assume that the report will not improve (or at least we should plan on that basis)
therefore the actions I am considering include:

e  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Writing to Second Sight about the quality of the work and
reserve our legal position in terms of considering whether they are in breach of their terms of
engagement (I am awaiting advice and a draft letter)

e  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Putting down a marker to the Working Group that PO does
not agree the Report or the issue of it in its current state

e  <!--[if !supportLists]--><![endif]-->Complete our ‘rebuttal’ of the Report in a format that can go
to applicants and how and when to disclose that to applcants.

I will consider (with Chris Day — with whom I have spoken and he is supportive of the steps being taken
so far) the options/plan when I have all the pieces early next week and how best to execute the plan.

Please also note that Second Sight have passed a copy of our letter and comments on Part Two to
JFSA. Comms are engaged on all of this.

This is just a very high level update. Please let me know if you wish to discuss.

POL-0100757
POLO0101174
POL00101174

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0100757
