RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

BA/POCL Programme Delivery Authority Beard
Minutes of the Board Meeting 21 August 1997

Attendees

Alec Wylie: SSAQND Chair

George McCorkell: BA

Paul Rich: POCL

Peter Crahan: PDA

Bruce McNiven: PDA

John Bennett: ICL Pathway

Mike Coombs: ICL Pathway

Jill Watson: PDA Secretary

I Minutes and Matters Arising

11 The minutes of the meeting of 15 July 1997 were agreed as a correct record.

1.2 The actions from the previous meeting were reviewed and the following points
were made in discussion:

L240 A/PI}

collation of full details and resolution of the issues to the next PDA Board
meeting.

Mr Bennett told the meeting that some post offices needed work by the
Regional Electricity Boards (REBs). This work was managed by Pathway.
Pathway were currently in discussion with 12 REBs and were close to
agreement regarding the work to be done. Discussions would be concluded
within two weeks. This would not affect the installation plan but would be
factored into implementation plans for next year.

1.2.1.1 Mr Bennett updated the meeting on the position regarding post offices which

did not have International Subscriber Data Network (ISDN). The latest figures
show that 85% of post offices have ISDN which shows that the number of
non-ISDN outlets was underestimated at 5% of the total.

1.2.1.2 British Telecom (BT) are committed to installing ISDN where a gap exists,

however a small percentage may never have ISDN. The aim was to narrow the
gap from 85% installed to 90% plus installed

1.2.1.3 Technical solutions were being pursued for non-ISDN outlets. There were two

options under consideration. A Public Subscriber Telephone Network (PSTN)

POL00028311
POL00028311
RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

solution and a satellite solution. The final solution could be either of these or a
combination of the two and would not be known until the end of the year.

1.2.1.4 it was pointed out that 100% of post offices had to be automated. One option
would be to pressurise BT to provide ISDN nation-wide and POCL offered to
lobby BT on Pathway's behalf, if necessary.

1.2.2 AlP2i} ition i
Procedures (EVP) to the next meeting.
Mr Crahan reported that little progress had been made since the last meeting.
The issue would have to be escalated and resolved by the next PDA Board.
The Pathway proposal was to withdraw fil EVP from the contents of Release
2. The Release Contents Document (RCD) for Release 2 and therefore the
replan could not be signed off until the EVP issue was resolved. The current
dates did not include full EVP.

1.2.2.1 Mr MeCorkell stated that the EVP issue must be finalised by the end of
August to inform his submission to ministers.

Action Point 1: Mr Crahan and Mr Bennett to ensure that plans for
Release 2 include the provision of adequate EVP capability.

1.2.3 A/P 4: Mr Bennett to report back to the Board on ICL Pathway proposals to
Mr Bennett explained that CFM provided support for ICL. First and second
Line support was carried out through bases at Stevenage and Kidgrove, third
and fourth line support from a secure site in Belfast.

1.2.3.1 As the position stabilised and less third and fourth line support was needed,
homeworking could be an option as it was more cost-effective. Mr McCorkell
expressed reservations about access to the systems from home. Mr Bennett
said that the homeworking option was still being debated and security was a
major consideration. Homeworking would not take place until September 1998
at the earliest and Mr Bennett would keep the Board informed of progress.

2 Updates

2.1. PDA Mr Crahan reported that there were no major service issues. OBCS was
installed in 155 post offices and 198 were planned for mid-September. It was
agreed that 198 was not an ideal number and that, as a minimum, 200 outlets
were required.

Action Point 2: Mr McNiven to investigate the possibility of including
additional post offices,

2.1.1 The beat rate was queried because, after initial improvement, only five post
offices had been automated in the last month. Pathway explained that they

POL00028311
POL00028311
213

2.414

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

were now coming to more difficult post offices which had increased lead in
times. There was a six week delay in ordering some components plus the two
weeks notice required if the post office had to be closed. POCL stressed that
200 post offices must be automated by mid-October as further delays would he
enibarrassing.

Action Point 3: Mr McNiven to obtain the detail of each post office
remaining to be automated.

The aim was to sign off Release le (Congo 4) on 13 October 1997. A
checkpoint meeting had been held on 14 August 1997 which was very
sucvessful. The next meeting would be to bottom out Releases le and 2 and to
decide whether Release 1c would go to 200 outlets or whether to fall back on
contingency arrangements. The criteria were, as a minimum:

~ it is fit to support 1400 card payments;

~ itis usable in post offices;

~ it supports CAPS release 2.2; and

- it provides a suitable platform for migration.

Mr Crahan updated the Board with regard to Model Office Rehearsal Phase 2
{MOR(2)) which started on Monday 18 August. It failed because of set up
difficulties and Model Office Testing (MOT) was cancelled. It was agreed to
restart MOR(2) on 20 August 1997, MOR(2) was restarted as planned but time
had been lost. [5 days were allowed for MOR(2) which included 4 days
contingen: time would be recovered by working the weekend and the
Bank Holiday. Pathway were to hold a post mortem to find out what went
wrong.

The next phase of Security Testing was scheduled to be completed by 29
September which was very close to MOT. Pathway assured the Board that it
would be completed in time.

2.4.4.1 Mr Crahan reported that Pathway’s proposals for descoping security

requirements from Release Ic had been received. Fraud and Security Group
accepted that, in isolation, the proposals might not prejudice delivery of
Release Ic to 200 outlets. The Security Review Panel and the PDA Board still
needed to be convinced.

2.1.4.2 It was pointed out te Pathway that the Security Review Panel and the Board

would need to know when the other components would be available and that
Release 2 was the latest acceptable date. Also Pathway would need to be able
to assure the PDA that data cleansing procedures were in place to ensure that
any security breaches during the period of unrestricted access were rectified.

POL00028311
POL00028311
RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

2.1.4.3 lt was pointed out that BA Security or Mr McCorkell could recommend that

any solution is reviewed by the BA Chief Accounting Officer. If he is not
prepared to accept the solution, more delays could result.

Action Point 4: Mr Coombs to evaluate the possibility of eliminating the
risks and to propose a solution within Release 2 timescales.

2.1.4.4 Mr Coombs pointed out that Pathway needed to know where the risks might

be and that he would need some input/data from the PDA.

2.1.4.5 The Chairman asked Pathway for the reasons for the problems with security.

Pathway stated that our requirements were very complex. The PDA disagreed,
stating that our requirements in the problem areas were very basic as per
BS7799, Information Security Management and the Departmental/POCL IT
Standards. PDA pointed out that the lack of Access Controls leaves the system
open and a statement would be required from Pathway as to how they would
mitigate against the risk. Mr Crahan reported that he had initiated an internal
review of security. Once complete (mid-September) he would discuss the
findings with Mike Coombs.

Action Point 5: Mr Crahan te discuss the findings of the internal review
of security with Mr Coombs.

2.1.4.6 It was agreed that Pathway's plans for Release 2 were potentially deliverable

2.1.6

but tight. Prime options and fallback options were being discussed. The
problems were EVP and security. POCL also had problems with testing
especially Electronic Point of Sale System (EPOSS). Pathway reported that
their testing strategy was under review and agreed to pay particular attention to

Action Point 6: Mr Coombs te finalise the contents of Release 2 by the end
of August.

Mr MeNiven distributed a chart showing preparation/installation activities for
Release 1c and explained the timescales to Pathway. A copy of the chart is
attached to these minutes, The last post office needed to be installed by the 21
November because subsequent post office installations would not start until
January.

Mr Crahan reported that the NAO visited the Programme on 17 August and
the meeting went well. NAO wanted to do a “Value for Money” study
involving a comprehensive review of the Programme. Their report would
eventually be placed in the House of Commons Library and with the Public
Accounts Conmnittee. The initial meeting was to explain the difficulties
involved because of the special nature of the Programme, ie multiple business
cases, private sector and POCL involvement etc. NAO would return at the end
of September with ideas for the scoping of a feasibility study and the Board
would be updated then.

POL00028311
POL00028311
217

2.3

23.4

24

244

24.2

POL00028311
POL00028311

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

POCL raised the resourcing of Management Infrastructure Briefings (MIBs)
and it was agreed to take this forward at the meeting with Pathway scheduled
for next week to take preparation issues forward. POCL pointed out that they
would have to be aware of any matters which required escalating by mid-
September.

CAPS Mr McCorkell confirmed that Vince Gaskell had taken over from Jane
Rintoul as CAPS Programme Manager. The Programme was on target but he
stressed the difficulties of working in the replan environment.

POCL Mr Rich reported that the Post Office's top objectives had now been
revised because a target of 5000 post offices would not be hit. More emphasis
was now being placed on Live Trial and quality rather than speed.

The organisational shift from the PDA was underway with plans to migrate
implementation to POCL. A National Implementation Manager had been
selected and the process to appoint Regional Implementation Managers
(RIMs) was due to start. Mr MeNiven was to assist with this and Mr Crahan
also offered to help if required. A meeting would be held early in September to
decide on the siting and resourcing of the returning functions.

The review of the Post Office instigated by the government to look at all
options for the Post Office was on-going. There was as yet, no end date for the
review, In addition a Select Committee hearing on Post Offices services was
expected shortly.

ICL Pathway Mr Bennett reported that 34 User Awareness events had been
completed and that these had been well received. In addition 700 staff had
been trained at 180 training events.

Pathway were conducting supplier readiness reviews to ensure that their
suppliers were in position to deliver, These were well advanced for Release 1c.

A task force was being set up to ensure that the supplier's systems were Year
2000 compliant. POCL mentioned that PDA should be instigating Year 200
testing. Any new systems were all Year 2000 compliant but it was possible
that old systems which were not, could be linked in. We would need to ensure
end-to-end conformance.

Action Point 7: Mr Crahan to examine end-to-end confidence.

Mr Coombs provided details of the reorganisation which had taken place at
Pathway, with the primary aim of strengthening the team. Mr Coombs would
provide an organisation chart to reflect the executive and co-ordinating roles
and to include a briefing on the main functions of the new arrangements and
how this has strengthened the team, for circulation with these minutes.
31

4.1

4.2

43

44

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

Action Point 8: Mr Coombs to provide a Pathway organisation chart to
reflect the executive and co-ordinating roles and to include a briefing on
the main functions of the new arrangements and how this has
strengthened the team, by Wednesday 27 August.

Status of Planning Activity

PDA planning activity had been covered under agenda item 2. Mr Rich
reported that POCL would be supplying a paper covering what they required
from Release 3.

Independent Review

Mr Wylie distributed two handouts covering progress to date, the terms of
reference and PA Consultants’ team and approach. A copy of the handouts is
attached to these minutes.

A first cut of the report would be available on 5 September and would be
copied to the PDA Board members for comment, Comments should be made
individually to PA Consulting, and copied to the other recipients by 12
September. Comments should be restricted to the facts and comprehensiveness
of the report.

The final report giving the main findings and recommendations would be
available in presentation form on 19 September and would be copied PDA and
PSC members. it would fall for discussion at the PDA Board meeting on 23
September followed by a presentation by PA Consulting to the PSC meeting
on 24 September.

Mr Crahan asked the meeting to agree an addition to the Press Line of 6
August, to cover the Independent Review. The following addition was agreed:

"The plans for the delivery of the next phase of the Programme are currently
being finalised and as is normal practice in a major programme of this nature,
will be subject to independent review."

Organisational Update

Mr MeNiven distributed a handout showing the key activities leading to the
Transition Plan and updated the meeting on progress. A copy of the handout is
attached to these minutes. The Stream 1 Key Activities were Business and
Technical Architecture, roll out, release management and migration of
functions back to POCL. There was a resource issue holding up the Technical
Architecture activity, but new people were coming in to resolve this. Stream 2
activities had already begun with the establishment ofa review team and a first
cut of likely numbers for the PDA.

POL00028311
POL00028311
6.2

63

“a

TA

8.1

$2

POL00028311
POL00028311

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

Business Architecture

Mr Meagher gave a presentation on Business Architecture and presented
Papers 14/97 and 15/97 to the Board. The slides are attached to these minutes.

Business Architecture was one of four main areas identified from work done
by Andersen Consulting and French Thornton on the future of the PDA, The
first phase of work had been completed and the next phase had started.

The Board agreed with the actions as set out on the final slide. Mr Meagher
agreed to give further presentations to CAPS in October.

Any Other Business

Mr McCorkell asked Pathway when he might expect a reply to his recent
request for how ICL proposed to address the commercial elements of the
replan, oveasioned by their slippage. Pathway stated that they were discussing
the issues with the ICL Board and then it would have to go to Keith Todd who
was currently on leave. Pathway promised a response by early September,
which would be copied to Peter Crahan and Paul Rich.

Action Peint 9: Mr Bennett to reply to Mr McCorkell’s request before the
next PDA Board meeting.

Time and Date of Next Meeting

‘The next meeting would take place on 23 September 1997, Pre-Board at
9.30am and the main Board at 1.00pm. The Board wished the venue to be
changed from Terminal House to King Edward Building.

Action Point 10: Secretariat to change the venue for the next PDA Board
meeting.

It was noted that the PSC was arranged for 24 September 1997 and that Mr
Todd would be out of the country on that date and therefore, unable to attend.
As the Independent Review was to be discussed at that PSC, the Board thought
it important that Mr Todd attend and the Secretariat was requested to examine
the possibility of changing the date to accommodate Mr Todd. The Board also
wished the venue to be changed from Longbenton to a London location, if
possible.

Action Point 11: Secretariat to examine the possibility of changing the
date of the PSC to one which Mr Todd can attend and te change the
venue to a London location.
