Agenda

POL00401628

POL00401628

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

Meeting: Risk and Compliance Committee
Date: 14 January 2020
Time: 14.00 - 17.00
Location: 0.05 Cloak Lane, Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y
9AQ
Present: Regular Attendees:

Alisdair Cameron (Chairman)

Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit)

Nick Read (CEO)

Mark Baldock (Head of Risk)

Ben Foat (General Counsel)

Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director)

Shikha Hornsey (Chief Information Officer)

Tom Lee (Head of Finance, Financial Accounting and
Controls)

Cathy Mayor (deputising for Debbie Smith)

David Parry (Senior Assistant Company Secretary)

Chrysanthy Pispinis (deputising for Owen Woodley)

Rob Wilkins (Portfolio Lead) - Item 3

Tony Jowett (Chief Information Security Officer) - Items
4,5

Meredith Sharples (Director, Telecoms) - Item 6.4

Barbara Brannon (Procurement Director) - Item 7

Andrew Goddard (Managing Director, Payzone) - Item 8

Mark Dixon (Head of Treasury, Tax & Insurance) ~ Item 9

Dan Zinner (Chief Transformation Officer) - Item 10

Sally Smith (Money Laundering Reporting Officer and Head
of Financial Crime) ~ Item 11

Tim Armit (Business Continuity Manager) - Item 12

Apologies:

Debbie Smith (Chief Executive, Retail)

Owen Woodley (Chief Executive, Financial Services,
Telecoms and Identity, Group Marketing, and Group Digital &
Innovation)

Lisa Cherry (Group HR Director)

Time Item Owner Action
14:00 1. Welcom in fili f_In' Chairman Noting

2. Previous Meetings Chairman
2.1 Minutes (07 November 2019) Approval
2.2 Action List Discussion
14:05 3. PCI-DSS Update - verbal update Shikha Noting
Horney (onward submission to ARC)
14:15 4. Cyber Security Tony Jowett Noting
(onward submission to ARC)
14:25 5. Policies for Approval Noting
(onward submission to ARC)
5.1 Cyber and Information Security Policy Tony Approval

Jowett

14:35 6. Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit

14:35 6.1 Risk Report Mark Noting
Baldock (onward submission to ARC)
14:50 6.2. Compliance Report Jonathan Noting
Hill (onward submission to ARC)

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

1 of 109
POL00401628

POL00401628
Agenda
15.05 6.3. Audit Report Johann Noting
Appel (onward submission to ARC)
15.20 6.4. PSD2 Implementation Meredith Noting
Sharples (onward submission to ARC)
15.35 7. Supplier Contracts out of Governance Barbara Noting
Brannon
15.45 8. Payzone Risk Report Andrew Noting
Goddard (onward submission to ARC)
15.55 9. Tax Update Mark Dixon Noting
(onward submission to ARC)
16.05 10. Transformation Offi han Dan Zinner Noting
(onward submission to ARC)
16.20 11. Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annual Sally Smith Noting
Report (onward submission to ARC)
16.40 12. Business Continuity Update Tim Armit Noting
(onward submission to ARC)
16.50 13. Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Chairman
Committee (ARC) meeting agenda 28
January 2020
16.55 14. Any other Business Chairman

2 of 109

Next RCC Meeting: Tuesday, 10 March 2020 at 14.00 to 17.00 in 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 2 Minutes and Actions Lists

POST OFFICE LIMITED RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Minutes of a Risk and Compliance (“RCC”) meeting held at
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
on 7 November 2019 at 13.00 pm

Present: Alisdair Cameron (Chair) (AC) Chief Financial Officer
Lisa Cherry (LC) Group HR Director (Interim)
Ben Foat (BF) General Counsel
Shikha Hornsey (SH) Group Chief Information Officer
Cathy Mayor (CM) Finance Director, Retail (deputising for Debbie Smith)
Chrysanthy Pispinis (CP) Post Office Money Director (deputising for Owen
Woodley)
In Johann Appel JA) Head of Internal Audit
Attendance:
Jenny Ellwood (JE) Risk Director
Jonathan Hill (JH) Compliance Director
Tom Lee (TL) Head of Finance, Financial Accounting and Controls
David Parry (DP) Senior Assistant Company Secretary
Barbara Brannon (BB) Procurement Director (item 3)
Tony Jowett (TJ) Chief Information Security Officer (item 4)
Apologies Mark Davies, Group Communications, Brand & Corporate Affairs Director, Debbie Smith, Chief Executive,

Retail, Owen Woodley, CE Financial Services & Telecoms

1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest Actions

1.1 AC opened the meeting. He requested papers be shortened, the minutes summarised, and advised that
papers would be taken as read.

1.2 The Directors declared that they had no new conflicts of interest in the matters to be considered at the
meeting in accordance with the requirements of section 177 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s
Articles of Association.

2. Minutes and Action Lists
2.1 The minutes of the RCC meeting held 3 September were APPROVED.
2.2 Progress on completion of actions as shown on the action log were NOTED.
3. Supplier Contracts out of Governance
3.1 The Committee noted the following significant contracts in the procurement pipeline:
3.2 SSK - this is an £800K annual support contract that continues to non-compliantly roll-over without a Action:
strategy and business case agreed to purchase new, replace ment and updated SSK machines. ACrequested CM/
a retail lead team decision is made to ensure the project does not continue to stall. Marketing
3.3. Brands/RAPP —this is an £1m contract extended in April 2019. Strategy, funding and a sourcing plan require Action:
agreement. To avoid stalling, AC advised IT & Marketing to agree a date for tender before the next RCC SH/
meeting in January 2020. Marketing
3.4 Global Payments - this is a £10m contract for retail and digital payments processing which is due to expire
in May 2020. An extension will be required whilst POL tenders for, and migrates to a new provider. The
business is indicating that a two year extension would be requested with contractual termination for
convenience negotiated to allow movement to a new contract/new provider at its earliest convenience.
3.5 The Chair reminded the Committee of POL’s obligation to adhere to the Public Contract Regulations 2015
and requested the requirement for tighter controls on contracts management be re-iterated in team
meetings.
4. PCI-DSS Update

Strictly Confidential Page 1of3

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance C:

01/20 3 of 109
Tab 2 Minut

41

4.2

43

5.2

5.3

6.1

6.2

6.3

6.4

65

6.7

6.8

6.9

6.10

6.11
6.12

6.13

6.14

4 of 109

nd Actions Lists

SH advised that she had met with Ingenico in Paris, where they had expressed their challenges in dealing
with the bespoke product POL required. She expected to receive final pricing and deadlines at the end of
this week (08/11/2019) which would be circulated.
Due to the devices in the field requiring a software update once the software had been accredited by QCS
(Quality Control Systems), she did not expect compliance to be completed until Q1 2021. The software
update would take a day at most to complete.
The Committee noted POL’s bespoke solutions but advised the report should more clearly articulate the
reason for the extension in compliance. It was noted that the banks and ARC had been advised compliance
would be in December 2020.
Cyber Security
TJ reported he was relatively comfortable with the progress made in implementing the Deloitte audit
recommendations, of the improved cyber security, and the improved approach to joiners movers and
leavers. He had concerns with 3 party disaster recovery testing and the culture of ineffective password
controls being used on personal laptops, PCs and devices.
He advised he would like to test maturity with POL’s systems and 3 ™ party vendors by completing a major
incident test such as a ransomware attack.
The following was AGREED:

1. A major incident test be completed with findings reported to the Committee.

2. Joiners/movers/leavers — to review whether contractors who no longer work for POL have been

removed from POL emails and systems.
3. Joiners/movers/leavers - A routine cycle of checking third party access to be implemented.
4. _Joiners/movers/leavers - IA to review end to end process of joiners/mover/leavers as part of the
2020/2021 1A audit plan.

Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update
Risk
The top risks of PCI, IT Technology and interruption, People, Business Continuity, Payzone and Brexit were
noted. The following points were discussed.
Payzone (paragraph 1.6 of the report) - CM (as a Board member of Payzone) remarked that Payzone was
happy with the risk framework/controls now in place and noted that Payzone had a dedicated POL risk
partner.
PCI Compliance (paragraph 1.3 of the report) — the project remained “Red” overall against current plan.
SH agreed with this observation.
IDS Digital Identity (paragraph 1.16 of the report) — the project is six months behind schedule [post meeting
note JE — this project is now nine months behind schedule]. AC requested the wording be reviewed and
questioned whether the project should be reviewed at the Investment Committee.
Compliance
The following points were raised:
Review of Cookie approach (paragraph 2.9 of the report) - recent ICO guidelines advised that companies
could no longer rely on implied consent when placing ccokies on websites. JH advised this would reduce
POL's ability to use customer data held. Expressed consent must now be given.
National Lottery and scratch cards (paragraph 2.26) — tighter controls have been introduced by the
Gambling Commission regarding the sale of gambling products to vulnerable customers. An agreed
approach with the National Lottery is required.
Mystery Shopping (paragraphs 2.33 - 2.34 of the report) — results continued to be poor, a stronger message
to non-compliant sites is required. AC sought ways to improve standards.
Super Complaint — AC sought and received an update of the current position. Pricing papers would be
presented to GE in December and were being reviewed against Ofcom’s fairness principles.
The Law and Trends forum continued to horizon scan for any legal/regulatory updates that may affect POL.
Internal Audit
The following points were raised:
Purchase to Pay — controls around POL spend management have improved, but it is still heavily manual
and requires an upgrade.
Payzone Control Environment — the control environment has improved over the last year and is for
purpose, however when looked at overall, the control environment “needs improvement”.
Data and Analytics Excellence (Programme Assurance) — AC advised the management comment would be
reviewed for clarity.

Strictly Confidential Page 2 of 3

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance C:

POL00401628
POL00401628

Action:

SH

Action:
wu
Dz/Lc

TW

To do:

Action:
AC/SH
Tab 2 Minut

6.15
6.16

7A

7.2

7.3

74

75

9.2

9.3
10.
10.1
10.2
10.3

11.
11.

12.

2B.
23.1

14.

nd Actions Lists

SGEI Validation — initial feedback/challenge from UKGI had now resolved.
The current audit plan was progressing well and on track.

Contract Management

As previously discussed in the meeting, the Committee recognised the importance of better contracts
management and POL’s obligations under the Public Contract Regulations 2015.

BF explained a contract management framework would be introduced to improve rigour using a
decentralised model placing accountability on relationship managers for a contra cts journey.

‘AC sought to understand whether appropriate funding had been approved, whether POL should introduce
contract managers, and whether a discussion on cultural change should be held by GE before the
framework was implemented.

CM also questioned whether contract management should be a work objective for senior managers as she
did not believe this was an appropriate objective for senior managers.

It was AGREED a discussion on contract management would be held at GE.

Accountable Person
AC explained that Nick Read, as the accountable person (AP) under the terms of the Her Majesty's
Treasury's (“HMT’s”) Managing Public Money (“MPM”) principles, was the person responsible for
governance, decision making and financial management of POL. (They are deemed to have overall
responsibility for POL and will be held accountable for performance and action.)
To provide assurance to ARC and the Government (should evidence be requested), AC advised that an
annual report would be produced stating how POL’s AP had met their obligations .
Accounting Overview
AC advised that consideration should be given to a new accounting presentation that reflected the changes
in investment funding, aligned POL's strategic objectives and considered changes in future financial
measures used for bonus.
The suggestion is to remove the two column format from the P&L within the ARA, and having 1 column for
P&L with 1 line for exceptional spend. Trading Profit could still be retained as a financial metric, however
given that investment funding is due to end in 2021 it is suggested there be a shift towards generation and
availability of free cash flow for reinvestment as a key financial metric for bonus purposes.
In order to address the financial measure of bonus, metrics would need to be agreed with the
Remuneration Committee.
GDPR
JH provided an update on GDPR implementation into POL and the requirements for POL to observe.
Contract remediation work continues with 88 requiring remediation and 13 deemed to be high risk.
Funding has been requested to complete this by Q1 2020/21.
All customer complaints reported to the ICO have been managed with no further action take n to date
against POL.
Policies for Approval
The following policies were recommended for Approval at ARC:

* Change Management Policy

* Protecting Personal Data Policy

© Risk Policy
Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda
The draft ARC agenda for 25 November was NOTED and discussed.
Future meeting dates RCC and ARC 2020 - 2021
The meeting dates were noted.
The next scheduled RCC meeting is 14 January 2020.
Any other Business
There was no other business.

Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 3

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance C:

POL00401628
POL00401628

5 of 109
Post Office Limited Risk and Compliance Committee Actions

Updated: 08.01.20

REFERENCE ‘ACTION ACTION OWNER DUEDATE — BTATUS OPEN/CLOSED
IRCC Meeting 07.11.19 a q g
B.2 Supplier Contracts out of BSK - retail lead team decision required to CM/Marketing In progress ~ subject to PSG (Open
]Governance ensure project does not stall funding.

B.3 Supplier Contracts out of Brands/RAPP — Agree date for tender SH/Marketing In progress ~ subject to PSG (Open

Governance junding.

i. PCI-DSS Update {irculate final pricing and deadlines document SH January 2020 In progress. Update to be Open
from Ingenico rovided in PCI-DSS verbal

Lipdate.

[5.3 Cyber Security lA major incident test be completed with v January 2020 [pdate to be provided in Cyber [Open
indings reported to the Committee. security update paper.

[5.3 Cyber Security joiners/movers/leavers — to review whether DZ/LC January 2020 I paper is to be presented to GE. [Open
-ontractors who no longer work for POL have

been removed from POL emails and systems.

[5.3 Cyber Security joiners/movers/leavers - A routine cycle of U January 2020 Update to be provided in the [Open
hecking third party access to be Cyber Security update paper.
implemented.

[5.3 Cyber Security joiners/movers/leavers - IA to review end to JA ML has been added to the (Open
nd process of joiners/mover/leavers as part 1020/2021 1A plan.

f the 2020/2021 IA audit plan.
(6.14 Internal Audit Pata and Analytics Excellence (Programme AC/SH 25 November Report Updated for ARC [To close
\Assurance) — AC advised the management
omment would be reviewed for clarity.
17.5 Contracts Management jt was AGREED a discussion on contract BF Discussion held at GE. [To close
Framework management would be held at GE.

POL00401628
POL00401628

>

OZ/LO/PL-SayIUWOD eouR!dwod pue ySIY - PSYWIT] 294YO JSOq

601502

. Compliance

Post Office Limited Risk and Compliance Committee Action Log

DPR — Contracts

0 identify contracts requiring GDPR
mediation, the majority of which are IT

ervice contracts with no owner identified.

Updated: 14.02.19

Barbara Brannon and] November 2019
Shikha Hornsey

his is in train for completion by IOpen

Strictly Confidential

POL00401628
POL00401628

s}s!] suonoy pue seynuiyy Z gel

POL00401628
POL00401628

@

Post Office Limited
Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title: Cyber Security Strategy Update

Meeting Date: 14 January 2020

Author: Tony Jowett, Chief Information Security Officer
Sponsor: Shikha Hornsey, Group CIO

Input Sought

1. To note the status and plans regarding Joiners,

Action Required: Movers and Leavers

2. To note the status and plans regarding Cyber
testing

Actions to report on the above topics occurred at the

previous Risk and Compliance Committee (RCC) in

November 2019.

Previous Governance
Oversight:

_ Executive Summary

The effective management of the access and rights
of people joining, moving within and leaving the
Post Office is key to reducing Cyber risk. This has
been encapsulated into the Joiners/Movers/Leavers
(JML) Programme. At the previous RCC this issue
was discussed and at a December GE meeting a
Context: request was made for CIO/CISO to come back with
a view of status and plans for this area.

Cyber testing in all its guises is key to checking
cyber defences and identifying areas for
improvement. At the RCC in November a request
was made for an update in this area.

Confidential

8 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 4 Cyber Security

1. What is the current status of joiners, movers and leavers (JML) processes within Post
Office and what are the recommended plans to improve these?
2. What is the current status and plans regarding Cyber Security testing?

Questions asked & addressed

Report - JML

3. Good JML processes are necessary to ensure that the right people have access to the
systems and data they need to do their jobs effectively. People require different privileges
according to their role e.g., admin users, and this needs to be managed in conjunction
with how long the privileges are granted. The lack of good JML creates opportunities for
both internal and external attackers to gain access to our systems and to get around
integrity-focused controls in key business processes. If JML is overly bureaucratic then
people will find ways around it e.g., by sharing login credentials rather than registering
for their own, which undermines good security practice.

4. IML processes control access to the following assets and processes:

a. Data and systems - both in-house and third-party
b. Buildings

c. Training and on-boarding

d. Salary and reward through payroll systems

5. For Joiners, the key requirement is timely and accurate access in line with their start date
to ensure they are productive from day one.

6. For Movers within the organisation, the key requirement is to make sure that enhanced
access and privileges from the old role do not transfer to the new one where they may
not be required.

7. For Leavers then the access to all data, systems, buildings, training and payroll is
terminated as close as possible to the final date of employment or, by default at 5:30pm
on that date.

8. Within Post Office JML must apply to all populations that are brand-affecting, including
Post Office, Payzone, Post Office Insurance, 3™ party websites and portals (Condecco,
OneTrust etc) as well as all 3 party vendors who manage our systems. In each of these
areas there will be both permanent and contract staff who need to have their access
controlled. Clearly, the approach to third parties will be different to in-house staff but the
end result needs to be the same - well-managed JML.

9. Our target is to implement a JML regime that has the following characteristics:
a. Complete in coverage

b. Consistent in application across organisation types
c. Role-based according to the needs of each position

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 9 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 4 Cyber Security

@

d. Risk-based - so those who have privileged access to our critical systems will
have more stringent controls then those who only have standard access

e. Automated as far as possible - manual processes introduce scope for error and
gaps but as we mature they will be used for contingency purposes

f. Controlled across all Post Office entities and third parties rather than individual
departments doing their own thing in isolation

g. Communicated and understood - line managers and staff need to be aware of
their responsibilities and act on them

10. In 2017 an internal audit report revealed that there were several deficiencies in the Post
Office approach to JML. The actions from this review are still valid and whilst some have
been completed, others require a reenergised focus as part of this programme of activity.
The summary of findings from this report is included for reference in Appendix 1. A follow-
up audit is scheduled for May 2020.

11. Since the audit, there has been notable progress through a joint HR and IT project to
automate JML for Permanent Staff by linking Success Factors and Active Directory (which
controls access to our admin estate). In addition to this HR provides Cyber Security with
a list of people in their notice period to enable enhanced monitoring of their activities by
the Security Operations Centre.

12. Contractors within Post Office are managed by SPO who manually provide IT and building
security with JML input data. SPO directly manage timesheets and payments to
contractors.

13. At the moment, there is a lack of a consistent programme of recertification of access to
key data and systems - normally privileged access to crown jewel systems is reconfirmed
every 3-6 months with standard access being reconfirmed yearly. This will be addressed
as the JML programme matures.

14. Within third parties there are various regimes in place. As the majority of our crown jewel
data and systems are controlled by third parties, this area needs to be a priority focus for
the JML.

15. Actions in the Short Term (1- 3 months) are:

a. Form a working group to provide overall governance across Post Office and
ownership of the end to end process. Membership will include IT, HR, POI,
Payzone, 3% Party Vendors, back office automation, etc.

b. Establish clear roles and responsibilities with corresponding RACI matrix

Identification of system and data owners for critical systems

d. Engage with system owners for our critical systems and assets to provide access
to and reporting from their privileged access systems - monthly report of who
has privileged access to our critical systems. This will include 3 party vendors.

e. Identify the problem - Development of a known issues register for JML for
subsequent projects’ activity to close off

f. Development of end to end processes across all Post Office entities

9

Confidential

10 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 4 Cyber Security

@

16. In the Medium Term - (3 months - 1 year)
a. Initiate project to develop an automated Identity and Access Management (IAM)
platform across all Post Office domains
b. Introduce regular recertification of access to critical systems and data
c. Development of metrics to show how well JML is working
d
e

. Expansion of two-factor authentication to support JML and IAM
. Development of a comprehensive IAM strategy for Post Office

17. Over the Longer Term (1-2 years)
a. Establishment of identity and access management operational capability across
all domains - this will cover all areas and all types of data access.

Report - Cyber Testing

18. At the previous RCC an action was raised regarding the running of desktop incident
response testing. The response to this has been widened to cover all types of Cyber
testing.

19. Cyber testing provides the evidence that cyber defences are working well and helps
identification of gaps.

20. The following types of testing are in use within the Post Office:
a. Table-top incident response exercises
b. Red team testing
c. Routine penetration testing
d. Vulnerability scanning

21. Table-top exercises aim to simulate real-life incidents and involve all key personnel in IT
and Cyber operations although the scope can be widened. As the name suggests they
involve the walking through of an imaginary (but realistic) incident in a meeting room with
independent observation and facilitation. Such an exercise is planned for Q1 2020.

22. Red-team testing is invasive technical testing performed largely in secret by an external
organisation. As far as possible (without actually doing real damage) a red team will act
as if they are external attackers with a specific goal e.g., to gain access to GE email
accounts. The lessons learned from red team tests are highly valuable as they simulate
real-life attacks. Such a test was conducted in August 2019 and we are in the middle of
conducting such a test. Findings from this will be reported back at the next meeting.

23. Routine penetration testing is usually performed annually for operational systems or on
commissioning new systems into production as part of Change Excellence. The output
from Penetration tests enable vulnerable components to be patched and fixed before live
data is held by such systems.

24. Vulnerability scanning services routinely scan the perimeter and perimeter facing systems
and report on vulnerabilities in defences. These can be automated to run continuously

which, in a company that uses agile development, is essential to keeping track of new
issues to resolve. These services are part of the Cyber Strategy for 2020 onwards.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 11 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 4 Cyber Security

Appendix 1 — JML Audit Report Findings - 2017

Summary of Findings

The table below provides a summary of the findings and their ratings:

ing I Action
Finding Rating Owner Date
IAM-JML Governance
Scope Area: Process Governance
1 _ I No overall TAM governance (e.g. no ownership Pi I jane Macleod I 30.06.2017

of the end to end process, no process diagram)

IAM-JML access management responsibilities
2 _I (RACI) and controls are not clearly and P1 I Jane Macleod I 30.06.2017
transparently defined

Scope Area: People training and awareness

Line managers not well informed about their

3 I responsibilities regarding IAM-JML process

p2 Martin Kirke I 31.05.2017

Access Rights Management

Scope Area: Joiners’ process

4 No assurance that access rights are limited to a
need to know basis

HR does not have a full overview of all parties

working for PO (employees, contractors)

Scope Area: Movers’ process

No assurance that access rights are reviewed

PL Martin Kirke I 31.12.2017

5 P2 Martin Kirke I 31.12.2017

TAM/JML_ TBD by the

© _I when someone moves role/function P2 I Work group _I Working Group
7 _I Periodical access reviews not in place (for LAN, pi I FAMAML TBD by the
share drives and all applications) Work group _I Working Group
Scope area: Leavers’ process
g__I No assurance that leavers’ access rights are pi I TAM/IML TBD by the
removed (timely) workgroup _I Working Group
Scope Area: Data and System Owners.
Data and system owners have not been Jane
° I identified (responsibilities assigned) Pi I MacLeod 34.12.2017

Scope Area: Policy
Non-compliance with the access control
standard/policy

* Pi = High Priority, P2 = Medium Priority, P3 = Low Priority

10

p2 Jules Harris I 31.12.2017

Confidential

12 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
lontinuity Update

Post Office Limited
Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title:

Business Continuity and Resilience Update

Meeting Date:

14" January 2020

Author:

Tim Armit, Business Continuity Manager

Sponsor:

Shikha Hornsey, Group CIO

Input Sought

Action Required:
Discussion

For Noting

Previous Governance
Oversight:

Executive Summary

Business continuity solutions and levels of resilience
continue to increase across all operational areas of
Post Office.

Solutions have all been tested and proven to meet
business requirements.

Response, escalation and incident management
teams and plans are in place and fully functional.

People, facilities, IT and supply chain are the main

Context: areas of risk and each has been considered and
mitigated where possible.
IT issues have increased over December but with
minimal impact on customers and income.
GLO and RMG industrial action have both led to
increased levels of readiness.
The business response to a complete Horizon failure
remains the key risk.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

13 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 5 Business Continuity Update

1. Docurrent levels of resilience and continuity plans in place meet Post Office requirements?

Questions asked & addressed

2. Are there key business continuity risks the Post Office is exposed to?
3. Docurrent levels of resilience and continuity plans in place meet Post Office requirements?

4. Are there key continuity risks the Post Office is exposed to?

Report

5. The current approach to resilience and continuity ensure that Post Office can respond to
major incidents in a timely and controlled manner.

6. Physical relocation solutions for Chesterfield, Bristol, Bolton and London are in place with
Sungard and these have all been tested and proven to work.

7. Incident response and escalation methods are in place for all levels of incident. A new
sub team to respond to branch incidents has been stood up and proven which links into
the Business Protection team (BPT). The IT incident response team and its links to the
BPT are proven and known by all involved.

8. A new strategy and tool was deployed in December. This is the Post Office on Wheels
which enables an entire branch with all services and technology to be delivered with 24
hours to any location. It is simply plugged in, connected to the internet and made live.
This has been deployed live in December. The concept was first considered in September
2019 and implemented in December 2019. The Post Office now has a solution, which for
the first time in its history, can mitigate the sudden loss of a branch (due to fire, flood
etc) or a key retail partner.

9. Grapevine, a third party security supplier to Post Office, has in place a system to send
texts and other forms of communication to every branch, office and members of staff if
other communications systems are not operational or it is out of working hours. This has
been proven to work and has been used in December during the Verizon datacentre failure
incident.

10. The incidents across December which impacted administration offices, call centres, SSK’s,
the ability for customers to use card payments, ATM’s and Moneygram and access to the
vault at Hemel were all unrelated and had almost no impact on customers or income. The
Verizon data centre which stopped all operations in every administrative office did not
affect branches or customers (there were no customer complaints or comments on levels
of service). Whilst there was some frustration in card payments failing, many worked on
the second attempt and or customers could withdraw cash to pay, this again led to no
noticeable service impact or customer complaints. This pattern continued across the other
incidents.

Confidential

14 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 5 Busin

Continuity Update

@

11. The Resilience manager is working with IT on the root cause analysis of the plethora of
incidents; as the link between increased volumes of business and incidents in December
correspondingly increases the level of risk to service.

12. The planning for a response to the GLO ruling and to the threat of RMG industrial action
was inclusive of contingency responses, such as the pop-up Post Office mentioned earlier
in this report. The GLO ruling had no operational impact and required no changes to
normal business approaches. The Media response was also muted and needed no crisis
response. The RMG planning exposed a number of risks to Post Office operations which
will require further consideration, particularly to the amount of Post Offices RMG planned
to collect from and the number of daily collections, both of which had significantly reduced
from the planning levels in 2017. The industrial action has now been called off.

13. There is no coordinated strategy for the large scale failure of the Horizon system; this risk
was identified in late 2018 and work was completed across all products and business
areas. Manual operations are not possible for many products and due to increased
Regulatory changes some strategies can no longer be considered in the Banking area.
There are no standing instructions in branches as to what is expected of them and
currently if Horizon fails most branches would close and remain close until it is restored.

14. The four key pillars of operations:

« POCA - emergency cash payments can be made to customers but this would be at the
Post Office’s risk and would be noted on paper for later reconciliation.

« Payment - Customers would be directed to other local payment systems.

« Banking - Cheques could be accepted but not processed until the system is restored,
customers would be informed of this and can choose not to use Post Office.

« Mails — ongoing discussion with RMG as to what scale of offer could be made. Stamps
can be sold for cash but no special services could be offered currently.

15. Any ongoing operation would be paper based and the Post Office would be at risk on every
transaction and would have to ensure Post Masters understood where the risk lay, with
Post Office not them. This increases the risk of mistakes and fraud.

16. Ongoing work with product teams and IT on alternative solutions continues. The key is
to ensure the systems are fully resilient in design with automatic fail over and
uninterrupted service.

Financial Impact
17. None directly but additional budget will be required to mediate risks.

Stakeholder Implications

18. Resilience and continuity uniquely covers every aspect of infrastructure, operations and
leadership as well as external supply chain, as such it liaises and supports stakeholders in
all areas.

Next Steps & Timelines

19. Focus on Horizon resilience levels and continue to develop alternative working practices.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 5 Business Continuity Update

@

20. Support IT in reviewing root cause analysis and ensuring operational mitigations continue
to meet business needs.

21. Escalate the Post Office on wheels solution.

Confidential

16 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
ed Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Post Office Limited
Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title:

Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Meeting Date:

14 January 2020

Mark Baldock: Head of Risk

Author: Jonathan Hill: Director, Compliance
Johann Appel: Head of Internal Audit
Sponsor: Al Cameron: Chief Financial Officer

Ben Foat: General Counsel

Input Sought

Action Required:

For Noting

Previous Governance
Oversight:

_ Executive Summary

POL00401628
POL00401628

Context:

The paper provides an update on key and emerging
risks, compliance matters and an update on the latest
internal audit position.

Questions asked and
addressed:

1. RCC is asked to

* note the key enterprise risks and what the
business is doing to address these

* approve the closure of the Group Litigation
enterprise risk noting some elements of the
residual risk will be managed at
intermediate/business level

* note the key intermediate/business risks and
what the business is doing to address these

* note the 2 emerging enterprise risks (Date
Analytics and End of Life components) and
what is being done to address these

* note the latest position on Brexit

« note the latest position on the implementation
of the Post Office’s Governance, Risk &
Compliance tool (Archer)

* note the status of the Change Portfolio and its
current top portfolio risks and key delivery
challenges

2. note the Compliance update with particular focus
on the conclusion of Ofcom’s Text Relay
investigation, PSD2 & Telecoms, the current
approach to meeting the new Cookies
requirements and the progress made on

Contract Remediation

3. note the progress being made with delivery of the

Internal Audit programme and completion of

audit actions

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

17 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

Risk

What are the key enterprise risks and what is the business doing to address

these?

Enterprise Risks

1 The Post Office currently have 13 active enterprise risks. A complete list is provided at
Appendix 1. Based on their current RAG scores, the key enterprise risks facing the
business are as follows.

Payment Card Industry Security Standards (PCIDSS

2 Because some of the Post Office’s IT 3rd party suppliers are not compliant with the
latest PCIDSS, there is a risk payments processed within branch could incur debit/credit
data loss. PCI remains a key risk and its High RAG is unchanged since November 2019.
PCI is reporting red as the baselined plans and costs from Ingenico and Fujitsu for
delivery of the solution are overdue. Final commercial agreements with Fujitsu/Ingenico,
Computacenter and Vocalink are all under review by vendor management, legal and
delivery teams. However recent developments indicate the programme is gradually
moving towards a more positive position. 25,000 Pin Entry Devices (PEDs) are currently
within the Post Office estate. Corrective actions have been put in place to ensure the
programme will complete delivery of PEDs by April 2020. Reassurance by our partners
has indicated the implementation of the P2Pe accredited solution may roll out early in
the first quarter of 2021 due to the Christmas freeze. All effort is being made to shorten
that time line wherever possible in order to target a December 2020 compliance date.

Retail proposition (5:3

3 Because some agents consider the Post Office too complex and costly (potentially
exacerbated by increased costs associated with Brexit) there is a risk the Post Office’s
retail value proposition becomes unattractive to other retailers and does not attract new
agents. Mitigations include securing higher retention rates for existing postmasters and
attracting new ones. A recent increase to agents’ remuneration should improve branch
sustainability along with plans to roll out more automated kiosks across the agency
network, creating staff efficiencies. An opening hour's policy review should provide
flexibility, allowing operators to choose hours based on local demand. We are working
with our multiple partners at a strategic level and are trialling new initiatives such as
RPOS and Parcelshop. The Developing Capabilities programme is working to provide
Area managers with the skills and tools to build trusted relationships with Postmasters.

Brexit (4:3)

4 Because of the UK’s decision to leave the EU there is a risk the impending UK-EU Free-
Trade Agreement (FTA) negotiations will have a generally detrimental impact to the Post
Office's long-term strategy, operations and infrastructure. The latest position is provided
at paragraphs 0 et seq.

Group Litigation (5:3)

5 Because of the long running Group Litigation between Post Office and a group of (mostly
former) postmasters there was a risk the High Court’s final judgement(s) would find
against the former. Group Litigation concluded in December 2019 when both parties
reached a comprehensive resolution in full and final settlement following several days of
mediation. As a result, the High Court action is at an end. Whilst a linked judgment
recognises improvements we have made (and that our current Horizon system is robust
relative to comparable systems), it makes findings about previous versions of the
system and past behaviours which further demonstrate the importance of the changes
we must make in our business, particularly the ways in which we support our

Confidential

18 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628

POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

postmasters. Importantly, the Post Office has made clear the need to reset our
relationship with postmasters and has started the process to build a much better
relationship with them. In light of this we consider this specific risk can be closed but
note a residual risk (i.e. potential additional claims and associated legal action) will be
articulated at intermediate/business level.

What are the key Intermediate (Business) Risks and what is the business

doing to address these?
Text Relay

6

In March 2019 Ofcom opened an investigation into Post Office’s compliance with General
Condition C5.9 (applicable since October 2018). This required all telecommunication
providers to charge customers no more than the cost of a standard call for using text
relay services!, and to apply a special tariff scheme to these calls in order to compensate
those customers for the additional time required. Ofcom concluded, in September 2019,
that the Post Office was non-compliant and said it would be levying a £0.250m fine
albeit this would be subject to a 30% discount if the Post Office agreed to settle. The
Post Office have agreed to settle and we are expecting a public statement from Ofcom to
that effect by mid-January 2020. The associated Telco business risk has therefore been
closed. Further details provided in Compliance section (see paragraph 20).

Business Continuity

7

During the last quarter of 2019, there were a number of incidents that impacted the
business operations, namely outages around SSKs, VPN and Bol transactions. Although
these incidents were remediated, they were outside of service standards. Root cause
analysis is underway to ensure future resilience. Work is planned to review IT business
reliance for robustness of contingency plans in place. An associated business risk will be
articulated as needed.

Payzone Risk Management Framework/Workplan

8

Payzone continue to work towards the development of a wider Risk Management
Framework. The management team have reviewed the risk register and agreed target
risk scores with mitigation plans and target dates in place. A process flow chart detailing
the correct risk management processes has been generated and submitted to the POL
Central Risk team for further review. A risk workplan has been created to monitor and
update the management team on progress on key risks and activities, including progress
to address significant risks and return to acceptable levels. We consider the following
risk should be noted by RCC.

Curre
Score using
POL I/L

Current
Score using
Payzone I/L

Risk Mitigation Plan

Following the on-boarding of a dedicated contractor,
significant progress has been made on defining the
issues (mainly around Terminal pairing and WiFi
connection). A number of additional fixes are

The urgency in deploying a
permanent fix for an existing

terminal pairing issue (between

devices £200 and T103) affecting
agent and customer transactions
may increase with on boarding of
high profile clients. If agents are
unable to carry out the transactions
there will be significant impact to
customers, particularly vulnerable.

planned for deployment, however, currently on hold
to ensure stability of service whilst in 5 day
consecutive operation test and in readiness for 1st
Jan exclusive service. Unlikely to release before mid-
January. Plan to be developed to communicate to
retailers on resolution process for pairing issue in
order to reduce the impact to the helpdesk.

1 Text relay offers text-to-speech and speech-to-text translation services whereby a relay assistant in a call centre acts as an
intermediary. This enables people with hearing /speech impairments to communicate with other people over the telephone.
Ofcom approves text relay providers, and has set out minimum service standards.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

19 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

What are the emerging risks faced in the short and medium term and what

is being done to address these?

9 ~There are 2 risks emerging in the IT space. The first is around Data Analytics (3:3)
whereby because of the complexity encountered with ‘big data’ and the absence of a
clear roadmap there is a risk the Post Office’s key business data is not accurate or up to
date, kept safe and secure, specific for its purpose nor adequate and only used for a
legitimate business purpose.

10 A potential risk (4:3) has also been identified in that there are around 200 end-of life
hardware and software components managed by our various 3” party suppliers which, if
not proactively addressed, could lead to increased IT security vulnerabilities, software
incompatibility, issues of non-compliance, increasing operating costs, and poor
performance and reduced service reliability. Potential mitigations include undertaking a
complete assessment of these End of Life components to determine status and
uploading the baselined position into Service Now to allow for proactive configuration
management.

11 We will be undertaking a deep-dive on these 2 risks (along with confirming the current
underlying IT business/intermediate risks) as part of an IT risk workshop in early
February 2020. The outputs of this work will be a baselined suite of IT risks which will
be uploaded into Archer as part of the wider deployment of the GRC tool.

What is the latest position on Brexit?

12 The Conservative party secured an 80 seat parliamentary majority as a result of the
December 2019 General Election. This led to the Queen’s Speech being introduced on
19 December and the Withdrawal (Agreement) Bill (WAB) passing 2" reading in the
Commons on 20 December when Parliament broke for Christmas recess. At this point
the WAB is expected to complete its UK and EU Parliamentary ratification in January
2020 allowing the UK to leave the EU on 31 January 2020.

13. UK Whitehall Departments are now turning their attention to preparing for, and
commencing, UK-EU Free-Trade Agreement negotiations with the EU. At the time of
writing the objectives, scope and sequencing for these negotiations still need to be
finalised on both the UK and EU sides.

14 The nature of the FTA negotiations (and their impact on Post Office) will be significantly
influenced by the timeframe. There was Conservative manifesto pledge that the FTA
implementation period will not extend beyond 31 December 2020. The deadline for
agreeing any future extension with the EU is by 1 July 2020. This can be done once, for
1 or 2 years.

15 We advised RCC/ARC in November 2019 that, as drafted, the WAB regards Northern
Ireland as part of the EU Customs Union. If unamended during the FTA negotiations this
may require RMG/Post Office to adjust their current GB and NI mail process to allow for
the completion of EU custom declaration forms for post being sent from the UK to NI.
There may be need for changes to Horizon to cater for multiple VAT rates (as NI
may need to align with the Eire, rather than UK).

Confidential

20 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

What is the latest position on the implementation of the Post Office’s

Governance, Risk & Compliance tool (Archer)?

16 The Central Risk team have embarked on implementing Archer (an industry standard
GRC tool) to enhance the efficiency of our risk management. We have successfully
designed, built and achieved a technical go-live for the Archer Phase 1 solution allowing
exclusive deployment to the Central Risk team. Immediate next steps are for us to
quality assure and then upload all Post Office enterprise risks into Archer. This will be
followed by cleansing and uploading all Post Office business and local level risks to the
system. We are currently working on a comprehensive Archer deployment plan with the
intention of commencing from February 2020 with an aspiration to complete by June
2020. In parallel, by end of January 2020, we will have put in place a GRC corporate
governance body to oversee the Post Office’s GRC Strategy and supporting framework
as well as the design and delivery of Post Office wide GRC processes.

What is the status of the Change Portfolio, including top risks and key

delivery challenges?

17 The overall status of the portfolio remains Amber. The temporary ‘pause’ on new
funding requests has now ceased. Prioritisation and increased scrutiny of spend and
benefits has increased confidence we will remain within 2019-20 budget. Progress
continues across gold/platinum projects with 1 project closed and 2 projects completing
successful implementations in P8. The portfolio has seen a slight increase in the number
of gold and platinum projects reporting an overall RED rating for the Risk RAGs. This has
resulted in the portfolio risk RAG status being upgraded to Amber which, in turn, has
contributed to the portfolio status remaining at Amber.

18 There has been a decrease in the number of gold and platinum projects reporting an
overall Red RAG status from 7 to 5. 3 projects remain RED from November (PCI; IDS
Digital Identity; Digitising Mails). The 6 Red RAG projects are:

. PCI Compliance (Cost, Risk and Overall Red RAG): Ingenico costs are £1.5m in
excess of what was expected as a result of changes made to the technical solution.
Final commercial agreements with Fujitsu/Ingenico, Computacenter and Vocalink
under review by vendor management, legal and delivery teams.

° IDS Digital Identity (Cost, Benefits, Delivery, Risk and Overall Red RAG): The
primary supplier is not able to deliver the requirements. Discussions underway on
options for a way forward. Investigations underway to find another supplier.

° Digitising Mails (Cost, Benefits, Delivery, Risk and Overall Red RAG): Reporting Red
as spend is on hold while business evaluates various delivery options.

. POCa replacement bid (Risk Red RAG): Risk of reputational damage to through the
choice of DWP’s replacement solution. Vulnerable customers could be left without
easy access to legacy POCa balances as DWP’s replacement voucher service will not
allow balances to be transferred. Post Office working with DWP to find a resolution.

. Legal Entity Optimisation (Delivery & Overall Red RAG): Route to Dividend work
completed. Articles of Association (AoA) and Framework Documentation in agreed
form. Formal approval at PO, POI Board and Payzone Boards will take place
between January and March 2020. A Change Request will be progressed through
governance to reflect new timescales bringing project back to green.

. Parcel shop (Cost & Overall Red RAG): Red due to funding and scope not being fully
aligned as the project made changes out of governance. A change request for
retrospective approval is progressing.

19 Appendix 3 provides a summary of the current key ‘Platinum and Gold’ change
programmes and their current reporting status.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 21¢

Tab 6 Cor

POL00401628
POL00401628

mbined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

22 of 109

Compliance

Text Relay

20 Ofcom has sent us an “S96 Notice” of our breach of the General Conditions in relation to
Text Relay. This is a formal step in the investigation, which was expected. The notice is
based on Ofcom's Statement of Facts sent earlier in December. Ofcom had the potential
to fine Post Office up to £11.4M but this was unlikely. More probably the fine was expected
to be between £200K and £1.5M. Following representations from Post Office Telecoms
and Compliance Ofcom has opted to penalise us £175K (£250K including a further 30%
discount for early settlement).

21 Early settlement was only possible if we accepted liability for the text relay failing,
accepted the fine and waived rights to any further defence by 19th December, which had
to be made by a statutory director. We had no dispute with Ofcom’s Statement of Facts
and as a result agreed to Ofcom’s decision in a letter from Alisdair Cameron, dated 18th
December 2019.

22 We have requested that all individual names (in Post Office and Fujitsu) names are
redacted along with commercial sensitive data, in line with Ofcom’s request on
confidentiality.

23 We expect Ofcom to publish a summary of its findings and the fine on its website in early
January 2020. Group Communications are prepared for any enquiries.

Fairness

24 We gave Ofcom an update on our progress on Ofcom’s Fairness commitments. Ofcom has
informally suggested that we reconsider our approach to home movers as some home are
vulnerable, such as those who are being forced out of rented accommodation or frequent
movers. Ofcom also considers that customers who are out of contract for a length of time
are also likely to be vulnerable. Ofcom would like to see some progress on Post Office’s
position on out of contract customers given the number of customers in this position. The
Telecoms team is looking at its options.

PSD2 - Please refer to the separate PSD2 & Telecoms paper

25 As discussed at the July 2018 RCC and ARC, the Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2)
came into force for electronic communications firms in January 2018. Telecoms firms had
the option to apply to the FCA for a full payment institution licence or opt for an exemption,
agreeing not to charge customers over a certain amount for premium rate services. The
latter requires an annual independent audit to confirm compliance.

26 Most telcos seem to have concluded that the application and compliance costs of a full
licence outweigh the benefits, as many have opted for the electronic communications
exclusion (ECE) for now.

27 This is further complicated for Post Office as we are an Appointed Representative of POI,
Bol and Capital One and it is likely that we could not be both an AR and hold a full payment
institution licence, similar to the Consumer Credit Licence issue when it moved from the
OFT to the FCA.

28 There is recognition, however, that this may be a holding position until there is greater
clarity around what will be covered in practice and what the FCA will expect.

* On 23" December 2019 the FCA wrote to telecoms industry bodies to remind them
of the PSD2 obligations and setting out the FCA’s expectations in more detail. These

6
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

now need to be reviewed by the whole industry as they may not be practical and are
complicated at best.

29 Initial legal guidance on this was that PSD2 did not apply to Post Office Telecoms, but this
was challenged as it was at odds with the rest of the industry. A further opinion said that
the regulations did apply. This was confirmed when we asked both law firms to resolve
the conflicting advice. New guidance confirming that PSD2 applied was obtained in
February 2019.

30 As a result of the final guidance the Telecoms team was advised it needed to make
changes. It has been reviewing options to make the necessary operational changes and
register an exemption with the FCA. It has been working with its partners/suppliers (e.g.,
Fujitsu and Talk Talk) who have been unable to offer a wholesale billing solution to meet
the regulations, therefore a retail billing solution is being implemented in Q4 2019/20.

31 We expect to register with the FCA for the ECE shortly. We are seeking legal advice on
the best approach for this and any potential penalties that might apply given the PSD2
regulations required an ECE to be in place from January 2018.

Post Office use of Cookies on Internet and Apps

32 Recent updated guidance from the Information Commissioners Office has clarified the
management of cookies. There has also been relevant case law handed down (Planet49
fined approx. £4M for non-compliance) from the Court of Justice of the European Union.

33 Post Office current position is non-compliant with both the guidance and case law however
is similar to the approach being adopted by many in similar markets. The Digital, Legal
and Data Protection teams are working on solutions to be taken forward for consideration
and approval. These will be presented to the GE in January. It should be noted that all
solutions will have a significant impact on our data analytics and marketing activities
(potential impact could be as high as a loss of 93% of permissions granted).

Contract Remediation

34 Work has commenced on the Contracts Remediation as outlined previously. The
outstanding contracts have been considered and categorised and prioritised against
streamlined criteria with focus on risk to personal data.

35 The first set of packs for the contracts identified for ‘deemed consent’ will be issued the
first week in January. Simultaneously the team will be contacting suppliers where
contracts are deemed to be of Material High Risk to Post Office.

36 During the analysis stage of work undertaken a further 199 contracts were found to have
been de-scoped form the project. These are for contracts that had either expired, had no
personal data involved or were due for renewal within one year. Further analysis is
underway of these contracts to ensure that they have been categorised correctly.

37 The programme is planned to conclude in July 2020.

Payzone BPUK:

38 An initial review of Payzone Bill Payment UK against the provisions of GDPR was completed
in early December 2019. An initial status report has been provided to the Compliance
Director for consideration.

39 The report shows that there is considerable work that needs to be completed in the New
Year. However from a data protection perspective the biggest risk relates to the personal
data held on their employees and not that of customers.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

Tab 6 Col

POL00401628
POL00401628

bined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

24 of 109

40 The DP team will be working with PZBP UK to introduce the necessary changes and
updates in Q4.

Freedom of Information

41 Since the ruling was handed down in the GLO case we have received 2 Freedom of
Information requests linked to the case, one from a known individual and linked to the
trial.

42 Prior to any information being disclosed as part of our statutory obligations responses are
being verified by Legal, Retail and Comms to ensure they are consistent with what may
have been released previously.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) update

43 Following completion of the Anti-Corruption Government Supplier questionnaire, there
was a recommendation that Post Office should publicly disclose its charitable
contributions, sponsorships and political contributions. We are currently working with the
Corporate Responsibility team to identify the best channels to communicate this, although
we state in our Annual Report (Directors Report section) that the business does not make
political contributions.

44 In the lead up to Christmas, communications have been sent out to remind colleagues
that all gifts and hospitality must be reported via the online tool.

45 Gifts & Hospitality reporting and approval levels are currently being reviewed and
benchmarked against industry best practice, and the new reporting and approval portal is
currently being tested and finalised, with rollout anticipated in Q4.

Whistleblowing Update

46 Due to the number of reports received recently from Agent assistants, we are currently
working with the Communications team to identify ways to raise awareness of the
importance of whistleblowing to our agents and ensure they understand that
whistleblowers are protected by law to stop them being treated unfairly or losing their job
because they "blew the whistle".

47  Expolink Europe Ltd currently provide our Whistleblowing Speak Up service, however, the
contract has expired. During the contract renewal discussions, Expolink were acquired by
Navex Global Ltd, and they advised that they are not prepared to sign a novation in
relation to Expolink, but would migrate Post Office onto a contract with Navex Global. It
has been agreed internally, supported by Legal, and with the supplier to proceed with the
new contract, which would see Post Office migrated onto a new platform with additional
services. This is expected to be completed by financial year end.

Fit & Proper update

48 See separate MLRO report
Regulatory updates

49 See separate MLRO report
External Threats

50 See separate MLRO report
Supply Chain Compliance

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

51 One site audit was completed in November, with 5 Improvement Needs identified, and an
audit score of 11, which is on par with the audit last year and no repeat findings. No site
audits have been undertaken in December.

52 The compliance team have conducted an end to end review of Supply Chain value stock
processes (including scratch cards and stamps) and have identified a number of control
gaps. The report is being finalised and will be issued to stakeholders in January 2020.

Mystery Shops

53 Key issues identified continue to relate to Travel Insurance (non-disclosure of medical
information and product information) and Life Insurance (not introducing the whole
range). There have been no Bol savings red shops in the last 2 months.

54 Athematic review was completed for Travel Insurance in November to better understand
the issues using targeted scenarios. The results show the same issues as in previous
shops. Changes have been made to simplify the questions used in Q4 to further
understand the results and confirmation of the current mystery shop results.

55 Project Phoenix is due to launch mid-March 2020 with branches offering the same levels
of cover as available online. This should enable branches to complete more sales and offer
better customer outcomes. Post Office Conduct Compliance is working with POI product
and Compliance and Post Office L&D function to create training materials. Face to face
meetings with the Network Field teams are planned for Q4 to help understanding of the
changes, including the sale process.

Video Mystery shop for Customer Relationship Managers

56 Results for Life Insurance in October and November continued to show the same issues
with 6 out of 35 videos graded red. POI is currently undertaking a review of its sales
strategy through the branch network. One of the key changes will be the removal of the
Easy Life product from the CRM Tablets from 31% January. No reds were reported for
Savings video mystery shops in October or November.

Capital One Credit Cards

57 Capital One appears very risk averse for a small planned pilot on network lead generation.
We have prepared and shared a customer detriment risk assessment and are working with
its compliance team to help it understand how the Network works and how this activity is
managed.

58 There is only one new combined policy being updated in this cycle combining Information
Security, Cyber and Access.

59 Further to the challenge issued at the last ARC it has been confirmed that Group Policies
do apply to POI unless for a specific regulatory reason POI is required to have separate
policies. Even then it should follow the direction and group approach as far as possible.
e.g., POI would be expected by the FCA to have its own separate risk policy and risk
appetite, but this should be managed within group risk expectations and processes.

60 It has been agreed the Group Change Policy (approved at the last ARC) does apply group
wide and POI is not excluded from the policy, a small update reflecting this will be put in
place.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

POL00401628
POL00401628

61

During 2019 with the temporary benefit of a Policy Manager we begun the work of
rationalising the policy set from 125 policies to around 30 and ensuring that out of date
policies were reviewed and approved. The current focus with the resources available is to
work with policy owners in getting them to ensure policies are reviewed on time in the

appropriate template.

Internal Audit
Progress against plan

1.

Delivery of the 2019/20 programme is making good progress, having finalised three
more audits since the November ARC meeting.

Current delivery status is as follows:

POL Internal Audit Plan
Status -Total Audits = 28 “?

10

28

S/T \

= Completed ® Reporting
= Fieldwork = Planning
Not Started

POI! Internal Audit Plan
Status -Total Audits = 6 @

= Completed # Reporting = Planning

(POL ARC approved baseline plan for 2019/20 (18 core internal control reviews & 10 change assurance reviews)

Details of the audit plan status are included in the reading room (Appendix 4).
()PO1 ARC approved baseline plan for 2019/20 (5 internal control reviews & 1 change assurance review).

Internal Audit reviews in progress and planned

3. The following reviews are in progress or being planned for delivery in Q4:
Post Office Ltd
Review Status Timing
1 Telco Billing Process Reporting 04/11 - 25/11
2 HIH (Change) Reporting 25/11 - 13/12
3 Branch Banking Framework Planning 08/01 - 24/01
4 Accounts Receivable Fieldwork 13/01 - 31/01
5 Investment Funding Controls follow-up __I Planning 20/01 - 07/02
6 Data Privacy Fieldwork 13/01 - 07/02
7 Supply Chain (CViT) Planning Feb
8 Agent On-boarding Not started Feb
9 Vetting / Fit & Proper Not started Feb
10__I SPO Controls (Phase 2) Not started Feb
1 Effectiveness of Compliance Function Not started March
12 FS Branch Sales Not started March
2B Savings Accounts (Sales) Not started March
Confidential
26 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

10
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Post Office Insurance

14 Oversight of Third Parties Reporting Dec
15 Revenue Recognition Planning Feb
16 MI Platform Planning March

Internal Audit reviews completed

4. Since the November ARC meeting we have finalised the following 3 reviews:
e PCI Programme
e Cyber Security Follow-up
« CFS Controls (Post BOT)

5. Our findings and observations from these reviews are summarised below, with the full
reports available in the reading room.

PCI Programme (Programme Assurance) (Ref. 2019/20-13)

The PCI Programme was launched in November 2018 to regai
compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard
The programmeis now in its 3rd iteration, having developed from
purely technical solution to update the Pointto-Point Encryption (P2PE)
in the existing PIN Pads to a more holistic solution (per its most recenI
business case) that also addresses retail payments andhe Banking
Framework processes.

Needs Significant Improvement

Sponsor: The objective of this review was to assess the operating effectivenesI
Shikha Hornsey of programme setup and delivery activities.

While good work has been done since June 2019 in managing th
programme activities and in driving a more holistic approach toward:
compliance, the programme carries a significant residual risk to Pog
Office's ability to achieve compliance. There is also a remaining inhere!
risk of non-compliance as a result of the late shtfof compliance position
and the scale and complexity of the remediation work that is no
needed. The programme has been impacted by challengin
relationships with third parties (most notably Fujitsu and Ingenico) aj
well as significant changes in Post Ofte leadership (having had 5I
different sponsors in the current financial year).

Whilst the full detail costs of the solution, including run costs are ng
yet agreed, the current forecasted spend exceeds the approved fundin:
by £1.5m, with £880k of additiaal running costs and timeline to regain)
PCI compliance potentially being extendecto end of Q1 2021.

We highlight the following key issues that are within the control of th

programme to address:

« Insufficient committed resources to support programme delary;

« Incomplete assessment of PAN data across Post Office;

« Inability to fully demonstrate that the PCI guidelines were followed
on the current proposed remediation.

Audit actions:

mment provi hikha Horns
The PCI Programme has been reprioritised to become one of the Post Office’s major initiatives. As suct
it is receiving much more focus, as well as more resources, to ensure that the Post Office’s PCI compli
solution will be ready for deployment in December 2020. However, as the Christmas shipgi period is
typically the busiest time of year, it is expected that the actual software deployment of the compliaI
solution may roll out early in the first quarter of 2021 due to the Christmas freeze. All effort is bei
made to shorten that time line wkrever possible in order to target a December 2020 compliance dat

11
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 27 of 109
Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

POL00401628
POL00401628

28 of 109

Cyber Security Follow-up (Ref. 2019/20-17)

A comprehensive Cyber Security maturity assessment was undertake}
by Deloitte between December 2018 and May 2019. The review cover
34 capabilities across four domains and concluded that Post Office haj
made significant progress in developing its IT andnformation Security
capabilities. However, maturity scores were found to be below th
Needs Improvement average for the Retail sector, FS sector and Post Office’s targeI
maturity. Deloitte made 224 recommendations to close these maturit
gaps, which are implemented throug 10 overarching actions. TheI
objective of this followup review was to assess the progress made tq
track and implement the actions required to achieve target maturity
Audit actions: ahead of a second comprehensive review due in 2020.

Sponsor:
Shikha Hornsey

Significant work has been underaken since the Deloitte review toI
enhance the control environment and we believe that the agree
approach to remediation will result in maturity levels consistent with thI
current targets. Completion of remedial actions is currently at 60%
which is slightly behind schedule (65%), but in itself no cause fol
concern. However, we have highlighted some control weaknesseg
which if not addressed, may prevent the business from achieving thi
maturity targets set for Cyber Security by March 2020.

Management Gmment provided by Tony Jowett (CISO)

“I agree that good progress has been made towards enhancing Post Office’s cyber maturi
We accept the findings and actions detailed in the report and will address them within tI
agreed timescales.”

CFS Controls Post BOT (Ref. 2019/20-16)

The objective of this internal audit was to assess the design an
operating effectiveness of the Financial Reporting Controls that changet
when processes migrated from POLSAP to CFS. The audit covered 77
controls across 7 processes.

It is our view that the emphasis placed upon this work by Finance
Needs Improvement continues to ensure that the business maintains a good level of contro}
over its financial reporting activities The training and guidance
provided by the Financial Controls Team in the rurup to BOT has paid
Audit actions: dividends and has contributed to a considerable improvement in the
standard of controls being operated. We conclude that the control
activities in this area ae effective, although largely manual in nature.
The audit identified some opportunities for improvement, which will
further strengthen the controls.

Sponsor: Al Cameron

Management Comment
“As always, we welcome the input from internal audit and the report is a fair reflection of the status

the new post BOT controls. I’m pleased with the progress made in this area and the significa
improvements made to the control environment as a restilof the hard work during BOT. The findings
are not concerning in nature, however they will be acted on swiftly to ensure the framework is robu
and controls are operating effectively. Additionally we'll continue to strive towards developing a moI
automated (less manual) controls environment.’(Tom Lee - Financial Controller)

“We appreciate the review as this is never an area where we will be complacent(Al Cameron - CFO)

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

12
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Status of Audit Actions

6.

Audit actions are generally being completed on time. Since the November ARC, 36
actions were completed and 8 new actions were added. As at 6 January there were 47
open actions, 3 of which were overdue.

_ Audit Action Status (POL):

Open (not yet due) 44
Overdue (<60 days) 3
Overdue (>60 days) 0
Total 47

7. The following two actions are currently overdue (less than 30 days), with justifiable

reasons:

[Description of audit finding and Priority

[Action Owners and Status Update

IFS Training (Branch Sales) (GE owner: Owen Woodley; Due date 31/12/2019)

IP2 - There is no high-level document setting
jout the approach to FS branch sales training.
(Action: Coordinate a cross functional effort to

IFS training policy.

Owner: Elizabeth Garside (prev. Ross Hunter)
Progress has been made although the
Keparture of the initial action owner has

\develop, position and maintain an appropriatefesulted in a delay. The action has been

reallocated and is scheduled for completion
by end Jan 2020.

[Purchase to Pay (GE owner: Al Cameron; Due date 31/12/2019)

P2 - Segregation of duties is not enforced in
ICFS for Accenture support users. Specifically,
11 users were able to raise and approve
requisitions and modify master data.

\Action: Management will investigate what
jsteps can be taken by Post Office to monitor
Accenture access to CFS. This could
potentially be addressed by Accenture
jsharing the Authorisation Object and
ITransactions Report currently being tested in
jthe development environment.

lowner: Joy Lennon

Action is progressing. Accenture roles have
been reviewed to tighten access to CFS and it
is likely that changes to master data or
ransactions raised by Accenture staff will be
picked up as part of normal monitoring
process. However, more robust monitoring
mechanisms still need to be implemented -
appropriate solution is being discussed with
Accenture.

IPayzone Controls (GE owner: Debbie Smith; Due date 31/12/2019)

Pi - Processes to support individual rights
jaccess requests and data breach reporting
lhave not yet been defined and no link has
lbeen created between PZBP and POL for
incident management.

(Action: Management will work with the POL
Data Protection team to integrate processes
ffor information requests, including Freedom
jof Information requests, and breach
reporting.

Owner: Michelle Embrey

Action is progressing. The data breach and
information request processes are being
developed in conjunction with the POL Data
Protection Team. Chris Russell from POL DP
[Team has confirmed that engagement is in
place, however, work required will take
additional resource and will not be complete
before 30/6/20.

Confidential

Post Office

mited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

13

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Appendix?

Central Risk

Appendix 1: RCC Post Office Enterprise Risks

Appendix 2: RCC Risk Heatmap and supporting comments
Appendix 3: RCC Change Portfolio

Internal Audit

Appendix 4: Internal audit plan
Appendix 5: CFS Controls (Post BOT)
Appendix 6: PCI Programme
Appendix 7: Cyber Security Follow-up

Compliance

Appendix 8: Compliance Dashboard (Nov 2019)

Appendix 9: Compliance Dashboard Summary of Trends (Nov 2019)
Appendix 10: FS Regulatory calendar

Appendix 11: Telecoms Regulatory calendar

? Appendices are accessible in the RCC ‘Reading Room’
14
Confidential

30 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/

isk, Compliance and Audit Update

Post Office Limited

Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title:

PSD2 - Telecoms Implementation

Meeting Date:

14 January 2020

Author:

Meredith Sharples - Director of Telecoms

Sponsor:

Owen Woodley - CE, FSTI, Group Marketing, and
Group Digital & Innovation

Input Sought

Action Required:

Noting

Previous Governance
Oversight:

None

Executive Summary

Context:

This paper outlines the PSD2 implications to the
Telecoms business and outlines the steps that have
been taken by the Telecoms team to ensure
compliance.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

31 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

Questions asked & addressed

1. This noting paper provides the Committee with an update on the Payment Services
Directive 2 (“PSD2”) and the application of the regulations on our Telephony business.

What is PSD2 in relation to Telecoms companies?

2. PSD2 came into force for electronic communications companies in January 2018 in relation
to billing customers for premium rate call services (e.g. Directory Enquiries and
information services). The regulatory authority for PSD2 is the FCA. Telecoms companies
had the option to either:

e apply to register with the FCA as a payment provider and opt in for the full
reporting regime; or

e take an advantage of the Electronic Communications Exemption (the “ECE”).

3. The ECE requires telecoms companies to cap premium rate service calls at £40 for a single
call and cumulatively £240 in a monthly billing period. The ECE also requires the telecoms
company to provide an independent audit, demonstrating compliance with the caps.

4. Most telecoms companies appear to have concluded that the application and compliance
costs with the full reporting regime outweighs the benefits of not having to apply the caps,
and have opted for the ECE.

Applicability of PSD2 on Post Office Telecoms

5. Following the creation of the Telecoms compliance function in early 2018, we joined an
industry forum (“UKCTA”), where we were advised that PSD2, historically a payment
services directive, might also apply to telecoms services. As a result we sought legal
guidance from DAC Beachcroft in May 2018 on the relevance of the regulations to our
telephony business.

6. The initial advice was that PSD2 did not apply to the Post Office Telecoms business. This
was challenged by Compliance as it appeared to be at odds with the rest of the industry,
most of whom had applied for an ECE. The risk that PSD2 did apply was added to the
Telecoms risk register and raised at the RCC and ARC in July 2018.

7. Further legal advice was obtained from another law company (Linklaters) and in this
instance the advice was that the regulations did apply to the telephony business. Because
we had conflicting opinions from two companies we asked them to meet and resolve the
conflicting advice. This was provided in February 2019 and confirmed that the regulations
did apply and that Post Office, although not regulated by the FCA, was required to notify
the FCA that it provides payment service. The Telecoms team was provided with this
advice and asked to implement the changes required in order to comply with PSD2.

8. More recently, on 23" December 2019 the FCA wrote to various telecoms industry bodies
including UKCTA, asking them to remind their members of its expectations in relation to

2
Confidential

32 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

@

PSD2. This may be because some telecoms companies may not have registered with the
FCA or applied the ECE appropriately.

How will Post Office comply?

9. Regulatory notification: Post Office Telecoms is required to notify the FCA that it is seeking
to rely on the ECE and will provide an annual independent audit report to demonstrate
compliance.

10. Operational changes: The Telecoms team have been working with their suppliers to
establish the optimal way to achieve compliance, the solution outlined below will require
both immediate technical changes and ongoing business process changes to ensure
compliance and monitor fraud.

Risks and Issues

Regulatory risks

11. The PSD2 regulations came into effect on 13" January 2018. As an existing telecoms
provider, Post Office was required to notify the FCA that it provides payment service and
that it will rely on the ECE prior to that date.

12. However, as set out above, Post Office only became aware of the relevance of PSD2 to
the telecoms business in March 2018, when it joined UKCTA. Further, the PSD2
regulations explicitly state that whilst Post Office is subject to the PSD2 it is not regulated
by the FCA. Legal clarification was sought and final advice was confirmed in February
2019.

13. As Post Office did not notify the FCA before 13" January 2018, has not been providing the
FCA with the required reporting and it has not implemented a solution to cap the premium
rate call charges, therefore there is a risk that the FCA could take action against Post
Office and seek to impose a financial penalty on the business.

14. Linklaters has advised that it is unaware of the FCA applying any penalty in relation to
PSD2 and telecoms to date and thus it is unknown what potential penalty range might be.
However, the Telecoms team has been advised on what parameters the FCA will be taking
into calculating any fines. Further investigation into quantum is being undertaken.

15. However, it may be that this area is not a priority for the FCA, hence its communication
to the telecoms industry in December 2019, and that it might be satisfied, therefore will
not apply any fines) if we notify for the ECE, implement the operational changes to apply
the billing caps and, critically, ensure that any charges above the caps made from January
2018 have been refunded to customers.

16. The Telecoms, Compliance and Legal team are preparing a response to the FCA if further
explanation is sought.

Financial Risks

17. To cap the cost of individual calls and monthly calls is not a simple task as it requires
modifications to be made complex billing call rating systems. These systems were not
designed to implement real time call rating, as rating is performed at the end of the period.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 33 ¢
Tab 6 Cor

POL00401628
POL00401628

mbined Risk, Compliance and Audit Upd

@

34 of 109

Therefore it is not technically possible to monitor calls in real time and terminate when it
reaches £40.

18. To implement, the monthly cap requires the billing systems to continuously rate individual
calls and apply a cap to the charge to the customer when it reaches £240. As real time
rating is not available the only solution is to apply a cap retrospectively.

19. Any delay to the rating, and therefore implementation of caps, come with financial risk as
the Post Office will still be required to pay the service provider the full amount of the call.
For example if the uncapped call charge was £100 then Post Office would have to pay the
service provider £100, cap the cost to the customer to £40 and absorb the £60 as a loss.
Similar arrangements would apply for the monthly £240 cap.

20. The risk from fraudulent usage will be mitigated through fraud reporting on these call
types. The current usage is considered low at £24k per annum, based on a 6 month
sample of premium rate calls.

Remedial Actions and Next Steps

Implementing the billing system changes

21. Since the confirmation of the legal guidance in March 2019 on the applicability of PSD2 to
the Telecoms business, the Telecoms development teams have been working to define a
solution with our suppliers Fujitsu and TalkTalk. The solution analysis took longer than
normal due to a large number of uncertainties during the period, but a compliant solution
is now committed for delivery in Q4 19/20.

22. The PSD2 solution was included in business roadmap planning with Fujitsu within 5 days
of the formal confirmation of legal advice in March 2019. The completion of the definition
stage of this change was significantly complex due a number of uncertainties in the FCA
guidance, differing industry implementation and uncertainty from the supplier on a
compliant solution. Tasks completed during the implementation period included:

e Legal points were addressed through further engagement with POL external
legal advisors e.g. Consumer T&Cs changes to contract length (initially
interpreted that POL would have to change all end user contracts to 6 months).

e A wholesale solution from TalkTalk was explored but removed in November
2019, after an initial proposal from BT Wholesale offer (made in September
2019) was rescinded. We do not know why the BT offer was rescinded but it
does indicate the changing and complex nature of this obligation.

e Two separate compliant options are provided under the regulation (as outlined
above), the business needed to review the wider implications of option 1.

e In December 2019 a change request was formally submitted to Fujitsu.

23. The timeline to rectify is outlined below.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 6 Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

frsrch ane [May Jone uly [August [September[October [November December [anvary [February [March

[formal notineation of compliance requirement
ters Roadmap planning with 77 =
ind user TACs, legal guidance on 6m contract Te =
olution Design/Evalution

lon call apping Vater rescinded) i,

arr

Refunds for impacted customers

24. Any customer impacted for the period January 2018 through to the implementation of the
new charging caps deployment date, will have a single aggregated ex. VAT credit applied
to the customer bill. The credit calculation will use the same calculations described below
for ensuring compliance moving forward.

25. Any individual calls made to premium rates services (numbers beginning 118 / 0843 /
0844 / 0845 / 0870 / 090) will be capped at £33.33 ex. VAT and presented on the customer
bill accordingly.

26. The monthly aggregate of calls made to premium rates services will be capped to £200
ex. VAT. For customer with quarterly billing this calculation will be repeated for each month
period in the quarter.

27. Supporting annual reporting will be provided demonstrating compliance.
Notifying the FCA

28. Following advice from Linklaters, it is proposed to notify the FCA and request an ECE as
quickly as possible. Therefore, we propose to write to the FCA informing it that we are
implementing the caps on customer charges and will be refunding customer any excess
amounts incurred since 13th January 2018. We will also advise the FCA that we are
seeking to rely on the ECE. A draft letter to the FCA is being finalised, which we expect
to send on 14" January 2020.

29. Additionally, we are preparing our position should the FCA ask why the PSD2 obligations
were not implemented in 2018.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/

pntracts out of Governance

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK COMMITTEE REPORT

Title:

Procurement Governance & Compliance Report

Meeting Date:

14" January 2020

Author:

Barbara Brannon, Procurement Director

Sponsor:

Alisdair Cameron, Chief Financial Officer

Input Sought

Action Required:

For Noting and Discussion if further action if
required.

Previous Governance
Oversight:

November 2019 - Quarterly Risk Report

Executive Summary

Context:

As a business in receipt of public funds POL is bound
by the Public Contract Regulations (2015). PCR 2015
oblige POL to behave in a fair, objective & transparent
way when contracting with 3'¢ party suppliers.
Additionally, set procedures must be followed for
spend above £25k and £181,302.

The purpose of this report is to set out both breaches
to Post Office governance and key controls around
contracts and compliance to PCR regulation in the
award of contracts.

The aim of collating this information is to drive
improvement in awareness and compliance behaviour
across the organisation. The second and primary aim
is to work with GE and Business Units to commence
commercial reviews in a more timely way ensuring
POL obtains value, commercial and contractual
flexibility fitting the requirements and business
strategy of the organisation.

POL00401628
POL00401628

Strictly Confidential

36 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 7 Supplier Con

Questions asked & addressed

1. How many and what types of procurement non-compliance have occurred in the past
quarter?
Since the last RCC report in November there have been 11 non-compliant incidents with
a total value of £2,621,652.
A list of these awards is set out at the beginning of Appendix 1.

2. What are we doing about it?

Active reviews continue with Business Units with the highest values relating to non-
compliance.

Our overall non-compliance value has risen from £17.65m in November to £20.2m in
January.

This was primarily driven by new high value direct awards.

A visual breakdown is available in Appendix 2.

3. What is in the current Procurement pipeline which is high value and at risk of being
awarded or extended non-compliantly?

a) £800k. SSK support - with NCR for 2020/21 will be required while POL goes to
market for a new supplier. Strategy for building a compliant route to support legacy
support is TBC. It may be more economical to extend current contract until current
devices are end of life.

b) £1m Brands/Rapp - this has been extended to April 2020. A business strategy,
funding and sourcing plan needs to be agreed. This is due to be submitted to the
PSG shortly and Procurement are working with the Marketing and IT teams to build
the sourcing options available.

c) £1.5m Media Planning Contract - ongoing discussion with Marketing team who
have a preference to run an OJEU process. Current contract expires 30 April 2020
and an OJEU process is no longer achievable in the remaining timeframe. A 6-7
month non-compliant extension will be required. A CCS framework exists for this
service however, while the pricing is competitive the incumbent provider to POL has
not been appointed to the new panel.

d

£10m Global Payments - continuous delays to the Crown Commercial tender
process for the new framework will result in the new panel of providers being
appointed in January+ 2020. At this point POL can commence its own tender process.
The contract with the incumbent provider, Global Payments will end 8°" May. POL
will therefore need to extend this contract for 12/24 months to allow for a process to

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 37 of 109

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 7 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

ssn a Aa LS SI
be run and possible migration to a new provider. A paper goes to GE outlining the
options in January 2020 which Procurement are currently inputting to.

e) An approved strategy to bring POL recruitment services/agencies into compliance is
outstanding. This is due to be completed in January 2020 with a tender process
commencing immediately. The aim is to put a compliant panel in place by 31%t March
absent a change in recruitment strategy by HR/POL Mgmt.

f) Identity Services - a paper is due to go to GE shortly outlining POL options to
reprocure services which will end in November 2020.

Conclusion

Non-compliant awards of contracts are already subject to extensive internal governance, legal
and risk review, in line with POL governance guidance on value and risk.

Individually, all large value non-compliant contracts have been reviewed by appropriate Post
Office governance forums with agreement on next steps and actions towards remediation
allocated where appropriate and/or available.

Executive support towards moving POL towards a more compliant footing is very strong, but
equally as important there is extensive support towards the cultural change required to ensure
that Procurement activities and outcomes will support longer term business strategies and we
reduce commercial risk making our 3 party arrangements fit for purpose.

Report

1. What are the potential consequences of non-compliant awards?

a) Pre-contractual remedies overview: During a Procurement, an aggrieved party can
seek an interim injunction suspending the tender or the implementation until the
court decides on an outcome.

b) Post-contractual remedies: The court can order an ‘ineffectiveness order’ rendering
the contract void &/or can award damages.

2. Why are these incidents of non-compliance occurring, and what can be done about it?

Non-compliant awards are made for a variety of reasons at the Post Office.

a) Low value, time constrained or highly sensitive/specialist engagements are common.
b) Large commercial arrangements cannot often be easily competed or unravelled
without operational impact, and re-procurement may be subject to a pending
evolution of a supporting Business Strategy.
c) The contractual arrangements may pre-date PCR 2015 regulations or the contract
novated during separation from RMG, automatically becoming non-compliant at the
renewal point. Non-compliant awards are frequently made on a tactical basis to
extend contractual services while public tender processes are executed.
Delays to public sector panels of suppliers becoming available. The Post office makes
extensive use of this low-cost route to market and new/refreshed panels are subject
3

d

Strictly Confidential

38 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 7 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

rsa aa a aS PP a ARASH SN

to frequent delays from Crown Commercial Services. Single interim extensions [of
periods under 12 months] while tender processes are run are considered to be low
risk legally.

e) Changes in scope or value over the term of a contract may render the extension or
renewal of services non-compliant. Material changes to the scope of a contract may
render the whole contract non-compliant.

f) Disregard for, or lack of understanding of the regulations.

3. Why are we receiving this report?
A decision to collate this information into a single location was taken in the Autumn of
2016. The aim is to track and improve our overall compliance and commercial results as
an organisation, while also ensuring perceptions are accurate. However, it should be
noted that it will facilitate timely responses to Freedom of Information requests which
adds risk to the Post Office commercial landscape.

4. Are any of these breaches arguable on regulatory grounds or are they all breaches?

A full explanation of the individual compliance breaches for direct awards over £181k
[previously £164k] threshold is attached in Appendix A. Each entry details the nature
of, and the value of the breach. The threshold is altered annually based on the FX rate
between GBP and the Euro.

The Procurement Compliance Register does not at present give an indicative risk level
attached to the award. This information is provided to the accountable executives under
internal governance processes in the form of a PCR risk note before a contract above
threshold is entered into, and if necessary, under Legal Privilege. In addition, all
signatories to a contract have sight of the Risk note as part of the Contract Authorisation
Form [CAF].

All entries are compliance breaches. A period of challenge applies to each PCR breach
once an aggrieved party becomes aware or ought to have become aware. This risk finally
expires at 6 years from the date of breach. The defensibility of a legal challenge is
outlined within a Risk Note.

5. How many of the breaches were approved in advance and how many retrospectively?

9 out of 11 contracts entered into during this period were not compliant with internal
governance processes on contract and commercial review. All were for awards of
between £0 and £100,000k. It is assumed that the McKinsey engagements were
discussed and funding approved in advance of engagement along with legal review on
the terms and conditions of engagement.

6. Why were the approvals given?

The rationale for approval is relevant to the individual service and is detailed within
Appendix C.

7. What were the unapproved, material breaches?
There were no unapproved, material breaches during this period.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 39 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 7 Supplier Con

sar a A aS NP EERO TE
8. Describe what you are doing about the breaches. Where we are in breach, do we have a
plan to come back into compliance and over what time period will that plan take effect?

a) A forward view of material contracts falling under each Business Unit is currently
prepared by the relevant Procurement Manager for discussions with their key
stakeholders. The maturity of this look ahead view does vary currently and is consistently
a high priority activity within the team.

b) Sourcing options papers are prepared for review by contract managers and key
stakeholders [risk, legal, security] with routes to market agreed. In many cases these
are dependent on evolving business and operating model strategies and the Procurement
team are now actively involved with some units helping to advise and review options as
thinking evolves.

c) Where a non-compliant award is proposed due to time pressure, Procurement are
actively working on long term mitigation with awards made on an interim basis to meet
urgent operational needs.

d) Each RCC member now receives a regular report on compliance within their business
unit[s].

e) Anew Risk & Governance process requires a Risk Exception report to be created for non-
compliant direct awards with SLT or GE sign off.

f) All Professional Services engagements must be approved in writing in advance by the

COO. A compliant panel of preferred consulting partners has been appointed and

proposed engagements outside of this panel are subject to additional review and

challenge.

Procurement provides training as part of the revised Induction process for new staff.

Training packs are being updated for existing staff and a new training module made

available on Successfactors. Ad hoc training sessions for interested Business Units are

also run.

h) A new Intranet site has been launched for Procurement to improve visibility of process,
regulation, and the panels of approved compliant suppliers available to POL business
units.

i) A revised POL Procurement Policy and supporting processes is in progress giving more
granular guidance.

j) Using Crown Commercial Services frameworks, panels of Preferred Suppliers are being
refreshed and updated across a wide range of spend categories to reduce time to market,
improve compliance and greatly improve commercial outcomes and legal risk.

k) A planned change to operational systems will, once live, give Procurement earlier
visibility of potential compliance issues eg: contractual value thresholds.

g

Risk Assessment, Mitigations & Legal Implications

As a business in receipt of public funds POL is bound by the Public Contract Regulations (2015).
PCR 2015 oblige POL to behave in a fair, objective & transparent way when contracting with 3'¢
party suppliers. Additionally, set procedures must be followed for spend above £25k and
£181,302.

Failure to abide by the legislation or “slicing and dicing” contracts exposes POL to risk, both as
far the commercial outcomes of the contracts as well as the reputational damage, legal
remedies, censure & fines that can follow the discovery of a breach. Our compliance to PCR can
be requested under a Freedom of Information request at any time.

The PCR Compliance Register allows for the tracking of breaches to PCR regulations at the Post
Office and internal governance processes. One aim of collating this information is to drive

5
Strictly Confidential

40 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 7 Supplier Contracts out of Governance

ssn a Aa LS SI
improvement in awareness and compliance behaviour across the organisation. The second and
primary aim is to work with GE and Business Units to commence commercial reviews in a more
timely way ensuring POL obtains value, commercial and contractual flexibility fitting the
requirements and business strategy of the organisation.

Contract and financial governance policy and processes at Post Office are set by the Legal, Risk
and Governance team with clear guidelines for staff availably on the Company Secretariat team
intranet site. This sets out steps to be taken to obtain financial and contractual approvals prior
to making a binding commitment to an external party. Non-compliance to internal governance
processes are also captured within this report.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 41 of 109
FS
ig
9°

i}

Appendix 1 - New Incidents over Reporting Period

PCR
Date Purpose Department GE ‘Supplier ve cone) CO Sool
Y/N Governance Y/N engagement
18/11/2019 [Employee benefits HR Lisa Cherry BMI Healthcare £ 15,000.00 N/AINo contract or CAF Preference
(interim)
16/12/2019 IManagement consultancy IFinance Alisdair Cameron IDeloitte £ 20,000.00 N/AINo contract or CAF Employment Tax
Support
16/12/2019 IMarketing Marketing Mark Davies iKantar £ 24,500.00 N/AINo contract or CAF Preference
14/11/2019 IManagement consultancy [Finance Nick Read McKinsey £2,000,000.00 NoIApproved Contract in Place [Preference
28/11/2019 IManagement consultancy IFinance Nick Read McKinsey £ 250,000.00 ‘NoIApproved Contract in Place [Preference
23/12/2019 IPR [Corporate Comms [Nick Read (Cardew Group £ 78,000.00 NoIApproved Contract in Place [Preference
30/12/2019 IDigital Services Retail [Debbie.K Smith IAbcomm £ 42,000.00 NoIApproved Contract in Place IPreference
30/12/2019 [Digital Services Retail Debbie KSmith _I9XB £ 30,000.00 NoIApproved Contract in Place [Preference
30/12/2019 IComms, R&I & PR Corporate Comms IMark Davies iKantar £ 52,000.00 NoINo contract or CAF Preference
30/12/2019 IMarket Research Corporate Comms IMark Davies IAB Publishing £ 100,000.00 NoINo contract or CAF Network Openings*
30/12/2019 ICoaching/mentoring IHR Lisa Cherry Corrinne Projects £ 10,152.00 N/AINo contract or CAF Preference
interim)

2,621,652.00

Strictly Confidential

POL00401628
POL00401628

BOUBUIEADD Jo JNO S}IBNUOD JeNddng 2 GEL
OZ/LO/PL-2ep!uW0g eoueyduicg pue ¥sIY - Pa}! E94} 1Soq

601 JO ey

Appendix 2 - Breakdown of Open Non Compliant Risk by £/No

Row Labels ~ Sum of Value/

Corporate Comms £ 430,000.00
Finance £ — 2,292,000.00
Financial Services £ 546,297.00
HR £  1,429,500.00
Identity Services £ 920,000.00
IT £ 788,000.00
Marketing £  2,273,440.00
Retail £ 11,392,000.00
Supply Chain £ 125,000.00
Grand Total £ 20,196,237.00

Risk... oY Breach Type t..
‘Sum of Value/

Supply Chain
1%

Strictly Confidential

Corporate Comms

3%

Marketing
11%

Financial Services

Identity Services

5%

Function : z
® Corporate Comms
= Finance
= Financial Services
= HR
= Identity Services
aT
= Marketing
= Retail

® Supply Chain

POL00401628
POL00401628

@oueUseno9 Jo jno s}9eAUOD Jeddng 2 qeL
601 5° by

OZ/LO/PL-2ep!uW0g eoueyduicg pue ¥sIY - Pa}! E94} 1Soq

POL00401628
POL00401628

Row Labels > Count of Valuefhcor
Corporate Comms
Finance

Financial Services
HR

Identity Services
IT

Marketing
Retail

Supply Chain
Grand Total

@oueUseno9 Jo jno s}9eAUOD Jeddng 2 qeL

PRORRUBWWEH

28

Risk. Breach Type 1... -F

Count of... .. Corporate Comms
Supply Chain i 14%
4% =
= Corporate Comms
- = Finance
_. Finance
11% = Financial Services
= HR
= Identity Services
Financial Services ait
11%
T = Marketing
A% = = Retail

Identity Services I /
3%

Strictly Confidential

POL00401628
POL00401628

Post Office Limited
Risk & Compliance Committee Report

Title:

Payzone Bill Payments Update

Meeting Date:

14 January 2020

Author:

Michelle Embrey, Quality and Risk Manager, Payzone

Sponsor:

Andrew Goddard, Managing Director, Payzone

Input Sought

Action Required:
Noting

To note the progress made with the Payzone risk
framework and the Payzone risk register.

Previous Governance
Oversight:

Executive Summary

Context:

This paper provides an update on the progress of
the risk framework and the latest risk register
position.

The risk workplan has been created to monitor and

update the management team on progress of the
key activities. This includes the progress being made
to address the significant risks and return to
acceptable levels.

This report highlights the significant risks (a risk
score of greater than 12) notably; the need to
consider GDPR requirement the integration and
impact of Post Office standards within operations
and commercial areas, impact of Brexit, a terminal
“pairing” issue affecting agent and customer
transactions, and the risk to forecast revenues from
under-performing.

The progress of the risk framework from the
previous reporting period includes the following:
The management team have reviewed the risk
register and agreed target risk scores with
mitigation plans and target dates in place

A process flow chart detailing the correct risk
management process has been generated and
submitted to POL risk team for their review and
comments.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

45 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 8 Payzone Risk Report

@

Questions asked & addressed

1. _Status of the risk framework

2. What are the significant & emerging risks and what are we doing to
address these?

3. What additional activities are required to embed risk into _ways of
working?
Conclusion

Report

5. Status of the Risk Framework
Work has been continuing to develop the risk management framework. The detail of which
is covered below:

a. Arisk management and incident process flow chart has been created and submitted
to POL risk team for review

b. The staged approach for the full integration of a risk framework is continuing. The
following stages have been completed:

(i) Stage one, review the residual risks from the Panther RAID log

(ii) Stage two, review the risks raised during the risk workshop held in July for
relevance and score

(iii) Stage three - review the risk register and assign target risk scores with due
dates

c. The risk appetite will be further developed with the intention to generate a risk
statement by March 2020.

d. A risk work plan has been created that details all the key activities within the risk
management remit. The purpose of this plan is to monitor and communicate the
progress made on these key activities including the significant risks as detailed in the
significant risk register. Mitigation and due dates have been assigned to significant
risks to bring the residual risk scores to acceptable levels.

6. What are the significant & emerging risks and what are we doing to address

these?

a. Risk Changes
The following Tables 1 & 2 illustrate the classification of risks and issues and the
progress since the September Board. In Table 1, risks remain stable at 21. The
financial risks have been reviewed and scored as 1 high, I medium, 3 low risk and 1
reassigned from the financial risk category to a legal, regulatory and other
requirements risk category (from 5 blank).

Confidential

46 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628

POL00401628
Tab 8 Payzone Risk Report
Table 1

Residual Risk Score Medium

Grand
Risk Category plank ‘ 6 I 8.) I a0 Fl
fan 1 1 zi
Customer & Client 1 1 2
Financial 1 a fafa a fa é
IT & Operational 1 [a 1 1 1 5
Legal, Regulatory & Other 7 : :
Requirements
People 1 1 1 1 4
[Grand Total 0 fat fe po te oe oa of sd 7 2

Last {seen Period 5 3 2 4 0 1 0 0 1 1 2 1 0 1 21

In Table 2, the issues have remained relatively stable with the medium issues at 7 (decreased

from 8).

Table 2
Impact Rating Medium
Risk Category a Grand Total
All i’)
Financial ic)
IT & Operational 2 1 4 ys
Legal, Regulatory & Other (e)
People (°)
Customer & Client ie}
Grand Total Cac ea 7

8

Last Reporting Period Z d 5 i} i)

b. Significant Risks
The top Payzone Bill Payments risks as shown in Appendix 1 are:

i Risk score 20 (5:4)
The urgency of the implementation for fixing the terminal pairing issue may increase
with the onboarding of high-profile clients. This issue is currently under investigation and
incremental software updates are released as improvements are established.

ii. Risk score 16 (4:4)
There is a need to consider GDPR requirements. Currently a formal process is being
developed in conjunction with the Post Office Data Protection Team This risk has been
given a high priority to mitigate and implement a process.

iii. Risk Score 16 (4:4)
The adoption and integration of the PO standards is an area of concern as the integration
of the two businesses mature. Discussions are required to determine PO expectation of
Payzone’s level of standard implementation keeping in mind the need to maintain the
highly dynamic and low margin operation. Also, discussions are required to ascertain

where the risk of a reduced standard implementation would reside.
3
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 47 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 8 Payzone Risk Report

@

iv. Risk score 15 (5:3)
The risk to forecast revenues from under-performing against the original business plan.
The success in securing the British Gas exclusive contract and pipeline of other key clients
will mitigate this risk but there is need for further, detailed scrutiny on transaction and
revenue growth.

ve Risk score 16 (4:4)
There is a risk regarding alignment of accounting and MI standards between POL and
PZBP. This activity currently cannot be aligned due to the complexity of the POL systems
and inconsistent data generated.

vi. Risk Score 5 (5:1)
Brexit has been scored as a potential black swan event.

7. Conclusion
a. There have been 21 risks identified with 12 being low, 3 medium, 5 high and 1 black
swan. Of these risks there are 6 significant risks (risk score of 12 and above).

b. This report highlights the significant risks (a risk score of greater than 12) notably; the
need to consider GDPR requirement the integration and impact of Post Office standards
within operations and commercial areas, impact of Brexit, a terminal “pairing” issue
affecting agent and customer transactions, and the risk to forecast revenues from under-
performing (see appendix 1). These risks have mitigations in place and a risk workplan
has been created to monitor and update the management team on progress of the key
activities. This includes the progress being made to address the significant risks and
return to acceptable levels.

Confidential

48 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
OZ/LO/PL-2ep!uW0g eoueyduicg pue ¥sIY - Pa}! E94} 1Soq

601 4° 6r

POL00401628
POL00401628

Appendix 1
Significant Risks

fore ormercants
Jsputatona damage

Residual Risk Score

Assigned To

DueDate Progress Update:

foro Rw wre are aes corentivin tester deploynentin The Barr ware onholdto
Jersur statiltyot serve or ist an eas sere

Jason abe dployedon the r0sterminal an

h2pi2719-nuner of adolf a panned fr deployment howe carensyon olde
este saivarseuewtinsdyenseute ota estaninvades rn
[ates onrevclatonprorss tr pane nae tae tec eles

payne pertes ina hiplvdamicand
owmarin sence market th PO

ne business maybecome uprofabe nO owneship were extensine

J)rawone beingestabshedwihinPOas ams tera apeaton
fvithown Payne Boardanddedeatedmanagementieam
i} PO comprate senders willbe taken were heyare ov ete

[Frey
.1019.ns:P28P& POL carendywskingto improve hs sition There is9 requirement or FOL
fnorove te communication and senpe of wor required in over tomeet tet equrements He
Jeoecedetirabies needto be communicated byPCt in adance

omaietion
implement comprehensive pro aie communications

ogame with auencespeaiemes

‘ua foenentintevigine potentiate lierinancr eam maybecone nee de the planed andewanding find gnemedtvoughs Master SenirsAgeement a f73039.osnotaailate fr meeting. MErequestedupdate ka mall 73039
ember Pane oeraons, sondern de tPA Gone i} cpentional and andl orig be ests om 20939-Ds ner FOcamptione tam eatin he conte epatons
Jownmaret sponse andingease ans ian -tisk meting ‘tom Hon andbliond dspinaeasedo&
fieest consider Orme aie ments fr ols in pac ica:
nana foboind aes caltsnolamal process rls in a « avo xian mses be lpi ea
ecunsted leaner ens esiss nthe oa on he A wl econ he dacetenaenltymanuay gettin
isk rund aloingaccouangand Ml luis datas uses be fr business dine align of
Jcouningandiabecomes impor death incomistrt at dats tom Kontls ave carenybengestabisbed wa I wura0—I213039- 1s: Wak aging roel
[rao
A 7 (0am ot formula apeedvbnrbysone oft astoated [xis ange csens xingsishneevne
tems rigitent dak cet ihihe venues ecopion's ke pays Fz Jr ravgrtingot sucess inrmgtangendniv coc 8h Gand? ot dest
mans Kom undergermance of fm germans imacg Rt fe fe wansacon naeasedcomoetir i; mepaing te conmerca/nateing lan tobe eects Hom luitnow being ccs oer dents epee ow
vom frgone nates intarncine tunes ree inictaerien odd fyi ‘commercial I 1020 Pesrr9ac: Revere narbargon line wthplan css nes eater Statement Rom Ato Ny hich
rots and sdneeueniys ington compehenin, pec, commleon feteceaspouion hase lr us update Teal snes 'tnderpefamig
ropanme wv ouence spedtcmessopon fossa jst eater
aris a Ona vee ob om PL side wee speningimae Renu ontrack below,
exams :rad-wepctwodsted wom
armoutTomudsapeed berebysone ofthe ak soc [rroon
ere isipitantaak toto! Eigseet toda nove werk fe et we ris. (oosetswate resting repeated se mi 73019
ernest inderoeramaee ot inderperrmane Inpscing ROX fre vasucon nceasedconpenir fine renes:ecopiion inked payments FZ Jusrisn0-ro change wl diss auingsk eee
vom fone cinvetalerfees odd urbe commerist I Mar20 Jai rainting th scessinrgtangendnv contac th BG and Pot ext

pss.as- Revere now baron in thn, oss ines eater. statement Hom AG to Nye

Jeteceaine positon. chase her for hs update. Teceically the Busnes ln tunderperirming,

Confidential

5

4
D
&
cy
D
Cy

<
N
8
E}

POL00401628

POL00401628
and Annual Tax Strategy
Post Office Limited
Risk & Compliance Committee Report
Title: Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy
Meeting Date: 14 January 2020
. Mark Dixon, Head of Treasury, Tax & Insurance
Authors: Andy Jamieson, Tax Manager
Sponsor: Alisdair Cameron, Chief Financial Officer
Input Sought
The Risk and Compliance Committee is asked to
Action Required: note the Tax Update and the annual review of the
Tax Strategy prior to submission to the ARC for
approval.
Previous Governance
Oversight:
Executive Summary
As a follow up to the paper presented to the Audit,
Risk and Compliance Committee in October 2018 this
Context: paper provides an update on tax, as well as on the
annual review of the POL tax strategy last published
in January 2019 (the “Tax Strategy”).
Confidential

50 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 9 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

1. What are the strategic tax challenges for POL?

2. What are the current key tax issues for POL?

3. What progress has been made around the changes to the tax team described in the last
update?

4. What other tax updates should the ARC be aware of?

5. What is the requirement for reviewing and updating the published tax strategy?

Questions asked & addressed

Report
What are the strategic tax challenges for POL?

Improving control around VAT

6. As reported in the last update the primary tax risk remains around VAT and, in particular,
ensuring that POL pays and claims the correct amount. This year we have focussed on:
embedding the Back Office Transformation (“BOT”) changes; integrating Payzone into the
VAT group; and our VAT reporting. This has allowed us to further improve controls around
VAT. We are compliant with HMRC’s current Making Tax Digital (“MTD”) requirements.

7. The BOT and MTD projects have allowed us to replace a number of manual controls with
automated controls. New BI tools have been developed to implement changes to the VAT
return preparation process, while also enhancing controls. HMRC’s MTD Initiative (see [38]
below), which includes a requirement to have “digital links” through the process, will also
provide an opportunity to enhance control. Further automation is also being introduced as
part of the Source to Settle procurement project. This will reduce some of the current risk
associated with tax coding of purchases across the business.

8. Asa result of the revised processes and controls some historical errors, which have occurred
over the last four years, have been identified and reported to HMRC. Out of total tax
throughput (i.e. VAT incurred and output tax payable) of over £1 billion over the period,
approximately £3.5 million was paid to HMRC relating to two main issues, however
approximately £5.5 million was reclaimed from HMRC following improvements to existing
processes. These corrections were reflected in the 2018/19 Annual Report and Accounts.

Protection of our VAT position

9. POL gains a VAT benefit from an agreement regarding the treatment of the income it
receives from Royal Mail Group ("RMG”"). It is referred to as the “Stamp Solution”. The
treatment was agreed with HMRC and RMG at the time of separation. It allows POL to treat
the margin income received for the sale of stamps and stamp-related products as outside
the scope of VAT, rather than as subject to VAT. The saving can be calculated by calculating
the VAT that would be payable on the annual margin and then estimating the cost to RMG
if we were to charge it. In 2018/19 the margin for VAT purposes was c.£220m. RMG’s VAT
recovery positon was around 50% and, therefore, the VAT saving was c.£22m.

10. Changes to POL’s operations should be carefully considered to ensure that the Stamp
Solution is maintained. The legislation governing the treatment of vouchers (which stamps
fall under) was amended from January 2019. There was no direct impact from the change.

Confidential 2

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 51 of 109

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 9 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

Improving Control around Employment Taxes

Healthcare Trust

11. In 2018/19 POL paid certain additional sums into the Healthcare Trust (“HCT”) to fund
members’ costs in areas that were out of the scope of the cover of the policy. The
appropriate tax treatment was not applied to these payments. This resulted in an
underpayment of benefit-in-kind tax (“BiK”) and NI to HMRC covering four years. A
settlement payment of £547k was made in January 2019. The change in scheme provider
to BUPA means that further issues of this nature should not occur.

Employees considered to have more than one permanent place of work

12. In 2019 we identified an issue whereby certain employees, who had been appointed on
home-based contracts, were required to work regularly at office locations. Where there is
a regular, permanent second place of work and the individual claims expenses for travel,
accommodation and subsistence, it is a taxable benefit-in-kind. HMRC deem the employee
to have more than one permanent place of work. A payment in respect of tax was made
for 18/19 as part of the normal annual settlement process and we are currently reviewing
whether there has been an underpayment in tax for prior years. See para [28] for details.

IR35 - employment status of contractors

13. IR35 introduced legislation to assess whether a contractor should be placed on the payroll
or whether they can invoice as a 3™ party. As a public sector organisation we carry out
assessments, using HMRC’s on line tool when engaging contractors and were required to
do so from April 2017. HMRC recently introduced a revised on line assessment tool which
has indicated a different outcome around certain contractors’ employment status than when
the original tool was used. We are currently working with Deloitte and HMRC to evaluate
whether there are tax implications for us around this issue.

Deloitte review

14. Following the issues set out at paras 11 to 13 we engaged Deloitte in late 2019 to review
our employment tax governance and controls. Deloitte reported that, although most
processes are clear and formally documented, accountability for employment taxes was not
adequately defined. They have recommended a formal governance framework is designed
and implemented across employment taxes. Currently the HR Reward & Benefits team,
the HRSC, the Agents Remuneration team and the Strategic Projects Office (SPO) own
different parts of the processes and the central Tax team supplies support, relying on 3rd
party advice for expert guidance. The Tax team will develop the governance framework
with support from Deloitte and the key stakeholders of the processes.

Understanding and Optimising Corporation Tax Losses

15. As at the 2017/18 tax year POL had accumulated tax losses of £843 million. We estimate
that, once the 2018/19 tax computation has been finalised and submitted, POL will have
losses carried forward of in excess of £900 million.

16. From April 2017 the tax loss carry forward that can be utilised is now restricted to an initial
£5 million of profits and then 50% of the profits above £5 million. This means that POL will
now begin to pay corporation tax sooner than it would have done under the old loss rules.

Confidential 3

52 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 9 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

17. Despite being increasingly profitable at an EBITDAS level, POL continues to create tax losses
whilst it incurs significant exceptional and transformational spend which is deductible for
tax purposes. We therefore do not anticipate paying corporation tax in the very near future.

18. However, given the changes to the tax loss rules and the impact that tax may now have on
project decisions it is important that we can now project future creation and utilisation of
losses. We have therefore built a tax model to calculate our future position. The model
allows us to understand the impact of business decisions on our tax position.

What are the current key tax issues for POL?

VAT Treatment of Post Bill Payment Processing Income

19. In the October 2018 update we made the RCC/ARC aware of certain potential changes to
the VAT treatment of commissions on bill payments.

20. Our bill payments business provides POL with approx. £25 million of commission income
per year. About 90% of this relates to “post-pay”, where the customer makes a payment
after receiving their bill, for which commission is VAT exempt. The rest relates to “pre-
payments” for which commissions are standard rated. Our largest clients for “post-pay”
are Santander and AllPay and together they represent about 50% of the income.

21. In 2017, following a VAT tribunal case involving PayPoint, HMRC queried whether we should
apply the standard rate of VAT on all commissions.

22. We have been involved in on-going discussions with HMRC and also significant clients, such
as Santander and Allpay. Allpay’s exemption was removed by HMRC and an appeal
rejected. Santander continue to prefer exemption to be applied to our services, but are
prepared to accept VAT being levied.

23. In October, after review by Santander, we sent a letter to HMRC seeking the maintenance
of the VAT exemption. We believe HMRC will reject this approach. We await a response.

24. Additionally when we acquired Payzone in October 2018 it was confirmed that its business
operations were structured in a very similar manner to that of PayPoint, which would be
highly likely to lead to HMRC arguing that VAT was applicable to its post bill payment
services. For Post Office group of companies it would not be practical to have a single
service being treated differently for VAT purposes for POL and Payzone.

25. Although there are a number of complexities in this area, a review of the impact of applying
a standard rate on all commissions showed that it would benefit POL by approx. £1.5m of
additional VAT recovery per annum because of the partial exemption method that we use.
This would be a recurring benefit driven by a higher VAT recovery rate.

Employees considered to have more than one permanent place of work

26. As indicated above, in 2019 we identified a number of employees who, under HMRC
guidelines, could be deemed to have a permanent second place of work. We calculated
that there was an underpayment of Benefit-in-kind (“BiK”) tax of £254k, which was
reported in the 18/19 annual PAYE Settlement Agreement (PSA) submission in October.
We are in the process of reviewing the position back to 15/16 to correct any outstanding
tax. It appears likely that similar amounts of tax may be due and is possible that HMRC

Confidential 4

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 53 of 109

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 9 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

54 of 109

may levy a penalty of up to 15% of the tax underpaid. The business will review the
contractual position of affected individuals and make changes where appropriate.

IR35 - employment status of contractors

27. As indicated above, as a consequence of HMRC’s on-going review of employment status of
our contractor population we carried out a re-assessment of the position we have taken.
Initial findings indicate that in some cases we may have incorrectly applied HMRC’s tool,
leading to contractors being considered not to be employees when, in fact, they should
have been. Deloitte is supporting us in assessing the position and we await the outcome
of HMRC’s review. If we are found to have treated the employment status incorrectly we
will be liable to account for underpaid tax and NI, and HMRC may look to levy a penalty.
We are working towards identifying the materiality of the issue.

What progress has been made around the changes to the tax team described in the
last update?

28. HMRC’s have previously indicated that, based on the size and complexity of the business,
POL’s tax team was under-resourced. In April 2019 we recruited a second full-time team
member to support the tax manager particularly in the corporation tax area.

29. We continue to take specialist advice where appropriate, notably from KPMG and Deloitte.
What other tax related issues should the RCC/ARC be made aware of?

Governance and Tax controls

30. HMRC’s governance report from 2016 is being updated and we expect it to be issued in
February 2020. The 2016 report highlighted a lack of documented process around tax and
tax risks reporting. In intervening period new procedures, which have had HMRC oversight,
have been introduced to embed tax policy and understanding of tax risk in the business.

31. The tax controls developed are reported monthly through PwC's ‘TrAction’ tool with
supporting documentation provided. Quarterly Tax issues reports are circulated to senior
staff, including the CFO, Head of Legal Services and the Group HR Director.

32. New process guides have been written documenting all VAT return processes and
supporting review guides to evidence that checks have been carried out. A new VAT
reconciliation process had been developed and new general ledger accounts created to
provide a clearer audit trail. These processes have brought about the identification of the
historical errors highlighted above.

33. HMRC have confirmed during their VAT reviews over the last 18 months they are satisfied
with the improvements and controls made by the tax team.

HMRC Business Risk Review +

34. In late 2019 HMRC introduced its new, business tax rating regime. HMRC has set out
more guidance and shared expected standards in order to achieve each rating category.
POL group was rated ‘non-low risk’ in 2018. It is expected that this rating will continue,
albeit being rebadged as ‘moderate’. This is mainly due to our size and complexity,
although over time the Tax team’s aim is for POL to be rated to low risk through further
automation, checking, controls and education.

Confidential 5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 9 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

35. Phase 2 of HMRC’s audit to examine accounts receivable processes was completed in June
2019. They were satisfied with the information presented and the integrity of reporting.
HMRC are continuing to carry out audits across different areas of tax processes.

HMRC VAT Audit

Making Tax Digital

36. Making Tax Digital is a key part of the government’s strategy to make it easier for
individuals and businesses to get their tax right and keep on top of their affairs. HMRC’s
stated ambition is to become one of the most ‘digitally advanced tax administrations in the
world, modernising the tax system to make it more effective, efficient and to ease
compliance’. The initial phase, started on 1 October 2019 for POL. This introduced a
mandatory requirement to upload VAT return information digitally to HMRC’s new portal.

37. POL purchased software from PWC to facilitate this process. We submitted our first MTD
compliant VAT return in October 2019.

38. From 1 April 2020, with a 12-month “soft-landing” phase, there is an additional requirement
to have information in the VAT returns ‘digitally linked’ before the transfer to HMRC. This
aspect is more complex, requiring a review of POL’s systems to establish their compliance
with HMRC’s requirements. A project has commenced by the tax team to determine POL’s
position and to make recommendations for the correct investment.

39. Based on the actions of tax authorities in other jurisdictions it is expected HMRC will require
further business data to be shared via the portal in the future, with an expectation that
supporting VAT return information, such as AP and AR data will be accessible by HMRC.

40. VAT is the first tax to be reported digitally to HMRC. Once HMRC is confident that the
system provides the requisite data and ease of access for both taxpayers and HMRC further
taxes will be required to be reported digitally. In 2019 HMRC announced a delay to the
introduction of digital corporation tax reporting, which was due from April 2020, there is no
official revised introduction date, but it has been confirmed to be not before April 2021.

Brexit

41. We do not anticipate a significant tax impact from Brexit as our business is predominantly
UK based. There may, however, be an impact for some of our suppliers where they have
cross border supply chains and work has been carried out by colleagues to gain reassurance
in this area. This could lead to an increase in costs of procuring goods if Customs duty
becomes due. It is likely that businesses would seek to pass on increased costs.

Tax Strategy - Annual Review

42. Following the approval of the draft POL Tax Strategy by ARC in November 2017 it was made
available publicly on the website in January 2018, highlighted internally in ONE Focus and
a copy sent to HMRC. The revised Strategy will be republished after approval.

43. HMRC requires an annual review and updates to a Tax strategy where appropriate. The
Tax team has reviewed the Strategy and made minor amendments around dating of the
document and legislative references based on HMRC’s recommendations. This ensures it
remains fit for purpose and reflects our position.

44. The revised Tax Strategy is set out in Appendix 1.

Confidential 6

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 9 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

Appendix 1 —- Post Office Group Tax Strategy

This publication sets out the tax strategy of Post Office Limited and its UK subsidiary
undertakings (referred to hereafter as the “Group” or “Post Office”) for the financial year
2020/21, and in making this strategy available the UK Group is fulfilling its responsibilities
under the Finance Act 2016, Chapter 24, Schedule 19, Part 2, Paragraphs 16 & 17.

This tax strategy applies to UK taxes applicable to the Post Office and its affiliated entities
both in the UK and overseas. The document is ultimately owned by the Board of Directors of
Post Office Limited (“the Board”).

The tax strategy is reviewed annually, updated as appropriate and approved by the Board
each January to cover the next financial year. The Board, along with assistance from the
Group Finance teams, take ultimate responsibility for setting, monitoring and amending the
strategy as required.

In summary, the Post Office is committed to:
« following all applicable laws and regulations relating to its tax activities;

« continuing to have an open and honest relationship with HM Revenue & Customs driven
by collaboration and integrity; and

« applying diligence and care in our tax management, and ensuring that our tax
governance is appropriate.

How the Post Office manages its tax risks

The Group’s on-going approach to UK tax risk management and governance is based on the
principles of reasonable care and materiality. The Post Office maintains on-going application
of tax governance, including frequent risk metric assessments and the review of applications
of strong internal control procedures, in order to substantially reduce tax risk to materially
acceptable levels.

As part of this governance, the Post Office has identified tax risks, which are maintained
internally on risk registers, with their materiality being assessed based on a corporate risk
matrix. The matrix then records the potential impact, subject to two contributory factors, the
exposure if the tax risk crystallises and the relative likelihood of the risk crystallising.

A detailed log of these risk reviews is maintained monthly. A summary report is then
presented with significant / material issues to the Chief Financial Officer for his consideration,
further discussion at Board level and with HM Revenue & Customs should the issue merit
engagement of the tax authorities. Where decisions are deemed to be complex, or have an
element of uncertainty assistance from third parties may be sought to aid the Post Office’s
decision-making process.

Tax planning

Given that the Post Office is owned by the British Government's Department for Business,
Energy & Industrial Strategy, it understands the importance of its transparent business
operations.

Confidential 7

oS

of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 9 Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy

@

The Post Office will not engage in artificial transactions the sole purpose of which is to reduce
UK tax. As well as the above the Post Office will not engage in tax efficiencies if the
underlying commercial objectives do not support the Group’s position, or if the arrangements
impact upon the Post Office’s reputation, brand, corporate and social responsibilities, or
future working relationships with HM Revenue & Customs.

Approach towards dealings with HMRC

The Post Office have always been and remain committed to maintaining integrity and
transparency when dealing with HMRC. The Post Office underlines these principles by
agreeing to:

« Accurately disclose all information required in correspondence and returns, and
efficiently respond to communications as and when required. Where additional work is
required, such as in the event of a disagreement, we will look to resolve this in the
most professional and efficient way possible.

« Be open and transparent about decision-making, governance and tax planning, firstly
by ensuring that it is liaising directly with our dedicated HMRC team and secondly by
publishing our tax strategy easily accessible within the public domain.

« Ensure all interactions with HMRC are conducted in an open, collaborative and
professional manner.

Signed

Alisdair Cameron
Chief Financial Officer and Senior Accounting Officer
(Updated January 2020)

Confidential 8

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 57 of 109

58 of 109

ation Office Changes update

@

Post Office Limited

Risk and Compliance Committee Report

Title:

SPO Change Control Environment Update

Meeting Date:

14 January 2020

Author:

Dan Zinner, Chief Transformation Officer

Sponsor:

Nick Read, CEO

Input Sought:

Action Required:
Noting

For noting

Previous Governance
Oversight:

September 2019 ARC paper on “Transformation
Office Changes”;

November 2019 Investment Committee approved
changes on ToR & reporting process

Executive Summary

Context:

Following on from ARC paper “Transformation Office
Changes” paper dated 23 September, ARC has
requested: “A further update on the change control
environment would be presented to the ARC in
January 2020.” In the past 4 months, several
changes have been identified and implemented,
while at the same time the Change environment is
embedding and implementing further changes to
increase control, mitigate risk and manage change.
This paper provides a high-level update and draws
attention to the areas of needed improvement which
are currently being worked on. No decisions are
required.

Internal

Post Office

Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 10 Transformation Office Changes up

@

1. What specific controls are in place to manage and gain value for money in change spend?

Questions asked & addressed

2. What new controls have been identified and implemented since the last Change ARC
update, and what are still to be implemented?

3. What is the role of the business in change ownership and accountability?

Report

4. In terms of Finance controls, all CapEx and Exception spend (WBS codes) have limits set
by central SPO Governance in a central tracking database. Thus, no spend over approved
limits can occur. The approved limits are feed daily to the central finance teams (Project
MasterData Controller) to feed into SAP so that no invoices over approved spends can be
automatically paid. In addition, reports are sent as spend levels come close to 100%.
The SPO Governance team will not add additional spend until approved by the appropriate
Governance Forum as set by the ToRs for each forum, including Board noting/approval for
total spend over £5m.

5. While project teams indicate total project spend, Governance forums mostly approve
spend in phases or tranches to limit overspend. Projects must come back through the
appropriate Governance forum for additional funding (i.e., “draw down”) to continue the
project, which is not always guaranteed. In the past it was “assumed” by projects that
they had their total budgets “ring-fenced” and this is no longer the case. Governance
forums are also empowered to challenge spend requests and have granted less than
project requests.

6. In addition, new project finance processes have been put in place that require all projects
to re-forecast spend and benefits on a monthly basis only through Anaplan, as the one
source of truth. This enables the SPO to continually re-prioritise and challenge project
spend while ensuring that projects actively manage their spend and forecasts. Automatic
links have been put in place between Anaplan and Service Now (SNOW, the central Change
master database) to ensure only one forecast exists.

7. In terms of value for money, external contractors have commented that rates that POL
pay for certain services are higher than observed for private sector companies. However,
it is noted that the nature of the Post Office requires specific costs, e.g., historic IT
contracts or OJEU requirements. Thus, it is difficult to compare with other private
companies. Rather value for money measures should be viewed in terms of standard ROI
measures. The FP&A team are working with Change to embed these into Anaplan to
include this in future Portfolio metrics of success. However, some projects will not have
an ROI, e.g., compliance or regulatory programmes, legal costs, etc.

8. In September 2019, the Chief Transformation Officer set out a plan to upgrade the Change
function. This was based on initial observations and the need to:
a. identify capable and competent resources to be placed on appropriately
configured on teams;

Internal

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 10 Transformation Office Changes up

@

b. increase organisational clarity and accountability;
c. raise the quality of support and challenge earlier in the process;
d. increase the frequency of portfolio oversight with new routines, rhythms and
reports to speed up issue identification;
e. broaden stakeholder understanding of, and conviction for, how ‘Change works’
at the Post Office to make the process more efficient, and;
f. assist with GE to role model and embed a consistent way of working to
improve the quality of planning and control
Progress against this plan, which was laid out in 3 focus areas (People; Process;
Perception), has been described in Appendix 1.

9. In terms of controls, much progress has been made by the central SPO team to: highlight
standards; actively manage and churn underperforming individuals; manage our
contractors and costs; raise the quality of challenge in Governance forums; update ToRs
and the Change Excellence Framework; and have one central repository (SNOW) for
project information - a single source of truth.

10. In addition, the SPO now reports weekly and monthly on projects across a variety of
measures (see Appendix 2 and Appendix 3 for examples). These reports give the SPO
additional opportunities, as a control measure, to frequently review project data, data
quality, progress and scope. The reports create a purpose to investigate specific projects
in specific areas: finance, delivery, risk, etc. However, more work could be done to create
triggers for additional ad-hoc non-gate reviews by Finance or IT to increase accountability
for overspend or delays.

11. IA will highlight the improvement opportunities of current controls in their next review of
Change; however, the CTO believes more work can be done to standardise Project
Assurance. Currently, project assurance is completed in an ad-hoc manner based on
opinions or requests. While this can continue to optimise our limited resources, the SPO
are working on creating clear, internal triggers and tolerances for project assurance
reviews (risk, health check, delivery assurance). Moreover, the SPO needs to work on
identifying ways to institutionalise project “lessons learnt,” given the amount of people
change within the Post Office and the Change community. Post Implementation Reviews
are codified and searchable but Change currently relies on institutional knowledge to
highlight past lessons.

12. While more can be done to create additional controls, improvement is also needed in
“people understanding”: communications, training, induction, conviction for Change
processes and governance. The significant work in creating the Change Excellence
Framework needs to be leveraged. The CTO believes this will be a continual process to
communicate to current and induct new POL colleagues. In addition, the new “Change
People” team will start using the developed Competency Framework to assess our current
Change resources and continually raise the bar on resource quality.

13. The role and relationship of Change and the business (i.e., Finance, IT, commercial areas,
etc) has not changed. At the moment the role of Change is to support the business in
developing the method to deliver change objectives and then deliver according to the
agreed plan. However, ownership and accountabilities are not universally understood or

3
Internal

60 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 10 Transformation Office Changes update

@

agreed. So, in line with the 3" focus area of the CTO’s original plan (Perception), more
focus is required on raising the level of ownership and accountability through:
communication, standardisation, controls and behavioural changes.

14. Within Change, understanding of accountabilities and quality of assurance between the 1%
and 2 line also has room for improvement which is a result of the new roles within
Change. This should also improve with time, especially as we reduce projects.

Stakeholder Implications

15. Given the Change function supports all areas of the business, continuous improvements
in controls and actions to increase accountability understanding will affect all stakeholders.
This continued focus will be in 2 groups: 1) the Change Community through training,
weekly “drop in clinics”, performance management, quarterly “Town Hall” group sessions
and monthly Q&A sessions); and 2) POL Senior Leaders through one on one direct
interactions with Change leaders (SPO, CTO and Portfolio Leads). The SPO will continue
to developed and communicate RACI’s, monitor and control incorrect accountabilities and
role model appropriate ones.

Next Steps & Timelines

16. At the moment, the SPO is working with IA to define, develop and refine the current Change
controls framework. Change continues to request support from IA to ensure Change
controls are aligned with IT controls

17. At the same time, the CTO and SPO continue to improve controls identified in this paper
and look forward to the February IA audit of Change to identify further areas of
improvement. 10

Internal

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 61 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 10 Transformation Office Changes update

Appendix 1

In September 2019, CTO’s short term identified plan was to embed Change processes and ways
of working through consistency, clarification and communication. The plan emphasised the
immediate need to focus on the Change community first by increasing understanding on how
to consistently manage and resource a project for delivery (and thus implicitly not focus on
“strategy”). The plan sought to embed the former COO’s original changes (centralised Change
organisation and Change Excellence), while raising the quality of management and challenge
and simplifying changes to further engage the overall business on Change. The plan includes
a focus on People, Process and Perception.

The table below is the CTO’s self-assessement of progress made so far. It notes that good
progress has been made in the “Process” section, but much more is needed in the “Perception”

section.

[CTO FY19 Focus Areas I Progress to Date [Work to continue

People dq)

Structure fit for purpose Change 7 B in SPO responsible for all skills pool resources [Review all current project teams, starting with
[teams (PM, PMO, BA) IGold/Plat, to ensure they are properly structured
lincrease capable and affordable Sq 150% contractors down from 62% YoY; lAfter portfolio focus (post-PSG), move to more FTC

Ichange resources

le59k/day contractor cost, down 56% YoY

laffordable resources

Communicate value of the
Icentralised Change support team

[Full SPO team, clear JDs, communicated to
IChange & Business; structured Pls

Further consolidate Portfolios while demonstrating
lvalue of full SPO team

Process

[Operationalise Change routines and [2 monthly cycles of "Change heartbeart” focus increase SNOW data quality and ad-hoc assurance
rhythms lareas with data in SNOW; weekly dashboards __Ireviews and triggers; additional dashboard context
lEmbed the Governance process and increased transparancy, issue raising, and Earlier interventions into projects to scope better and
Itools questioning of cases lspeed up governance process, link to strategy

[Actively manage Change (resolving
issues, making decisions, creating

6 Iejee je

{transparency and prioritising)

[Monthly project forecasting and 3x/month cross-
portfolio collaboration meetings to highlight
Programme risks, dependencies

[Stronger finance accountability earlier through
lincreased Change collaboration; further dependencies
lidentfication

Perception C

[Foster understanding, conviction and

loverall change vision and journey

IAd-hoc reviews of change progress outside of IC

alignment on how POL “does i’) [Ad-hoc training on SNOW/Change; monthly _I More formalised training on Change Excellence for
Ichange” Change community "All Hands” update sessions Skills Group resources
[Bring management along on the 7 Leverage weekly and monthly reporting to bring

IGE/SLP closer into Change activity

ICommunicate the wider Change
story

INo progress so far

Part of wider PSG story, communication on Change
lways of working to support PSG

Internal

62 of 109

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628

POL00401628
Tab 10 Transformation Office Changes update
Appendix 2
Change Monthly Executive Summary
P8 — November 2019 QB

UKGI Monthly FEPOFt I cwsmnmnsionn
provides the shareholder
with a summary of the top
(Platinum & Gold)
programmes while at the
same time allows the
central SPO teams (risk,
cross-portfolio, resource,
and governance teams) a
structured method to
review and challenge
projects on a _ monthly

basis.
The report provides a [piatinum & Gold Project Detail
summary of the entire IP& - November 2019

Change Programme, as
well as by portfolio. In
addition, a summary of the
monthly status for each
Platinum and Gold
programme is provided for
5 different areas (Cost,
Benefits, Delivery, Risk
and overall status).

If any project is “red” in
any of the 5 areas, the SPO
reports on the reasons for
the “red rating.” The SPO
also challenges each
programme monthly,
regularly challenging any
status based on weekly
feedback from SPO teams.

Red Status Overview
P8 — November 2019

Internal

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 63 of 109
POL00401628

POL00401628

Tab 10 Transformation Office Changes update

64 of 109

@

Appendix 3

Below is an example of the weekly Change Portfolio report provided to GE every Monday. The
purpose of the weekly report is to highlight to GE members specific areas of concern (e.g., late
milestones, open issues or risks, total size of the portfolio, data quality issues). While this
report is created and provided weekly, the SPO is working on creating a means to systematically
highlight areas of concern on a weekly basis. This is part of a programme to increase the data
quality of project reporting in SNOW and to increase transparancy of the entire Change
Portfolio.

SE fia noo bs ak santas pose sone oe aaa j

ae eerie
ei ia
Oe . H = p 7 - °
ae : § ae ;
ene i 4 ha :
ae : 4 ‘I
#33 2 4 3
a3 : os :
os
5
de
Sree

I eererenes

Internal

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
ing Reporting Officer Annual Report

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annual Report

14 January 2020

Sally Smith

Ben Foat

: Input Sought

tion Required:
liscussion

To review the annual report and conclusions
ensuring Post Office’s compliance with its
regulatory obligations under the Money
Laundering Regulations, and endorse the
recommendations

‘evious Governance
versight:

N/A

Executive Summary

ontext:

The Money Laundering Regulations (MLRs) require
that the Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO)
produces an annual report to appraise senior
management on the effectiveness of key Anti-Money
Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing
(AML/CTF) controls, and make appropriate
recommendations for improving the management of
risks, priorities and resources, if appropriate.

DENTIAL

POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

65 of 109
Tab 11 Money

66 of 109

POL00401628

POL00401628

Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

Questions asked & addressed

1. Is Post Office complying with the requirements of the regulation?

2. What are the key AML and CTF risks within Post Office Ltd and are there any
significant gaps or weaknesses in the Post Office’s compliance with its regulatory
obligations under the Money Laundering Regulations (MLRs)?

3. What are the key activities that need to be undertaken to address these gaps

Report

4. The annual report is attached and covers the key reportable regulatory
responsibilities under the MLRs. Appendices referred to in the report are in the
reading room.

Financial Impact

5. Post Office have not received any regulatory penalties since 2017/2018 when HMRC
fined us c.£1.1m for regulatory breaches in relation to Travel Money. We have
however seen increasing scrutiny by regulators in the UK, which seems to reflect the
guidance in the Financial Action Taskforce Mutual Evaluation Review published at the
end of 2018 and c.£273m of fines have been levied by UK regulators in 2019.
Additionally, HMRC annual registration fees have increased significantly from £1.4m
in 2018 to £3.2m in 2019, which together with the cost of complying with Fit &
Proper requirements and transaction monitoring and assurance, represents a
significant cost to the business.

Risk Assessment, Mitigations & Legal Implications

6. Products and services provided by Post Office are broadly in line with the risk
appetites set by the Board although there has been a significant increase in money
laundering via the Banking Framework services. Other than these services there
has been an improvement in residual risk over the last 12 months.

Conclusions & Recommendations

7. The regulatory environment continues to pose a challenge, with increased regulatory
and legislative focus on money laundering and terrorist financing. Following the
2018 FATF UK Mutual Evaluation review, there is evidence of increasing focus by
regulators, and readiness to exercise monetary penalties, as evidenced by the Office
of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI) and the FCA. We have also seen a
more pro-active approach to supervision by HMRC (funded by the significant
increase in registration fees from 1%t May 2019) and an increase in the volume and
scale of penalties issued by them. This indicates that should HMRC identify that Post
Office has failed to comply with money laundering regulations, penalties will be more
egregious than historically, as well as being made public. It is therefore important
that Post Office’s commitment to comply with all aspects of regulatory requirements
remains high on the agenda.

8. The Supranational Risk Assessment issued on 2019 highlights that cash remains the
number one choice for criminals to money launder, and this has been borne out by

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 2

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

Tab 11 Money

POL00401628

POL00401628

Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

the increase in suspicious activity that has been identified through the year relating
to Banking Framework cash deposits over Post Office counters

9. Political uncertainty has delayed publication of the draft UK legislation relating to the
Fifth Money Laundering Directive, but it is still expected that this will be enacted by
10% January 2020, and therefore the final content and Post Office impacts are
unlikely to be known and assessed until after publication, including the likely impacts
of Politically Exposed Person status for Post Office executives.

10.The establishment of the National Economic Crime Centre (NECC) in October 2018,
has seen an increased focus in activity, and this is borne out by the increased
workloads we have seen responding to subject requests, which have doubled year
on year. A number of the cases under review relate to cash-based criminal activity
with a predominance in human trafficking, organised immigration crime, modern
slavery and sexual exploitation.

11.The HMRC supervisor who has overseen Post Office regulated activity since 2015 is
retiring in June 2020, and therefore Post Office will have a new supervisor during
the early part of 2020, which may bring changes to HMRC regulatory oversight and
activity. We are also aware that HMRC are considering a further review of their
registration fee structure, although as yet, there has been no guidance on this.

12.Further work has been undertaken to resolve data issues with the Bureau de Change
monitoring solution and assessment and oversight of the product continues to
mature. The increased volumes of investigations and SARs evidences the
improvement in controls since the HMRC audit in 2016 and subsequent penalties.
The new premises registration reporting tool was delivered by DCoE in 2019 and has
improved the accuracy of registration data. However, more work is required to
generate the HMRC reports in the correct format and remove manual manipulation.
Customer Due Diligence, PEPS and Sanctions checks for Bureau de Change are
currently assessed to be adequate.

13.The agent Fit & Proper data requirements have continued to be a significant
challenge for Post Office, and data gaps and challenges in providing accurate
monthly reporting to HMRC remain due to the disparate systems that store the
information. Significant effort was required to meet the extended deadline of
September to complete the data submission to HMRC, although ultimately only 85
premises were deregistered, albeit further data discrepancies were then identified.
Data integrity issues have continued and until the new data system is designed, built
and delivered (scheduled for April 2020) this will cause ongoing issues that put Post
Office at risk of regulatory scrutiny. Additionally, due to the high number of
structural changes within Post Office over the last 12 months, it has proven difficult
to keep the direct employee Fit & Proper tests up to date with HMRC, and the
business is giving insufficient review of regulatory oversight responsibilities when
changing reporting lines and/or roles, which must be addressed moving forward.

14.Following increasing workloads over the previous two years, two additional financial
crime roles were created and recruited into Financial Crime Compliance during 2019,
and this has ensured that enhancements could be made to Bureau de Change
transaction monitoring and investigation, the back log of risk assessment work
brought up to date and more focus given to industry and regulatory horizon scanning
to ensure that Post Office is adequately protected. The team has also absorbed the

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 3

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

67 of

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

continued increase in investigations (up 40% compared to 2018) and SARs (up 35%
compared to 2018), although if this trend continues, this will not be sustainable.
There is limited, if any, automation that can be introduced to cover these tasks.

15.The Bureau de Change residual risk continues to improve as increased controls and
improvements to transaction monitoring are implemented. Risk Assessments for
Post Office Insurance have fallen behind due to product managers failing to complete
Product Information Packs/respond to queries in a timely manner and this has been
highlighted to the POMS ARC. First line compliance with Post Office financial crime
policies is of concern and further work will be undertaken in 2020 to improve first
line management awareness of the policy minimum control requirements that are
their responsibility.

16.Work has commenced to undertake assurance activity in respect of Payzone
products and services. There is currently a lack of documented policies and
procedures to support this area of the business, but it is planned that the initial
assessment and assurance activity will be concluded by the 2019/20 financial year
end.

17.There have been a number of high value and high profile investigation cases relating
to money laundered through Post Office counters via accounts held by banks
operating within the Banking Framework. This has resulted in significant interest and
focus by various law enforcement organisations culminating in the establishment of
Project Admiralty by the NECC with key stakeholders to address the risks and issues.
Up to P8 2019/20, there have been investigations and SARs relating to c.92m of
cash deposits. The business, particularly Product Management, must ensure that
adequate focus and support is given to industry, NECC and Post Office initiatives to
address the migration of cash placement risks to Post Office as banks close, including
following through on the actions recommended in the Banking Framework risk
assessment.

18.Overall, there has been a significant improvement to mandatory training compliance
in the Network, brought about by the roll out of SmartID and training controls.
Training and awareness remains a key control for AML/CTF and challenges remain:

e Whilst all Horizon users now complete the training and test, it is evident from
branch visits by Compliance that the key messages are not landing, and branches
are sometimes failing to question transactions or report suspicions, either because
they lack confidence, or because they do not understand how to apply the training.
With the current method of delivery of training via Horizon, there is limited scope
to improve the content, and Compliance will continue to work with the Area
Management team and the NFSP to identify different ways to deliver key
messages.

e We are looking to design and deliver animations as part of the annual AML/CTF
training in May to help land key messages, but as these cannot be incorporated
into Horizon, alternative access will be needed for the Network.

e There are still challenges with back office staff completing training within the
required deadlines, and this continues to be monitored and chased by Financial
Crime Compliance.

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 4

68 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

loney Laundering Reporting Officer Annual Report

19.In summary, the framework of AML/CTF controls is generally effective and Post
Office is meeting its regulatory requirements under the MLRs. However, there are
key areas where focus needs to be maintained to ensure this continues, particularly
in relation to:

e The completion, maintenance and timely and accurate provision to HMRC of agent
Fit & Proper data, and ensuring that HMRC direct employee checks are kept up to
date

e The substantial increase in suspicious activity relating to Banking Framework cash
deposits

e Increasing regulatory scrutiny and penalties
20.Additionally, attention needs to be given to ensure that:

e Key training messages have been understood and are acted upon by Horizon users
and given the limitations of providing training over Horizon, alternative methods
will need to be identified

e First line are aware of their responsibilities to maintain policy minimum control
standards

e Increasing workloads from core regulatory activity (Bureau de Change transaction
monitoring, SARs and investigations) can be maintained.

Key Recommendations:

Activity Responsibility Completion
date
Continual focus on first line accountabilities e.g. All Senior Ongoing

policy minimum control standards, ensuring product I Management
and service risk assessment, integrity of F&P data
and records

Review 5MLD impacts MLRO End Jan 20*
Completion of premises registration reports DCoE End March 20
Delivery of F&P data system to reduce errors F&P Project Team End April 20
Implement F&P assurance across impacted business Compliance Q1 2020/21
areas
Raise awareness of policy requirements to first line Business Senior Throughout 2020
Management &
Compliance
Initial financial crime assessment of Payzone Compliance End March 20
Initial implementation of financial crime controls in Product End March 20
Payzone
Reduction of laundering risks in Banking Framework Product & MLRO Throughout 2020
Product to produce initial proposals to provide Product & Qi 2020/21

Compliance with improved MI to ensure appropriate Compliance
balance of commercial considerations against
regulatory risks

Enhance AML training and awareness MLRO, L&D, June 2020
Network

* Assumes 10" January publication

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 5

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

70 of 109

Officer Annua'

The Annual Report of the Money Laundering
Reporting Officer for the Post Office Limited for

POL00401628
POL00401628

the period 1%t January 2019 - 315t December 2019

Table of Contents
A. Purpose and Scope of Report
B. Background
C. Governance Framework
D. Operation and Effectiveness of the Control Framework
i Senior management oversight
Staff awareness and training
Risk assessment, policies, controls and procedures
iv. New products and services
v. High risk products and services
vi. I Customer due diligence requirements
vii. Reporting suspicious activity
viii. Record keeping
ix. I Premises Registration
x. Fit & Proper tests
E. Incidents and Investigations
F. External Threats/Landscape
i. Business areas
ii. The 4" Money Laundering Directive
iii. IThe 5** Money Laundering Directive
iv. The Criminal Finances Act 2017
v. The Policing and Crime Act 2017
vi. Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce
G. Conclusions and Recommendations
Appendix A: Post Office Insurance annual MLRO report
Appendix B: Product and Service Risk Assessment Summary
Appendix C: Summary of UK Enforcement Action
Appendix D: Product and Service Risk Exceptions

Appendix E: Report on duties of Nominated Officer - Suspicious Activity Report

Summary

A. Purpose and Scope of Report

1. The Money Laundering Regulations (MLRs) require that the Money Laundering
Reporting Officer (MLRO) produces an annual report to appraise senior
management on the effectiveness of key Anti-Money Laundering and Counter
Terrorist Financing (AML/CTF) controls, and make appropriate recommendations
for improving the management of risks and priorities, and resources if appropriate.

2. HMRC is the regulator responsible for supervising Post Office Limited compliance
with MLR requirements. Their oversight relates to Post Office Limited Money
Service Business (MSB) activity, specifically, the provision of Bureau de Change.

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0

Post Office Limited - Risk and Comp

iance Committee-14/01/20
Tab 11 Money

Laundering Repo

POL00401628

POL00401628

ng Officer Annua

The MLRs and the 2017 National Risk Assessment clearly identify a requirement
for organisations to adopt a risk-based approach to prevent money laundering and
terrorist financing. Risk assessment must be documented and evidence the
decisions that senior management have made in the context of the particular risks
facing the business.

The Post Office Insurance business is subject to a separate MLRO annual
report in September each year, and can be found in Appendix A.

Background

The MLRO and the Financial Crime Compliance team are responsible for financial
crime policies, assurance and AML/CTF risk assessment of products and services
(see Section D and Appendix B).

Bureau de Change is the only product that Post Office is directly regulated for,
although POL is required, both contractually and under the MLRs, to have in place
and comply with policies, controls and procedures to mitigate and manage
effectively the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing for all the products
and services it offers through third party or white label solutions and joint venture
arrangements (e.g. MoneyGram, Banking Framework Services, Post Office Money
products, Gift Cards etc.). The most significant impact of financial crime for Post
Office continues to be reputational damage. Negative media attention following
an incident of financial crime has potential for loss of consumer and client
confidence in the product/service, consequential devaluation of brand values and
possible impact on Government commitment which is vital to support Post Office.

Post Office have not received any regulatory penalties since 2017/2018 when
HMRC fined us £796,500 in respect of premises registration errors, and £344,766
for regulatory breaches in relation to oversight and risk assessment of Travel
Money (this latter fine being halved due to co-operation and progress during the
audit). We have however seen increasing scrutiny by regulators in the UK, which
seems to reflect the guidance in the Financial Action Taskforce Mutual Evaluation
Review published at the end of 2018 and c.£273m of fines have been levied on
firms by UK regulators in 2019.(see Appendix C for summary of UK enforcement
action)

Training and awareness continues to be a key control for Post Office and the
introduction of training controls with Smart ID has ensured all Horizon users
complete annual training. There continues to be evidence however, that the key
training messages are not being applied consistently (see para 23)

The new requirements relating to Fit & Proper tests for agents under the 2017
MLRs have required extensive work, and Post Office was granted a 3 month
extension by HMRC to complete the agent data gathering exercise. Work to
complete this and implement BAU processes continues to be an area of focus (see
paras 60-61).

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 7

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

Laundering Repo

POL00401628

POL00401628

ng Officer Annua

C. Governance - those responsible for anti-money

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

laundering systems and controls, and the structure
within which they operate

Ben Foat is the GE member and officer appointed to be responsible for overseeing
compliance with the MLRs.

Sally Smith is both the MLRO and a member of the Post Office Compliance
leadership team. She is located in Finsbury Dials, Moorgate, London, where Post
Office Group is situated. The MLRO takes ultimate responsibility for compliance
with the MLRs, the provision of training and awareness within Post Office, the
design and implementation of internal anti-money laundering policy, systems and
procedures, and advising on how to proceed once an internal report and/or
Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) has been made

Under the direction of the MLRO, Compliance is responsible for assessing and
assuring Post Office Limited’s exposure to financial crime. This includes

« setting policies and standards relating to financial crime, assessing and
assuring AML/CTF risks across Post Office;

* ensuring that risks are properly reflected in Risk & Controls Matrices (RACMs);
* ensuring appropriate disclosure of SARs to the National Crime Agency (NCA);
e liaising with third parties regarding investigations; and

* ensuring information is appropriately disclosed to clients or third parties.

Through the Financial Crime Compliance team, the MLRO has oversight of AML/CTF
investigations, non-conformance by branches or individuals and risk assessment
of products and services at a granular level.

During 2019 regular reports have been provided to the Risk & Compliance
Committee (RCC) and the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC) covering
AML/CTF controls, the outcomes of risk assessment work, HMRC supervisory
activity, changes to legislation and industry issues.

Due to increasing regulatory supervision and workloads two additional financial
crime roles were created and recruited at the beginning of the 2019/20 financial
year. This has ensured that a backlog of risk assessment work has been brought
up to date, and enhanced Bureau de Change transaction monitoring and suspicious
activity investigation capability has been implemented.

Other than for Bureau de Change, financial crime MI reporting within Post Office
is still not sufficiently granular at product level to aid transparency and decision
making. Product specific monthly MI on the work undertaken by Financial Crime
Compliance is being developed and shared with the relevant product teams, with
monthly MI currently provided to the Travel Money Product Director. Consistency
of information and analysis capability for other products and services (especially
Banking Framework) makes it harder to appropriately balance commercial
considerations against regulatory risks. Compliance will work with business teams
to provide Compliance with improved MI, with the aim of producing initial
proposals by Q1 2020/21.

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 8

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

D. Operation and Effectiveness of Control Framework
i. Senior management oversight
17. See Section C above for summary of governance and oversight.

18. HMRC fit and Proper tests must be performed on all external Board Directors, GE,
the MLRO and impacted employee roles as per HMRC requirements and Post Office
policy.

19. However, recent structural changes across the business have been implemented
without being effectively impact assessed to ensure that appropriate tests are
completed for those roles overseeing regulated activity, and removed from HMRC
records where individuals move to non-designated roles or leaving the business.

ii. Staff awareness and training

20. Provision of staff awareness and training is a key control for Post Office, and annual
training was updated to cover issues and incidents that had arisen in the previous
12 months. All staff are required to complete AML/CTF training:
« For back office staff this must be completed within 30 days of joining and
annually
« For customer facing staff this must be completed before they have access to
Horizon and annually

21. Monitoring of training completion levels for back office staff is undertaken by HR
Directors, and those staff who do not complete mandatory compliance training are
dealt with via conduct with potential removal of annual bonus payment. Training
completion is subject to quarterly assurance checks by Compliance. During 2019,
there have been a number of times when functional areas have been chased as
completion rates have been below 95%.

22. Annual training was completed between 3" and 29" May 2019. Training for Horizon
users was the first compliance module to be completed after the full roll out of
SmartID and training controls and at 7pm on 28" May 2019, 74% of branches
were fully compliant, and 88.3% of individuals. We therefore extended the Horizon
user deadline until 3 June 2019, by which time 93% of all users were compliant.
By the 5th June, 92.4% of branches were fully compliant and 97% of individuals.

23. The number of failed test attempts, and low volume of SARs received continues to
be of concern. Although SARs volumes are up year on year, a number of recent
investigations have highlighted that SARs are not being submitted by Horizon
users, and therefore key messages in the training are not being understood and/or
acted on and work will be undertaken in 2020 to enhance awareness.

24. Following a number of high value banking deposit cases, the Financial Crime
Compliance team, accompanied by two Area Managers, a Security Operations
Manager and the London NFSP Executive member visited c.50 East London
branches on Friday 25" October 2019 to raise awareness of criminal activity and
the importance of raising SARs. Key learnings from these visits will inform further
training and awareness across the network on AML issues. We are working with
the Area Managers and NFSP to identify communication and awareness
opportunities and developing animations to accompany the 2020 annual training
which can also be used throughout the year to reinforce key messages.

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 9

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
Tab 11 Money Laundering Repo

25.

iii.
26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

POL00401628

POL00401628

ng Officer Annua

51 branch and business awareness communications on AML, Financial Crime and
SAR reporting have been delivered in 2019. Over the last 12 months, we have
tried to link communications to media reports of modern slavery, human trafficking
and county lines drug dealing to try and help individuals to understand the link
between criminal activity and their responsibilities.

Risk assessment, policies, controls and procedures

The Group takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and
consequently has*

e¢ Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited
circumstances where there are significant conflicting imperatives between
conformance and commercial practicality

e Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to high profile cases/issues
e Averse risk appetite for ligation in relation to Financial Services matters

e Averse risk appetite for not complying with law and regulations or deviation
from business’ conduct standards for financial crime to occur within any part of
the organisation

e« Averse risk appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by our staff.

The Group acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive
controls have been implemented a product or transaction may still sit outside the
agreed Risk Appetite. During 2019, there were 4 risk exceptions relating to
financial crime. Three remain open but are relatively low risk and on track to close
in 2020 (see Appendix D for details).

Product and service risk assessment has continued throughout 2019 with all new
products and services assessed before go live. The new resource appointed in
June 2019 has helped clear the backlog of assessments and improvements are
being made to make this process more efficient and effective. (see Appendix B for
details).

Product risk assessments for Post Office Insurance have been delayed in 2019,
due to non-completion of the Product Information Packs by product managers.
Additionally a new product (Gadget Insurance) did not follow the normal approval
process, and therefore was not risk assessed before it went live in accordance with
Post Office policy. These issues were reported to the Post Office Insurance ARC
via their separate MLRO report in September 2019. Of 8 Post Office Insurance
products, 6 have been assessed and 2 (Bike and Pet insurance) remain to be
assessed and are overdue.

Policies relating to Financial Crime overall and AML/CTF specifically, have been
updated and were approved at the September 2019 Audit and Risk Committee,
and published on the Intranet via a One Communication.

Both first and second line management have responsibility to ensure that the
controls in place work as intended, and the Financial Crime team undertake
quarterly assurance checks against the minimum control standards. During 2020,

1 The Risk appetite was agreed by the Post Office Board January 2015,

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 10

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

Tab 11 Money Laund

32.

33.

POL00401628

POL00401628

lering Reporting Officer Annual

further work will be undertaken to enhance this activity and provide enhanced
assurance to Post Office senior management and Board.

We review, investigate and report all instances of non-conformance with AML
policies and processes, ensuring corrective action is taken by relevant business
owners.

Processes within Compliance are robust and up to date, however processes and
policies across the business to support these are less mature and continue to
require improvement.

iv. Development of new products

34.

35.

36.

37.

All new products and services have been subject to financial crime risk assessment.
Following the acquisition of Payzone in October 2018, a Master Services Agreement
between Post Office and Payzone has now been agreed, and a financial crime
compliance review has commenced with a data gathering exercise. A number of
key policies and processes do not appear to have been documented or
implemented, but the assessment and action plan is expected to be drafted before
the end of the 2019/20 financial year.

The Banking team is exploring cash automation and self-service devices.
Compliance has supported the project and liaised with key banking stakeholders
to identify potential risks and control requirements. The Banking team are looking
to pilot self-service devices at 4 Post Office locations early 2020.

Compliance has supported the Retailer Point of Sale (RPoS) project which enables
Postmasters to sell a selected range of Post Office products on their retail terminal.
This service is currently deployed at 3 pilot locations with mobile phone top-ups,
bill payments and Camelot products. In 2019, there was a change in strategy and
the proposition is now also aimed at non-Post Office locations and work is ongoing
with the project team to identify any financial crime risks and implement effective
controls, as these locations will not have access to Horizon Online Help or any
Horizon communications.

There have been no significant products or services launched during 2019 which
have changed the regulatory risk landscape for Post Office.

v. High risk products and services

38.

CONFI

Post Office branch pre-order and on-demand Bureau de Change represents the
highest direct risk for Post Office in terms of AML/CTF and regulatory compliance.
Oversight and monitoring enhancements in 2019 include:

The use of Dynamics case management by Financial Crime Compliance has been
further matured over the last 12 months and has supported more granular
operational MI. This has enabled monthly MI Dashboard on monitoring,
investigation and SAR activity to be provided to the Travel team.

A Business Objects specialist reviewed and tested the initial monitoring reports
that were created. Improvements were made to speed up and streamline
reports to improve efficiency.

In branch (on demand and pre order) Terms and Conditions have been approved
and published on the Internet by the Travel Money Team, enabling Financial

IDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 11

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

Crime Compliance to write directly to customers who breach the £10k over 90
days threshold.

39. The Bureau de Change Credence universe has not yet delivered all of the
functionality required. Accenture has rectified the majority of outstanding issues
which were identified on delivery in June 2018 and these have been tested and
put into production by the Data Centre of Excellence team (DCoE). There is still
an outstanding issue relating to Sanctions whereby customer information is not
being pulled through into AML Credence for on-demand transactions that decline
due to a Sanction match. It was understood that this was going to be resolved as
part of the fixes that Accenture have delivered, however, the DCoE team who were
managing these changes did not raise this issue as they believed it had already
been resolved. As the customer information is not showing on AML Credence, an
interim process has been agreed with DCoE that they will provide the missing
information when a match is identified. A Change Request has been raised with
Accenture to resolve the issue. It should be noted however, that, as reported in
2018, the Credence universe and Business Objects solution delivered is not a
transaction monitoring tool, and each report type has to be run and worked
separately, which can cause customer or branch review duplication.

40. Other products that are high risk include:

e Banking cash deposits - We have seen a rise in cash deposits from Partner
Banks via Post Office counters as more customers become aware of the services
and more bank branches close. All banks have implemented tighter controls
around cash deposits and particularly via third parties and we have seen a
migration of suspected money laundering of cash via our branches, a number
of which have been undertaken by third parties and money-mules. Over the last
12 months there has been a significant rise in investigations and SARs relating
to cash deposit services (see para 67).

e Due to the rise in concerns about cash laundering via the Banking Framework
Services (BFS), Post Office sought legal advice from Pinsent Mason regarding
Post Office’s regulatory position under the BFS agreement. They advised that
although the Partner Bank has regulatory responsibility for conducting Know
Your Customer (KYC) checks and transaction monitoring, the migration of cash
deposits to Post Office represents a material risk terms of:

o Potential regulatory scrutiny of Post Office and the partner banks, whether
that is HMRC, FCA or other; and

o Material reputational risk to Post Office brand if any action is taken by
regulators or any criminal proceedings are brought for breach of the MLRs.
If it is reported that Post Office has facilitated money laundering or terrorist
financing, this level of negative publicity or regulatory scrutiny would be
severe to Post Office given its social purpose within the UK communities and
being solely owned by the Government.

e In August 2019 the UK Financial Intelligence Unit (UKFIU) conducted a review
of cash deposits via Post Office, calling out the increase in the number of SARs
received by the NCA, the increase in banking services at Post Office providing
criminals with more opportunities to place the proceeds of crime into the

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 12

76 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
Tab 11 Money

Laundering Re

POL00401628

POL00401628

ng Officer Annua

financial system, and the lack of visibility Post Office has over the Partner Bank’s
customer meaning that SARs lack detail that would assist Law Enforcement. The
UKFIU notes that there are clear indications of money laundering at some Post
Office branches through the cash deposit services provided under the Banking
Framework Services agreement.

In July/August 2019, we identified 2 cases totalling c.£22m and HMRC presented
these cases to the Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce (JMLIT),
highlighting evidence that cash derived from criminal activity is being placed
over Post Office counters. This appears to be highly organised crime using
money mules and couriers, with funds deposited being immediately transferred
to crypto currency. Following these cases and discussions between the MLRO
and the NECC and the Pro-Active Taskforce of the Economic Crime Directorate
at City of London Police, Project Admiralty has been established by the
Operational Planning Coordination and Development (OPCD) team within the
NECC and a working group has been established with the aim of obtaining a full
and rounded picture of the threat from the banks in the banking agreement, the
extent of their exposure, and the degree of involvement in any operational
deployments.

The first meeting was held on 23 October 2019 attended by representatives
from Barclays, RBS, HSBC, Santander, Lloyds, Post Office, HMRC, the Pro-Active
Taskforce at the Economic Crime Directorate and members of the NECC The
aims of the project. Attendees were asked to produce more granular
information from their systems but all banks stated that the funds identified in
Post Office SARs relating to the large scale cases are generally immediately
transferred to crypto-currency, and some to FinTechs. The crime groups
identified to date have been African and Asian.

Following the initial meeting, the Financial Crime team hosted bank
representatives in the Post Office Model Office to demonstrate how banking
transactions are processed and the challenges the Post Office faces. A further
Project Admiralty meeting took place on 6 December at which bank
representatives shared findings from their internal review, however, some were
experiencing data mining issues and were unable to provide sufficient
granularity. Some banks raised concerns about inter-bank sharing of customer
data and each bank has been asked to evaluate their position and provide an
update at the next meeting on 29" January.

Analysis completed by the NECC relating to SARs submitted, containing the term
‘Post Office’ and ‘cash’, has identified a steady increase since January 2019. In
October 2019, there were c.160% more SARs submitted when compared to
January 2019, clearly indicating that banks and Post Office are identifying more
instances of money laundering over Post Office counters. The NECC are
continuing to monitor this and will update Post Office accordingly.

The Financial Crime Risk Assessment of the BFS was completed and issued to
the Banking team in November 2019 and has identified that there are control
gaps exposing Post Office to regulatory, financial and reputational risks. An

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 13

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

Tab 11 Money

41.

42.

78 of 109

Laundering Re

POL00401628

POL00401628

ng Officer Annua

action plan will be formulated to ensure that there are appropriate policies and
procedures in place (in either Post Office or the banks) to enable Post Office to
mitigate this risk and be able to demonstrate a robust response to any legal or
regulatory action. The Banking team is setting up a working group and steering
group to drive required actions.

In addition to the work of the NECC and JMLIT, Compliance has briefed all the
BFS banks on the current issues via the SCGC, and it has been agreed to set up
a working group with appropriate representatives from the banks in January
2020 to help mitigate the risks.

MoneyGram - As a near real time money transmission service, MoneyGram
remains high risk for laundering and scams and there is significant training and
awareness activity to help front line staff identify issues. In 2018, the US
Department of Justice (DOJ) agreed to extend a Deferred Prosecution
Agreement (DPA) against MoneyGram International Inc. due to significant
weaknesses in their anti-fraud and anti-money laundering programme in 2012.
As a result of this MoneyGram have implemented further controls to detect and
prevent fraud over Post Office locations, which will ensure no Post Office location
is in breach of their DPA.

Gift Cards - Due to the anonymous nature of the product, we continue to see
criminal activity which is addressed through training and awareness activity.
There are planned product changes due in January 2020 to comply with the Fifth
Money Laundering Directive, please refer to section 74.

National Lottery & Scratchcards — Whilst these products could be used for money
laundering purposes, this is seen as unlikely as it relies on obtaining a winning
ticket. A key risk is failure in duty of care to customers if the product is
purchased by vulnerable customers, or large volumes are purchased by an
individual which may constitute excessive play. In 2019, the £10 scratchcard
was withdrawn and there have been communications to the Network regarding
vulnerable customers. This issue will be re-visited as part of the action plan to
address the annual risk assessment by the Financial Crime team, which has
been issued to the product team to assess materiality and propose any remedial
actions. A meeting with the product team is planned for January 2020.
Additionally, gaps in stock reconciliation for activated and non-activated
scratchcards which could lead to theft or loss have been identified and escalated
to the product team.

vi. Customer due diligence

Post Office Limited is required to undertake customer due diligence for directly
regulated activity (e.g. Bureau de Change) when:

Establishing a business relationship, or
Carrying out an occasional transaction with a customer of €15,000 or more, or
Money laundering or terrorist financing is suspected

For Bureau de Change, the following controls are in place:

Horizon restricts single or multiple transactions in the same basket to £10,000
(well below the €15,000 occasional transaction limit).

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 14

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

e Staff training and Horizon prompts advise that no business transactions should
be undertaken and that customers should not transact more than £10,000 in
any 90 day period.

e Customer details and ID are taken for all transactions of £1,000 and above, and
for all transactions settled by card payment. Monitoring is undertaken to identify
linked transactions for the same customer in a 90 day period and corrective
action is taken as required. (See para 65 re. Bureau de Change investigations)

e As part of Post Office’s risk based approach, all transactions of £2000 and over
are subject to a real time eKYC, PEPs and Sanctions check, with real time
declines of eKYC failures and Sanctions matches.

e Staff are trained to decline transactions and complete a SAR if they suspect
money laundering or terrorist financing.

43. PEP matches are monitored post transaction with corrective action taken if
necessary. In January 2019, a confirmed match was identified for an MP who
purchased c.15k Euros from the House of Commons Post Office. This was raised
to the MLRO and the branch were informed to advise all customers of the £10k
over 90 day threshold particularly for transactions over £5k. No further issues have
been identified.

44. For over £2k transactions, where there is a potential match on a Sanction list the
transaction will be declined in real time. Over the last year, there have been 5
potential sanctions matches which have resulted in further investigation. Following
review, none of these potential matches are the actual sanctioned individuals and
therefore not reported to the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI).

45. From April 2019 to P8 YTD, we have prevented 24 customers from breaching the
£10k over 90 day Bureau de Change threshold through monitoring activity,
totalling £138,200.

46. For all other products and services, Post Office Limited is not directly responsible
for customer due diligence, however, there are some contractual obligations where
Post Office undertakes part of customer due diligence on behalf of the third party
client or supplier. For example, where Post Office acts as agent for MoneyGram,
we must comply with their policies and processes in relation to recording customer
data and identification details. As part of product and service risk assessment
work undertaken for these products and services, the requirement for customer
due diligence, PEPs and Sanctions checks is considered, and where appropriate,
work is undertaken with the product manager to ensure the right controls are in
place.

vii. Reporting suspicious ac!

47. All SARs are reviewed and, where appropriate, disclosed by Financial Crime
Compliance under oversight by the MLRO. SARs received relating to third party
clients are shared with them so that they can conduct an investigation against
their own KYC and transaction records.

48. We continue to see more instances of Cash & Valuables in Transit (CViT) drivers
raising SARs in 2019 due to the volume of cash they are collecting, and by Cash
Centres in relation to Scottish & Irish notes, and in 2019 we have developed a
specific SAR form to aid Supply Chain staff to report suspicious activity.

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 79 of

Tab 11 Money

80 of 109

Laundering Re

49,

50.

51.

POL00401628

POL00401628

ng Officer Annua

When reviewing network SARs, the team analyse the reports to determine whether
to communicate the highlighted concerns to the targeted areas or the entire
network (e.g. high value deposits, scams for vulnerable customers, customers
transacting Bureau at multiple branches).

Overall the volume of SARs received is up from on average 240 per month in
2018/19 to 326 per month in 2019/20. This is an increase of c.35% and is mainly
as a result of SARs identified from the new Bureau de Change monitoring reports.
See Appendix E: Report on duties of nominated officer for additional information

An additional Financial Crime Manager achieved accredited Financial Investigator
Officer (FIO) status during the year. Under s.378 of the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002, an FIO may exercise powers under the Act, and more specifically can receive
SARs which have been disclosed to the NCA by reporters other than Post Office,
where a subject has a potential connection with Post Office. There are now 2
accredited FIO’s within Financial Crime Compliance and there has been an increase
in review, investigation and response with 67 SARs disclosed by the NCA, in
comparison to 34 in 2018.

viii. Record keeping

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

All record keeping relating to AML/CTF is electronic (all paper SARs and paperwork
are scanned and saved electronically) and filed within a restricted access folders.

All reports, risk assessments and supporting documents are filed in the AML
Sharepoint site, and a log is maintained to ensure annual review and sign-off.
For Bureau de Change, the new AML Credence universe maintains all branch on-
demand and pre-order Bureau de Change transactions and this is retained for 5
years

Financial Crime Compliance investigation cases are managed and recorded via
Microsoft Dynamics and maintained confidentially from other Dynamics users in
the Post Office.

Court Orders & Data Protection Act requests - In 2019, we provided 1 witness
statement to the Police and received 15 Data Protection Act requests from Law
Enforcement and regulatory bodies relating to fraud and money laundering. 4 of
the 15 Data Protection requests received were raised due to investigations
highlighted and carried out by the team. In 2018, there were 7 Data Protection
Act request and 4 witness statements.

ix. Premises Registration

57.

58.

During 2019, new reporting was built, tested and delivered by the DCoE for
fortnightly submission of data to HMRC for premises registration. Data to generate
the HMRC reports is now taken from the source Master Data Management system
and this has removed previous reporting errors. Currently the data is manually
transferred into the HMRC reporting templates, but we have discussed some data
changes with HMRC and DCoE are expected to deliver reporting in the correct
HMRC format early 2020, removing the need for manual work.

On 4* April 2019 HMRC increased branch registration fees from £130 to £300 per
annum with effect from 1st May 2019 meaning our annual registration fee for 1‘

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 16

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

June 2019 was £3,197,400, reflecting the 131% increase and leaving no time for
Post Office to consider the option of removing the service from branches to reduce
the financial impact. Corporate Affairs engaged with BEIS, HMT & HMRC, but no
extension could be accommodated, and the fee was paid in full. As part of the fee
increase the HMRC Fit & Proper test fee for direct employees and Board members
also increased from £100 to £150, although this is still a one-off fee. Corporate
Affairs has since been approached by HMT as it wishes to undertake a further fee
review and has indicated that it wants to meet with Post Office to discuss, prior to
the consultation, but we are still awaiting this approach.

x. Fit & Proper Test Requirements

59. There have continued to be significant challenges with the Fit & Proper project with
considerable oversight and support required by Compliance:

e In February 2019, following further issues delivering the project, there was
another change to the project team, with a new Project Manager and Project
Management Officer being appointed. This brought better focus and pace to the
project.

e Due to early data request errors and delays in writing to agents to collate data,
we engaged with HMRC to ask to extend the deadline for the provision of all
agent data from June 2019 to September 2019, to enable Post Office to
complete the data capture with agents. This was approved by our regulatory
supervisor.

e Following extensive follow-up activity and support from the Area Managers in
contacting non-compliant agents, branches for which no complete F&P
declaration had been received had their ability to transact Bureau de Change
and MoneyGram removed on 6'* September and 13" September 2019 - 760
branches (445 then 315) were impacted in total. These branches were then
given a further 60 days to return their documentation before we de-registered
their premises with HMRC.

« In the week commencing 18'" November 2019, 85 branch premises were de-
registered with HMRC and the steering group approved that any de-registered
Agents who subsequently seek to be reinstated, must pay the HMRC registration
fee to be re-registered before the transactions are enabled.

e All Commercial Partner data capture and declarations are complete.

e The master data (c. 13k rows of data) continues to be maintained manually on
a spreadsheet and there are still a number of gaps in existing processes to
ensure that data capture is accurate and optimised.

e When pulling the full agent data against registered premises to send to HMRC
for the November monthly submission, it was identified that there were still 625
individuals with missing NINO, DOB, or both. Some of this agent data was held
in other systems and could be rectified, however, it was identified that c. 213
agents had never been contacted and therefore had not returned their up to
date data and declaration. The data was subsequently rechecked and 193 of
these branches had contracts that started in 2019, therefore checks and data
capture would have been covered as part of the on-boarding process and the
data available in other systems. The remaining 20 branches were made up of

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 17

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 81 of
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

17 sole traders with either partial or full information collected and 3 others
where no information had been collected.

e Letters were sent to these 213 agents on 9'" December and it is hoped to close
these remaining gaps by January. Our regulatory supervisor has been advised
and in the meantime, we will continue to send full agent data lists to HMRC each
month to evidence the progress being made. As at 16° December, 181 data
anomalies remained, but when preparing data for the December submission it
was identified that there were 210 missing NINO and DOB’s which appears to
be caused by incomplete data being captured by Agent Services. A meeting is
planned for January to improve processes.

e Approval for a Fit and Proper outline solution and high level design has been
given by the Enterprise Architecture Group, and in November the Portfolio
Review Board (PRB) approved the system in principle and the cost to build it,
but have asked the project team for further clarification on the on-going run
costs, and a further submission is being made to the PRB 21% January 2020.

e This new system should resolve a number of the current data integrity issues,
but it is likely that there will continue to be issues each month until then.

e It is anticipated that the new system for generating annual declarations,
capturing data and generating the required reporting both for Post Office
internal governance and HMRC agent data provision will be built and delivered
by 20" April 2020. The first set of annual re-declarations to the first cohort of
agents will then be sent end April/early May, with further monthly cohorts
scheduled to ensure that all agents are contacted to re-declare annually.

60. Further work will be required throughout 2020 to complete the agent Fit & Proper
project and transfer to BAU activity, along with appropriate compliance assurance
oversight. This will need to be completed and implemented before the annual
registration in June 2020.

61. Following HMRC undertaking 50 agents to test Fit & Proper data in October 2018,
we wrote to HMRC in March 2019 setting out our legal view in relation to the F&P
requirements for Officers in Charge/Agent Branch Managers (a requirement that
would have given rise to significant additional cost). HMRC confirmed that POL
does not need to extend F&P requirements to OIC level, however, it has reserved
the right to review the position regarding staff undertaking branch management
roles as part of any future compliance activity and if it deems, in specific instances,
they are within the scope of the relevant guidance, POL will need to submit their
details as part of the agent list.

E. Investigations and Incidents

62. There have been 451 investigations up to P8 2019/20 (an average of 56 per
month), this is compared to 433 for the whole of 2018/19 (an average of 36 per
month). As detailed in the table below, the level of Bureau de Change
investigations has already surpassed the number of investigations during 2018/19.
This annual increase is expected to continue and accelerate as we implement
additional Bureau de Change monitoring reports. Data on operational work

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 18

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628

POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annual Report

63.

64.

65.

provided to the Travel team will help monitor and determine if further system
changes or controls are required in Horizon to reduce manual investigation activity.

Banking investigation volumes to P8 are on par with the total seen for the whole
of 2017/18, but are also more complex as they have involved multiple branches
and bank customers. Each case therefore has taken far longer to work, with access
required to several systems to piece together the connections to enable banks and
law enforcement to take action.

The graph below shows the investigations undertaken in 2018/19 and up to P8&
2019/20 and is split out by the high risk products:

Investigations by product type

400
350
300
250
200
150
100

50

Gift Cards Bureau MoneyGram Banking Other

0 a

2018/19 ™ 2019/20 YTD

Bureau de Change (volume and value of branch transactions 2018/2019 8.6m &
£2.46bn, and to P8 2019/20 6.1m & £1.73bn).

Whilst the overall volume and value of transactions is down year on year, to P8&
YTD 2019/20 there have been 387 Bureau de Change investigations relating to
branch non-conformance, money laundering and confirmed card fraud

The introduction of the new AML Credence universe and Business Objects has
led to an increase in the identification of potential vulnerable customers
purchasing currency. Over a two month period, a customer purchased in excess
of £15k in branch and also attempted to place a pre-order transaction for further
currency. After intervention by the team, the pre-order was refused and banking
protocol initiated. Information provided by law enforcement advised that the
customer did not really understand what they were buying the currency for, but
believed it was for a timeshare. Another example was a customer who
purchased c£44k in just over a month. Open sources research completed and
information provided by the branches confirmed that the customer was deaf.
This individual was reported as potentially vulnerable to law enforcement and
the transactions subsequently stopped.

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 19

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

83 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

e Asa result of branch non-conformance up to P8 2019/20, 15 branches have
been raised to Contract Advisors to take contractual action

e Following the implementation of Microsoft Dynamics 365, the team is now able
to record what mitigation has been undertaken for each case. Volumes to P8&
2019/20 are as follows:

e 1044 Branch phone calls
¢ 73 text blasts
« 15 Memoviews

e Compliance has established a relationship with the Risk Director at WHSmith
who has requested that any serious concerns/breaches relating to WHSmith
branches are escalated directly to him and he will ensure remediation activity is
undertaken

66. MoneyGram (volume and value 18/19: send transactions 2.7m & £807m, receive
transactions 375k & £133m. Volume and value to P8 19/20: send transactions
1.6m & £485m, receive transactions 226k & £84m).

e The team continues to meet monthly with the MoneyGram compliance team to
review issues, but generally, the number of issues relating to MoneyGram have
reduced significantly due to the new controls MoneyGram implemented in 2017.

e During the current year, the network report that vulnerable customers are
sending money to Guinea and India. Trends have been identified as fraudsters
pose as Microsoft, or request vulnerable customers to send funds in relation to
PPI. All reports have been escalated to MoneyGram through our fortnightly SAR
update.

e MoneyGram transaction monitoring has identified 75 potential branch non-
conformance issues up to P8 2019/20. This has resulted in MoneyGram
conducting a review at each branch, either in person or over the phone, to
discuss the failings and provide further training. Prior to each review, Financial
Crime Compliance has completed a check of each branch to confirm whether
any other concerns exist.

67. Banking Framework Services Cash Deposits - Up to P8 2019/20, there have been
42 investigations relating to partner banks, of which, 40 relate to suspicious high
volume/value cash deposits. The total amount linked to these cases is c.£92m
compared to c.£32.2m across 47 investigations during 2018/19 up to P8.

Over the last year, we have identified a rising number of high value and complex
cases relating to business banking deposits which have been referred to Law
Enforcement and the relevant banks. As a result, HMRC has presented 3 cases
arising from SARs submitted by Post Office totalling c.£39m, to the UK’s Joint
Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce.

The cases below are examples of high-level investigations the Financial Crime
team has managed. These have been identified from intelligence received by
Compliance and SARs raised by branches, cash centre staff, area sales managers
and third parties:

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 20

84 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

e A partner bank raised concerns regarding several cards that were being used
to deposit high values of cash at two branches located in East London. Following
review, high value cash deposits were identified into multiple different bank
accounts, totalling c.£15.2m from December 2018 to June 2019. These
transactions took place at 52 Post Office branches although the individuals
predominantly targeted East London locations. Financial Crime Compliance
visited one branch that had been significantly impacted to provide awareness
and education. All information has been disclosed to Law Enforcement along
with CCTV footage.

e During June 2019, HMRC advised us about a business customer depositing high
values and volumes of cash,. Analysis was completed on deposits made on the
2 cards provided by HMRC which identified a number of potentially linked
transactions made into multiple other bank accounts across a number of Post
Office branches in the Bradford and Manchester area. The total linked was
c.£2.5 m. The main branches were contacted advising them to capture customer
details and ID. CCTV was captured and shared with Law Enforcement.

e Following a SAR raised by the network, high value cash deposits were identified
onto multiple banks cards totalling c.£20.9 million from June to November 2019,
that appeared to be linked. The individual deposit values ranged from £80 to
£16k. These transactions took place at 267 different Post Office branches, with
the majority of branches located within the M25 (predominantly East London).
We liaised with a number of branches to capture further customer information.
CCTV was reviewed which identified 6 potential subjects. All information has
been disclosed to Law Enforcement, however, activity remains ongoing.

e Supply Chain raised concerns that a branch had recently increased its cash
collections. It was identified that high value cash deposits were being processed
onto twelve cards issued by multiple banks. A total of c.£10.5m was deposited
over 7 months at 13 branches. Details were shared with the banks who then
conducted a review of the accounts and details of our investigation were shared
with HMRC. The main branch targeted by this group was visited by Financial
Crime Compliance and advised that future transactions must be declined unless
the customers were able to provide personal ID to confirm their identity.

68. One4All Gift Cards (GVS) - A report containing the total remuneration paid for gift
card sales broken down by branch over a 12-month rolling period is received and
reviewed by the Financial Crime team on a monthly basis. One branch was
identified due to a spike in gift card sales during July 2019 (August 2018 to June
2019 - the branch average monthly sales value was £67, but in July 2019, £44k
of gift cards sold). Following a conversation with the branch, it was identified that
all cards were for a single individual who had said they recently sold their business
and were purchasing the cards as a gift for all company employees. On referral to
GVS, they advised that the gift cards remained inactive with their full balances
remaining. Following further conversations with the branch, the agent advised that
in order to facilitate the large order, the customer transferred the funds to the
agents own account via bank transfer and he purchased the gift cards using his
own debit card. The agent explained that he did contact NBSC who did not advise
that this was unacceptable. This information has been confirmed with NBSC and
the agent has been made aware that this is a breach of the sales process and must

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 21

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

Tab 11 Money

86 of 109

Laundering Re

69.

70.

POL00401628
POL00401628

ng Officer Annual Report

not be repeated. This was also escalated to the Head of NBSC to implement further
training to call handlers

Card Fraud over Post Office counters - Between 1*t January 2019 to 15'* November
2019 there were 2122 fraudulent transactions processed to the value of
£228,519.64; with the majority of transactions over £100 relating to Gift Card
purchases. Card fraud has declined compared to last year, where there were 3,009
transactions totalling £425,635.35. YTD there have been no Card Scheme
breaches.

The volume of JMLIT s.7? requests received and worked by Financial Crime
Compliance to P8 2019/20 has remained consistent with last year, however, the
volume of subjects (individuals) requiring checks has doubled:

« s.7's requests received - 87 (95 during previous year up to P8)

« Number of searchable subjects included in the requests - 1060 (566 during
previous year up to P8)

« Number of subjects identified in Post Office data - 36 (41 during previous
year up to P8)

e Following the recent terror incident at London Bridge on 29/11/2019,
Financial Crime Compliance remained on 24/7 call to support urgent
requests from the National Terrorist Financial Investigation Unit. No links to
the Post Office were identified from checks completed.

« The chart below shows the underlying issues relating to each request for
information received from JMLIT:

2 Under section 7 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013, the NCA is empowered to request information for the purposes of
exercising any NCA function, responses to these data requests are a key activity for JMLIT members.

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 22

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annual Report

JMLIT - s.7 Requests

Cyber Crime, 5

Human Trafficking, 8

Illegal Trade, 9

Re

Fraud / Money
Laundering, 15

Tax Evasion, 3

Child Sexual Abuse and
Exploitation, 1

Organised Immigration
Crime, 10

Terrorist Financing, 8

Trade/Market Based
Money Laundering, 15 Bribery & Corruption, 9

F. External Threats/Landscape
i. Business areas

71. There have been no significant changes to the Post Office regulatory landscape
during 2019 as a result of changes in the Post Office.

ii. Fifth Anti Money Laundering Directive

72. Post Office submitted a response on 10th June 2019 to the HMT consultation on
the transposition of 5th Money Laundering Directive (SMLD) into UK law. The
following concerns/clarification requests were raised:

« the inclusion in the UK Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) definition of “Board
members of for-profit enterprises in which the state has an ownership of 50%
of more, or where reasonably available information points to the state having
control over the activities of the enterprise”, which would bring Post Office Board
members into scope for PEP due diligence in their personal financial dealings.

« the extension of the regulatory definition of ‘officer’ to ‘managers’, and that this
should be ‘senior managers’ to align with the FCAs Senior Manager Regime

« whether customer due diligence is required as a distributor of third party
manufacturing pre-paid cards

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 23

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 87 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 11 Money Laundering Reporting Officer Annua

* we are also asked that the Government recognised the GOV.UK Verify scheme
under the provisions for electronic customer identification

73. Due to delays in Brexit and the General Election, no draft legislation for the 5MLD
has yet been published. With an implementation deadline of 10" January 2020, it
is suspected that the legislation will either be published as a final version on or
around 10" January or it will be delayed. The legislation will need to be reviewed
to check for Post Office impacts, and the outcome of this review will be reported
to the subsequent Post Office RCC and ARC.

74. In readiness for the reduced limit for anonymous prepaid cards under 5MLD, GVS
are reducing the maximum load limit on One4All Gift cards from £400 to £120
from the 10" January 2020.

iii. Supranational Risk Assessment

75. In July 2019 a Supranational Risk Assessment of money laundering and terrorist
financing activities affecting the internal market and relating to cross-border
activities was conducted by the Commission to the European Parliament and The
Council. The report highlights that cash remains the number one choice for
criminals to money launder, as well as cash like assets. It also highlighted
vulnerabilities in all sectors such as criminals obtaining employment within
organisations, new technologies assisting criminals to create better counterfeit
documentation, insufficient information sharing between public and private
sectors, insufficient compliance resource and awareness, and risks emerging from
FinTech products.

iv. Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI) Penalty

76. In June 2019, OFSI published a penalty noticed imposed on Travelex (UK) Ltd for
a bureau de change transaction. A penalty of £10,000 was issued due to a single
transaction of £204 breaching the EU Egypt financial sanctions regime. This was
in addition to a £5,000 penalty for Raphaels Bank in relation to the same
transaction issued in January 2019. These fines demonstrate OFSI’s readiness to
exercise its civil monetary penalties wherever it is deemed appropriate, and not
just on large cases/values.

77. Post Office currently undertakes Sanction screening for all on-demand and pre-
order Bureau de Change transactions over £2,000 as part of an electronic Know
Your Customer (eKYC) check. We also undertake ad-hoc checks as part of
investigations. To date Post Office has never had a Sanctions match, and the risk
is deemed low.

v. HMRC compliance and registration penalties

78. In 2019, HMRC announced a record fine of £7.8m against Touma Foreign Exchange
Ltd, for Money Laundering Regulations breaches between June 2017 and
September 2018. This included failures within its Fit & Proper (F&P) tests, risk
assessments, policies, controls and staff training. This highlights the pro-active
approach HMRC are taking to tackle money laundering and regulatory non-
compliance, and the potential public penalties possibly imposed. This approach
indicates that should Post Office fail to comply with money laundering regulations,
we would incur a penalty much greater than our previous fines under the 2007

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 24

88 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
Tab 11 Money

Laundering Re

POL00401628

POL00401628

ng Officer Annua

MLRs which totalled c.£1.1m, additionally under the 2017 MLR’s these fines are
now made public, prior to any appeal process.

v. Other regulatory developments:

79.

80.

82.

83.

The Foreign & Commonwealth Office published guidance in July 2019 explaining
how the UK would implement sanctions if the UK leaves the EU without a deal. The
UK would implement UN sanctions in UK Domestic law after the UK leaves the EU,
as required by international law. If there was no deal, then the UK would carry
over all EU sanctions at the time of departure. The government will implement
sanctions regimes through new legislation, in the form of regulations, made under
the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (the Sanctions Act). Any
sanctions that the UK did not address will continue as retained law under the EU
withdrawal Act 2018, ensuring there are no gaps. UK will publish the names of
sanctioned persons or organisations, and regulations would be published as normal
alongside guidance

The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has shared draft guidance on digital identity
(digital ID) for public consultation. This guidance is to clarify how digital ID systems
can be used for customer due diligence (CDD). The draft guidance intends to help
governments, financial institutions and other relevant entities apply a risk-based
approach to the use of digital ID for CDD. Guidance is intended to assist
governments, regulated entities and other relevant stakeholders determine how
digital ID systems can be used to conduct certain elements of customer due
diligence (CDD) under FATF Recommendation 10.

Conclusions and Recommendations

The regulatory environment continues to pose a challenge, with increased
regulatory and legislative focus on money laundering and terrorist financing.
Following the 2018 FATF UK Mutual Evaluation review, there is evidence of
increasing focus by regulators, and readiness to exercise monetary penalties, as
evidenced by OFSI and the FCA. We have also seen a more pro-active approach
to supervision by HMRC (funded by the significant increase in registration fees
from 1st May 2019) and an increase in the volume and scale of penalties issued by
them. This indicates that should HMRC identify that Post Office has failed to comply
with money laundering regulations, penalties will be more egregious than
historically, as well as being made public. It is therefore important that Post
Office’s commitment to comply with all aspects of regulatory requirements remains
high on the agenda.

The Supranational Risk Assessment issued on 2019 highlights that cash remains
the number one choice for criminals to money launder, and this has been borne
out by the increase in suspicious activity that has been identified through the year
relating to Banking Framework cash deposits over Post Office counters

Political uncertainty has delayed publication of the draft UK legislation relating to
the 5MLD, but it is still expected that this will be enacted by 10" January 2020,
and therefore the final content and Post Office impacts are unlikely to be known
and assessed until after publication, including the likely impacts of Politically
Exposed Person status for Post Office executives.

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 25

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

89 of

Tab 11 Money Laundering Re

84.

85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

POL00401628

POL00401628

ng Officer Annua

The establishment of the NECC in October 2018, has seen an increased focus in
activity, and this is borne out by the increased workloads we have seen responding
to subject requests, which have doubled year on year. A number of the cases
under review relate to cash-based criminal activity with a predominance in human
trafficking, organised immigration crime, modern slavery and sexual exploitation.

The HMRC supervisor who has overseen Post Office regulated activity since 2015
is retiring in June 2020, and therefore Post Office will have a new supervisor during
the early part of 2020, which may bring changes to HMRC regulatory oversight
and activity. We are also aware that HMRC are considering a further review of
their registration fee structure, although as yet, there has been no guidance on
this.

Further work has been undertaken to resolve data issues with the Bureau de
Change monitoring solution and assessment and oversight of the product
continues to mature. The increased volumes of investigations and SARs evidences
the improvement in controls since the HMRC audit in 2016 and subsequent
penalties. The new premises registration reporting tool was delivered by DCoE in
2019 and has improved the accuracy of registration data, however, some further
work is required to generate the HMRC reports in the correct format and remove
manual manipulation. Customer Due Diligence, PEPS and Sanctions checks for
Bureau de Change are currently assessed to be adequate.

The agent Fit & Proper data requirements have continued to be a significant
challenge for Post Office, and data gaps and challenges remain in providing
accurate monthly reporting to HMRC due to the disparate systems that store the
information. Significant effort was required to meet the extended deadline of
September to complete the data gaps, although ultimately only 85 premises were
deregistered, albeit further data discrepancies were then identified. Data issues
are likely to continue until the new data system is designed, built and delivered in
2020. Additionally, due to the high number of structural changes within Post Office
over the last 12 months, it has proven difficult to keep the direct employee Fit &
Proper tests up to date with HMRC, and the business is giving insufficient review
of regulatory oversight responsibilities when changing reporting lines and/or roles,
which must be addressed moving forward.

Following increasing workloads over the previous two years, two additional
financial crime roles were created and recruited into Financial Crime Compliance
during 2019.This has ensured that enhancements could be made to Bureau de
Change transaction monitoring and investigations, and the back log of risk
assessment work has been brought up to date. This has also meant that more
focus can be given to industry and regulatory horizon scanning to ensure that Post
Office is adequately protected. The team have also absorbed the continued
increase in investigations (up 40% compared to 2018) and SARs (up 35%
compared to 2018), although if this trend continues, this will not be sustainable,
and there is limited, if any, automation that can be introduced to cover these tasks.

Products and services provided by Post Office are broadly in line with the risk
appetites set by the Board and, with the exception of the Banking Framework
services, there has been an improvement in residual risk over the last 12 months.
The Bureau de Change residual risk continues to improve as increased controls

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 26

90 of 109

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

Tab 11 Money Laundering Re

90.

91.

92.

POL00401628

POL00401628

ng Officer Annua

and improvements to transaction monitoring are implemented. Risk Assessments
for Post Office Insurance have fallen behind due to product managers failing to
complete Product Information Packs/respond to queries in a timely manner and
this has been highlighted to the POI ARC. First line compliance with Post Office
policies is of concern and further work will be undertaken in 2020 to improve first
line management awareness of the policy minimum control requirements that are
their responsibility.

Work has commenced to undertake assurance activity in respect of Payzone
products and services. There is currently a lack of documented policies and
procedures to support this area of the business, but it is hoped that this activity
this will be concluded by the 2019/20 financial year end.

There have been a number of high value and high profile investigation cases
relating to money laundered through Post Office counters via accounts held by
banks operating within the Banking Framework. As a result there has been
significant interest and focus by various law enforcement organisations
culminating in the establishment of Project Admiralty by the NECC with key
stakeholders to address the risks and issues. Up to P8 2019/20, Financial Crime
Compliance have investigated and raised SARs relating to c. £92m of cash
deposits. Product Management and Compliance must ensure that adequate focus
and support is given to industry, NECC and Post Office initiatives to address the
migration of cash placement risks to Post Office as banks close, including following
through on the actions recommended in the Banking Framework risk assessment.

Whilst overall, there has been a significant improvement to mandatory training
compliance in the Network, brought about by the roll out of SmartID and training
controls, training and awareness remains a key control for AML/CTF and challenges
remain:

e Whilst all Horizon users now complete the training and test, it is evident from
branch visits by Financial Crime Compliance that the key messages are not
landing, and branches are sometimes failing to question transactions or report
suspicions, either because they lack confidence, or because they do not
understand how to apply the training. With the current method of delivery of
training via Horizon, there is limited scope to improve the content, and Financial
Crime Compliance will continue to work with the Area Management team and
the NFSP to identify different ways to deliver key messages.

« Weare looking to design and deliver animations as part of the annual AML/CTF
training in May to help land key messages, but as these cannot be incorporated
into Horizon, alternative access will be needed for the Network

« There are still challenges with back office staff completing training within the
required deadlines, and this continues to be monitored and chased by Financial
Crime Compliance.

CONFIDENTIAL POL MLRO Report Jan 2020 v1.0 27

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

92 of 109

1 Approval

Post Office Limited

Risk and Compliance Committee Report

Title:

Cyber and Information Security Policy Summary
Paper

Meeting Date:

14* January 2020

Author:

Hazel Freeman (IT Security Business Partner) /
Ehtsham Ali (Head of Cyber Security Compliance)

Sponsor:

Shikha Hornsey (Chief Information Officer)

Input Sought

Action Required:
Noted

Recommend for Approval by the Risk and
Compliance Committee

Previous Governance
Oversight:

Previous versions of the policy have been presented
to the Risk and Compliance Committee.

Executive Summary

Context:

This paper provides a summary of changes that
have been made to the information and cyber
security policies below as part of their annual review
process for the Committee to consider

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 12 Policies for Approval

1. Which policies were updated in this annual cycle review?
2. What updates were included and why?

Questions asked & addressed

Report
Which policies were updated in this annual cycle review?

3. In this review cycle 1 policy has been revised pending approval and 3 have been
deprecated and merged.

Policy Last Reviewed I Updates

Cyber and Information Security I December 20018 I Covered in the paper below.

IT Security May 2018 Deprecated and merged into Cyber
and Information Security Policy.

Acceptable Use September 2018 I Deprecated and merged into Cyber
and Information Security Policy.

Document Retention and March 2018 Deprecated and merged into Cyber

Disposal and Information Security Policy.

What updates were included and why?

4. The changes made are:

a. Consolidated the top level Cyber and Information Security policies into one,
simplifying where staff need to go, to get the business intent on cyber and
information security.

b. The policy suite is supplemented with Cyber and Information Security standards
which cover the measurable controls.

c. Minimum control section has been updated to incorporate controls from the
current IT Security, Acceptable Use and Document Retention and Disposal
Policies.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 12 Policies for Approval

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

GROUP POLICIES

Cyber and Information Security
Policy

Version - V2.0

INTERNAL Page 1 of 14 Cyber and Information
Security Policy v2.0

94 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
Tab 12 Policies for Approval
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

1. Overview 3

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner . 3

1.2. Risk Appetite.
1.3. Purpose.
1.4. Core Principles .
1.5. Application
1.6. Legislation
1.7. Industry Guidance .
1.8. Policy Framework

wuuar >a

1.9. Who must comply?
2. Minimum Controls
3. Where to go for help

Additional Policies

3.1. How to raise a concern

POL00401628
POL00401628

3.2. Who to contact for more information. 13
4. Control 14
4.1. Policy Version 14
4.2. Document Control 14
INTERNAL Page 2 of 14 Cyber and Information

Security Policy v2.0

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

95 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 12 Policies for Approval

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

1. Overview

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner

Post Office is committed to protecting its employees, customers, Third Party Supply Chain
and information assets from damaging or illegal actions by individuals, either knowingly
or unknowingly. Post Office enables this through the development and deployment of
policies, standards and guidelines which are aligned to international best practices.
Effective cyber and information security is a team effort involving everyone in Post Office.

1.2. Risk Appetite

There follows a list of applicable Risk Appetite statements for this policy:

* Averse risk appetite in relation to not complying with law and regulations or
deviation from its business conduct standards, of which this standard forms part.

« Averse risk appetite in relation to any serious impact to the confidentiality,
integrity and availability of information, leading to financial loss, business
disruption, public embarrassment or legal consequences in line with risk impacts.

+ Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited
circumstances where there are significant conflicting imperatives between
conformance and commercial practicality .

+ Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to high profile cases / issues.

¢ Averse risk appetite for unethical behaviour including staff misfeasance.

* Averse risk appetite for data loss/leakage that can lead to customer, commercial
or reputational damage

+ Neutral risk appetite for operational IT services.

* Averse appetite for inaccurate and unreliable processing of data.

* Averse risk appetite for inefficient or ineffective or prolonged failure of,
governance and control processes, critical financial reporting processes, critical
supply chain and business continuity processes.

Post Office acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls
have been implemented a risk may still sit outside the agreed Risk Appetite. In exceptional
circumstances a Risk Exemption waiver may be granted

1.3. Purpose

The purpose of this is to detail the minimum IT controls required to reduce the Post Offices
exposure to information security threats such as:

* threats from the internet (cyber threat)
«threats from internal staff (either malicious or accidental)
¢ threats from third parties (either malicious or accidental)

1.4. Core Principles

Compliance with this policy will ensure that the following principles are met:

INTERNAL Page 3 of 14 Cyber and Information
Security Policy v2.0

96 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
Tab 12 Policies for Approval

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

«  €xternal suppliers to be identified and categorised such that a risk based
approach can be facilitated in assessing the suppliers security controls.

« Security arrangements can be agreed and embedded into service agreements
and contracts.

* Security controls can be validated prior to services commencing and on an
ongoing basis.

* Termination of third party relationships can be effectively managed so as not
to expose Post Office to additional Risks.

1.5. Application

This policy relates to all Post Office information assets, including critical business
information systems, as defined by Post Office, and as amended from time to time, and
applies to all employees*

Post Office information assets and systems include, but are not limited to:

« Business environments;

« Business processes;

e Business applications (including those under development);
«Information systems; and

« Networks

1.6. Legislation

Post Office seek to comply withall relevant UK legislation and regulatory requirements
including (but not limited to):

* Data Protection Act (2018).
* Freedom of Information Act (2000).

* Privacy and Electronic Communication Act (2003).

* Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) (2000).
* Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (1988).

* Computer Misuse Act (1990).

* Human Rights Act (1998).

+ Terrorism Act (2006).

+ Limitation Act (1980).

* Malicious Communication Act 1988).

* Digital Economy Act (2010).

* Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) (Amendment) Regulations

(2011).
* Counter-Terrorism and Security Act (2015).

1 In this policy employee means employees permanent employees, temporary including agency employees,

contractors, consultants and anyone else working on behalf of Post Office.

POL00401628
POL00401628

INTERNAL Page 4 of 14 Cyber and Information
Security Policy v2.0

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20

97 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 12 Policies for Approval

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

98 of 109

1.7. Industry Guidance

Post Office is a member of the Information Security Forum (ISF) which is used to p rovide
input to Information Protection and Assurance (IPA) and IT Security developments.

1.8. Policy Framework

This policy forms part of the IPA and IT Security Policy Set which is located here:

https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/postoffice/inside/Pages/Information -security.aspx

1.9. Who must comply?

Compliance with this policy is mandatory for all Post O ffice services. All third parties who
do business with Post Office, including consultants, suppliers and business and franchise
partners, will be required to agree contractually to this standard or have their own
equivalent policy.

INTERNAL Page 5 of 14 Cyber and Information
Security Policy v2.0

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
g

Oz/LO/PL

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

2. Minimum Controls

A minimum control is an activity which must be in place in order to manage the associated risks within Risk Appetite. To be able to

demonstrate compliance, mechanisms must be in place within each business unit or product to demonstrate complianc e. The minimum
controls can cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks are

managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk, and the required minimum controls. The subsequent page defines in

greater detail terms used:

Risk Area

Description of Risk

Minimum Control

Who is responsible

When

Organisation of Information
Security

Colleagues, Management
and Suppliers may not
understand the
requirements of operating
in a secure fashion leaving
Post Office systems and
data open to accidental or
malicious attack, causing
data breach or loss of
confidentiality, integrity
and availability.

A Cyber and Information
Security Management
System (C&ISMS) must
be in place, have senior
management approval,
be communicated to the
entire business and
Tested for effectiveness.
Please see the Cyber
and Information Security
Standard, the Supplier
Management Standard
and the Risk
Management Standard

All Staff

Updated Annually

INTERNAL

Page 6 of 14

=
Ls)

Cyber and Information
Security Policy v2.0

POL00401628
POL00401628

ge

sa1oijog ZL

jenosddy 4
601 JO 001

g

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Risk Area

Description of Risk

Minimum Control

Who is responsible

When

Human Resource Security

Poor controls around the
selection, on-boarding,
termination of staff leads
to malicious or accidental
data loss, corruption or
lack of availability.

Cyber and Information
Security Standard.
Access Control Standard
and the HR Policies

Line Managers

All the time, and
evolving with new best
practice.

Insider Threat

Poor controls around the
usage of Post Office Assets
(both logical and physical)
by Post Office Staff may
impact the Confidentiality,
Integrity and Availability of
Post Office Data or Impact
Post Office reputation by
the intentional or accidental

Acceptable Use Standard

All Staff

All the time, and
evolving with new best
practice.

misuse of Post Office
physical and/or _ logical
Assets.
INTERNAL Page 7 of 14 Cyber and Information

=
Ls)

Security Policy v2.0

POL00401628
POL00401628

18.

=
3
g

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Risk Area

Description of Risk

Minimum Control

Who is responsible

When

Asset Management

Poor understanding of the
location, flow and
destruction of both
physical and data assets
leads to data loss,
corruption or lack of
availability

Cyber and information
Security Standard, Asset
Management Standard
and Data Governance
Standard. Users of Post
Office systems and
assets must comply with
the Acceptable Use
Standard

All Staff

All the time, and
evolving with new best
practice.

Secure Development of
business applications

Poor design of Business
applications or lack of
consideration regarding
security requirements
during the design process
can lead to the
introduction of security
vulnerabilities and
subsequently result in
breaches of data, loss of
integrity or data being
accessed by unauthorised
individuals.

All projects and
programmes must liaise
with IT Security and the
IT Architecture teams
for advice and guidance
on the security aspects
of their designs. All
development must
comply with the SDLC
Standard.

Business Unit CIOs,
Project & Programme
Managers, and
procurement.

At project design
phase and during
change.

INTERNAL

Page 8 of 14

=
Ls)

Cyber and Information
Security Policy v2.0

POL00401628
POL00401628

18.

Wy 40!

yenosd
601 40 ZOL

180g

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Risk Area

Description of Risk

Minimum Control

Who is responsible

When

Identity and Access
Management

Having inappropriate
access controls to data
owned or processed by
Post Office could lead to
inappropriate access by
unauthorised individuals

All systems must comply
with the Access Control
Standard. Users of Post
Office systems and
assets must comply with
the Acceptable Use
Standard.

Data Owners, Line
Managers, Business
Unit CIOs, Project and
Programme managers,
and procurement

Whenever a new
system is being
designed or procured,
or when significant
change is being
applied.

Security Infrastructure

If the design of systems
supporting or running
security services for Post
Office are not securely
designed to the highest
standards, those functions
cannot be assured and
Post Office systems and
data may be open to
attack, causing data
breach or loss of
confidentiality, integrity
and availability.

All projects and
programmes must liaise
with IT Security and the
IT Architecture teams
for advice and guidance
on the security aspects
of their designs. All
infrastructure must
comply with the Platform
Security Standard, Cloud
Computing Standard,
Network Security
Standard, Cryptography
Standard and the
Logging and Monitoring
Standard where
applicable.

Business Unit CIOs,
Third party supply
chain of IT Services
where systems are
hosting or processing
Post Office Data

All the time, and
evolving with new best
practice.

INTERNAL

Page 9 of 14

=
Ls)

Cyber and Information
Security Policy v2.0

POL00401628
POL00401628

B1D1}0q

jenosddy Joy
g

Oz/LO/PL

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Risk Area

Description of Risk

Minimum Control

Who is responsible

When

Network Management

If networks supporting the
flow of Post Office
information are not
designed with security in
mind, then those networks
themselves may contain
vulnerabilities causing a
loss of confidentiality,
integrity or availability of
systems and or data.

All network designs
must adhere to the
Platform Security
Standard, Cloud
Computing Standard,
Network Security
Standard, Physical
Security Standard, Code
of Connections Standard
and the Logging and
Monitoring Standard
where applicable.

Business Unit CIOs,
Third party supply
chain of IT Services
where systems are
hosting or processing
Post Office Data

All the time, and
evolving with new best
practice.

Mobile and removable

Poorly controlled mobile

All mobile and

All staff

All the time

devices and removable devices removable devices must
may lead to a data breach I adhere to the BYOD
causing a loss of Standard, Platform
confidentiality, integrity or I Security Standard and
availability, reputational the Remote Access and
damage and/or fines from__I Portable Device
the regulator. Standard where

applicable.
INTERNAL Page 10 of 14 Cyber and Information

=
Ls)

Security Policy v2.0

POL00401628
POL00401628

setiyog Z) GEL

jenosddy 4
POL00401628

POL00401628
Q Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL PS
o
Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Who is responsible When >
Vulnerability Management If Post Offices devices All devices must comply I IT Security and IT All the time g
(laptops, mobiles, network I with the Vulnerability Architecture, Third *
devices, servers etc.) are Management Standard., I party supply chain of
poorly configured or the Penetration Testing IT Services where
maintained and those and Vulnerability systems are hosting or
> vulnerabilities are Scanning Standard, the processing Post Office
3 exploited then this could Security Infrastructure Data
Q lead to a loss of Standard and the
confidentiality, integrity or I Platform Security
availability, reputational Standard.
damage and/or fines from
the regulator
Cyber Threat Protection Post Office’s environment All of Post Office’s cyber I IT Security and IT All the time

is compromised due to lack
of, or poorly configured
cyber threat protection
solutions which could lead
to a loss of confidentiality,
integrity or availability,
reputational damage
and/or fines from the
regulator

security protection
solutions must adhere to
the Threat Prevention
Standard and incidents
must be assessed,
reported and resolved
using the Incident
Management, Breach
Reporting standards and
the Business Continuity
and Recovery standard.

Architecture, Third
party supply chain of
IT Services where
systems are hosting or
processing Post Office
Data

INTERNAL

Page 11 of 14

=
Ls)

Cyber and Information
Security Policy v2.0
POL00401628
POL00401628

18.

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Wy 40!

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Who is responsible When 2
Data Governance Post Office’s data or I All Post Office Data All staff All the time, and g
environment is I should be managed in evolving with new best ~

compromised due to the I line with the Data practice.

lack of controls required to I Governance Standard,
manage the creation, I the Data Classification
usage, destruction or I Handling and Storage

2 archiving of data and I standard and the
documents used for normal I Document and Record
Post Office Operations Guideline
INTERNAL Page 12 of 14 Cyber and Information

Security Policy v2.0

=
Ls)
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 12 Policies for Approval

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

3. Where to go for help

Additional Policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies and standards. The full set of policies and standards
can be found at:

https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/postoffice/Pages/policies.aspx.

3.1. How to raise a concern

Any Post Office employee who suspects dishonest or fraudulent activity has a duty to:

* Discuss the matter fully with their Line Manager; or,

» Report their suspicions by telephoning Grapevine o:

¢ If either or both are not available, staff can contact the Post Office’ 's General
Counsel, who can be contacted by email at: whistleblowing or by
telephone on

* Alternatively staff can use the Speak Up service available on 0800 0484531

* or via a secure on-line web portal: http://www.intouchfeedback.com/postoffice

Post Office encourages members of the public or people not employed by us who suspect
[activity in breach of policy] to write, in confidence, to the Chief Executive’s Office,
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury St, London EC2 9AQ.

3.2. Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this standard or wish to report an issue in relation

. please contact via
or IT Security via c
INTERNAL Page 13 of 14 Cyber and Information

Security Policy v2.0

106 of 109 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 12 Policies for Approval

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

4. Control

4.1. Policy Version

Date Version Updated by Change Details
12/06/2015 1.0 ISAG Final QA and release
17/06/2016 1.1 ISAG Owner details updated to CISO,

no further changes after review

20/11/2016 1.2 ISAG Interim version which was
superseded by the new Post Office
Operating Model.

26/10/17 1.3 IPA & IT Security Changed to the new template for
policies Changed to reflect the new
Post Office structure Minor editorial
changes at annual review and a
general simplification of the
requirements.

31/10/17 1.4 IPA Updates following Peer review

07/12/18 15 IPA Minor updates on annual review

- caused by changes in
responsibilities

14/01/20 2.0 IT Security Updated policy to also inlcude
statement to merge Aceeptable Use,
IT Security and Document Retention
and Dispoal.

Approval from RCC

4.2. Document Control

Group Oversight Committee: Risk and Compliance Committee (RCC)

Sign-off Authority: Risk and Compliance Committee (RCC)

Policy Sponsor: Tony Jowett

Policy Owner: Head of IT Security

Policy Author: Hazel Freeman

Approved by: Post Office Ltd RCC

Approved:

Next review: January 2021

INTERNAL Page 14 of 14 Cyber and Information

Security Policy v2.0

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 107 of 109
POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 13 Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda 28 January 2020

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

Meeting: Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee (ARC)
Date: 28 January 2020
Time: 09.30 - 12.00
Location: 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y
9AQ
Present: Other Attendees:

Carla Stent (Chair)

Amanda Bowe (Chair ARC PO Insurance Director): Item 2

Ken McCall (SID)

Shikha Hornsey (Group CIO): Item 4

Tom Cooper (NED, UKGI)

Rob Wilkins (Portfolio Director): Item 4

Zarin Patel (NED)

Tony Jowett (Chief Information Security Officer): Item 4

Andrew Goddard (Managing Director, Payzone): Item 5

Regular Attendees:

Mark Dixon (Head of Treasury, Tax & Insurance): Items 6,
2

Tim Parker (Chairman, POL)

Dan Zinner (Chief Transformation Officer): Item 8

Nick Read (CEO)

Sally Smith (MLRO): Item 9

Alisdair Cameron (CFO)

Meredith Sharples (Director, Telecoms): Item 10.4

Ben Foat (General Counsel)

PWC

Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit)

Mark Baldock (Head of Risk)

Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director)

David Parry (Senior Assistant Company Secretary)

Time Item Owner Action
09:30 1. Welcome & Conflicts of Interest Chair Noting
09:35 2. Update from Subsidaries: Amanda
Bowe
Post Office Management Services (ARC) Noting
09:40 3. Previous Meetings Chair
3.1. Minutes: 25 November 2019 Approval
3.2 Action List Noting & Input
3.3. Draft Risk and Compliance Noting
Committee Minutes 14 January 2019
09:45 4. PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update Shikha Discussion
Hornsey
1 PCI-DSS Rob Wilkins
4.2 Cyber Security Update Tony
Jowett
10:00 5. Payzone Risk Report Andrew Noting
Goddard
10:15 6. Tax Update and Annual Tax Strategy Mark Dixon Noting
10:25 7. Insurance Update Mark Dixon Ratify
10:30 8. Transformation Office Changes Dan Zinner Noting

Strictly Confidential

108 of 109

Post Office Limited - Risk and Co!

mpliance Committee-14/01/20

POL00401628
POL00401628

Tab 13 Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda 28 January 2020

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

10:40 9. Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Sally Smith Noting
Annual Report

11:10 10. Consolidated Report from Risk, Compliance
and Internal Audit

11:10 10.1 Risk Report Mark Noting
Baldock

11:20 10.2 Compliance Report Jonathan Noting
Hill

11:30 10.3 Internal Audit Report Johann Noting
Appel

11.40 10.4 PSD2 Implementation Meredith Noting
Sharples

11:50 Policies for Approval Approval
11:55 Any other Business Chair

Next ARC Meeting: Tuesday, 24 March 2020 at 09.00 to 11.30 in 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-14/01/20 109 of 109
