POL00026582
POL00026582

Post Office Ltd Financial Investigation Policy

1 PURPOSE
This policy describes the role of the Financial
Investigation Unit in mitigating losses, supporting
criminal investigations and recovering Post Office funds
within the functions of the Post Office Ltd Fraud Team.

2. INTRODUCTION
The Financial Investigation Team sits within the overall
Fraud Strand and its mission statement is:
“To mitigate the threat of fraud against Post Office Ltd.
In order to protect its People, Assets and Brand and
Reputation”.

3 AIMS

e Provide effective support to the investigation team,
casework management team, Post Office Finance team
and Criminal Law Team in order to recover Post Office
funds and mitigate losses.

e At all times to adhere to UK and EU legislation and
corporate governance to ensure best practise is being
adopted.

e Ensure that the powers conferred under the Proceeds
of Crime Act 2002 are used appropriately by each
Financial Investigator during the course of any
enquiry.

e All financial investigations to be conducted with
absolute impartiality and proportionality.

° Maximise efficient use of limited resources by
ensuring good communication and collaboration with
all relevant parties.

e Protect Post Office Ltd’s brand and reputation.

* Develop policies to provide succession planning for
the unit to ensure an effective working team at all
times.

4 STRUCTURE

The Financial Investigation Unit comprises of one team
leader who is also an Accredited Financial Investigator
and two further Accredited Financial Investigators.

Page I of 2
Version 2 - Feb 2011
POL00026582

POL00026582

5. PRINCIPLES

© The Financial Investigation Team to fully support and
interact with its stakeholders and partners.

e The Team will ensure that all stakeholders and
customers are fully informed with all necessary
developments.

e All enquiries to be conducted within the due
processes available and with the necessary
consideration given to corporate policies.

6. PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
Framework
The Financial Investigation Team adopts a _ structured
approach to the key areas in which it is concerned, namely
money laundering and confiscation.

© Identify at the earliest opportunity which type of
financial investigation will be pursued.

e Adhere to the rules concerning the Human Rights Act
1998, Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, Data
Protection Act 1998, Regulation of Investigatory
Powers Act 2000 and the Criminal Procedures and
Investigations Act 1996.

e Ensure that all investigations are recorded correctly
and in a timely manner.

e Only use the powers available under the Proceeds of
Crime Act 2002 appropriately, such as;

1. Applications for Production Orders

2. Applications for Restraint Orders

3. Applications for Account Monitoring Orders

4. Applications for Customer Information Orders

5. Cash Seizures

6. Applications for Confiscation Orders

7. MONITORING

Representatives from the National Policing Improvement
Agency constantly monitor the work conducted by the
Financial Investigation Unit.

Page 2 of 2
Version 2 - Feb 2011
