POL00069056_002
POL00069056_002

® Post Office Limited
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2Y 9AQ

Mr HN Thomas

GRO

30% April 2015

Ref: M029

Dear Mr Thomas
Post Office Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme
Iam writing in connection to your application to the Scheme.

You will be aware that your case has been looked at afresh and thoroughly re-
investigated by Post Office. Your case has also been considered by the Scheme’s
independent forensic accountants, Second Sight Support Services Ltd. The reports of
both of these investigations have been shared with you.

Responsibility for Losses

Post Office considers that the question of responsibility for the losses suffered in your
branch was appropriately addressed at the time of the termination of your contract
with Post Office and your subsequent prosecution and conviction for false accounting.

It remains Post Office’s view that the conclusions drawn at the time were correct and
nothing in our own re-investigation, or in the Review of your case by Second Sight,
represents a challenge to that position. The Post Office will not, therefore, be entering
into mediation in your case.

Consequential Loss Claim

lam aware that your Case Questionnaire Response (CQR) contained a claim for losses
and costs. Post Office is firmly of the view that it did not act in any way by which it
could be held liable to you for the losses you are now claiming.

In the circumstances, Post Office considers your complaint to the Scheme is now
concluded.

l understand that this news will come as a disappointment to you. I nevertheless hope
that the extensive investigations undertaken both by Post Office and Second Sight will
have demonstrated our determination to carefully consider all of the concerns you
raised in your application in a detailed, comprehensive and independently verified
fashion.

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. 7
Registered Office Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street. London. EC2Y 9AQ. PostOffice.co.uk
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited

POL00069056_002
POL00069056_002

Iam copying this letter to your professional adviser.

Yours sincerely,

Angela Van Den Bogerd

Head of Partnerships
Post Office Limited .
angela.van-den-bogerd@

“No Beby Wan lean off
2900 ¥

C (ase ae
