POLO00099004
POL00099004

Message

From: PaulaVennelisf

on behalf of Paula Vennells < a GRO I ween
Sent: 04/07/2013 20:50:27 .
To: Martin Edwards ; Mark R Davies I
Subject: Fwd: Monday Meeting :

lam only sending to you in the first instance. Alan shared this in a goodwill sense. And although he didn't say it was
confidential, it was a genuine gesture on his part.

I think there is some merit in it - I think I prefer ombudsman or independent expert than adjudicator, but would bow to
the experts on appropriate terminology.

Martin, thx for the board mail - does this change any of it do you think?
Paula
Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alan Bates <anneavewS Qocrorgren
Date: 4 July 2013 20: 3 BST

To: <paula.vennells
Subject: Monday Meeting

Hello Paula,

The following is the content of the email I sent through to James Arbuthnot earlier today, it really is in a
raw state. Regarding meeting on Monday, I am free any time after 3pm and may be able to make it
slightly earlier if I can move another appointment, if that would help.

Regards

Alan

Dear Mr Arbuthnot,

Further to our telephone conversation yesterday, I have listed my thoughts on how Subpostmaster, Post
Office and Horizon issues might be addressed in the future. I have long since held the view that there
has to be a third party that a Subpostmaster can approach if they suddenly find they have problems and
nowhere else to turn. I have just expanded on that view but these are only my initial jottings on the
issue, yet I think they are adequate to illustrate the type of structure that might be acceptable.

Independent Adjudicator

An external independent adjudicator has to be appointed to review cases and Horizon issues between
Post Office and Subpostmasters.

POL-0098587
POLO00099004

POL00099004

If a Subpostmaster has had problems that the normal Post Office system cannot resolve, before that
Subpostmaster finds themself in a position of no return, they should have the option to approach the
adjudicator in total confidentiality. The mechanism would not replace any of the Post Office systems
that are there to deal with the serious cases of actual fraud or theft, but would exist to provide a means
that a Subpostmaster may use to stop a small problem becoming life and career threatening.

The adjudicator should have the authority to demand documents from Post Office and the
Subpostmaster as well as having a team of skilled technical and legal staff they can call upon who are
able to gain access and check any system or documents that they deem necessary. As part of the
agreement, and before a case is accepted, both parties would have to accept the decision from the
adjudicator’s office as being final.

Why is there a need for such a body?

The position between a Subpostmaster and Post Office with the use of Horizon is in part unique. Post
Office designs, funds and maintains its Horizon system which it requires its agent, the Subpostmasters to
use. Post Office then holds the Subpostmaster liable for all losses from that system regardless of
however caused and without allowing the Subpostmaster full access to that system. In effect this
removes any onus from Post Office to improve the system or user friendliness of that system to the
benefit of the Subpostmaster, because any cost would be for Post Office to bear.

This situation has existed ever since the introduction of Horizon and has been behind much of the
dissatisfaction that Subpostmasters have had with using Horizon, and which has often led to conflict.

Key Points:-

e@ The adjudicator would not replace or act as a Subpostmaster representative organization, the
role would be solely to be involved with day to day operational issues affecting Subpostmasters.

The adjudicator has to show they are totally independent. They can neither be funded by Post
Office, nor work from any Post Office building.

¢ Whilst liaison between Post Office and the adjudicator would be a necessity, all instances would
become a matter of record.

e Each case undertaken would conclude with the production of a report of the findings and
decision of the adjudicator. Copies of that report being issued to Post Office and the
Subpostmaster.

@ The adjudicator would retain the right to refer a case directly to Post Office to address or correct
as it would if it began to find evidence of criminal intent. On such occasions the adjudicator
would receive a report from Post Office as to what action they had undertaken with that case.

e@ The adjudicator would maintain records and statistics of case numbers, types and causes
altering Post Office to issues that became common place.

Possible Funding Options

e Alegacy from government after privatization.
e¢ ~Anannual ‘insurance’ levy /option for a Subpostmaster.

POL-0098587
POLO00099004
POL00099004

Aset fee based case charge to stop frivolous cases, £x’s for simple cases or £xx’s for more
complex cases, matched by a similar amount from Post Office in each case that the adjudicator
accepted.

Combination of the other options

POL-0098587
