POL00129261
POL00129261

Christopher G Knight

2009 Security Industry Authority (SIA) Licence Holder —- CViT
Key achievements:
.
*® 2009/2010 From interview to sentencing at Court; 10 cases pleaded guilty. 2 awaiting trial.
* making the change from an Fraud Team Investigative Role to a Preventative Security Manager
Role, Pro-active rather than Re-active and the subsequent return to the Fraud Team;
* assisted in mentoring a colleague new to the Investigator Role and seeing the progress made;
* being a part of a Team that has seen Losses fall consistently over the years;
e using Data analysis to determine Hotspot areas and advising Post Office® branches / staff on
preventative steps and general Security advice;
e being the Security Manager that advised the Team who introduced CCTV to Cash Centres as
part of a new way of working. Leading the change in working methods to obtain best use of
CCTV
* — being able to utilise all my knowledge gained over 13 years in Post Office® Security to help with
problems and their solutions, both CViT, Cash Centre & Network.

EXPERIENCE
1983 to present day Royal Mail Group

2009 - Post Office Ltd Fraud Team

e — Investigate Crimes affecting the Post Office® Network and Supply Chain

« — Use of analytical tools; PO Credence, POLMI

e Working collaboratively with other teams; P&BA, Field Advisors, Contract Managers, HP
(POCA).

e Working with Post Office® Group and external Solicitors and Barristers

2005 2009 - Post Office Ltd (Security Team)

. Verification of adherence to Security Procedures (best use of equipment) to protect staff &
assets

. Monthly loss data analysed and reports produced to assist in the development of a preventative
strategy for the measurable loss reductive impact on the business

. Targeted action to support crime trends (Burglary / Robbery); Target hardening, Crime
awareness; Equipment install / upgrades

. Meet with Key Stakeholders to gain buy in to Security and maintaining close working
relationship with Cash Value in Transit Depots (CViT) ensuring adherence to business
procedures.

2003 - 2005 Post Office Ltd Internal Investigation Team - Investigation Manager
. Gather and analyse information and data sources.
POL00129261

POL00129261

. Conduct thorough investigations and interviews of suspects in accordance with guidelines;
Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE)

. Prepare casework for submission to RM Legal Services up to giving evidence at Court

. Maintain relationships with other Investigative bodies i.e. the Department for Work &
Pensions (DWP) and Police

1999 — 2003 (Sept) Cash Handling & Distribution (Royal Mail Group)

. Give Hostage training to Staff and advice on personal security.

. Patrols of Delivery crews to ensure adherence to Business / Security procedures.

. Investigations in to Criminal Offences by staff (e.g.Theft) and the preparation of files for
submission to Royal Mail Group Legal Services

. During the period 2001 — 2002 I was working with a Project Team that was implementing a

new way of working in our Cash Centres; a new digital CCTV system was installed whereby
each processing table (and therefore every clerk). To prevent losses a more robust system by
which the clerk performs each task was re-written to allow the CCTV to ‘see’ more of what
was being done by the clerk. This allowed for mistakes to be identified and corrected. Again
avoiding a loss. This had the added benefit of giving the Cash Centre the evidence to rebuke
claims made against them. The CCTV system paid for itself within two years.

1997 - 1999 Post Office Security & Investigation Services, Croydon (promotion to
Investigator)

Analysis of loss trends to identify high loss routes and / or persons

Performing interviews under PACE.

Surveillance including foot, vehicle and static.

Cognitive interviewing skills — taking Witness Statements

Liasing / working with the Police.

1993 - 1997 Post Office Investigation Department, London (Clerical Role)

. The checking of pre-employment checks sent by personnel branches nation-wide.

. Up-dating computer records, dealing with enquiries from other POID depots.

. General administration duties.

1987 - 1993 Remittance Unit, Exeter.

. Principle tasks included dealing with sub-post offices, distributing and receiving cash and
supplies.

1984 - 1987 Counter work at the Head Post Office, Exeter.

1983 - 1984 Distribution of administrative documents and general office duties at P.O. stores,

Head Post Office, Exeter.

IRRELEVANT

