POL00143196
POL00143196

From: Susan Crichton[IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FY DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONC5FA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-

BE4237A4AD4F @C72A47.ingest.local]

Sent: Tue 19/06/2012 5:49:41 PM (UTC)
To: Alwen Lyons!

Subject: Fw: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

Have u read this Aaargh!

From: Alana Renner

Sent: Tuesday, June 19, 2012 06:59 PM

To: Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons; Paula Vennells; Mike Granville

Subject: FW: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

All, fyi, a constructive note from James to Shoosmiths below. We have not been approached by the Times yet, our on
call press officer has our statement and instructions to come to me or Ronan if contacted, I will let you know if we are.
Have a nice evening. Alana

From: WALKER, Janet
Sent: 19 June 2012 17:
To: Alana Renner

Subject: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

Alana,
Here is what James has just sent to Mr Channer. Shall I leave you to share this with your people?

Kind regards
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

Dear Tadge,

Thank you for your patience and understanding in not being invited to the meeting on 18 June, between
MPs and Post Office Limited management. I felt that it was important to discuss the entire SubPostmasters.
and Horizon matter between these parties first before we brought in other groups, largely because I believe
we have found a very positive way to resolve this problem.

As you know, prior to yesterday’s meeting, I met privately with the Chairman of Post Office Ltd and
members of her staff. On each occasion, the meeting was cordial and productive. From these meetings, we
POL00143196
POL00143196

have come up with a plan for the Post Office to appoint an independent forensic accountant (to be chosen
in consultation with me) who will examine each case individually in order to establish exactly what has
happened. The individual SubPostmaster / mistress concerned will be given the opportunity to be involved,
as will his or her MP. Interviews will be conducted, data investigated, and in this way it is hoped that an
explanation can be arrived at that will put to rest any question over what exactly has occurred.

I must put to you here that all this is extremely sensitive. This you know, but the Post Office has told me
and the other MPs who are interested in this matter that in every situation where an individual has been
prosecuted for alleged fraud or theft involving the Horizon system, the courts have found in favour of the
Post Office. The question was asked repeatedly of the Post Office staff yesterday whether there had been
any case upheld where the discrepancy reported or found had been found to be the fault of the system. We
were assured this was not the case.

The MPs at the meeting were happy with the solution offered. I believe it is the best possible way to
proceed, and am satisfied with what detail I have seen thus far. I have sent a press release to this effect to
The Times.

Tam not sure how you might handle things from your end. Of course you will have a different take on this,
but I would urge some caution. If — and I am not entirely credulous — the Post Office is correct, and
individuals may well find themselves at fault while believing vehemently that they are not, trumpeting the
proposed solution too early and too loudly may well result in serious embarrassment, to say the least, of
those involved. The problem is that, of course, everyone is innocent until proven guilty, but IF it turns out
that one of the most trusted individuals in a given community — which SubPostmasters and mistresses
invariably are — is not innocent, then a higher price will be paid by that individual than if things were done
rather more discretely.

You may wish to discuss this. It is a terrible conundrum, and I myself am not at all certain how to handle
things. Until Iam, I am being rather less triumphant publicly about this than perhaps I ought to be, but I
am cautious by nature. And I am happy to talk this through.

Tam grateful to you for being so very helpful in this matter, and hope you will understand my attitude.

Yours ever

James

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, MP
House of Commons
London SW1A OAA

Website www.jamesarbuthnot.com

ecipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender and delete it from your
g is not permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is
sed by any virus transmitted by this

u have received it
nitted, This e-mail

