POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

@

IT Security
PCI DSS Compliance Guideline

Version — V2.9

INTERNAL Page 1 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

1. Overview

3

1.1 Introduction 3
1.2 Purpose .. 3
1.3. Application. 3
1.4 — PCI REQUIFEMENES «00... cccccccceeeeeceeeeeseueeeeseeeeeseueeeesueueeceeeeeeueueeeseueeseeaeeesaaees 3
PCI Security Standards Include? ...............ccccceeeeeeeceeneeeeneeeeeeeueeeenaeeeenaeeeeenaes 4
1.4.1 PIN Transaction Security (PTS) RequireMents............::ssesseeeeeeseeeeeesseeeeeee 4

1.4.2 Payment Application Data Security Standard (PA-DSS)Error! Bookmark
not defined.

1.4.3. PCI Point-to-Point Encryption Standard (P2PE) ........cseccesseeeeseeeeeeeeeeeneeeeee 4
1.4.4 PCI Token Service Provider Security RequireMents.............ccccseeeeeeeeeeeseeee 4

2 Policy Framework......ccccccseseceseeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeeeeeeeseaeseesueeeseuneeeeeaeseseuneeeeeee 5
2.1 Policy FraMeWoOrk......ccccecccesseesesceeeeesueeeeseeseeeueeeseueueeeeeeueeeueueseseuseeeseeeeesaaees 5
2.2 WhO MUSt COMPLY? ......csseeeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeessseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 5

3. Security Controls and Processes for PCI DSS Requirements ..........cccccseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 6
3.1.1 Guideline for Cardholder Data Elements.............cccseeeeeeeeeeteeeteeeeeeeeeeetiee 6

3.1.2. Build and Maintain a Secure Network and Systems
3.1.3 Protect Cardholder Data.
3.1.4 Maintain a Vulnerability Management Program

3.1.5 Implement Strong Access Control Measures ..

3.1.6 Regularly Monitor and Test NEtWOrks..........csccssssseeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeaaeeeneeee 9
3.1.7. Maintain an Information Security POliCy ..........::cssseeesseeeeeseeeeeeeseeeesneeeees 10

4 — Business-As-Usual Processes ......ssccsssseesssteessnneeesneeeesneesssneeenineeeseeeenneeeeeneneennes 11
4.1 Compensating COntrols..........cccccccccccccceeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeseeaeeeeeeeeeees 11

5 Where to go for Help......cccsecseessssessseeeeeseeeeeeeseeesseeeseaeeneeseeeseeeseeeeeeesaeeeeaeeeneeg ee 12
5.1 Additional Policies ...........e eect tet ieee eee eee e eee enneeeee eee 12

5.2. How to raise a concern..
5.3 PCI DSS Truncation Guideline

5.4 Who to contact for more information
6 Version Control.

6.1 Approval.

INTERNAL Page 2 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

1. Overview

1.1 Introduction

The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a set of requirements
designed to enhance the security of payment account data. Created by Visa®,
Mastercard®, JCB®, Discover® and American Express® it is made up of 12 requirements
designed to secure business systems that store, process or transmit card holder data.

1.2 Purpose

The Post Office PCI Guideline is designed to understand how PCI SSC can help to protect
Post Office’s customer payment card transaction (Store, Process or Transmit cardholder
data) environment and how to apply it.

There are three ongoing steps for adhering to the PCI DSS:

Assess — identifying all locations of cardholder data, taking an inventory of your
IT assets and business processes for payment card processing and analysing them
for vulnerabilities that could expose cardholder data.

Repair — fixing identified vulnerabilities, securely removing any unnecessary
cardholder data storage, and implementing secure business processes.

Report — documenting assessment and remediation details, and submitting
compliance reports to the acquiring bank and card brands you do business with (or
other requesting entity if you’re a service provider).

1.3 Application
The PCI DSS applies to all entities that store, process, and/or transmit cardholder data. It

covers technical and operational system components included in or connected to
cardholder data. If you accept or process payment cards, PCI DSS applies to you.

1.4 PCI Requirements

PCI Security Standards are technical and operational requirements set by the PCI Security
Standards Council (PCI SSC) to protect cardholder data. The standards apply to all entities
that store, process or transmit cardholder data - with requirements for software
developers and manufacturers of applications and devices used in those transactions.

INTERNAL Page 3 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

PAYMENT CARD INDUSTRY SECURITY STANDARDS

Protection of Cardholder Payment Data

a , Software Merchants &
‘Manufacturers Developers Service Providers

PCIPTS  PCIPA-DSS _——PCIDSS

Payment Secure
Applications Environments

Ecosystem of payment devices, applications, infrastructure and users

PCI Security Standards Include:
1.4.1 PIN Transaction Security (PTS) Requirements

The PCI PTS is a set of security requirements focused on characteristics and management
of devices used in the protection of cardholder PINs and other payment processing related
activities. The PTS standards include PIN Security Requirements, Point of Interaction (POI)
Modular Security Requirements.

Hardware Security Module (HSM) Security Requirements. The device requirements are for
manufacturers to follow in the design, manufacture and transport of a device to the entity
that implements it. Financial institutions, processors, merchants and service providers
should only use devices or components that are tested and approved by the PCI SSC.

1.4.2 Software Security Framework (SSF)

The SSF is for software vendors and others who develop payment applications that store,
process, or transmit cardholder data and/or sensitive authentication data as part of
authorisation or settlement, when these applications are sold, distributed or licensed to
third parties. Most card brands encourage merchants to use payment applications that are
tested and approved by the PCI SSC.

1.4.3 PCI Point-to-Point Encryption Standard (P2PE)

This Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE) standard provides a comprehensive set of security
requirements for P2PE solution providers to validate their P2PE solutions, and may help
reduce the PCI DSS scope of merchants using such solutions. P2PE is a cross-functional
program that results in validated solutions incorporating the PTS Standards, PA-DSS, PCI
DSS, and the PCI PIN Security Standard.

1.4.4 PCI Token Service Provider Security Requirements
The Token Service Provider (TSP) Security Requirements are intended for Token Service

Providers that generate and issue EMV Payment Tokens, as defined under the EMV®
Payment Tokenisation Specification Technical Framework.

INTERNAL Page 4 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

2 Policy Framework

2.1 Policy Framework

This guideline document is part of the IT Security Policy set. These form the baseline to
provide Cyber Security and Information Assurance (CSIA) protection for the Post Office.

2.2 Who must comply?

Compliance with the IT Security Policy set is mandatory for all Post Office employees and
applies wherever in the world Post Offices business is undertaken. All third parties who do
business with Post Office, including consultants, suppliers and business and franchise
partners, will be required to agree contractually to Post Offices Policies and standards or
have their own equivalent policies and standards in place.

INTERNAL Page 5 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

3 Security Controls and Processes for PCI DSS Requirements

The goal of this Post Office guideline is to protect cardholder data and sensitive
authentication data wherever (Online, Branch, and Mobile Application) it is stored,
processed or transmitted. The security controls and processes required by PCI DSS are
vital for protecting all payment card account data, including the PAN - the primary account
number printed on the front of a payment card. Merchants, service providers, and other
entities involved with payment card processing must never store sensitive authentication
data after authorisation. This includes the 3- or 4- digit security code printed on the front
or back of a card, the data stored on a card’s magnetic stripe or chip (also called “Full
Track Data”) - and personal identification numbers (PIN) entered by the cardholder.

Types of Data ona Payment Card

cD CAV2/CID/CVC2/CW2
(American Express) {all other payment card brands)

Chip
ees
Pumes C000 cool 23
Garthovd 02/07 02/10
vel MY CREDIT CARD
Name

Expiration Date Magnetic Stripe
(data on tracks 1&2)

3.1.1 Guideline for Cardholder Data Elements

-I — Render
Data Element Say AS Masking I Stored Data
Sek e AUS elise ASN eset Unreadable
Primary Account I Yes (Only Display/ Yes
Number (PAN) truncated). Print mask I (Cardholder
(e.g. first 6 I data store
Cardholder data and last 4 only Post
Cardholder I store only Post or last 4 Office AWS
Data S Office AWS CDE. I digits) PAN. I CDE)
Cardholder Name I Yes No No
Service Code Yes No No
Expiration Date Yes No No
Full Track Data No N/A Must not
‘Sensitive 2, >) store
Authentication ow /CVC2/CVV I No N/A Must not
Data /CID store
PIN/PIN Block No N/A Must not
store

INTERNAL Page 6 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

The standard specifies 12 requirements which are organised into six control objectives
relating to the storage, transmission and processing of cardholder data.

Goals

Build and Maintain a
Secure Network and
Systems

PCI DSS Requirements

1. Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect
cardholder data

2. Do not use vendor-supplied defaults for system passwords
and other security parameters

Protect Cardholder Data

Management Program

3. Protect stored cardholder data

4. Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open,
public networks a
5. Protect all systems against malware and regularly update
antivirus software or programs

6. Develop and maintain secure systems and applications

Implement Strong
Access Control
Measures

7. Restrict access to cardholder data by business need to
know

8. Identify and authenticate access to system components
9. Restrict physical access to cardholder data

Regularly Monitor and
Test Networks

10. Track and monitor all access to network resources and
cardholder data
11. Regularly test security systems and processes

Maintain an Information
Security Policy

12. Maintain a policy that addresses information security for
all personnel

3.1.2 Build and Maintain a Secure Network and Systems

Requirement 1: Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder
data

« Firewalls control the transmission of data between a Post Office’s trusted internal
networks and untrusted external networks, as well as traffic between sensitive
areas of the internal networks themselves. Requirement 1 of the PCI DSS requires
systems to use firewalls to prevent unauthorised access. Where other system
components provide the functionality of a firewall, they must also be included in
the scope and assessment of this requirement.

Requirement 2: Do not use vendor-supplied defaults for system passwords and other
security parameters

« The easiest way for a hacker to access your internal network is to try default
passwords or exploits based on default system software settings in your payment
card infrastructure. Far too often, organisation do not change default passwords or
settings upon deployment. Default passwords and settings for most network
devices are widely known. This information, combined with hacker tools that show
what devices are on your network can make unauthorized entry a simple task - if
you have failed to change the defaults.

INTERNAL Page 7 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

3.1.3 Protect Cardholder Data

Requirement 3: Protect stored cardholder data

e The storage of cardholder data must be kept to a minimum, and appropriate data
retention and disposal policies, procedures and processes must be implemented.
When data is stored, it must be stored securely. Encryption, truncation, masking
and hashing are critical components of cardholder data protection. Without access
to the proper cryptographic keys, encrypted data will be unreadable and unusable
by criminal hackers, even if they manage to circumvent other security controls.
Cryptographic keys must therefore be stored securely and access restricted to the
fewest custodians necessary. Other data protection methods must also be
considered
Sensitive data - such as the full contents of the chip or magnetic strip, the
CVN (card verification number) or the PIN (personal identification
number) - must not store.

Requirement 4: Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public networks

e Strong cryptography and security protocols (e.g. TLS, IPSec, SSH, etc.) should be
used to safeguard sensitive cardholder data during transmission over open, public
networks that could easily be accessed by malicious individuals.

Industry best practices must be followed to implement strong encryption for
authentication and transmission. Security policies and procedures for encrypting
the transmission of cardholder data must be documented and made known to all
affected parties.

Examples of open, public networks include the Internet, wireless technologies (e.g.
Bluetooth), GPRS (general packet radio service) and satellite communications.

3.1.4 Maintain a Vulnerability Management Program

Requirement 5: Protect all systems against malware and regularly update anti-virus
software or programs

e Antivirus software capable of detecting, removing and protecting against all known
types of malware (e.g. viruses, worms and Trojans) must be used on all systems
commonly affected by malware to protect them from threats. For systems not
commonly affected by malware, evolving malware threats should be periodically
evaluated to determine if antivirus software is needed. Antivirus mechanisms must
be maintained and kept actively running and should only be disabled if formally
authorised for a specific purpose.

Requirement 6: Develop and maintain secure systems and applications

e Many security vulnerabilities are fixed by patches issued by software vendors.
Organisations should establish a process to identify security vulnerabilities and rank
them according to their level of risk. Relevant security patches should be installed
within a month of their release to protect against cardholder data compromise. All
software applications, developed internally or externally, should be developed
securely in accordance with the PCI DSS. They should also be based on industry
standards and/or best practices, and incorporate information security throughout
their entire development lifecycle.

INTERNAL Page 8 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

3.1.5 Implement Strong Access Control Measures

Requirement 7: Restrict access to cardholder data by business need-to-know

e Exploiting authorised accounts and abusing user privileges is one of the easiest
ways for criminal hackers to gain access to a system. It is also one of the most
difficult types of attack to detect. Documented systems and processes should
therefore be put in place to limit access rights to critical data. Access control
systems should deny all access by default, and access should be granted on a need-
to-know basis and according to the clearly defined job responsibilities of authorised
personnel. ‘Need to know’ is defined in the PCI DSS as “when access rights are
granted to only the least amount of data and privileges needed to perform a job”.

Requirement 8: Identify and authenticate access to system components

e The ability to identify individual users not only ensures that system access is limited
to those with the proper authorisation, it also establishes an audit trail that can be
analysed following an incident. Documented policies and procedures must therefore
be implemented to ensure proper user identification management for non-
consumer users and administrators on all system components. All users must be
assigned a unique ID, which must be managed according to specific guidelines.
Controlled user authentication management (e.g. the use of passwords, smart
cards or biometrics) should also be implemented and, as three-quarters of all
network intrusions exploit weak or stolen passwords, 2FA (two-factor
authentication) must be used for remote network access.

Requirement 9: Restrict physical access to cardholder data

e Electronic data breaches are not the only source of data loss; physical access to
systems should also be limited and monitored using appropriate controls.
Procedures should be implemented to distinguish between on-site personnel and
visitors, and physical access to sensitive areas (e.g. server rooms and data centres)
should be restricted accordingly. All media should be physically secured, and its
storage, access and distribution controlled. Media should be destroyed in specific
ways when no longer required. Devices that capture payment card data via direct
physical interaction with the card must be protected from tampering and
substitution, and should be periodically inspected. An up-to-date list of these
devices should be maintained.

3.1.6 Regularly Monitor and Test Networks

Requirement 10: Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder
data.

e The use of logging mechanisms is critical in preventing, detecting and minimising
the impact of data compromise. If system usage is not logged, potential breaches
cannot be identified. Secure, controlled audit trails must therefore be implemented
that link all access to system components with individual users and log their
actions. This includes access to cardholder data, actions taken by individuals with
root or administrative privileges, access to audit trails, invalid logical access
attempts, use of and changes to identification and authentication mechanisms, the
initialising, stopping or pausing of audit logs, and the creation and deletion of
system-level objects. An audit trail history should be retained for at least a year,
with a minimum of three months’ logs immediately available for analysis. Logs and

INTERNAL Page 9 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

security events should be regularly reviewed to identify anomalous or suspicious
activity.

Requirement 11: Regularly test security systems and processes

e New vulnerabilities are regularly found and exploited, so it is essential that system
components, processes and custom software are regularly tested. Documented
processes must be implemented to detect and identify all unauthorised wireless
access points on a quarterly basis. Internal and external network vulnerability
scans must be performed by qualified personnel at least quarterly and after any
significant change in the network (e.g. new system component installations,
changes in network topology, firewall rule modifications and product upgrades).
Intrusion detection/prevention techniques should be used to identify and/or
prevent unauthorised network activity, and a change detection mechanism should
be employed to perform weekly critical file comparisons, and to alert personnel to
unauthorised system modifications.

3.1.7 Maintain an Information Security Policy

Requirement 12: Maintain a policy that addresses information security for all
personnel

* To comply with the PCI DSS, Post Office established, published, maintained and
disseminate a security policies, which reviewed at least annually and updated
according to the changing risk environment.

e Post Office risk assessment process in place to identify threats and vulnerabilities,
usage policies for critical technologies must be developed, security responsibilities
for all personnel has clearly defined and a formal awareness programme rollout on
annual basis.

« Post Office incident response plan help to respond immediately to any data /system
breach.

INTERNAL Page 10 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

4 Business-As-Usual Processes

To ensure security controls continue to be properly implemented, PCI DSS requirements
should be implemented into business-as-usual (BAU) activities as part of an Post Office’s
overall security strategy. This enables the Post Office to monitor the effectiveness of its
security controls on an ongoing basis, and maintain its PCI DSS compliant environment in
between PCI DSS assessments. Examples of best practices for how to incorporate PCI DSS
into BAU activities include (but are not limited to):

e Monitoring of security controls to ensure they are operating effectively and as
intended.

e Ensuring that all failures in security controls are detected and responded to in a
timely manner.

« Reviewing changes to the environment (for example, addition of new systems,
changes in system or network configurations) prior to completion of the change to
ensure PCI DSS scope is updated and controls are applied as appropriate.

e Changes to Post Office structure (for example, a company merger or acquisition)
resulting in a formal review of the impact to PCI DSS scope and requirements.

e Performing periodic reviews and communications to confirm that PCI DSS
requirements continue to be in place and personnel are following secure processes.

e Reviewing hardware and software technologies at least annually to confirm that
they continue to be supported by the vendor and can meet the entity’s security
requirements, including PCI DSS, and remediating shortcomings as appropriate.

Entities may also consider implementing separation of duties for their security functions
so that security and/or audit functions are separated from operational functions.

4.1 Compensating Controls

A compensating control, also called an alternative controls that known to be more complex
and generally more difficult to manage compared to the actual control.

The PCI compensating controls (CCW) is broken into seven sections.

Identification of the PCI DSS requirement(s) being compensated.

The constraint or business justification for needing the CCW.

The original objective of the requirement(s) being compensated.

Identification of any additional risks because of the CCW

The compensating controls.

The procedures your QSA/ISA followed to confirm that the compensating controls
are in place and functioning.

7. The procedures followed by your organisation to maintain the compensating
controls.

gurune

INTERNAL Page 11 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
POL00362919
POL00362919

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

5 Where to go for help

5.1 Additional Policies

This standard is one of a set of policies. The Cyber Security policy document set can be
found ai

5.2 How to raise a concern

Any Post Office employee who suspects something is wrong has a duty to:
* Discuss the matter fully with their Line Manager; or,

¢ Report their suspicions by contacting the Service Desk and/or email
information.security;, I

5.3 PCI DSS Truncation Guideline

Acceptable formats for truncation of primary account numbers (FAQ 1091)

https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/fags

5.4 Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this standard or wish to rep

relation
to this standard, please contact the Office of the CISO via cyber” +

INTERNAL Page 12 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

6 Version Control

POL00362919
POL00362919

Date Version Updated by Change Details

30/11/2016 1.0 ISAG First full version of document

08/08/2017 1a IPA & IT Security Changed to new format and minor
editorial changes

15/08/2017 2.0 Head of IPA Accepted to final version.

21/08/2018 2.1 IPA Minor editorial changes

05/09/2018 2.2 Head of IPA Accepted to final version

13/08/2019 2.3 IPA Changes to new format to be based
on controls and not statements. No
significant changes to requirements.

06/01/2020 2.4 IPA Changes to new format according to
the PCI DSS requirements.

22/01/2020 2.5 Cyber Security Updated the guideline information
according to the Head of Cyber
Security Compliance suggestion.

12/03/2021 2.6 Cyber Security Approved by Head of Cyber Security
Compliance.

21/02/2022 2.7 Cyber Security Updated the section 3.1.1

23/02/2023 2.8 Cyber Security Annual Review

01/08/2023 2.9 Cyber Security Updated the Section 1.4.2 and
Requirement 3

6.1 Approval

Standard Owner: Chief Information Security Officer

Standard Author: Syed Naqvi

Approved by CSC: 25/04/2023

Next review: 24/04/2024

INTERNAL Page 13 of 13 PCI DSS Compliance Guideline v2.99

