Objective

POL00301400

POL00301400

Strictly Confidential - Mediation Scheme Communications Plan

All cases through the mediation scheme, stakeholders are satisfied the process was robust and
media coverage neutralised (at a minimum).

Strategy

-  Neutralise adverse media coverage
- Update MPs who have a constituent with a case

- Manage expectations of key stakeholders and applicants
- Update key internal audiences

- Inform other stakeholders where appropriate

Audiences and Tactics

Audience Tactics
Media Past:
Reactive media position. Press releases issued on the Post Office website (the
2™ and 3 release were also sent to those covering the story — BBC,
Computer Weekly etc):
- Horizon Report and Findings (8"" July)
- Launch of the Mediation Scheme (27" August)
- Appointment of Sir Anthony Hooper (24"" October)
Future:
- Monitor where high profile cases are in the process
- Reactive lines for high profile cases, likely to draw attention (regional
coverage most likely) ai
- Press statement when 90% of cases are through the mediation scheme,
business improvement update against original initiative announced in
July (national)
© Majority of cases through the mediation scheme
o Case outcomes remain confidential
o Business User Forum operating efficiently
o Business Improvements have been successfully implemented or
planned (update on these)
° <<Possible outline of new scheme/independence in process
moving forward if appropriate with endorsement from Sir
Anthony Hooper>>
- Press statement when 100% of cases are through the mediation scheme
(closing of scheme) — September (national)
To consider
- Proactive briefing of journalists that covered the case originally — Matt
Prodger (BBC) and XXX Computer Weekly
MPs Past:

- Launch of the Mediation Scheme update to MPs with a case (27 August)
including call to offices and offer of a face to face meerting.

- Appointment of Sir Anthony Hooper update to MPs with a case (24
October)

POL00301400
POL00301400

Page 1 Comments

Al Suggest an interim statement following first few mediations. See covering email.
Andrew Parsons, 21/01/2014 11:09 AM
POL00301400

POL00301400

Future:

- Update meeting with James Arbuthnot in January to set tone of MP
engagement (including possible event)

- Monitor where high profile cases are in the process (approach MP on
case by case basis)

- Proactive comms when statements issues by Post Office (July and
September)

Key Stakeholders - Manage expectations (picked up as part of the management of the
Working Group and in the ‘Managing Expectations’ paper)

Other Stakeholders I - Consumer Futures — heads up on public statements, view from legal on
regulatory relationship

- _NFSP—head up on public statements, part of the business improvement
programme (out of scope of project sparrow)

- _BIS—keep informed as appropriate

Subpostmasters - Scheme open to all subpostmasters (former and existing) with financial
support for professional advice

- Version of press statements to be available on subspace online (as an
article) with link to article included in subspace news

Applicants - Manage expectations by explaining mediation process (CEDR mediation
pack to go to applicants and professional advisors)
Internal - Statements to be included in comms update to all employees

- Investigations, FSAs and SSMs to be kept updated, have reactive lines to
take and heads up on press statements

Mediation Scheme Narrative and Key Messages

- Post Office is committed to addressing concerns raised by subpostmasters; they are the lifeblood
of our organisation.

- Post Office is determined to ensure that Horizon and any associated processes are fair, effective
and reliable, and the subpostmasters can have confidence in the system.

-  Areport into the Horizon system produced in July 2013 found there were no systemic issues with
the Horizon system. However, it found that improvements could be made in the training and
support processes provided to subpostmasters.

- The Mediation Scheme was established to help resolve the concerns raised by some
subpostmasters regarding the Post Office’s Horizon computer system and other associated
issues

- The Scheme is being overseen by a Working Group, chaired by Sir Anthony Hooper, comprising
representatives from Post Office, Second Sight and JFSA.

- The application process for the Initial Mediation Scheme was open to all subpostmasters,
existing and former, from the 27th August and closed on the 18th November 2013

- All matters discussed in mediation will be strictly confidential and subject to ‘without prejudice’
privilege which means that matters discussed in mediation cannot be disclosed to any third party
or any Civil Court.

- Where common ground cannot be reached, the mediator will help the parties identify their
differences and then try to find a resolution to those differences.

- The mediation itself will be administered by an independent mediation body and the mediator
will be selected by parties from a panel of mediators. wa

- The Post Office will produce a statement at the end of the mediation scheme.
POL00301400
POL00301400

Page 2 Comments

A2 See covering email — does statement need to come from WG?
Andrew Parsons, 21/01/2014 11:38 AM
POL00301400

POL00301400

Key Messages:

1. Subpostmasters are the lifeblood of our business and we are committed to addressing their
concerns, we take them extremely seriously.

2. The mediation scheme will provide an effective way to assess and address any outstanding
cases raised by sub postmasters.

3. The Scheme is being overseen by a Working Group comprising representatives from Post
Office, Second Sight, JFSA and has an independent Chair, Sir Anthony Hooper.

4. There were 147 applications to the mediation scheme - each application is now being reviewed
by the Working Group.

5. Areport into the Horizon system produced in July 2013 found that there were no systemic
issues with the Horizon system. However, it found that improvements could be made in the
training and support processes provided to subpostmasters. (Use Horizon Fact File where
appropriate)

Communication Materials needed

- Media Q&A (in progress)

- Reactive lines for high profile cases (based on case position within the mediation scheme)
- Outline of mediation scheme (complete)

- Mediation pack FAQ (complete)

- Horizon system fact file (in progress)

Risks
- Confidential outcomes of mediation are made public (by applicant or stakeholder)
- Scheme discredited by stakeholders engaged in the scheme
o Comment in the media/public domain
o Walk away from the scheme
- Prosecution process (to be confirmed, based on possible amendments).
- Major court proceedings against POL cause change of direction in scheme / support by
subpostmasters.

Communication Plan

Date Action Target Group
8th July Press statement issued about Horizon report I Media

9" July Statement in Parliament MPs

27" August Press Statement issued to announce Media and MPs

mediation scheme

Email to all MPs engaged with Horizon to
provide mediation scheme details

29" October Press Statement issued to announce Media
appointment of Sir Anthony Hooper
November 18" All initial application form needs to be Individuals with a case

submitted by the 18™ November to be part
of the Initial Mediation Scheme

POL will analyse MPs involved and develop POL/MPs
an engagement plan for additional MPs

November — End of I Working Group meetings POL/Stakeholders.
Process Meetings with Sir Anthony Hooper
Case Submission Calls

POL00301400
POL00301400

November JFSA issue statement on their website to subpostmasters
close application process for mediation
Scheme
19" December — Parliament in recess MPs
6" January
6" January Media reactive lines agreed Media
Final media Q&A
January 28" Alice Perkins meeting with James Arbuthnot I MPs
MP.
13" - 24" February I Parliament in recess MPs
December — End of I Monitor the media reaction as cases go Media / MPs
Process through mediation — reactive media
position.

For High profile cases we need to know:
- Who they are

- What's been said in public domain
- Case specific reactive lines

MPs may need to be contacted but this will
occur on a case by case basis.

Work with the Working Group to manage
media engagement or at a minimum get to
a position where stakeholders inform each
other of who they spoke to and what about.

10" -28" April Parliament in recess MPs
1*-6" May Parliament in recess MPs
8" May State opening MPs
22" May -2"' June I Parliament in recess MPs
Mid July 90% and Business Update Statement Media (also send to MPs and

heads up to key stakeholders as
well as NFSP and Consumer

Futures)
22” July -1* Parliament in recess MPs
September
End of Mediation Issue press release to close mediation Media (also send to MPs and
Process scheme (100% of cases through the heads up to key stakeholders as
(September - TBC) I mediation Process well as NFSP and Consumer
Futures)
11" September- I Party Conferences MPs
13" October

POL00301400
POL00301400

Annex A: MPs with an applicant in their constituency

The table below will be updated as cases go through the scheme.

MP Name Media / Parliament com

Number of

Alan Bleth

Alan Duncan

Alan Meale 2

Alasdair Allan

Albert Owen 3

Alec Shelbrooke

Andrew Bridgen Media quote 2

Andrew George Sent letter into Paula, dealt with by ECT

Andrew Griffiths

Andrew Gwynne

Andrew Tyrie 2

Anne Clwyd

Anne Cofrey

Ben Wallace

Brian Binley Contacted POL after Jo Swinson statement, 9" July

Catherine Spellman

Chris Ruane

Clive Betts

Dai Havard

Dame Angela Watkinson

Damien Hines

Dan Jarvis

Daniel Kawcsynski

David Crausby

David Evenett

David Havard

David Jones Media quote

David Rulley

David Treddenick

David Willetts

Diana Johnson

Edward Davey

Edward Garnier Z
Edward Leigh
Emma Lewell Buck 2

Eric Ollerenshaw

Gary Streeter

POL00301400
POL00301400

George Freeman

George Golingbery

George Osborne

George Young

Gisela Stuart

Glenda Jackson

Graham Allen

Greg Clark

Greg Knight

Hazel Bleaks

Henry Bellingham

Hugo Swirke

Huw Irranca-Davies

Raised 2 cases with BIS

Asked question in Parliament, Jo Swinson statement, 9"
July

Contacted POL after Jo Swinson statement, 9" July

I.Liddle Grainger

lain Stewart

Raised a case with BIS

lain Wright

James Arbuthnot

Media quote
Lead of MP engagement incl 9" July Meeting

Jason McCartney

Jim Cunningham

Joe Benton

John Howell

John Pugh

John Redwood

Jonathon Djanogly

Media quote
Sent researcher to 9" July meeting with James
Arbuthnot

Jonathon Lord

Sent researcher to 9" July meeting with James
Arbuthnot

Karen Lumley

Keith Simpson

Keith Wright

Kevan Jones

Asked question in Parliament, Jo Swinson statement, 9"
July

Kevin Barrow

Kris Hopkins

Laura Sandys

Louise Ellman

Contacted SSM after Jo Swinson statement, 9" July

M Clapham

Margaret Ritchie

Mark Lazarowicz

Mark Prisk

Sent researcher to 9" July meeting with James

POL00301400
POL00301400

Arbuthnot

Mark Reckless

Mark Williams

Martin Horwood

Martin Vickers

Mary Glindon

Matthew Hancock

Meg Munn

Mel Stride

Michael Garyon

Michael Grove

Michael Meecher

Mike Wood

Media quote

Nick Boles

Sent letter into Paula, dealt with by ECT

Nick Brown

Sent letter into Paula, dealt with by ECT

Nick Harvey

Nick Hurd

NK

Norman Lamb

Raised a case with BIS

Oliver Letwin

Attended 9" July meeting with James Arbuthnot

Pat Glass

Pat McFadden

Paul Murphy

Peter Tapsell

Phil Wilson sedgefield

Priti Patel

Robert goodwill

Robert Syms

Roberta Blackman
Woods

Roger Williams

Ronnie Campbell

Sharon Hodgeson

Sherly Murray

Simon Burns

Siobhan McDonogh

Stephen Crabb

Stephen Hepburn

Stephen Ladyman

Steve Baker

Steven Mosley

Stewart Jackson

Contacted POL after Jo Swinson statement, 9" July

Tessa Munt

Attended 9" July meeting with James Arbuthnot

POL00301400

POL00301400
Valerie Vaz 3
Wayne David
William Hague 2
Yasmin Qureshi
MP Awareness prior to mediation scheme
MPs who raised a case as part of the Initial Second Sight Review
MP Name, Constituency, Party SPMR Cases
1. James Arbuthnot (2), North East Hampshire, Conservative Jo Hamilton
Paul Popov
2. Stephen Crabb, Preseli Pembrokeshire, Conservative Tim Brentnall
3. Jonathan Djanogly, Huntingdon, Conservative Jenny O'Dell
4. Alan Duncan, Rutland and Melton, Conservative Caroline Jack (now Welton)
5. George Freeman, Mid Norfolk, Conservative lan Warren
6. Dai Havard (2), Merthyr Tydfil & Rhymney, Labour Tracy Etheridge
Lynn Prosser
7. Oliver Letwin, West Dorset, Conservative Tracey Ann Merritt
8. Jonathan Lord, Woking, Conservative Seema Misra
9. Alan Meale, Mansfield, labour John Dickson
10. George Osborne, Tatton, Conservative Terence Walters
11. Mike Wood, Batley and Spen, Labour Alison Hall
12. Andrew Tyrie, Chichester, Conservative Nirmale Fatania
13. Mark Lazarowicz, Edinburgh North and Leith, Labour (co-op) Philip Cowan
14. Greg Knight (2), East Yorkshire, Conservative Pauline Thomson
Lee Castleton
15. John Woodcock, Barrow and Furness, Labour (co-op) Isabella Wall
16. Priti Patel, Witham, Conservative Graham Ward
17. Edward Leigh, Gainsborough, Conservative Shirley Rayner
18. Damien Hinds, East Hampshire, Conservative Pauline Coates
19. Kevin Barron, Rother Valley, Labour Susan Michelle Watson
20. Andrew Bridgen, North West Leicestershire, Conservative Michael Rudkin
21. David Jones, Clwyd West, Conservative Alan Bates
22. Ronnie Campbell, Blyth Valley, Labour Sarah Burgess-Boyde (also
Ray Clarence)

Cases raised by BIS

MP Post Office Branch
Stephen Phillips MP Navenby (SPRM, Paul Sanderson)
Zac Goldsmith MP Kings Road Post Office, Brentwood (SPRM, Mr B Sethi)

POL00301400

POL00301400

Huw Irranca-Davies MP North Cornelly Post Office (SPMR, Philip Dauncey)
Pontycymmer Post Office (SPMR, Dixie Davies)

Jim Sheridan MP Bishopton Post Office (SPMR, David Woodrow)

Noman Lamb MP. Worstead Post Office (Allison Henderson)

lan Stewart MP Rupesh Lakhani (JFSA member)

MPs who commented /engaged with Horizon Issue when second Sight report
was published.

James Arbuthnot Meeting on the 9" July attendees:

.

James Arbuthnot (2 cases), North East Hampshire, Conservative
Oliver Letwin, West Dorset, Conservative
Tessa Munt (not included elsewhere), Wells, Lib Dems
Researchers were present for:

o Jonathan Djangoly

o Jonathan Lord

o John Woodcock

o Mark Prisk

Jo Swinson statement in Parliament
Government: Jo Swinson, Postal Affairs Minister, East Dunbartonshire, Lib dem
Shadow: lan Murray, Edinburgh South, Labour

Questions were asked by a number of MPs who have not referred cases:

eo eee

Kevan Jones, North Durham, Labour

Robin Walker, Worcester, Conservative (positive comment)
Mike Weir, Angus, SNP

Russell Brown, Dumfries and Galloway, Labour
Huw Irranca-davies, Ogmore, Labour

David Mowat, Warrington South, Conservative
Cathy Jamieson, Kilmarnock and Loudoun, Labour
Philip Hollobone, Ketley, Conservative

David Simpson, Upper Bann, Democratic Unionist
Peter Bone, Wellingborough, Conservative

Jim Shannon, Strongford, Democratic Unionist
Christopher Chope, Christchurch, Conservative

MPs who have commented or corresponded with Post Office following the statement:

1
T

CP ENANAYNE

Graham Stuart MP
Louise Ellman MP.
Brian Binley MP
Christopher Chope OBE MP.
David Mowat MP
David Simpson MP.
Huw Irranca-Davies MP
Jim Shannon MP

. Mike Weir MP

0. Peter Bone MP

1. Philip Hollobone MP
12.
bi

POL00301400
POL00301400

Stewart Jackson MP
Cathy Jamieson MP

Correspondence into Paula’s office

14.

6B.
16.

Td:

18.
To)

Rt Hon Nick Brown MP (asking for an ex-subpostmistress case to be included in the review) -
Angela aware

Stella Creasy MP — Ex Subpostmaster case, now with the contract team -Angela aware

Keith Jones MP — current/suspended SPMR highlighting concerns on Horizon in an email to Paula -
Angela aware

Andrew George MP — This is a case where it went to court and no evidence from POL and the MP
wants to know about reinstatement and compensation

Theresa Villers MP — SPMR Peter Lambri

Nick Boles MP — Mrs Glenys Eastman used to be the SPMR at Stirling Road Post Office in

Stamford

10
POL00301400
POL00301400

Track Changes

1 Insert Andrew Parsons, 21/01/2014 11:16 AM

