POL00073744
POL00073744

<Gareth.Jenkins@_
cc: “Tom Beezer"

<graham. c.ward@~
“Sewell Peter (Fi
"Richard Morgan”

b

<Peter. Sewell
<rmorgan@_

Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Thanks Brian and Gareth, that's helpful.

I would like to clarify a few points with Gareth and it would probably be easier doing it by
telephone than by email. For example,

1. Gareth says that the number of transactions and total cost is not recorded, but Greg
Booth tells me that the number of transactions and total cost is at least shown on the
screen. Is this correct?

2. Does the spmr tell the computer what the method of payment is (irrespective of whether
the computer actually records such data as a MOP)

3. Would it be more accurate to say
(a) the number of transactions is entered and shown on the computer screen;
(b) the total cost is shown on the screen;

(c) the method of payment is entered on to the computer. This settles the transaction
and the stack is cleared; and

(d) when the stack is cleared, the transaction is complete and the relevant information is recorded on
to the database

I look forward to hearing from Gareth as soon as possible today.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley

Solicitor

for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP
DDI: p

From: Pinder Brian} _
Sent: 06 November 20
To: Stephen Dilley

Cc: Tom Beezer; mandy.talbot¢.
martyn.mitchell@

POL00073744

POL00073744
Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton
Importance: High
Stephen
Please see attached response (from Gareth Jenkins) interleaved, in answer to your questions.
Kind Regds Brian
1. Every time that a new customer is served there is a new “session.” Each

customer's transactions are recorded in a “stack.” For each session:

(a) the number of transactions is recorded;
{GIJ]. The number of transactions is not explicitly recorded. However there is a
separate record for each transaction so the number of transactions can be inferred. NB
each MOP used is also a transaction and so these transactions are also recorded.
(b) the total cost is shown;
[GIJ] Again the total cost is not explicitly recorded. The running total is maintained
visually on the screen, but if multiple payment methods are used, there is no explicit
recording of the total cost in the Audit Trail.
(c) the method of payment is recorded;
[GIJ] Method of Payment products are just recorded as additional transactions. There
is nothing special about them. Specifically there is nothing to say that they are MOPs
(other than realising that the products related to the transactions are normally used for
MOP).
(d) settlement occurs by pressing a button to clear the stack; and
[GIJ] This is a two stage process:
e A button is pressed to start settlement
e MOP transactions are then recorded until the session is complete (ie value of MOP.
transactions equal the value of business transactions). This is frequently achieved
with a shortcut “Fast Cash” MOP which indicates that the exact cash has been
tendered.
(e) when the button is pressed to clear the stack, the transaction is
complete and records the information on to the database.
[GI] This recording of the transactions occurs when all MOP transactions have been
added to the stack and the net stack value is zero.

2. If machine freezes before the button is pressed to clear the stack, the
information is not recorded because the transaction has not been completed.
[GlJ] Correct. However in some circumstances (ie for specific types of transaction) there may be an
indication of the transaction having taken place in the Audit Trail and recovery of the terminal (even a few
days later) may cause the transaction to complete and to be recorded at recovery time. Also,
Transactions relating to Failed Mails Labels are recorded immediately rather than waiting for the stack to
be settled.
POL00073744
POL00073744

From: Stephen Dille
Sent: 06 November 2006 10:38
To: Pinder Brian
Cc: Tom Beezer;
martyn.mitchell
Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton
Importance: High

mandy. talbot’

Dear Brian,

We're preparing a supplemental witness statement for Greg Booth to cover off the event at
Newby P.O.

Please can you confirm whether the text below is accurate:

1. Every time that a new customer is served there is a new “session.” Each customer’s
transactions are recorded in a “stack.” For each session:

(a) the number of transactions is recorded;

(b) the total cost is shown;

(c) the method of payment is recorded;

(d) settlement occurs by pressing a button to clear the stack; and

(e) when the button is pressed to clear the stack, the transaction is complete and
records the information on to the database.

2. If machine freezes before the button is pressed to clear the stack, the information is
not recorded because the transaction has not been completed.

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible today.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

From: Pinder Brian{
Sent: 02 November 2006
To: Stephen Dilley

Cc: Tom Beezer; mandy. talbot¢
martyn.mitchell@—
Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton
Stephen

