POL00153884
POL00153884

From: Jane MacLeodf
Sent: Fri 05/02/2016 4:22:13 PM (UTC)

To: Patrick Bourkef._
Williams

I Rodric

Subject: Fwd: Sparrow
See below - your email was timely!
Many thanks

Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
The Post Office

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Jane MacLeod 4,
Date: 5 Februa
To: Tim Parker
Subject: Re: Sparrow

Hi Tim,

We have been progressing matters and I have set out a summary below as to how we are taking
forward the actions to address each of the recommendations. Each of the proposals was
discussed with Jonathan who, at the time advised that he thought that they should address the
recommendation. Naturally, some recommendations will take longer to discharge than others, for
instance those that will require additional IT investigations.

Recommendations I and 2: Instructions to Brian Altman QC are being finalised,
which will ask for legal advice on the specific questions posed. The need to address
recommendation 2 depends entirely on the advice he provides in relation to
recommendation 1. We therefore expect that we will have an answer reasonably promptly.

Recommendations 3, 4, 5 and 8: A meeting was held with Deloitte this week to
discuss each of these recommendations and how Deloitte might approach the necessary
investigations. Deloitte will, in the first instance, come forward with their proposals in this
regard in the early part of next week. Once we are all satisfied that what is proposed will
meet the recommendations in full, POL will then formally commission the work and
facilitate the necessary collaboration between Deloitte and Fujitsu. The product of this
first set of engagements will reveal what is technically possible, what level of the resource
is required, over what time period, and at what cost. Once this in depth scoping exercise
has been finalised, we will ask Jonathan to confirm that he is content with the level of
investigation proposed against each recommendations. In addition, I have set up a
meeting with Fujitsu for next week to brief them that we are likely to need their assistance
in this review.
POL00153884
POL00153884

Recommendation 6: We have gathered all the previous advice we have obtained on
this point and we will now share this with Jonathan to allow him to determine whether it
discharges the recommendation, or whether he feels more is required.

Recommendation 7: Bond Dickinson, (the law firm which has supported us on
sParrow since the matters first arose) has now identified 16 cases that include
particularised complaints in respect of the advice provided by the NBSC helpline. They
will now review the Helpline call logs for each and identify (insofar as is possible) the
relevant call handlers. We will then (again, insofar as is possible) review their personnel
files to establish whether or not there is any evidence of malpractice which would give
independent credence to the allegations made.

We are also considering the nature of a report that could, following finalisation of this work, be
made public detailing the results of the investigation.

As ever, I am happy to provide further detail. As with the work undertaken to support Jonathan's
actual investigation, I propose to update you by fortnightly by email. Please let me know if this
works for you?

Kind regards

Jane

Jane MacLeod

General Counsel
The Post Office

Sent from my iPad

On 5 Feb 2016, at 15:42, Tim Parker +_ _P wrote:

Hello Jane,
Where have we got to on this please, in terms of your dialogue with Jonathan?
Thanks

Tim

Tim Parker

Chairman
National Trust

Chairman
Post Office Limited
POL00153884
POL00153884

Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London,

