POL00198020
POL00198020

Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme ("the Scheme")

Terms of Reference for the Working Group

1 Scope of these Terms of Reference

44 These Terms of Reference will apply until 31 March 2014.

1.2 The Working Group may unanimously decide to extend these Terms of Reference for an
additional period if this is necessary to complete the Scheme.

1.3 The Working Group will review these Terms of Reference every 2 months to determine if they
are still fit for purpose.

1.4 In these Terms of Reference, the word "Applicant" means any person eligible to take part in the
Scheme.

2 Members, representatives and reporting

2.1 The initial members of the Working Group shall be:

2.1.1 Independent Chair (Chair)

2.1.2 Post Office

2.1.3 Second Sight

214 Justice for Applicants Alliance (JFSA)

2.2 Membership of the Working Group may change over time by decision of the Working Group.

2.3 Each Member may nominate any number of suitable representatives to attend Working Group
meetings and to act on its behalf subject to any direction given by the Chair.

24 In conducting Working Group business, Post Office may act in a manner that promotes its own
interests. Likewise, JFSA may act in a manner that promotes the interest of Applicants.

25 Second Sight shall hold the role of independent investigator and advisor to the Working Group.

3 Objectives of the Scheme

3.1 The Scheme's overall objective is to try to achieve the mutual and final resolution of an
Applicant's concerns about Horizon and any associated issues.

3.2 The Scheme must provide a mechanism to investigate proportionately and effectively an
Applicant's concerns.

3.3 Where appropriate, the Scheme must offer a reasonable forum, by way of mediation or through
direct discussions, for an Applicant and Post Office to seek a resolution of that Applicant's
legitimate concerns.

3.4 The Scheme must be accessible for Applicants, recognising that its success is dependent on
Applicants being prepared to commit their own time, knowledge and resources to the Scheme.

[DOCPROPERTY DooRef \* MERGEFORMAT } (PAGE)

POL-BSFF-0036083
POL00198020
POL00198020

3.5 The Scheme must ensure that input and information from Second Sight and Post Office is
provided in a timely and constructive manner.

3.6 The Scheme must recognise that Applicants may lack financial resources and/or experience of
mediation.

3.7 The Scheme will be funded predominantly by Post Office and must therefore ensure value for

money for taxpayers.
4 Role of the Working Group
44 To establish and, where appropriate, revise the Scheme's operational and working practices.

42 To monitor the efficacy of the Scheme in achieving the Scheme Objectives.
43 To ensure that Applicants’ cases progress through the Scheme in a timely manner.

44 To review at each stage Applicants’ cases that may not be suitable for the Scheme and to decide
whether and/or how those cases may proceed. For clarity, the Working Group shall have no role
in deciding the suitability or process for cases subject to live criminal investigations or
proceedings — such authority being retained solely by Post Office as the investigating and
prosecuting authority.

45 To ensure, as far as possible, that the Scheme treats all cases consistently.

46 To manage the administration of the Scheme so as to ensure that the Scheme's processes and
procedures are offering value for money for taxpayers (which for clarity does not extend to any
assessment of the merits / value of any settlement proposed or reached between Post Office
and any SPMR).

47 To consider and determine any request by an Applicant for special financial support.

4.8 To maintain a record of the administration of the Scheme and the results of the Scheme in
general (which does not include tracking the results achieved in individual cases).

49 The Working Group is not to render any view, opinion, recommendation or decision on the merits
and/or settlement of any individual Applicant's complaint that may be advanced through the
Scheme. Each individual mediation and/or settlement reached is entirely confidential to Post

Office and each respective SPMR. The Working Group has no right to know details of any
mediation or settlement and has no role in assessing any aspect of any mediation or settlement.

5 Independent Chair
51 The initial Chair shall be Sir Anthony Hooper.

5.2 The Members of the Working Group (other than the Chair) may unanimously decide to replace
the Chair at any time.

5.3 The Chair shall be independent of the other Members or have declared any conflicts of interest
to the Working Group.

54 Any replacement Chair shall be suitably qualified and, ideally, have experience of schemes of
this nature and/or of mediation.

[DOCPROPERTY DocRef \* MERGEFORMAT] [PAGE]

POL-BSFF-0036083_0001
POL00198020
POL00198020

6 Working process
6.1 The practices of the Working Group will be determined by the Chair.

6.2 The Working Group will meet at least once a month (in person or by phone) to discuss and
action any steps required to fulfil its role.

6.3 Ad hoc meetings (in person or by phone) may be arranged as required subject to reasonable
notice being given.

6.4 Meetings will be chaired by the Chair or other person nominated by the Working Group.
6.5 The meetings and other actions of the Working Group will be confidential to the Members of the
Working Group (and their professional advisors) unless the Working Group decides that

information may be disclosed outside the Working Group.

6.6 The meetings and other actions of the Working Group will be subject to without prejudice
privilege.

6.7 Minutes will be kept of the meetings of the Working Group.

7 Decision making

7.1 Members shall attempt to agree all decisions unanimously.

7.2 If a unanimous decision cannot be reached, the Chair may define the point of disagreement and
call a vote.

7.3 If a vote is called:
7.3.4 Second Sight shall have an opportunity to put forward its view and a recommendation

to the Working Group, both of which shall be reasoned and evidence based;

7.3.2 Post Office and JFSA shall then vote on the matter, each having one vote (regardless
of the number of representatives in attendance), which may be exercised in favour,
against or in abstention;

7.3.3 A majority decision will be binding so long as the Working Group is quorate meaning
at least one representative for each Member is in attendance;

7.3.4 If there is no majority decision, the Chair will have a casting vote. The Chair may
exercise his casting vote at the meeting or after the meeting and shall support his
decision with either verbal reasons given at any meeting or by subsequent written
reasons.

8 Funding

8.1 The Working Group may make requests to Post Office for reasonable additional funding in the
following areas:

8.1.1 Special financial support to Applicants;
8.1.2 Professional advice for the Working Group;
[DOCPROPERTY DocRef \* MERGEFORMAT] (PAGE)

POL-BSFF-0036083_0002
POL00198020
POL00198020

8.1.3 Additional work by any appointed mediators;

8.1.4 But, for the sake of clarity, funding shall not be requested or used to compensate or
settle any complaint raised by an Applicant.

8.2 Post Office shall have discretion as to whether to make such funding available but shall consider
all such requests promptly and in good faith.

Other than confidentiality obligations, these Terms of Reference do not create any legally binding rights
or obligations between the Members of the Working Group or with any third party.

[DOCPROPERTY DooRef \* MERGEFORMAT ] [PAGE]

POL-BSFF-0036083_0003
