C-032-01 Branch Counter Refresh — Implementation

Phase

IT Delivery Portfolio
Project Initiation Document

Project Aim: The Branch Counter Refresh project will deliver Horizon Anywhere (HNGA)
and the management of the branch hardware refresh implementation by the EUC Tower
supplier, as well as the associated business change impacts.

Version 0.10 Author Kindy Kularia/ Mike Randall
Status Draft Classifica I internal
tion
Date Source of [14/15 I? Delivery Budget and, future years
Funds budget fom IT Delivery (ineluded in
Plan)

Role

Name Title

Date Agreed

Project Sponsor

TBC (Paul Bleasby / Dave, Hulbert)

Sponsoring Di

GtOE

TBC (Kevin Gilliland)

Programme/Portfo
Manager

TBC (Jeff Burke / Tom Basquilie)

Kindy Kularia

Benefit Owner

TEC (Kevin cil iilandy

Project Initiation Document Template vi.i6, Owner Jaki Purser

Refresh Impl
INTERNAL USE

tation Phase PID v 0 012 140924 MDR

POL00401512
POL00401512

FI1262/1
POL00401512

POL00401512

Section 1. Investment Business Case
Bource of Budgeted-+ ee nee we
Funds SaLEEREEEEES
1. Request
Coste also budgeted for both under the IT Strategy plan.
[ESPT!'50/50°sp1st ‘between tied ‘countex solution “and highly portable solution

(e) (€) te) te) ) (e) (e) cy
Implantation cons I etalon ries rate —_rvasiy—__rrarig evan —_rvaeao ram

HA ete 3i0o00 I I 600e00” 13000
S10 tapenses assaia wean onan aan

Toatsetup sazaeaI I 3116706 aeaies08 ayia anne 5 Toe
operating oss 28055. 394 0 2500352 ——aesavozszza7ea sazesis szu6ai6 I sz26816
ening agmraio I I aaonsio isousso aa0nsio isa7a00 1sz7900 1307.90
SubTotal ExvAT caresses I I aooiase so73e0 _aiausis_vasam_epsarie orsanie 506
Ce re ee yee cree ery etree et
fixed and 24PHU replacement)

(e) (e) ay (é) a) (e) te) cy
sub Toul re VAT rassaea I I apniase rsme0 a9s29m0 20103 sestes Genes sans
I Move to an sppendie 5}

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page 2 of

FI1262/2
Cost Assumption
* Starting position of 27500 counters

* Current Licensing costs are an estimation and subject to change with the
preferred bidders solution and licensing rules from Microsoft are /understood.

* HNGA costs based on initial estimation from Fujitsu
provided in November

final estimate to be

* On-going support costs spread across 6 years based on 4+1+1 EUC contract

© Where is a risk that additional funds will be required for implementation. srr
was based on 8800 branches being upgraded and the remainder undertaken via NTP.
Risk that the schedules do not allow as many sites as expected to be completed
via NTP or that they will accept the cost of approx. £4.61

© Fujitsy test rigs operating
Steve Beddoes run budget.

will be associated with BCR for FY15/16,

ipl Tease aan

Request Total Capex OpEx vR Obligati ae

(em) Se s

sunk £1, 295,000 = = = ~

New £44,719,142I £44,119, 142 I £78 062/74 - - -

£46,014,142I £44,119,142 I *36/067/74 ° ° °
Steady
Recurrin
NPV @ 128 IRR Payback Pv/T 3 mormon I State

Box]

conomics £0.0m 0.0 Yrs £0.0m aa

Green Green Green
Duration

Resource Requirements I Head: eae Total Charge

POL Resources 8.2 3658 £1,519, 696

ATOS Contractor i 4452 £2,954, 124

Fixed Term (outside

Change Delivery

Practice)

Total Request 19.2 Bio I £4, 473,820

See section 12.5 of the Project Initiation Document for resource cost details

2. Background

The Po!

is committed to modernising its branch network and ensuring a
streamlined and Omni-channel customer journey. Key to the commitment to place
customers at the heart of everything that we do is the provision of suitable technology
in branches alongside the integration of existing sales channels.

The current hardware in branches is end of life and inhibits the Post Office from

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 3 of 28

POL00401512

POL00401512

This section belonga lower
= maybe as part of section 7
Sumnary of financials

Commented [PBI]: wake positive connent that
we have this under managenent but need to
manage to enabre this cones in in Line with
expectations

‘Commented [PB4]: Se positive - ve ae
aligning with NTP to optimise delivery ~ plan
ie based on avoiding 4.6m of cost in ECR by
doing this

~~ [Commented [PBS]: tot sure wher this means?

FI1262/3
undertaking the modernisation, with the agility required to keep pace with competition
in the marketplace. Hardware and software constraints prevent the integration of
channels that tomorrow's Post Office customers can expect from a modern digital
organisation.

The hardware and peripherals were deployed with the original Horizon Point of Service
(POS) programme, which started in 1997.

Although the current platform has performed extremely well over that last 17 years,
certain components are limiting Post Office's ability to meet the changing needs.
Considerations include:
* only one manufacturer remains in the world which produces the hard disk drives
required to operate the current base units, which presents a risk for continuity
of service

* base units do not have the ability to interface with modern peripheral devices

* fixed counter positions limit colleagues’ abilit

to engage with customers

* locked-down system inhibits Post Office from providing email or web training
applications to branch staff as identified during Second Sight audit

Hardware and software constraints prevent the integration of sales channels that Post
Office customers can expect from a modern organisation.

To address this the Branch Counter Refresh Project will deliver ‘Horizon Online™
(HNGA) - Horizon running as an application on a Windows @ platform.

The delivery of HNGA will enable a hardware refresh to be undertaken in branches. The
hardware refresh will be delivered as part of the Branch Counter Refresh project by POL
and the successful End User Computing Tower bidder and managed on behalf of Post Office
by the Service Integrator (Atos).

The appointment of an EUC Tower supplier and the urgent need to undertake a refresh of
branch hardware enables the Post Office to look at the existing branch hardware
capability and to identify what strategic objectives are supported by, and what
benefits in the future can be delivered by, new hardware solutions.

The long term strategic objectives of the Post Office are supported by both the HNGA
and branch hardware refresh elements of the Branch Counter Refresh project:

* Build our business around tomorrow's customer, not today’s network ~ increasingly
Post Office customers’ expectations are of a seamless transition between sales
channels alongside a modern and uncomplicated customer journey in branch. The
Branch Counter Refresh project will deliver a modern Point of Service (POS), new
hardware and technology in branches, allowing the integration of sales channels
and introduction of new business capabilities for tomorrow’s customers.

* Think digital in everything we do - the delivery of Branch Counter Refresh is
fundamental to the digital future of the Post Office. This will enable the
limitations of the current system to be removed enabling a future customer
experience in branch to reflect, enhance and integrate with the customer
experience online.

* Exploit growth opportunities, discard distractions - Use the EUC procurement as a
vehicle to replace the obsolete branch hardware at competitive cost and implement
a capability uplift to support the 2020 strategy, removing current distraction of
designing solutions to fit the constraints of the existing solution and allowing

an agile approach to future digital programmes. By replacing the current
hardware and software, the current constraints are removed and products and
services can be designed to utilise the new capabilities. A modern POS system

will allow an agile approach to future digital programmes and the integration of
the sales channels.

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 4 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

FI1262/4
The Post Office 2020 Strategy supports a move away from a 100% fixed position hardware
estate to a mixed estate of highly portable and fixed positions. There are a number of
strategic initiatives that will be enabled by the introduction of highly portable
devices. The benefits of these initiatives will need to be identified in individual
Business Cases for those initiatives.

How the distribution of hardware is determined (the split between the fixed and highly
portable solution deployed in each branch) is dependent on several key decisions that
will be taken over the course of the EUC Tower procurement process and the initial
months of the transition to the EUC Tower provider. However, in the options detailed
below a variety of ‘flavours’ of split between fixed / highly portable devices are
illustrated.

3. Options

The costing in section 1 is based on affordability at a starting position of Starting
position of 26953 counters reducing to 22300 over the 6 years contract period
(44141). The Branch Counter Refresh Programme needs to work closely with Network
Development, whose plan is still emerging. There is flexibility built into the EUC
contract on what the final branch solution looks like in terms of the devices,
volumes, how and where the terminals are deployed and how the reductions are
subsequently managed. Aligning to the Network Development plan is key to understanding
how we manage this implementation. There are two parallel pieces of work that need to
be undertaken.

There is a need to understand the detailed planning from:

1. An BUC perspective with the preferred bidder and
2. The Network Development strategy.

The proposal is to continue commissioning the implementation plan with the EUC Bidder
whilst also ensuring that the development of the solution with attendant volumes is
carried out in line with Network Development. There are potential opportunities here to
provide further cost savings.

1, Do nothing. Current hardware is past end of life and presents a risk to continuity
of service if it is not refreshed. The current hardware does not readily support
connectivity to modern peripherals, reducing agility and constraining the design of
products and services. The current POS prevents the integration of the sales
channels.. The existing Horizon (HNGX) can only run on the existing hardware which
therefore constrains the hardware capability and business capability in Branch.
Doing nothing severely inhibits the Post Office from delivering on its 2020 Strategy
and fails to support the ‘Accelerating the Change’ and 2020 strategic objectives.

2. Undertake Horizon Anywhere and the hardware replacement on a ‘like for like’ basis.
100% fixed devices. iwhile this option provides the Post Office with the ability to
transition towards new technology with the introduction of 2D bar codes readers and
a future mixed estate of fixed and highly portable solutions, it does not enable the
Post Office to deliver the 2020 Strategy. This option will need to consider a
portable device to replace the current Portable Hosted Units used in outreaches. Any
future changes to introduce highly portable devices to other Branch types will
require a Change Request to the EUC Tower. This will attract additional costs, which
may include additional implementation cycles

3. Introduce a flexible Operating model. Undertake Horizon Anywhere and the hardware
replacement with a mixed estate of fixed and highly portable branch counter
positions. Replace current estate with upgraded technology including highly portable
devices which support the new operating model. Investment will provide branches the
necessary capability uplift to utilise modern technology to support the Omni-channel
strategy. The costs of procuring highly portable devices at a later stage will be
far greater than negotiation at contract award phase,

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 5 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

FI1262/5
50-50 Fixed Position / portable split: Allows for approximately 12500 highly

portable devices ensuring that all branches have at least one portable device and

all Portable Hosted Units (PHUs) are replaced with the new highly portable
device, The model below does not take into account back office devices and

assumes that the highly portable device can be secured and operates the same as a

fixed POS terminal. This model does not differentiate between Mains, Locals or
Crowns or Outreaches (a 1 ‘position’ branch) and assumes the product mix is
broadly the same.

4. Customer Journey/Marketing Consideration

There will be no change to the customer journey by replacing the existing branch

hardware with fixed kit running HNGA. Transactions and interactions with customers are

unaffected. It does however enable the integration of sales channels and that will
lead to enhanced customer journeys and a better customer experience.

There are no Marketing considerations for the change of equipment unless the option for

additional customer facing screens or swivel screens for a hybrid self-service are
deployed, which can be utilised as an in branch promotional tool to attract customers

to new services/offers are deployed, then there will be marketing messages to display

The Highly Portable Device (HPD), if introduced, will be a key enabler for the
introduction of wireless POS equipment in branch and this will change the customer
journey as it will allow front of counter selling and conversations to take place.

5. Digital & Multichannel Programme Considerations

The Branch Counter Refresh project will act as an enabler for the Digital 6
Multichannel Programme. As one of the strategic aims of the Post office is to open up
the Point Of Service, integrate the sales channels and enhance the customer experience
by deploying additional services. However, this cannot be achieved on the current
locked-down platform due to technical constraints. The Branch Counter Refresh project
will implement new hardware and software that will unlock such constraints.

Direct Benefits

* BCR replaces legacy, outdated and end of life hardware to reduce any risk of
service disruption

© BCR gets the current Horizon Online system working on a new operating system,
this removes the limitations of the current platform and opens up the POS to
enable the deployment of additional services thus enhancing the customer sales
interaction

© It will introduce an industry standard platform and hardware allowing for

© More flexibility for changes tp products and services, BCR introduces a
mind-set change, enables agility and speed to market by removing the
current technical constraints

* More compatibility for adding and removing peripherals as the new hardware
has USB connectors

Allows POL access to a wider range of market/off the shelf options allowing
for future flexibility and extendibility of capabilities/services

© Exit of coi

act with suppliers becomes easier, no longer bespoke

* BCR is a key enabler for other strategic initiate’s such as POS Futures

Indirect Benefits

This BCR Programme will act as an enabling project to allow the Post Office to
improve branch counter infrastructure that can fulfil the requirements of new

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 6 of 268

POL00401512
POL00401512

FI1262/6
operating model for the Post Office. Future uses for a portable solution may
include:

General Services

* Enabling Omni-channel interaction for customers with the Post Office, access to
the digital offer through branches, interaction with smart phones (for bar code
reading) and capability for future use of 2D bar codes to promote cross-selling
/marketing options.

* Could lead to online face to face assistance with call centres or financial
specialists via a Skype style of application

* Embrace the POL assisted sales strategy by cross and upselling. Making for more
personal customer relationships and providing information and offers that are
relevant to them

* Creation of an assisted digital service for Post Office customers

* Can be utilised as an in branch promotional tool to attract customers to new
services/offers

* Online solutions to be used as self-service kiosks alternatives Generating a
potential increase in customer satisfaction by reducing queue times through
providing an online/hybrid self servic:

6. Key Risks And Dependencies

1, There is a risk that if the decision is made not to migrate all the terminals
there may well be terminals in March 2017 that remain on the old hardware and
HNG-X. This could incur further cost implication in terms of an extension on
the [EPOSSI service

Mitigation: Dependency on Network Development and Transformation to understand
the actual number of terminals that can be migrated/rationalised.

2. There is a risk that the HNGA delivery cannot now land prior to the planned
delivery of the EUC solution. This will cause the HNGA and EUC to disconnect.
with attendant cost implications. Suppliers may increase prices as a result of
such a flexible requirement

Mitigation Hold urgent discussions with FUS and the EUC [BH to ensure that we
can mitigate against such slippage within agreed tolerances

3, Wi-Fi is not in scope of BCR, so there will be a situation where the current
hardware is refreshed to HNGA on new EUC hardware, but still has the same wired
only router, meaning that highly portable devices would have to be in their
dock and could not be utilised as a portable solution.

Mitigation: Dependency on Network tower to replace the branch routers and
enable Wi-Fi, Work closely with Network tower to understand timescales and
rollout.

4. The only use case for Highly portable Devices is for Horizon to run on them.
There is a very weak business case for HPD adoption at this stage. This could
lead to wasted deployment and expenditure
Mitigation: . Gain high level POL approval for HPD deployment at known form
factors with this in mind, Seek additional use cases and Request the EU¢ PBIto
demonstrate the latest available devices e.g. to explore further possible uses.
The PB has stated that device selection is required by 11 Dec 2014

5. There is a level of uncertainty across the business in terms of what use-cases
the highly portable devices would support in the short-term: there would be no
Wi-Fi, there would be no PCI compliant, highly portable mode, card payment
mechanism, and currently a floor walker with a highly portable device would
not realistically be able to take card payments which would also limit the
usability.

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 7 of 268

POL00401512
POL00401512

a aes]

__- [Commented [P8%
anymore

f We have contracted so not PB ]

(Commented [P88]; =unetien 5)

FI1262/7
Mitigation: In the short-term,

highly portable devices

can be v

ed online as

docked devices. There is a need for highly portable /online applications to be

able to carr:

docked and linked to a payment mechanism.

hardware solution.

6. There are a number of concurrent,

e.g. Talexus & Quantum,

e Network Transformat io!
roll printing, branch router upgrade

change

flic

proje

Work wi

timeframes.
Programme,
these could all

h BUC 8}

out the data capture offline and submit once the device has been
pplier to define

inflight. With potential
r-dependencies and the possibility of drawing on the
h conflicting timescales.
tial delays to

with resource requirements or timescales
start / end timescales,

n labels,

prij

impact on the brand of

ce with the excessive number of branch visits and outages at each
Mitigation: Close coordination and planning with other initiatives.
Dissemination of BCR scope to the relevant stakeholders

7. Summary Financials

Tncremental Profit & Loss (im) I FYiais I FYisi6 I FVi6i7 I FYi7i8 I FYAsi9 I FY1920

Recurring Income [Describe]

Recurring Cost Savings - Staff : 7 - 7 ~ ~

(Describel

Recurring Cost Savings — Non Z - Z Z - Z

Staff (Describe

Recurring Costs ~ Staff : ~ : : ~ :

{Describe}

Recurring Costs — Non Staff 7 7 Z 7 7 7

{Describe}

One-off costs (Opex) — Operating I «arse I aeazaece I wzatecee I aowsere I asz7o00 I asovs00

Depreciation = ~ - = = =

Gains/(losses) o ndisposal = = = = = =

One-off costs (Opex) — ~ 7 ~ 7 7 ~

Exceptional

Total Incremental PBIT o.0[ 0.0 ooI 0.0

Variance from Plan 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

Tncrenental Cashflow (Em) Wiss I isis I rie I Aine] wan] Fviszo

One-off Costs (Opex): VR = = = = = =

Other Non-VR = = = = = =

Capital Expenditure (Capex) 4818,756 12,816.60 I 394516 I 1.527900_I 3.527.900

Cash Proceeds from Assets Z - - - . -

Disposed

Total Incremental Cashflow Tee ano oo] 0. 00

Variance from Plan 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page & of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

FI1262/8
8. Key Performance Indicators

Current End-State ‘Achieving the End-state
Procurement I Contracted BCR involved in discussions about
awarded to solution, dependencies and timings
preferred EUC Iwith preferred bidder; Costs
bidder ied and BCR business case
agreed
EUC Supplier Procurement Supplier’ s Agree supplier's solution,
Solution Design Solution DesignI including specific components and
confirmed. confirmed for I devices and changes in response to

implementation. I ergonomic assessments, to be

deployed via BCR.
Stakeholders ‘On-going Business change I Business Change lead and team
prepared for activities undertakes liaison and appropriate
Change completed for business change activities with key
all key Post Office stakeholder groups to
stakeholder prepare for the change and
groups maintains Stakeholder Engagement

Plan to reflect activities
undertaken, e.g. showcases for

postmasters.
Statement of Working with Fujitsu to deliver to
Works for HNGA I HNGA Packaging and working with EUC
Packaging supplier to provide information on
the solution components and drivers
to be used by HNGA and deployment
mechanisms for

Packaging of
Horizon Anywi

Rollout of new New hardware
hardware and HNGA and HNGA ementation schedule for the
rollout of new hardware and

software in branches in scope of

BCR

Implementation

branches

scope of

9. Sensitivities/Tolerances

Sensitivity [Sensitivity I NPV (Em)

10. ‘Investment Appraisal (IA) Commentary

Td
Key Considerations
i)
Conclusion and Recommendation
an)
[Name]
[Head of Investment Appraisal]

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 9 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

FI1262/9
[Month/Year]

11. Business Case Annexes

ANNEX 1. Alternative Options Considered

(option 1

Do Nothing

Do nothing. Current hardware is past end
lof life and presents a risk to
continuity of service if it is not
refreshed. The current hardware does
not readily support connectivity to
modern peripherals, reducing agility and
creating distractions by the need to
Jadapt new solutions to fit the existing
constraints. The existing Horizon (HNGX)
can only run on the existing hardware
which therefore constrains the hardware
capability and business capability in
Branch. Doing nothing severely inhibits
the Post Office from delivering on

2020 Strategy and fails to support the
‘Accelerating the Change’ and 2020
strategic objectives.

Option 2 —

undertake h/w replacement on a like for
like basis -with the proviso of
providing the Business with the
capability to transition towards its
future vision

Undertake Horizon Anywhere and the
hardware replacement on a ‘like for
like’ basis. 100% fixed devices. while
this option provides the Post Office
with the ability to transition towards
new technology with the introduction of
2D bar codes readers and a future mixed
estate of fixed and highly portable
solutions, it does not enable the Post
office to deliver the 2020 Strategy.
This option will need to consider a
portable device to replace the current
Portable Hosted Units used in
loutreaches. Any future changes to
introduce highly portable devices to
other Branch types will require a Change
Request to the EUC Tower. This will
attract additional costs, which may
include additional implementation
cycles.

option 3

3a 50-50 Fixed Position / Highly Portable
split:

[Undertake h/w replacement with a mixture
lof fixed and a highly portable branch
counter solution:

Replace current estate with upgraded
technology including highly portable
devices which support the new operating
model. Investment will provide branches
the necessary capability uplift to
utilise modern technology to support the
lomni-channel strategy. 50-50 Fixed
Position / portable split: Allows for
approximately 12500 highly portable
devices ensuring that all branches have
Jat least one portable device and all
Portable Hosted Units (PHUs) are

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page 10 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/10
Teplaced with the new highly portable
device, The model below does not take
into account back office devices and
Jassumes that the highly portable device
can be secured and operates the same as
la fixed POS terminal. This model does
not differentiate between Mains, Locals
lor Crowns or Outreaches (a 1 ‘position’
branch) and assumes the product mix is
broadly the same.

ANNEX 2. Key Risks and Mitigations

terminals in March Iin terms of
2017 that remain on Jan
the old hardware andlextension [be

Risk Factor Impact Mitigation Mitigatea Financial
Impact Impact

There is a risk thatIThis could [Dependency on Work with

if the decision is Network business to

made not to migrate Development and Idefine numbers

all the terminals cost ‘Transformation to Iand impacts

there may well be I implicationIunderstand the

Jactual number of
terminals that can

there will be a devices
situation where the }would have
current hardware is Ito be

HNG-X. on the migrated/rationali

LPOS sed.

service
There is @ risk thatIThis will [fold urgent Suppliers may
the HNGA delivery Icause the Idiscussions with increase
cannot now land NGA and IFJS and the EUC PBIprices as a
prior to the planned to ensure that we [result of such
delivery of the EUC Idisconnect Ican mitigate a flexible
solution with against such requirement

attendant Islippage within

cost agreed tolerances

implication

s
Danger that the The newly [Work with the Requires
devices that are procured business to advanced
specified do not devices lunderstand knowledge of
have all the will not beIrequired other
required features toIfit for capabilities programmes
support future requirement Ibefore selecting e.g. FOA,
capabilities Is the devices Digital!
Wi-Fi is not in Highly Dependency on Work closely
scope of BCR, so portable [Network tower to Iwith Network

replace the branchItower to

nableJunderstand
timescales and

refreshed to HNGA onIdocked and rollout
new EUC hardware,
out still has the
same wired only
router,
The only use case [There is a [1. Gain high levelIThe PB has
for HPDs is for very weak IPOL approval for Istated that
Horizon to run on business IHPD deployment at Ithis selection
then lcase for [known form factorsIis not

APD with this in mind Irequired

adoption atI2. Seek additional Iimmediately,

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page 11 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/11
become frustrated
which impacts on
the brand and
reputation

branch may cause
some confusion

impacts on

This stage. [use cases but POL must
This could I3. Request the BUCIdecide early
lead to PB to demonstrate Ito inform the
wasted e latest business case
deployment available devices
and e.g. to explore
lexpenditureIfurther possible

Tntroduction of new Customers or Build a solid

technol nto branch staff may

the brand supporting
jand documentation
reputation
There are a number Iconflict [Close coordinationIThe BCR
of concurrent changeIwith and planning with [Programme
initiatives resource other initiatives. Ineeds to be
inflight. With requirement IWill also require [highly
potential sor wider protective of
dependencies and theItimescales Icommunications to Iits scope and
possibility of could causeIthe public remit to avoid
drawing on the same [potential being
resources or with Idelays distracted by
conflicting project other
timescales timeframes. initiatives
ALso and further
network cost
devel opment
strategy
has a
bearing on
what ge
rolled out,
where
ANNEX 3. Project Milestones
Milestone Date
EUC Contract award October 2014
HNGA Packaging February 201
Integration Testing April 20.
UAT May 2015
Model Office Proving June 2015
Pilot then Rollout starts July 2015
rollout completion October 2016
ted and Project closed March 2017
ANNEX 4. Benefits Management Plan
Benefit 7 Owner Position Budget Conditions
Trigger Precedents /
Interdependencies

ANNEX 5. Concurrences

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page 12 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/12
POL00401512
POL00401512

Concurrence

Directorate/Area of IName, Title Version I Date

Responsibility Reviewe I Agreed
a

Project Sponsor Paul Bleasby

Sponsoring Director I TSC Kevin Gilliland

Programme/Portfolio

Manager

Benefit owner
Role — Concurrence
Project Manager

Chan’

Team
Commercial Team Kin A Lindsay

‘orporate. servi

~gabing

Internal Audit,
Legal, Risk &

Colin Stuart
Paul Lebeter

Jonathan & Aill/Watthew Keeffe
Martyn Lewis

tac. concurrence@;sowsdiineaswo

compliance,
Enterpris
Architects,
Information Services
m, Information

Security Team, IT,

Jonathan Knox
NCCCES

ANNEX 6. Financial Detail

Network

Summary of one-off costs - OpEx

Zoe] OS
Costs ns. I 6
Gey, [Pt [ez [es jee jes ee Ie7 re Ieo Irio I ria I riz I ce I toe
al_Iat
Total
Summary of one-off costs - CapEx
Ort] 2015
costs ns I as
fey [PL [#2 [BS [pe [es [pe jer [pe Ipo [eto Ipi1 [riz [0c I toe
al_Iat
Total

INTERNAL USE ONLY

F/1262/13
Section 2: Project Description

Change Description

The Branch Counter Refresh project will deliver Horizon Anywhere (HNGA), seek & manage
agreement to the EUC and cross towers solution design onto which HNGA will be deployed
and manage the branch hardware refresh implementation by the EUC Tower supplier, as

well as the associated business change impacts and dependencies on POL.

Leading to:

1 A PCI/AET compliant HNGA package
the new EUC branch hardware solution

ly tested ready (i.e. proven) for deployment to

2 Completion of the Branch Counter Rollout to the agreed baseline of branches,
providing the FMO infrastructure to enable the successor programmes to succeed

3 Completion of HNGA & BCR formal handover into support and STSD

1 Scope and Exclusions
Collaborate with EUC contractor to determine implementation plan including

Key milestones

Key dependencies

3, - Risks and issues
4, Implementation plan including any hidden activities/costs
Escalation

6. Develop BCR specific hardware solution

Provide an ergonomic assessment based on EUC bidders sol

Testing and service acceptance

dware scope - The diagram summarises the scope of hardware to be implemented
within the scope of Branch counter Refresh

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 14 of 268

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/14
POL00401512
POL00401512

I i Variant — Fixed Variant es

‘ditional abel on Rall Coupon! Document Customer-fecing
ational Priter Youeher Printer Scanner “toucvacraen
‘Aisdio Hoadeet/
‘Speakers

pe of ECR me Bette

sipment might be

ained (dependent

final solution with Preferred bidder)
WB our of scope  Fetore capability on bidders catalogue not in
je of BCR (unless there is a formal change

request)

* HNGA Production Formal engagement with Fujitsu to develop, package and test the
Horizon Anywhere executable to function on a Windows 8 platform

* Security, Connectivity and Compliance Investigation and definition of options to
mitigate current NI VPN constraint and enable HNGA operation in the future e.g.
through use of certificates, lock~down elements, end-to-end PCI compliance, Group
Policies and AD

* POL Master Data and Reference Data changes to support operation of HNGA and
deployment of new hardware.

* SI/SD integration to ensure service desk and support services are transitioned

ntinue stakeholder engagement and assess/ disseminate and take ownership of the
business change impacts, including provision of training materials and nn
showcases of selected hardware to postmasters and branch managers.

* Testing, live proving and pilot of BCR deployment including HNGA

* Branch counter refresh deployment & implementation including HNGA Initiate
revised project (Programme) governance with POL Business and the SISD and EUC

Exclusions
© Quantum and Talexus

* ‘Additional Peripherals’, including Printing labels on a roll and a web cam (if
not built in as standard) unless supported by an approved change request

* New IP addressing and Sarian router upgrade/replacement,

anges to HNGA to support a move to a Payment Service Provider (PSP) model for
PCI compliance.

* POL Security Model development - though BCR is dependent on this being supplied
and agreed.

* Changes to AEI other than for the KVM switch

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 15 of 268

F/1262/15
* Changes to HNGA functionality or creation of other applications to exploit the
opportunities for the new hardware and platform provided by the Branch Counter
Refresh

2 Constraints

The EUC contract award has been delayed until October resulting in all related
project activity being delayed accordingly. Currently, the end date for BCR remains
the same as the HNGA contract, expiring in March 2017. All upgrades will need to be

complete by October 2016 in readiness Ifoz FOA land POS futures. However there is_

contingency for deployment to continue until March 201 but this may have an impact
‘on the FOA tower.

Given EUC contract award has been delayed, there are still a number of
varying solutions that will have a direct bearing on the BCR approach. The
final solution for BCR has not yet been defined. There are a number of
outstanding decisions to be made in order to in understand the detailed
solution including:

© Finalised hardware solution
© HNGA dependencies, constraints and hardware environment
© Platform Connectivity for HNGA (POL)

© Resolution and screen size for fixed and highly portable HNGA devices
(POL)

© Security model compliance (POL)
© PCI compliance (POL) requirements

© ABT compliance for EUC selected KVM (EUC vendor)

The new Highly portable device will only be able to be used with Horizon in
its docked state, Wi-Fi is not currently available in branch. This limits the
uses of the portable device and the services it can support. Any additional
utilisation will have to be introduced via change control and once the new
branch router has introduced WI-FI to the branches.

Currently there are no use~ cases for the highly portable device - it is not
clear what services the highly portable device will provide or is capable of
providing. The CDP timelines are still unknown.

The new 2D barcode scanner/reader will be deployed and HNGA will handle
accidental use of 2D instead of 1D bar codes and conversion of 2D codes to 1D
codes, but separate business projects will be required to exploit this new
capability.

5. The HNGA design is still valid in the form shared to date with FUS. The plan
was for FJS to test an HNGA image on FUS kit. However, due to the delays in
finalising the HNGA design against the target EUC hardware solution, these two
elements should now be dovetailed to avoid downstream impacts and changes i.e.
HNGA to be tested on the new EUC vendor’s hardware solution. HNGA timeframes
will need to be reviewed in line with the EUC suppliers to avoid paying
additional resourcing costs.

Horizon testing timescales, need to fully understand dependencies testing
strategy and timelines

Branches have limited space to accommodate the different branch counter
configurations and layouts including the number of power sockets

Expandability - In consideration of the number of connected devices, and the
number of cables required for each counter type and the extent to which the

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 16 of 268

POL00401512
POL00401512

Toe defines maar 2)

F/1262/16
footprint is able to accommodate further change as introduced by new POL
initiatives or as required by other Towers

Security - to ensure that HNGX security is not compromised by the rollout of
HNGA and that the Horizon ecosystem retains an acceptable level of security
for POL and its stakeholders

10, Minimising impact on branch services - to avoid branch outages as far as
possible during implementation of the new hardware.

Key Technical Dependencies include but are not limited to:

Network Tower - Introduction of IP ranges required for branch routers in
order to operate HNGA

BUC Supplier - DNS AD Forest and single sign on and Group Policies
Post office strategic print solutions and branch print policies.
EUC hardware solution agreed technically and commercially

EUC solution proven to be secure and compliant

Fit-for-purpose HNGA solution proven on EUC provided kit

Ergonomically approved HNGA on EUC provided kit
New Test Harness for HNGA with all required supplier connectivity
Completed UAT on the new BCR package (HNGA and hardware)

Model Office proving

Agreed rollout plan harmonised with other in-flight initiative

Key POL in flight project Dependencies

There are a number of in

includ

flight POL projects th:

impact the BCR Programme. These

© NTP - Network Transformation Programme - this project runs alongside BCR,
both project will need to work together to determine those branches that
have already been transformed and can be upgraded by BCR, those imminently
being upgraded and those that will fall outside of BCR. Rationalisation ~
this impacts the number of positions that BCR will have to refresh. The
current assumption is that 27,500 positions are in scope (BUC tender).

© OBC - new branches that may be in scope for BCR rollout would need to be
included via change control and equally any closures will need to be
communicated. The process by which this is done and the data required will
need to be reviewed

© IT Transformation - in particular the network tower, BCR are dependent on
the Network tower for IP addressing, DNS, DHCP to the branch networks

© Belfast Upgrades - need to ensure the Horizon infrastructure supports
current contractual position to March 2017

© Common Digital Platform - Enable web access on the counter position, need
for BCR to understand the requirements of CDP and for these to be fed into
the HNGA package development

© Network Development - Determining the future of the Post Office network,
which could have an impact on the Branch network.

3. Acceptance Criteria

Acceptance will be accomplished via the following activities:

EUC Contract awarded

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 17 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/17
2, BCR solution defined with the BUC supplier

3, Successful testing, porting and supporting documentation of HNGA
to a Windows 8 platform

4, Successful integration of Horizon with the new EUC vendor
equipment

5. Completion of Ergonomics Testing and remediation
6. Completion of UAT and formal user/EUC Tower sign-off

7, Completion of Model Office Proving and sign-off

8. Completion of all relevant remediation tasks

9. Completion of Pilot site trials with green light to proceed to
rollout

10. Rollout completion within the POL-designated timeframe

4. Impact Analysis

This change has a wide impacts across Post Office. The stakeholders for this change

are -

Development going forward will need to be carried out on the two separate
environments HNGA and HNGX, may be wider implications in terms of agility and
costs of change

Post Office branch staff and management (Crown Network), Franchise / Agency
branch staff and management (all other Post Office business models)

Post Office internal management and technical teams, such as Network and
Sales, (e.g. Network Change, NDA, Property Projects), HR and Information
Services

Suppliers (Fujitsu - Horizon, SISD, Tower suppliers ete - particularly in
support of POL’s security model once agreed as a result of the towers model.)

Service Management

Impact on POL Master data and Reference Data to support deployment of HNGA and
parallel running with HNGX

Impact on OBC process to reflect change in suppliers of hardware and any
changes to data required.

Impact on projects requiring future changes to Horizon during parallel running
as both HNGX and HNGA changes may need to be funded, but it is assumed that
this would be achieved via normal change control processes

Impact on PCI as both HNGA and HNGX will require accreditation

Impact on AET to confirm it operates and retains accreditation with the new
hardware

Impact on POL HR & Security resource to security vet the EUC suppliers
implementation engineers

Impact on POL resource and Fujitsu Services resource to create Horizon Online
Global User ID;s for all the EUC Supplier implementation engineers

Impact on NTP team who need to liaise closely with the EUC supplier to ensure
all branches that are due to be transformed have the work completed via the
OBC process

Impact on POL Resource (possibly the Branch Support Team) to deal with
escalation of branch scheduling issues

Impact on POL resource to manage any remediation work required in branch and
the Facilities Management Supplier to complete the remediation work

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 18 of 268

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/18
Impact on POL clients that may be required to compete Live Proving in the
Model Office of HNGA on the new hardware

Impact on equipment team who need to run dow plies of consumables for the
current peripherals and make sure a supply of new consumables are available

Branch Impacts

Aros

Branch closure for all sin‘

position branches impacting Customer service

Branch disruption

all multiple position branches impacting customer service

Impact on Branch colleagues when new equipment is installed
Impact on Branch colleagues as training is required on new hardware

Impacts

Impact on Service Desk - as helpline teams need information on branch changes and new

scripts

to support the new hardware

5. Resource Profile

POL RESOURCE Analysis for all BCR Phases (Implementation onwards)

Duratio
POL Role nate 4 se
(Days) :
Change Control Practice ~ Project os Tess yoo vaoy,s20
Manager
change Noneweee Practice - Business 1 £304 674 £204,896
Change Delivery Practice ~ Business 7 voi no pisos
Analyst i £488 662
Change Delivery Practice ~ Business 7 vies yao ciyizo
Analyst
hange Delivery Practice — PHO H £186 384 E167, 392
Communications Manager i £384 524 £124,416
Change Delivery Practice ~ Training - 7e
Change Deli 1 £488 534 £260, 59
TST (outside Change Delivery Practic z BG To ET, 46
Fixed Term (outside Change Delivery
Total Request 8.5 3668 £1,544,512
Atos RESOURCE Analysis for BCR Implementation
‘Atos Role Heads I Rate Duratio [total
a Charge
(Days)
Portfolio Manager T.00 [£095 138 £123,510
1.00 £895 er E601, 440
ect Wanager 7.00 [£699 672 £469, 728
ct_Archi tect 1.00 [£699 68Z £476,718
Business Analysts 7.00 [e564 672 £379, 008
Test Manager T00[Fe39 Te £96, 162
Test Analysts 1.00 ese EE £300,048
Conn Manager 7.00 _[esea 138 E17, 32
Training Co-ordinator 1.00 [#564 ELI E151, 760
TNTERNAL USE ONLY Page 19 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/19
Service Acceptance/Transition Manager 7.00 [#564 ize E71, 068
BNO 1.00 I £487 EH £166,554
Total Resource Charge 1,00 4452 £2,954, 124

6 High Level Plan

The plan overleaf demonstrates the production and deployment of the HNGA solution on
the EUC vendor equipment.

Post Office Branch Counter Refresh

‘oad Map.

2015 2016

Ql Q2 3 Q4 Qi a2 @3 a4

7. Planning Assumptions
HNG-A Assumptions:

1, The arian router and branch network equipment will be retained “as is” until
Transition is complete

2. The EUC Tower will provide Smart Hands for installation, break-fix etc from Ql
2015.

3, Network tower will at some point in time replace the branch router and this will
have been fully tested with HNGA and verified prior to new router rollout under
change request

4. The WAN will ONLY change from the current Horizon WAN to the new Network tower
WAN upon completion of the BCR Rollout to ensure that the HNG-X Trust Model is
not compromised

will agree an security model and its implementation alternative (non-VPN)
ion for authorisation/security e.g. Bluecoat

6. The EUC Engineer will be responsible for installing the new EUC equipment

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 20 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/20
including all peripherals and will also ensure that the Horizon application(s)
are up to date at the time of installation.

POL will update the Horizon Style Guide

8. SISD will maintain an asset register of all devices that have been migrated to

HNGA (and remove decommissioned HNGX devices) and share will POL

9. The new HNGA Test facilities will be provided on a timely basis

10. The technical solution and number of counters in scope will not change as a
result of other parallel initiatives

ll. It is assumed that the bulk of the project resources will exit on or
before March 2016.

8. Test Requirements

1. system / System Integration Testing

EUC will co-ordinate, manage and deliver SIT with the full participation of the SISD

contractor, FJS and SCMs. Supply Chain Members will undertake their own testing of

products in isolation prior to Integration with other systems. Supply chain members

must ensure that

‘The areas of the Branch service that will be tested are:

© Active Directory

© Print services

* File services

* Tooling solution

© Security and access management toolsets

© Desktop build

© Application operation on EUC hardware and on CDP browser

EUC will provide hardware to the HNGA supplier for development and test purposes

prior to SIT testing.

The fundamental test process steps - estimate, analyse & design, execute & record,

verify 6 report, are represented in the diagram below

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 21 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/21
POL00401512
POL00401512

2. End-To-End testing

a & HG shown be an exam ofan Apo Super IA] EUC
Pre-Prdmay be fu coporany fer are paca seb estes oa

ress, [BU Hobe
MC oat aster

FR ST

EUCAD

;

* This is required to check links between data centre and client side files

3. User Acceptance Test (UAT)

© UAT will involve a variety of selected POL experts to test various aspects of the
upgraded BC environment. Operational Acceptance Test (OAT)

© This element is key to ensuring that HNGA is properly handed over into support
and HNGX by implication is removed from support as each branch/site is
refreshed

© The SISD Contractor will fulfil a test assurance role and will facilitate Post
Office acceptance activities for Completion and Acceptance and for review or
sign-off.

4. Penetration Testing

Penetration testing will be carried out at two levels:

* Internal Penetration test . An independent organisation to will conduct this on
our behalf and provide a report with recommendations.

© External Penetration testing conducted by POL. This will take place after OAT
testing has completed.

5. Regression Testing

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 22 of 28

F/1262/22
POL00401512
POL00401512

* This is required to ensure that deployment of HNGA (and hardware) can be rolled
back to HNGX on the previous hardware.

* This provides the necessary rollback confidence factor for business recovery, if
required,

9. Implementation Requirements
Phasing

1, Live Proving -Once HNGA and the hardware has been fully testing live proving
will take place in the model office

2, Pilots - Two pilots will be conducted, the first technical and the second of
deployment volume. The pilots are expected to lead one into the other and
then into full rollout. The pilots are planned to last for around 20 Working
Days each, multi-site pilot complete and then to incremental roll-out.

3. Deployment the end of the volume pilot it is planned to be deploying at the
target device deployment rate, rate to be determined in combination with the
EUC supplier approximately 45 sites a day. . Broadly this deployment rate will
be maintained throughout deployment whilst accounting for Post Office business
constraints. Daily deployment rates will reduce in the final tranche to
provide planned deployment contingency.

Transition into support: Service will commence with the completion of planned
testing including UAT, Service Readiness Review completion, and the service
has been accepted operationally within FJS and the EUC vendor

10. Lessons Learned

© The following lessons were recorded from the Horizon rollout that took place in
1997.

© The previous rollout of Horizon (HNGK) took 4 years.

© The project should go through a controlled project management environment. e.g.
requirements gathering and baselining should have been done prior to development
and any change of scope should have been subject to Change control / change
request.

* Aim to get POL objectives aligned with the suppliers’ as far as possible. This
leads to win-win behaviours.

* Need to ensure that the supplier, when allocating development timescales for any
activity that they build in enough time to meet all requirements for the
differing types of branches and ensure that the most difficult are not left till
the end, as more time is required for these.

* Approach to Reference Data has been patchy across HNG, with some good work
towards the end, but inconsistencies at the beginning. Need to be more
collaborative.

Lesson is better planning ~ close alignment and communications between Programmes
and ref data

* Technical Pre Migration Health Checks should have been conducted earlier to
highlight issues which required engineer visits to resolve.

* Whilst scheduling branches for migration, the dropout rate was not factored in,
meaning that there was spare capacity for migrations on most evenings/days. In
future, excess number of branches should be scheduled to account for drop outs -
this should be modelled, as the drop out rate decreases as more branches migrate
(trend analysis).

* The Branch migration project had multiple scheduling constraints and this
impacted the scheduling. In future the number of constraints needs to be

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 23 of 28

F/1262/23
POL00401512
POL00401512

addressed as early on as possible to ensure there is more flexibility.

* Core Data on branches was not always accurate, e.g. some branches showing up as
temp closed when they were trading. Recommend contacting all branches regardless
of core data status. It is also advisable to carry out some analytics on
transactions from branches to see optimum time for visit to minimise impact

© PHU Core data inaccurate; recommend determining location of kit up front for all
outreach branches.
The colour coding to identify changes to the schedules for additions and
cancellations worked well to provide a clear daily picture. In future the
schedule of branches should be base-lined by

* Completing migration of flagship Crown branches over the weekends worked well to
ensure business was not affected and should be continued for future projects.

* The strategy to migrate all the Crown Branches early in Pilot had benefit as it
made scheduling easier and was good PR for stakeholders. It also provided a good
volume of transactions to be monitored so this approach should be considered
again for future deployments.

he approach taken in the branch migration project whereby the core and outreach
kit were migrated at the same time helped to reduce POL support and engineering
overhead and this worked well and should be continued.

1.Project Management Strategy

1.1 Project Organisation

Project Management Team Structure

1.2 Role Descriptions

S.N Nam

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 24 of 28

F/1262/24
The head of the project board, accountable
vasl Bleasby for the delivery of the change and for
a Jett Burke Supplier I overall accountable for the quality of
products delivered by the project.
3 vames Scutt Senior User I network who will be impacted by this
Network
Service “ i and Transition requirements for the change.
Management
5 vulie George IT Security that any change that gets approved complies
with Post Office standards. for 1? Security.
6 TBC Senior User I channels in the branch network.
Frerece I ROSRORSTBIS for the day-to-day Wanagenene
8 Kindy Kularia Jee of the project and is accountable for the
delivery of the project
° aL Lingard Change ensuring that all business change aspects
ur I christine I Business I Ptoring end anaiysie required within the
Merrick analyse [Caeturing and analysis req
12 I Atan amber I sires I capturing and anslysis required within the
projects
B eto
wiemczyk project.
s standards around project delivery.
15 I mike randanr I "on Project I of the project and is accountable for the
Manager I delivery of the project.
16 I atan Biundeat I rest anager I testing and making recommendations to the

2.Quality Management Strategy

Quality Management for Projects will be governed by MIC and supported by the QA

Team.

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page 25 of 268

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/25
3.Configuration Management Strategy

There will be several configuration management mechanisms used for
are -

project. These

* Version control on documents.

* Documents kept in central data repositories such as Shared drives, Project Server
and Business Information Library.

* Joint supplier - Post Office documents will also be maintained through version
control and will be stored on project site for this project on Project Server.

It is assumed that the suppliers will adhere to the same version control principals
that Post Office adheres to. This will be communicated to the supplier team.

4.Risk Management Strategy

Risks will be escalated
roject Boards

© the project sponsor and the programme via the

5.Communication Strategy
Following communication strategy has been planned for this project -

Weekly communication with the project board and key stakeholder via the weekly
highlight reports.

Regular project board meetings to monitor progress.

Stakeholder Comms defined and built into Comms Plan evolving during the

lifecycle of the Project.

Comms strategy for branches to be devised

6.Project Controls

There would be controls put in place at various stages of the project to monitor
progress and escalate any delivery issues. These are aligned to MIC and the
Project Lifecycle defined by the Gating For!

* Document Control

1.version History

Versio Ghange Betas] thor
eats)

INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 26 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/26
Versio I Date Change Details ; ‘Author

2.Change Control

Changes to this Project Initiation Document shall be requested in writing to the
Project Sponsor. Any significant change will require this document to be modified by
the Project Sponsor, re-reviewed/concurred, and if the change causes the project to
© approved tolerances, re-approved by the appropriate finan

exceed t

3.Referenced Documents

NE. Title Versio I Date I Document Ref. Location
n

1_[Your text here

z

Appendix A -Financial Background

Approval was given in May and August 2013 for the initial work to -

* define the future Branch hardware requirements through the dev. ent of a
Showcase demonstrating ‘Horizon Anywhere’ on new hardware loaned from a number of
suppliers

s in Branches and at Quarterly Business
untry and to key stakeholders and Head Office

* demonstrate the Showcase to end use
lanning (QBP) events around the
staff in the Model Office in 148 Old

© support the EUC Tower procy:
ementation requiremen
procurement with bidders

ement through the development of hardware and
documentation and during the dialogue stages of the

+ Be nement and development of HNGA.

3

the initial requirements gathering and r

Initially the Branch Counter Refresh was split into two projects, a Hardware project
(dealing with the identification of hardware requirements) and a Software project
(dealing with the development of HNGA), and separate Hardware and Software PIDS were
approved. The governance of Branch Counter Refresh will develop to establish a
Programme of work supported by a number of workstreams, such as (but not limited to}
HNGA, Implementation, Security, Networks. Consequently the split between two projects
(Hardware and Software) is no longer appropriate for future stages and the request for
will continue under one Branch Counter Refresh PID.

authorisatio}

To date, £866.7k (Capex) has been approved from the 13/14 IT Delivery Portfolio budget
by 4 PIDS, with costs broken down as follows —

© £526.7k POL resource costs (April 2013-March 2014)

* £340k supplier costs (Fujitsu)

as follows:

REQUEST
Resource Supplier TOTAL
(2) (e)
POL Resource Cost : - £132, 663
Supplier - Fujitsu = £470,000 £470,000
Supplier - SISD £686, 069 £686,069
Expenses RED Design £6,250
INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 27 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/27
Ergonomics Ltd

£132,663

£1,162,319
£1,294, 982
£1,294, 982

The requests were approved by the following PIDs:

ftware PID v1.0, 03/
upplier cost

3 - £130k

* Branch Counter Refresh S
cost and £210k (Capex) s

* Branch Counter Refresh Software PID v2.0, 09/08/13 - £190k
cost and £130k (Capex) supplier cost

Appendix B - Add as Needed

Your

ext He:

Appendix C - Terms & Abbreviations

unter Refresh Hardware PID v1.0, 24/05/13 ~ £206.7k

(Capex)

(Capex)

POL resource

(Capex) POL resource

POL resource

Term ‘Meaning

Your text here

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page 28 of 28

POL00401512
POL00401512

F/1262/28
