POL00228264
POL00228264

Mr J Withers

Ref: M069 "7 May 2015
Dear Mr Wechsler,

Thankyou for your letter dated 29" April. I have also received a letter from Angela Van Den Bogerd
dated the 27" April, which I have enclosed a copy of and which you are probably aware,

After reading this letter, 1 wonder if it is worth attending mediation given the tone of this letter. It
appears that the Post Office has no intention of settling anything and have totally dismissed the
second sight report as a work of fiction. I cannot see that any sensible solution can be sought given
the attitude of the Post Office, in that the last paragraph includes a sentence that gives the sense that
they would like me to not to proceed.

I would appreciate it if you could tell me the point of mediation if the PO is not prepared to accept
their failings in the past

Yours sincerely

GRO

sponnnerinnrnenctend

T Withers

POL00228264
POL00228264

@ Post Office Limited
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2Y 94Q

Mr James Withers

27" April 2015

Case ref: M069

Dear Mr Withers

Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme (the Scheme)

You will have received a letter from the Scheme Secretariat confirming that the Post
Office has agreed to mediate your case,

The Post Office looks forward to trying to resolve your complaint at that mediation.
However, we feel It is important to let you know that, following our thorough
investigation and having considered Second Sight’s findings carefully, the Post Office
remains confident that neither Horizon, nor failings in our operational practices, is
responsible for the issues you have raised in your complaint.

As a result, and in the interests of transparency, we do not foresee a financial
settlement forming the basis of a resolution to your complaint. Nevertheless, we will,
of course, do all we reasonably can to make the mediation a success. If, however,
you decide that in the circumstances you no longer wish to proceed with the
mediation, I would be grateful if you could let CEDR know.

Yours sincerely

Angela Van-Den-Bogerd }-—----— ttn ns ee

a aang

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Partnerships

Post Office -
angela.van-den-bogerd

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540.

II Registered Office Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ PostOffice.co.uk
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited

