POL00083931
POL00083931

Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Meeting 07/08/13

Attendees:
Team/Function Attendees
Legal Rodric Williams
Martin Smith
Renata Renata Prywerek
Financial Services Centre (FSC) Andy Winn
Security Dave Posnett
Andy Hayward
Communications Sophie Bialaszewski
Network Gayle A Peacock
Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Steve Beddoe

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

Gayle Network Branch Loss Board - met yesterday (inc John
Peacock Scott & Drew McBride) .. this weekly call may
duplicate the Branch Losses Board .. do we

continue with these calls? To update in due

course.
Roderic Legal The reason for this weekly call is due to
Williams ‘other#’ 2°4 Sight concerns. We need to

understand role/remit of Branch Losses Board.

Gayle Network It deals wioth investigations/people who come
Peacock into contact with Horizon stuff, etc.
Steve Beddoe I ITsc Meeting with Fujitsu today re enhancements for

release in January. Needed by end of month to
hit January target (meeting includes NFSP and
other internal Stakeholders).

Andy Winn FSC Was concerned that Steve and meeting focussed
on volumes of issues rather than values as
there could be minimal concerns about a
particular area but the values involved could
be significant.

POL00083931
POL00083931

Steve Beddoe I IT&C Clarified that if say 40 SPMRs flag up a
similar issue then the issue will be
considered, whereas say a one off would not be
considered for improvement and referral to
Fujitsu for the January release.

Andy Winn FSC Stated there was nothing from offices this
week, claiming there were no Horizon issues v
losses identified.

Dave Posnett I Security Relayed 2 x incidents where Investigators have
been spoken to by police and CPS re external
cases progressing through the courts.

Action Points
1. Gayle Peacock to send out TOR re Branch Loss Board.

2. Dave Posnett to email Jarnail with details of the 2 contacts
with Investigator and cc Rodric and Renata, with the heading
‘Subject To Legal Privilege’.

w

Rodric Williams to share information provided by Dave with
Gayle Peacock.
