POL00338392
POL00338392

Message
From: Mike Granville [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MIKE.GRANVILLEF9CC547D-14F1-4BF B-AE89-5C28E92235C3]
Sent: 21/09/2011 13:29:48 .
To: Susan Crichton ; Rebekah Mantle
cc: } sue Huggins
Chris M Day
Subject: FW! Private Eve inquiry - Horizon

Importance: — High
Hayley,

Further to our conversation, and having spoken about this with Susan Crichton — we think that, as the Private Eye
journalist at this stage has not asked specific questions to which we can give a specific response, the best course of
action may be to keep to a simple high level response. This would be rather than going through all the bullets used last
time (which were put together with reference to the cases that were being then cited by the BBC — so for example we had
a bullet about training because that was a point that had been raised).

So, pending any specific questions, we wonder whether we should just say;

“The Post Office is fully confident in the Horizon computer system operating in its branches. This accounting system, and
the processes around it, enable our branches to maintain accurate and reliable accounts in all respects’

I'm copying this note around to various parties here in POL — so that they can see that this issue is potentially being raised
again in the media.

Thanks

Mike

From: Hayley Fowell

Sent: 20 September 2011 16:55

To: Susan Crichton; Rebekah Mantle
Cc: Mike Granville; David Simpson
Subject: Private Eye inquiry - Horizon
Importance: High

Susan/ Rebekah,

We've received a press inquiry from Private Eye about the Horizon system. The journalist has been doing quite a bit of
research speaking to SPMs who have been accused of fraud and their claims that the system is faulty etc. He is now
looking for the Post Office's side of the story.

I have pasted below the statement we have been using for inquiries — I need to check this is still relevant. I have pasted
an additional line we could include to strengthen our position.

I'm sure you are aware of Private Eye as a satirical magazine, but we need to treat this carefully as they have a history of
serious campaigning on behalf of individuals. It's also widely read by journalists so could provoke further interest in this
issue.

Please can you review the statement and get back me ASAP. The deadline is tomorrow lunchtime.

Thanks,

Hayley

Hayley Fowell

Senior External Relations Manager
Royal Mail Group

100 Victoria Embankment
POL00338392
POL00338392

LONDON
EC4Y OHQ.

™ GRO

Post Office Statement

e The Post Office is fully confident that the Horizon computer system in its branches, and all the
accounting processes around it, are absolutely accurate and reliable at all times.

e The Horizon system has been subjected to full, independently-assured, robust testing
procedures. The Horizon information security processes meet the relevant industry standards
which apply to such organisations as banks and building societies.

e Subpostmasters are given fully appropriate training, typically including classroom training and
a further time on site under close supervision and guidance from a Post Office manager.
Subpostmasters can also ring a dedicated helpline for advice.

e The Horizon system has operated successfully for over 10 years across the Post Office
network, which currently stands at more than 11,500 branches.

e The National Federation of Subpostmasters, which vigorously represents the views and
interests of subpostmasters around the entire country, has gone on record on a number of
occasions to express its full confidence in the accuracy and robustness of the Horizon system.

e The Horizon system provides detailed records of every transaction, no matter how small or
large, in any individual Post Office branch. Separate records of all key strokes in the system
are stored in a tamper-proof way..

e The Post Office handles large sums of public money as well as the money entrusted to it by
the 20 million people who visit our branches each week. The Post Office rightly makes every
effort and takes all reasonable steps to protect the money in its care.

ADDITIONAL MESSAGE

There have been a number of court cases — involving a tiny fraction of the Post Office network - when
claims and assertions against the integrity of the Horizon system have been made. We are not aware
of a single instance of a court ruling or decision accepting such assertions or challenges.

