POL00362906
POL00362906

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

@

Cyber Security Standard

Access Control Standard

Version — V3.2

INTERNAL Page 1 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
POL00362906
POL00362906

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

1 Overview

1.1. Introduction by the Standard Owner.

1.2 Purpose ..
1.3. Standard Guidance

1.4 Application ......cccccccccccccececseeeeeseueeeseueeeesueeseseueeeeseeueeseeeeeeeueueseseueessuaeeesauees 4
2 Policy Framework ......ccccccseeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeaeeeeeaaeeeeaaeeeeeaaeeesaaeeeeeaeesenee 5
2.1 POliCY FraMeWOFK........sceeeeseeeeeeeeeeceeseeeeeeenssaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeessssaesaeeeeeeeeeseeeeee 5
2.2 WHO MUSt COMPLY? ......csssesssseeeeeseeesseeseeeseeesssneeseuseeesseeseeeeeeeseeaueneeseeeseeeeeeees 5
3
4 Appendix A — Password REquireMent ..........::scseseeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 12
5 Where to go for Help......ccccccceesssseeeeseseeeseeeseeeeeeessseseeaaeeeeeeeeseeseeeeeeeaseeaeeaeenenee® 14

5.1 Additional Policies and Standards

5.2 How to raise a concern
5.3. Who to contact for more information
6 Version Control & Approval
G.1 Version CONIOL....sccsssssesssccssessesseeesssssnsssscesesseesessasssssenesseasesssesesssesensonans 15
6.2 Standard Approval ........cccceesceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenaeeeeeaeeeseeaaeesaeeeesaaeeeeneeee 15

INTERNAL Page 2 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
POL00362906
POL00362906

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

1 Overview

1.1 Introduction by the Standard Owner

Post Office is committed to protecting its employees, customers, Third Party Supply Chain
and information assets from damaging or illegal actions by individuals, either knowingly
or unknowingly. Post Office enables this through the development and deployment of
policies, standards and guidelines which are aligned to international best practices.
Effective cyber and information security is a team effort involving everyone in Post Office.

1.2 Purpose

There are various levels of access required to perform tasks in accordance with a user’s
defined role.

To reduce risk, role-based profiles must be assigned based on the appropriate permissions
and assignments associated with the task and/or function to be performed.

In practice, managing user credentials is a significant part of any facility, system or
application administrator’s role and the purpose of this document is to state the minimum
controls to ensure appropriate access to the facilities, data network infrastructure and
information resources is granted to authorised users/personnel only.

1.3. Standard Guidance

Access control ensures that actions or operations a user can perform on Post Office
systems and in physical locations are limited, seeking to prevent activities which could
lead to breach of security.

Users should only be granted access to information assets and facilities on a ‘need-to-
know’ and ‘need-to-have’ basis (principle of least privilege).

Users should only be granted the minimum access and privileges required to perform their
duties.

Each assigned user credential should uniquely identify the user and must conform to the
Post Office naming standard (e.g. first and last name), or an appropriate naming structure.
User credentials must not give any indication of the user’s access rights.

Security of system administration user credentials and their passwords is the responsibility
of the Service Provider, (SP) and must adhere to the relevant controls in this standard,
except for where this is not technically feasible, or if the control requirement is not part of
the service provided, an exception must be raised and approved.

Data Owner(s) (DO) must regularly review, (every 6 months for POL Crown Jewel systems)
the user Access Control List (ACL) including the roles assigned to information assets they
manage as the Information Owner, if any access rights need to be amended trail and up-
to-date record of these reviews must be maintained.

System Administrator accounts must be reviewed on a regular basis (monthly for POL
Crown Jewel systems) to ensure access and account privileges remain appropriate to the
specific job function, role or employment status of the user, these reviews must be
performed by an independent third party with appropriate authority who does not have

INTERNAL Page 3 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
POL00362906
POL00362906

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

Administrator access to the system being reviewed. An audit trail and up-to-date record
of these reviews must be maintained.

Access will be revoked for user credentials that no longer require access in order to
maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information to authorised users
only.

1.4 Application

This standard applies to all Post Office staff and Third-Party organisation’s who have access
to Post Office data especially those with elevated rights to Post Office data.

This Access Control Standard is amended from time to time, and applies to all Post Office
staff, including third party suppliers providing services to, for, or on behalf of Post Office,
and aligns to the requirements of the Cyber and Information Security Policy.

INTERNAL Page 4 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
POL00362906
POL00362906

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

2 Policy Framework

2.1 Policy Framework

This standard forms part of the Cyber and Information Security Policy Set. This contains
controls that form part of the Information Technology Control Framework (ITCF) governed
by the overarching Post Office wide framework.

2.2 Who must comply?

Compliance with this standard is mandatory for all Post Office employees and applies
wherever in the world Post Offices business is undertaken. All third parties who do business
with Post Office, including consultants, suppliers and business and franchise partners, will
be required to agree contractually to this standard or have their own equivalent
policy/standard.

INTERNAL Page 5 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

3 Minimum Controls

POL00362906
POL00362906

The table below sets out the minimum control standards.

Control Ref

Control Objective

Control Guidelines

PHT0453
CTRLOO20636

Establish, implement, and maintain an access control
program.

Include instructions to change authenticators as often
as necessary in the access control program.
Include guidance for how users should protect their
authentication credentials in the access control
program.

Include guidance on selecting authentication
credentials in the access control program.
Establish, implement, and maintain access control
policies.

Disseminate and communicate the access control
policies to all interested personnel and affected
parties.

PHT0459
CTRLOO20637

Establish, implement, and maintain an access rights
management plan.

Inventory all user accounts.

The organisation has a defined and implemented
access rights management plan as part of their user
access control policy.

An audit trail of access to information classified as
highly sensitive is maintained by the relevant
stakeholder.

PHT0461

Identify information system users.

Review user accounts.
Review and update accounts and access rights when
notified of personnel status changes.

INTERNAL

Page 6 of 15

Access Control Standard 3.2
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

POL00362906

POL00362906

Control Ref

Control Objective

Control Guidelines

PHT0464
CTRLOO20582

Control access rights to organizational assets.

Define roles for information systems.

Define access needs for each role assigned to an
information system.

Define access needs for each system component of
an information system.

Define the level of privilege required for each system
component of an information system.

The organisation has a defined and implemented User
Access Control Standard, which includes third parties.

Evidence is retained that access is provided on
completion of appropriate authorisation and
procedural documentation before access is granted.
Access provisioned is in line with the user's job role
and with that requested.

PHT0469
CTRLOO20603

Establish access rights based on least privilege.

(every 6 months)

Assign user permissions based on job responsibilities.
Assign user privileges after they have management
sign off.

Separate processing domains to segregate user
privileges and enhance information flow control.
Maintain user access rights in accordance with
business function and process requirements.

Align the management of identities and access rights
to the defined roles and

responsibilities, based on least-privilege, need-to-
have and need-to-know principles and separation of
duties.

Privileged accesses on system, database and
application level is appropriately restricted and
monitored

INTERNAL

Page 7 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

POL00362906
POL00362906

Control Ref Control Objective Control Guidelines
Separate processes are in place to segregate and
manage privileged user accounts. All privileged user
accounts and access privileges are reviewed at least
quarterly, to ensure access privileges remain
appropriate

PHT0473 Establish, implement, and maintain lockout See Appendix for details
procedures or lockout mechanisms to be triggered
after a predetermined number of consecutive logon
attempts.

PHT0474 Enable access control for objects and users on each Include all system components in the access control
system. system.

Set access control for objects and users to "deny all"
unless explicitly authorized.

Enable access control for objects and users to match
restrictions set by the system's security classification.
Enable role-based access control for objects and
users on information systems.

PHT0479 Assign Information System access authorizations if Enforce access restrictions for change control.
implementing segregation of duties. Enforce access restrictions for restricted data.

Provide administrators with named accounts for
business use.

PHT0482 Perform a risk assessment prior to activating third Activate third party maintenance accounts and user
party access to the organization's critical systems. identifiers, as necessary.

PHT0484 Document actions that can be performed on an Use automatic equipment identification as a method
information system absent identification and of connection authentication absent an individual's
authentication of the user. identification and authentication.

PHT0486 Control user privileges. Review all user privileges, as necessary.

Limit the number of privileged user accounts
All privileged actions must be attributed to a single
individual where this is technically possible.

PHT0488 Establish, implement, and maintain User Access Establish, implement, and maintain an authority for
Management procedures. access authorization list.

INTERNAL Page 8 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

POL00362906
POL00362906

Control Ref Control Objective Control Guidelines
Review and approve logical access to all assets based
upon organizational policies.

PHT0491 Control the addition and modification of user Assign roles and responsibilities for administering

identifiers, user credentials, or other authenticators. user account management.
Refrain from allowing user access to identifiers and
authenticators used by applications.

PHT0494 Remove inactive user accounts, as necessary. Access rights for leavers must be removed within 24
hours of their last day. Access rights for high risk
staff must be removed immediately on notification of
termination or last day.

See Appendix
PHT0495 Terminate user accounts when notified that an Terminate access rights when notified that an
individual is terminated. individual is terminated.
Revoke asset access when an individual is
terminated.
PHT0498 Disseminate and communicate the password policies I See Appendix
and password procedures to all users who have
access to restricted data or restricted information.

PHT0500 Establish, implement, and maintain access control Disseminate and communicate the access control

procedures. procedures to all interested personnel and affected
parties.

PHTO502 Establish, implement, and maintain an identification Establish, implement, and maintain identification and

and authentication policy. authentication procedures.

PHT0504 Include digital identification procedures in the access I Employ unique identifiers.

CTRLOO20686 control program. Ensure that all users (internal, external and
temporary) and their activity on IT systems
(business application, IT infrastructure, system
operations, development and maintenance)
are uniquely identifiable. Uniquely identify all
information processing activities by user.

PHTO506 Include instructions to refrain from using previously See Appendix

used authenticators in the access control program.
INTERNAL Page 9 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

POL00362906

POL00362906

Control Ref

Control Objective

Control Guidelines

PHTO507

Authenticate user identities before manually resetting
an authenticator.

Passwords should not be reset or provided to the user
unless the users identity has been challenged,
confirmed and approval has been given.

PHTO508

Require proper authentication for user identifiers.

Assign authenticators to user accounts.

Assign authentication mechanisms for user account
authentication.

Refrain from allowing individuals to share
authentication mechanisms.

Use biometric authentication for identification and
authentication, as necessary.

All systems must be designed with secure access.
Users must access the system by providing an unique
user name and password, and where applicable
privileged users must use multifactor authentication

PHTO568

Enforce privileged accounts and non-privileged
accounts for system access

Limit the number and use of privileged accounts,
(minimise privileges for all users).

Provide administrators with named accounts for
business use.

Implement the requirement for a privileged account
review which is more frequent than for standard
accounts.

Monitor all user activities, particularly access to
sensitive information and the use of privileged
accounts.

User credentials must be reviewed on a regular basis
to ensure access and account privileges remain
appropriate to the specific job function, role or
employment status of the user. An up-to-date record
of these reviews must be maintained.

Roles Matrices must be updated when roles are
changed.

MFA must be implemented for cloud root accounts

INTERNAL

Page 10 of 15

Access Control Standard 3.2
POL00362906
POL00362906

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL Page 11 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

POL00362906
POL00362906

4 Appendix A - Password Requirements

To ensure that passwords are of adequate strength for users, systems, applications, and
devices these must meet, to the degree where technically feasible, the following
Information Security control requirements:

Description Control

Rationale

Password 90 days

Enforcing a password age will increase the efficacy
of password-based authentication systems by
reducing the opportunity for an attacker to leverage

Enforcing a minimum password length to protect

Enforcing an enhanced password length for sensitive
and critical information assets to protect against
brute force and dictionary attacks, and increases the
efficacy of password-based authentication systems

Enforcing an enhanced password length for accounts
where regular password change is not feasible to
protect against brute force and dictionary attacks,

authentication systems for a higher-level of security.

Enforcing password complexity requirements using
alphanumeric and non-alphanumeric reduces the

Expiration
a known credential.
Minimum 8 characters
Length for against brute force and dictionary attacks, and
Standard increases the efficacy of password-based
Users authentication systems.
Enhanced 15 characters
Length for
High
Privilege
Accounts for a higher-level of security.
Service 30 characters
Accounts
and increases the efficacy of password-based
Password 3 out 4
Complexity character
types probability of an attacker determining a valid
credential.
Password 4 out 4

Complexity character
(Privilege types

Enforcing password complexity requirements using
alphanumeric and non-alphanumeric reduces the
probability of an attacker determining a valid

Enforcing a sufficiently long password history will
increase the efficacy of password-based
authentication systems by reducing the opportunity
for an attacker to leverage a known credential. For
example, if an attacker compromises a given
credential that is then expired, this control prevents
the user from reusing that same compromised

Accounts) credential.
Password 24 passwords
History remembered
credential.
INTERNAL

Page 12 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
POL00362906

POL00362906
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL
Description Control Rationale
Account After 3 invalid Enforcing an account lockout threshold will almost
Lockout for = logon eliminated the effectiveness of automated brute
Standard attempts force password attacks and improves the security of
Users information resources.
Account After 3 invalid Enforcing an account lockout threshold for sensitive
Lockout for = logon and critical information assets will almost eliminated
High attempts the effectiveness of automated brute force password
Privilege attacks and improves the security of information
Accounts resources.
Account 40 days If any account is not being used for 40 consecutive
Deactivation days, it must be deactivated so it cannot be
misused.
Lock-Out 60 minutes This reduces the probability of an attacker
Duration successfully determining a valid credential.

Additionally, establishing a reasonable time-out
period will prevent an attacker from intentionally
locking out all accounts until accounts automatically
unlocks after 60 minutes or the Service Desk
manually resets the account.

Screensaver Idle after 15 Enabling the screen saver will help prevent an

minutes, unauthorised user from hijacking the computer if
password attended or remotely. Release from the locked state
protected must require the user to re-enter their password.
Session Idle after 15 Enable session timeouts this will prevent an
Timeout minutes, authorised user from hijacking the computer if
password attended or remotely. User will be required to log
protected back in.

INTERNAL Page 13 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
POL00362906
POL00362906

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

5 Where to go for help

5.1 Additional Policies and Standards

This standard is part of the Cyber Security Policy framework. The full set can be found at:

https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/cybersecurity2/SitePages/Cyber-and-Information-
Security-Policy-Set.aspx

5.2 How to raise a concern

Any Post Office employee who suspects something is wrong has a duty to:

e Discuss the matter fully with their Line Manager; or,
e Report their suspicions by contacting the IT Helpdesk

5.3 Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this standard or wish t
to this standard, please contact Cyber Security Team via

in relation

INTERNAL Page 14 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
POL00362906

POL00362906
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: CONFIDENTIAL
6 Version Control & Approval
6.1 Version Control
Date Version Updated by Change Details
29/05/2018 1.1 IT Security Changed to the new template for
policies

Changed to reflect the new Post
Office structure

Minor editorial changes at annual

review
08/06/2018 2.0 IT Security Final Approved Version
03/11/2018 2.1 IPA Add timeout for VPN, and minor

editorial changes.

10/12/2018 2.2 IPA More changes as requested by ISC
following review of external practices
to do with password length and

complexity.
10/01/2019 2.3 IPA Final Approved Version.
04/04/2020 2.4 Cyber Security Updated to include archer controls,

add in 30 character password limit
and revert back to 90 day password

expiration.
12/06/2020 2.4 Cyber Security Approved by ISC
28/07/2021 3.0 Cyber Compliance Final Approved Version
. Added revised control set aligning
07/11/2022 3.1 Cyber Compliance with the UCF controls
25/04/2023 3.2 Cyber Compliance Approval by the CSF for publishing

6.2 Standard Approval

Standard Owner: Chief Information Security Officer
Standard Author: Hazel Freeman

Approved by CSF: 25/04/2023

Next review: 25/04/2024

INTERNAL Page 15 of 15 Access Control Standard 3.2
