POL00150296
POL00150296

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: RE: Sparrow actions

Attachment: Bumpf to introduce the Part 2 report and its findings.docx

Hi,
rather than quote their ‘findings’ could we not just report our findings — as attached? Realise it is long and prob needs
shortening but it is actually quite powerful, though does discredit SS and I am not sure we want to do that just yet?

It should also be noted Part 2 was a confidential report that should not have been seen by anyone outside of the
scheme — and that could be JS’s line if pressed?

mark

From: Patrick Bourke

Sent: 16 December 2014 13:47
To: Mark Underwood1
Subject: FW: Sparrow actions

Could dig out the ‘nothing wrong with horizon’ and one or two other quotes (even if not totally favourable)

From: Callard Richard (ShEx) I
Sent: 16 December 2014 13:21
To: Patrick Bourke; Belinda Crowe
Subject: RE: Sparrow actions

Thanks

Sorry, one more question - where we say there were no system wide problems with the system, can we add a couple
of quotes from the July 2013 report?

R

From: Patrick Bourke:
Sent: 16 December 2014 13:13

To: Callard Richard (ShEx); Belinda Crowe
Subject: RE: Sparrow actions
Importance: High

Dear Richard
Answers herewith in red.

Could I ask again that, should Jo get sight of James Arbuthnot’s speech in advance, you could either share this with us
or, if that’s not possible, share with us the broad thrust of it so that we might put Jo in the best possible place to
answer and helpfully and accurately as possible ?

As to tomorrow’s arrangements — I can meet you wherever/whenever is convenient — just let me know. I do think it’s
important I am there, if only to gauge the atmospherics. My personal mobile is} and it’s (almost) never
off.

POL00150296
POL00150296

Best wishes

Patrick

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)!
Sent: 16 December 2014 12:09
To: Belinda Crowe; Patrick Bourke
Subject: Sparrow actions

Belinda / Patrick

Once again thanks for coming over. I have noted down the actions for you / me following the meeting, and I think
there are as follows:

© Belinda to get in touch with Sir Anthony to request making the letter available to Parliament (and to share
with JA?)

Belinda is on the case — email sent and follow up call soon

Can you provide a line or two which I can add to the questions around POL’s level of commitment to the
scheme, “if pressed”, regarding costs paid to SPMs?

If pressed:

e PO has made £1500 + VAT contribution to any SPM in the Scheme who wishes to engage the services of a
professional adviser to assist them in preparing their complaint

¢ —Iunderstand that almost all SPMs in the Scheme have availed themselves of this offer

e In addition, PO provides an additional contribution for professional advice of £1250 + VAT for a full day
mediation and £750 + VAT for a half day mediation

e SPMs are not required to pay anything toward the mediation venue costs and their travel is also paid for by
PO

¢ Could you provide the number of cases within the 24 where you have not voted for mediation, but will
nevertheless mediate?

As Belinda explained on the phone, very few, if any cases, have gone to formal vote — James Arbuthnot has tried to
make a statistic (the infamous 90%) out of the fact that PO may have raised questions in Working Group discussions of
certain cases which is, frankly, only what you might expect them to do —it is not a statistic and says nothing. The fact
remains that 24 cases have been recommended by the WG for mediation and in only 2 has PO declined to actually
mediate (somewhat less than 10%).

¢ — I will find out what Jo was happy to share with lan Murray (outstanding Mark D request)
Thank you.

e I will change the numbers in the q&a regarding the number of cases, so it adds to 24
Thank you again

Any others from your end?

Thanks
POL00150296
POL00150296

R

Richard Callard I Executive Director I Post Office Limited and Green Investment Bank Shareholder Teams I
Shareholder Executive

BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I
www.qgov.uk/government/organisations/thi

GRO

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

coeeseesees oben os ceeeemees Jobbnieinioe

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

