MISC2023 Feb 2021

Back Office

Useful reports

Rems in/out reports

These reports can be used to make sure all incoming rems
have been accepted correctly and that all outgoing rems
have been despatched correctly. You can also check

that all stock coming in from, or out to the Automated
Distribution Centre (ADC) has been input correctly.

+ From Horizon Online ‘Back Office’, select
‘Reporting’, then ‘Reporting Rems’

+ Select either ‘Weekly Remittance IN’ or ‘Weekly
Remittance OUT’

+ Print or preview

POL00028042
POL00028042

Section 13 Back Office V1.2

I Transaction Log Glossary I
Suspense account Ip - Declaration Discrepancy (+or-) I
HER Existing Reversal I
The suspense account is a holding area for cash, stock jHD - Settle Centrally I

or transaction values that have still to be cleared from HK 4 Housekeeping
your branch accounts. The suspense account report can TRIAD - Rem in ADC i
be used to check for transaction corrections and rem HRISP- Reverse Pouch 1
shortages and surpluses. ROAD - Rem out to ADC 1

ROSP_ - Rem Out to Pouches
+ From Horizon Online ‘Back Office’, select Tay Reversal/Refund !
“Monthly Accounting’, then ‘Monthly Accounting Isa Stock Adjustment (+ or -) !
ities ; : Isc - Serve Customer !
+ Select ‘Suspense Account! yA Transaction Acknowledgement 4
+ Print or preview Tl - Transfer In

No - Transfer Out !
SS ey a es se ss

Transaction Log

This report is a list of all transactions and transfers
completed in the branch in date and time order. The
log can show data going back for up to 60 days from
the present day regardless of Balance Period or Trading
Period.

The log can be used to look at all transactions on a given
time or day, or you can enter specific criteria to filter the
data into a shorter report. For example, you could check
transactions over a certain value in a specifc stock unit.

+ From Horizon Online ‘Back Office’, select
‘Reporting’, then ‘Transaction Log’

+ — Select any specific criteria you want to check

+ Print or preview

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted
POL00028042
POL00028042

Section 13 Back Office V1.2 2 MISC2023 Feb 2021

Back Office

Transaction reversals

Mobile Top-up (e-voucher)

A reversal has to take place within 10 minutes of completing the transaction and the customer has not used the credit.

1 Back Office - Reversals - New Reversal - Telephony

Select the provider and value of the top-up and input the transaction reference number, as displayed on the
2 I Top-up e-voucher, when prompted. Confirm refund value and press ‘Enter’

3 > Horizon Online will display the ‘waiting for authorisation’ screen

If authorised, the transaction will appear in the basket - settle the basket to the same method of payment as the
4 original transaction

Give the customer the payment, reversal receipt and staple the refund receipt to the original receipt and keep
5 I in your branch for 2 years

Automated Payment reversal (e.g. barcoded or magnetic swipe card bill payments and Postal

Orders)

Transactions cannot be reversed after your end of day cut-off. If the customer paid by cheque and it has been
despatched you should not reverse the transaction. Please only reverse transactions using the original Horizon Online
receipt

1 Back Office - Reversals - Existing

2 _ Enter ‘Session ID’ from the original Horizon Online receipt and press ‘Enter’

3 Ifsession ID has been accepted, enter the original transaction date and press ‘Enter’

Select the transaction to be reversed from the list and press ‘Enter’. Please remember to select the transaction
4 I and not the method of payment otherwise the reversal won't work

5 When the ‘green message box’ appears press ‘Continue’ to confirm the reversal

Select ‘Settle’ and then the appropriate method of payment. This should be the same as the payment type
6 I Usedto settle the original transaction.

‘A blue message box will pop up confirming the data stored for reversal. Press ‘Close’ and three receipts will be
printed.

- Give the first one to the customer and keep the other two with the original receipt in the drawer

7 I -Return to the Horizon Online ‘Home Screen’ and if needed, process the transaction again

Note: If you are reversing a Postal Order, follow the Spoilt Postal Orders process on the next page

Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence
The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted,
POL00028042
POL00028042

MISC2023 Feb 2021 3 Section 13 Back Office V1.2

Back Office

Transaction reversals continued

Spoilt Postal Orders

1 I Complete the full Automated Payment reversal process as shown on the previous page

Return to the ‘Home Screen’ and scan the barcode on the Postal Order. If it won't scan, input the barcode
2 I numbers manually via the ‘AP Manual Entry’ button on the ‘Home Screen’

3 Select the ‘Spoilt Postal Order’ option and press ‘Continue’

4 I Insert the Postal Order into the printer and press ‘Continue’

The printer will print ‘Spoiled Postal Order’ on the Postal Order and print a receipt. Note: By spoiling a Postal
5 I Order, the volume of Postal Orders stock will reduce byl

6 Attach the receipt to the spoilt Postal Order and keep it in your branch for 2 years

Spoilt labels

If you physically have the label, you can spoil it by selecting ‘Postal Services’ on the ‘Home Screen’, then
1 I ‘spoilt Labels’

Select the relevant carrier and enter the Royal Mail or Parcelforce Worldwide code - this is the first character
2 I of the VAT code which are circled in the image below:

3. I If applicable, Horizon Online might prompt you for the second character of the VAT code

4 Enter the value of the postage label to be spoilt and press ‘Enter’ to confirm the details on the screen are
correct

You will be prompted to write ‘SPOILT’ across the label - attach this to the Horizon Online receipt that will
5 I print off and store them both in your branch for 2 years

6 _ Select ‘Fast Cash’ to settle the basket

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document
to any third-party not working on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted
