POL00040003
POL00040003

Message

From: Richardson, Simon [Simon.Richardsor,
Sent: 29/07/2013 13:47:09

To: Susan Crichton [susan.cricht¢

cc: Jarnail A Singh [jarnail.a.singh_

Flemington [Hugh.Flemington;

Andrew [Andrew.Parson} i
Subject: RE: Legally privileged and confident terim review of appeal process [BD-4A.FID20472253]
Attachments: CCRC suggested response.doc; GARETH JENKINS ADVICE 15-7-2013.pdf

Susan

We warned Brian there may not be papers today and he was fine with this. He said he would have the time still to review.
He has been sent the above, the first includes the process CK have adopted unless there is a later version but Jarnail can
confirm this. The other relates to the advice on the expert evidence.

His home address if

As to the ARC, it may be too soon but worth considering, even if too soon for any firm conclusions, to get a sense of his
perception and likely view though it will come with caveats on the 12". I'll hold off asking him to keep that date free but
when you come back to us let us have the October dates too and I'll get both into his diary with may be a meeting with you
a day or so beforehand. I know you are off during September so diary planning now would be sensible.

Regards
Simon

From: Susan Crichton [mailto:susan.crichtot
Sent: 29 July 2013 11:06

To: Richardson, Simon

Cc: Jarnail A Singh; Rodric Williams; Hugh Flemington; Matthews, Gavin; Parsons, Andrew

Subject: RE: Legally privileged and confidential: Interim review of appeal process [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Simon thanks for you note, Jarnail says that he has the two files, but he is out doing strike cover today so we will not be
able to send them until tomorrow, is that too late for Brian to look at them before he goes on holiday? Has he seen the
review protocol?

I will talk to CK today so that they are aware of Brian’s involvement.

Re the Board, it may make more sense if we look to have a review with him at the ARC on 12" September, but leave that
we me to talk to the Chair of the ARC and get back to you, that may be too early in the process.

Susan

From: Richardson, Simon [mailto:simon.richardsot

Sent: 26 July 2013 17:25

To: Susan Crichton

Cc: Jarnail A Singh; Rodric Williams; Hugh Flemington; Matthews, Gavin; Parsons, Andrew

Subject: Legally privileged and confidential: Interim review of appeal process [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Dear Susan

Gavin and I spoke to Brian this afternoon to discuss the interim review on the process undertaken by CK. Brian
appreciated the need for a swift review and believes he can complete it before he goes on holiday.

We discussed what he might need to review and he has already from Gavin a document, I believe it is the suggested
response that CK prepared to the CCRC, which sets out the process that they are adopting. Their draft reply referred to

POL-0036485
POL00040003
POL00040003

"impacted cases" and says two case were identified where there may be grounds for appeal. Brian does not want to get
into a detailed review of all the cases but believes it would be helpful to have sight of one of those two cases and perhaps
another where the view was taken that there would not be grounds for an appeal. Brian will be working from home for the
first part of next week, clearing up matters before he goes on holiday, and he is very happy for papers to be sent to his
home address — indeed it would suit him better if they were. I assume the files will be hard copy files. Would it be
possible to arrange for them to be delivered to his home? We have his address.

He may want to talk to CK. Are they now aware of his role? Is there a preference for him to go through Jarnail initially at
least? Thereafter I imagine he can go direct once contact has been established. He may have some questions for Jarnail
as well.

On a separate point assuming you think it a good idea to ask Brian to meet the Board, is there a particular Board meeting
it would be useful for him to attend? I do not believe protocol requires us to be present, but we can be if you need us to
be. However, I would have thought it essential that you were present. I imagine Brian would expect to have one of those
instructing him present as well because there will be matters he cannot deal with. Generally it sounds as if his diary is
fairly free but, if there was a likely date it may be sensible to get it in his diary sooner rather than later.

Regards
Simon

Anita Cox
Secretary

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POL-0036485
POL00040003
POL00040003

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0036485
