POLO00065188

COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

Post Office Investigation Report

Branch Name: Gaerwen Branch Code: 160604 Case Number: I M029
Applicant Name: Mr Hughie Status of Mediation Date of June 1994 —
Noel Thomas I Case: Appointment: I October 2005

Executive summary

The Applicant claims that the losses in his branch that led to the shortfall revealed at the audit in October
2005 were caused by errors in Horizon; he asserts that he experienced a number of technical issues
(including on-going hardware issues, power cuts, transfer failures, screen freezes, critical event notices,
etc) and transaction anomalies (including issues relating to Card Account withdrawals, stamps and
postage labels, etc). The Applicant also claims that Post Office failed to adequately train him on Horizon
and that this was the root cause of the errors.

The Applicant was the subpostmaster of Gaerwen Post Office from June 1994 until he was suspended
following an audit on 13 October 2005. The audit revealed a cash and stock shortage of £48,454.87 and a
cheque discrepancy of £1,803.02 resulting in a final shortage figure of £50,257.89.

Post Office prosecuted the Applicant who pleaded guilty to false accounting and was sentenced to 9 months
imprisonment and ordered to pay £750 costs. The Applicant subsequently made himself bankrupt and the
sum of £44,250.91 has not been repaid to Post Office.

The witness statement produced by Andy Dunks of Fujitsu (for the Applicant's prosecution) states that he
reviewed 13 calls made to the Horizon Service Desk between 1 November 2004 and 30 November 2005
(averaging one per month rather than one per week as claimed by the Applicant) and in his professional
opinion "none of these calls related to faults which would have an effect on the integrity of the information
held on the system".

The Applicant also claims that the Horizon training provided to him was short and inadequate. Due to the
age of this case, records relating to the Applicant's training are no longer available. However, records of
calls from the branch to the Network Business Support Centre do not include any request from the
Applicant for additional training which indicates that the Applicant was competently trained on how to
operate the Horizon system.

It should be noted that an incident involving the Applicant's daughter — Sian Thomas ("Sian") - resulted in
the Applicant repaying Post Office the sum of £11,000. The terms of settlement with Applicant included a
commitment that Sian would no longer work in or have access to the branch. However, at the audit of
the branch in October 2005, Sian was still listed as a user on Horizon. It is not possible to ascertain
whether Sian continued to serve in the branch, however if she had continued to have access to the
branch she could have contributed to the shortfalls in the branch.

Conclusion

Post Office maintains that Horizon and the design of its trading and accounting practices allow for
transactions to be accurately recorded and do not cause errors in a branch's accounts. This case presents
no evidence that either changes that position or demonstrates a failure by Post Office properly applying
those processes.

Based on the evidence examined as part of the Mediation Scheme investigation and in the absence of any
evidence of a failure in any other area, Post Office's conclusion is that the cause of the £48k shortfall in
this case is likely to be the cumulative product of operational errors in the branch by the Applicant or his
staff over an extended period of time. When asked during the interview with Post Office Security

1
COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

POLO00065188

Investigation on 13 Oct 2005 what he thought was causing the losses in his branch, the Applicant replied
that it was due to basic mistakes on Horizon and not understanding it. The Applicant also stated that he
was concerned over the number of zero entries on his Card Account withdrawals summary and although
the report shows nil entries on some of the transactions, he had handed the money over the counter to
the customer.

At the time of the investigation in 2005, Post Office had analysed three periods of Horizon data covering a
12 month period. In the first period examined, there were 70 nil value banking transactions; in the
second period there were 45 and in the third there were 82. Whilst all of these nil value transactions
examined had valid reasons for the nil value, had the Applicant given the customer monies against these
transactions then there would have been a shortfall in the branch.

Alternatively, the possibility of theft or fraud by the Applicant, his staff or a third party cannot be ruled
out, especially when despite the Applicant’s statement that only he and his wife worked in the branch at
the time of the audit, there were a further two users listed on Horizon.

The Applicant has admitted to making false entries on Horizon. Due to this false accounting, any small
operational losses would not have shown in the branch's accounts and would only have revealed
themselves as a single large loss following the audit in October 2005.

The false accounting also meant that it would not have been possible at the time of these events to
precisely identify all the erroneous transactions which caused the £48k shortfall. Post Office primarily
relies on reviewing the branch accounts to help subpostmasters identify errors but because the accounts
in this case had been falsified, it would not have been possible to distinguish between genuine errors and
intentionally false entries.

Nevertheless, the fact that the errors, whether inadvertent or deliberate, have arisen in branch means
that they, and any consequential shortfalls, are the responsibility of the Applicant. This conclusion
applies even if the Applicant had not stolen the missing cash and stock. The Applicant was responsible for
the safekeeping of the cash and stock in the branch and it is Post Office's firm view that he did not comply
with his duties in this regard.

The Applicant's complaint

The Applicant has raised issues and complaints in 13 key areas (listed below).
- Inadequate training provided
- Technical issues with Horizon
- Horizon transaction anomalies — nil value balance following cash withdrawals
- Horizon transaction anomaly - relating to an issue regarding Giro deposits “cut off”
- New Horizon system installation
- Helpline assistance
- Removal of items from Gaerwen branch during the October 2005 audit
-  Subpostmaster Contract

- Accounting difference of approximately £3k in 2003/04 which was settled on a 50/50 basis

2
COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

POLO00065188

- Criminal Proceedings

- Pressure placed on Applicant to plead guilty to false accounting and the theft charge be dropped
- Bankruptcy

- Data Protection Request

Each subject is dealt with more extensively in the ‘responses’ section of this document.

COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

POLO00065188

Case Review Actions

Summary of the information collated by Post Office

Information available from Post Office records:

Information area Information Information not Information not available for
provided with available as beyond other reason
this response retention period

Transactional Data x
Horizon Helpdesk x
Electronic Casework x

File

NBSC Call log Oct 2000 x

= Oct 2005

Horizon Service Desk x
Background X

information provided in

emails

Data Protection Act x
request from Applicant

Training Records x
Prosecution File x

Response to issues raised by Applicant

Issue raised

Investigation findings

1. Inadequate training provided

The Horizon system went live at the branch on
18/10/2000. However, the Applicant’s training records
are no longer available. Background information has
been obtained from Post Office training managers
indicating the type of training which would have been
cascaded during this period. The training would have
been as follows:

1. Pre- Horizon: The standard induction course lasted
between 4-6 weeks (Doc 001 refers) with onsite
support lasting up to a further 2 weeks.

2. Training given to supplement the introduction of
Horizon was delivered by an external training company
and consisted of 1 day for Assistants and 2 days for
Subpostmasters (followed by 2 days on site with
Horizon Field Support Officers when the branch went
live). These events generally took place at an external
venue and the participants had to pass a competency
test to receive a certificate enabling them to use the

4
COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

POLO00065188

system in a live environment.

There is nothing to suggest that this training was not
provided to the Applicant.

There are no calls recorded on the NBSC helpdesk call
logs (Doc 003 refers) from the Applicant requesting any
additional Horizon training.

Technical issues with Horizon

The Horizon Service Desk (HSD) call logs are no longer
available (Doc 004 refers). However, the NBSC call logs
from October 2000 - Oct 2005 are available (Doc 003
refers).

The NBSC call data for the 5 year period shows that 36
calls out of a total of 138 logged were Horizon related
(highlighted in yellow on Doc 003). However, as stated
above, details of the calls made to the HSD are no
longer available so interrogation of this data is not
possible.

It should be noted that a witness statement provided by
Andy Dunks of Fujitsu dated 6th April 2006 for the
purposes of the criminal proceedings (Doc 005), states
that during the period 1st November 2004 — 30th
November 2005, he reviewed 13 calls made to the HSD
from Gaerwen Post Office. His professional opinion was
that “none of these calls related to faults which would
have had an effect on the integrity of the information
held on the system”.

Horizon transaction anomalies — nil
value balance following cash
withdrawals

The Applicant references numerous Post Office Card
Account withdrawal (and personal banking) transactions
where Horizon showed a nil value for that transaction but
he subsequently continued to pay out the cash to the
customer.

Nil value transactions on card withdrawals are part of
the customer process depending on requirements.
They can occur as follows:-

= When only requesting a balance enquiry

- Incorrect PIN number entered

- Insufficient funds in the account

- Card blocked after 3 unsuccessful
attempts to enter correct PIN

- Withdrawal limit exceeded

- Online authorisation not received from
card provider

Analysis was undertaken prior to the court proceedings
by the Investigation Manager on nil value transactions

5
COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

POLO00065188

for three separate periods at the branch to test the
integrity of the system. The results categorically showed
Horizon was operating correctly and all nil value
transactions appeared with valid reasons with no failures
being due to system integrity or data.

If cash had been paid out on nil value transactions this
would suggest operator error, rather than Horizon
failure and would result in a shortfall in branch.

Horizon transaction anomaly —
relating to an issue regarding Giro
deposits “cut off”

“Cut off” refers to the process whereby a number of
reports for specific products / types of stock are
produced on a daily basis at the counter.

Once the transactions contained within each report have
been checked by a Subpostmaster and confirmed to be
correct, they are “cut off’, which allows the totals to be
saved to that day's accounts and a new period
commenced with a nil value.

Due to the time elapsed, the transactional data for this
branch is no longer available and cannot therefore be
interrogated.

Failing to “cut off’ is a common oversight throughout
the Post Office network and in itself does not cause any
errors or balancing anomalies. If a day’s Giro deposits
are not “cut off”, the total will accumulate into the
following day and at “cut off” 2 days’ worth of Giro
deposits will be displayed. This doesn’t impact on the
office balance. The only mitigation needed is to
manually amend the Giro slip being dispatched at the
end of the day to correspond with the slips taken only on
that day.

There are several instances on the NBSC call logs of the
Applicant requesting guidance on the procedure when
“cut off” hadn’t been performed (Doc 003 lines 6, 13,
46, 61, 62, 114 refer). This suggests the Applicant was
struggling to understand this element of the Horizon
process over an extended period of time despite help
being provided by NBSC.

New Horizon system installation

‘Anew Horizon kit was installed at the re-located branch
prior to its opening in January 2006.

It is believed that the equipment already on site was
tested as the Applicant had questioned its integrity.
Diane Matthews (Investigation Manager), referred to
Fujitsu tests being carried out on the equipment anda
response being awaited from Fujitsu. No further
correspondence can be found relating to such a
response. However, the assumption would be that no
issues were found with the equipment as the criminal
case against the Applicant proceeded.

COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

POLO00065188

RoMEC (Royal Mail Engineering & Construction), (the
facilities management services provider for Post Office),
were initially due to remove the kit from the branch.
However, it appears that the kit was taken by Fujitsu to
allow the equipment testing to be undertaken. No
documentation is available in relation to this.

Likewise, no documentation is available in relation to any
conversations the Applicant may have had with ROMEC
engineers regarding the removal of the Horizon
equipment.

Helpline assistance

The HSD call logs are no longer available but the NBSC
call logs from Oct 2000 — Oct 2005 are available (Doc
003).

The Applicant states that he made approximately one
call per week to the HSD from when Horizon was
installed in 2000.

The statement from Andy Dunks of Fujitsu (Doc 005)
states that from 1st November 2004 — 30th November
2005 there were only 13 calls (average 1 per month)
made by the Applicant and in his opinion none of these
related to faults which would have affected the integrity
of Horizon.

Within the NBSC call logs (Doc 003), there are 3 calls
(highlighted in green on lines 44, 115, 121) in relation to
attempts to contact the RLM (Retail Line Manager)
although no mention is made of the subject matter. On
one of these occasions (01/03/02), a call was escalated
as the Applicant hadn’t received a response. Other than
the aforementioned escalation, there is no evidence of
calls or requests being refused or ignored from the
available data.

In addition, 3 calls to the NBSC were transferred to the
HSD (Doc 003, lines 10, 11 and 68 refer).

Due to the absence of HSD call logs in this case, it is not
possible to form an opinion on the service the Applicant
received specifically in terms of issues relating to the
Horizon equipment.

NBSC call logs show a high volume of calls from the
office on a variety of subjects. There is nothing in the
available data to indicate that the Applicant received
anything other than a professional service with
satisfactory outcomes to the issues raised in the calls.

Removal of items from Gaerwen
branch during the October 2005

There is no documentation available relating to items
taken by Post Office personnel during the branch audit
and subsequent investigation. It is Post Office policy to

7
COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

POLO00065188

audit.

remove items that are believed to be pertinent to any
investigation. The physical case file for this investigation
is no longer available.

The Area Intervention Manager Visit Log (Doc 006) states
that the Applicant was allowed into the secure area at
the branch on the 14th October 2005 to remove
personal belongings.

Subpostmaster Contract

Contractual documentation relating to the Applicant is
no longer available.

However, the contractual process in place at the time of
the Applicant’s appointment ensured that:

- On the day of transfer, the incoming
Subpostmaster would be required to
sign an Acknowledgment of
Appointment (P931); a 1 page document
that stated they been given, and
accepted the terms of the standard
Subpostmaster’s Contract.

- Also, on the day of transfer, the new
Subpostmaster would sign the P13
Official Secrets Act form, in duplicate,
with one copy being associated with the
branch file and the other left with the
Subpostmaster.

- Inthe event that there wasn’t a copy of
the Subpostmaster’s Contract in the
branch, the trainer/auditor should have
contacted the Agency Recruitment
Team so that they could have arranged
for a duplicate to be provided to the
Subpostmaster.

Further information about this process is available in Doc
007.

‘Accounting difference of
approximately £3k in 2003/04
which was settled on a 50/50 basis

No documentary evidence of such an agreement has,
been found in the materials available.

It should be noted that a previous incident, involving the
Applicant’s daughter, Sian Thomas, resulted in the
Applicant repaying POL £11,000. This incident involved
the suppression of some giro deposits, and following
customer complaints and a business investigation, the
Applicant retained his position on the understanding he
repaid the amount, and also that his daughter was not
allowed to transact Post Office business in the future. It
is stated that the Applicant signed a declaration to this
effect, although all associated documentation was lost in
a subsequent fire at the area office in Bangor.

At the audit in October 2005, Sian was still listed as a

8
COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

POLO00065188

user on Horizon, despite the Applicant stating that only
himself and his wife had user ID’s. Terms of re-
instatement agreed between the Applicant and the
Retail Line Manager were that Sian would be removed
from Horizon.

10.

Criminal Proceedings

The Applicant was subject to criminal proceedings, in
line with Post Office business investigation policy,
following the outcome of the audit on 13th October
2005 and the subsequent interview undertaken with
members of the Investigation.

The Applicant was charged with ‘False Accounting’ after
failing to satisfactorily explain the circumstances of the
loss during the interview, and largely responding “no
comment” to questions put to him .

The sentencing report (Doc 008) states that the
Applicant appeared at Caernarfon Crown Court on 6th
November 2006 and was sentenced on the charge of
‘False Accounting’, to which he had pleaded guilty at an
earlier hearing on September 29th.

The Applicant was sentenced to 9 months in custody and
ordered to pay £750 costs.

11.

Pressure placed on Applicant to
plead guilty to false accounting and
the theft charge be dropped.

There is no reference in any available documentation as
to when or why an initial charge of theft was dropped,
with only the false accounting charge being pursued.

12.

Bankruptcy

No claim was made by Post Office in the Applicant's
bankruptcy proceedings, with the outstanding amount of
£44,250.91 being written off on the 15/11/2008 (Doc
009 refers).

13.

Data Protection Request

No records are available of a DPA request being received
from the Applicant.

Contact has been made with the Royal Mail Information
Rights Team, who would have been responsible for such
requests at that time. They have requested information
going back to 2009 but the Applicant doesn’t appear on
this list. (Doc 002 refers).

COMMERCIALLY SENSITIVE AND PREPARED IN CONNECTION WITH MEDIATION

POL00065188

Documents being provided to Second Sight

List documents (if any)

Reference

Description

M029_POL_001_Horizon Email_JO

Training background information pre-Horizon

™M029_POL_002_Data Protection Email_JO

Data protection information

M029_POL_003_NBSC Call Log Oct 2000 -13 Oct
2005_JO

NBSC call log

M029_POL_004_ARQs out with retention
221113_JO

Fujitsu HSD call logs out with retention period

™M029_POL_005_CQR_Tab_3_JO

Fujitsu witness statement

™M029_POL_006_Area Intervention
Manager Visit Log - Gaerwen_JO

Area Intervention Manager Visit Log

™M029_POL_007_Contract Information Email_JO

Contract background information

™M029_POL_008_Sentencing Report_JO

Court Sentencing Report

™M029_POL_009_Agent Accounting Email_JO

Former Agents accounting information

10
