POL00448294

POL00448294

Postmaster support
policy

Version 4.1

POST —
OFFICE
POL00448294
POL00448294

Post Office is determined to reset its relationship with
postmasters and has introduced policies that set out guidelines
on how Post Office should support postmasters, specifically for
use across twelve areas.

The policies stand on their own but should be reviewed in
conjunction with each other. Support teams should have an
awareness of all twelve policies and how they link together.

The twelve Postmaster Support Policies are listed in section
2.2 of this policy and can be found on the hub, here.

INTERNAL — Postmaster onboarding policy V4.1 Page 2 of 21,
POL00448294
POL00448294

Contents page

1 Overview.

1.1 Introduction by the policy owner

1.2 Purpose

13 — Core principles...

14 Application ...

15 Therisk
16 Legislation...

2 Risk appetite and required operational standards....

2.1 Risk appetite...

2.2 Policy framework...

2.3. Who must comply?

24 Roles & responsibilities jointly responsible for onboarding....

2.5 Policy required operational standards...

3 Procedures.

3.1 Postmaster/Banking Hub Operators onboarding requirements ..

3.2 Onboarding journey timelines...

a3 Scheduling of operational trainin

3.4 Collaborative working...

4 Where to go for help.

4.1 Additional policies.

4.2 Howto raise a concern.....

4.3. Who to contact for more information

5 Governance

5.1 Governance responsibilities ..

6 Document control ...

6.1 Document control version ..

6.2 Oversight committee...

6.3 Company details

INTERNAL Postmaster onboarding policy V4.1 Page 3 of 21
POL00448294

POL00448294

1 Overview

1.1 Introduction by the policy owner

The Retail Engagement Director has overall accountability to the Board of Directors for the design
and implementation of controls and supporting protocols to ensure postmasters! are onboarded in
line with applicable regulatory requirements and contractual obligations, creating an overall positive
onboarding experience for potential new postmasters (including Banking Hub operators given that
these are appointed from existing postmasters).

This policy is a non-contractual document provided for information. It does not form part of the
contract between any postmaster and Post Office’.

1.2 Purpose

This policy is part of a framework that has been established to capture the minimum operations
onboarding standards required relating to the initial onboarding of postmasters and their teams.

It is one of a set of policies that provide a clear framework for Postmaster Onboarding. Compliance
with these policies supports the Post Office in meeting its business objectives and responsibilities to
postmasters.

1.3 Core principles

Post Office intends to provide a postmaster onboarding process that attracts and appoints the best
possible potential new postmasters to reduce network? churn, attrition and enables Post Office to
maintain a stable and sustainable network. It therefore supports the long-term commercial viability of
the Post Office.

Post Office will deliver postmaster onboarding in good faith with fairness, transparency, and
professionalism (being the underpinning behaviours of Post Office).

It is essential that potential new postmasters and their teams are given the right levels of support
throughout the onboarding journey. This will help Post Office lay the foundations for a sustainable,
collaborative and transparent future partnership.

Post Office will evaluate all onboarding feedback received from postmasters and their teams and take
relevant corrective actions agreed.

1 In this policy “postmaster” refers to a limited company, partnership, limited liability partnership, other entity or individual that
contracts with Post Office for the operation of a Post Office® branch.

? Inthis policy, “Post Office” means Post Office Limited.
3 In this policy, “network” means branches not directly managed by Post Office.

INTERNAL Postmaster onboarding policy V4.1 Page 4 of 21
POL00448294

POL00448294

1.4 Application

This Policy is applicable to all Post Office employees* that manage postmaster onboarding processes
defines the minimum standards to control financial loss, postmaster impact, regulatory breaches and
reputational damage in line with the Post Office’s Risk Appetite. The policy applies to postmasters
who are onboarded and appointed as a postmaster (regardless of what contract type they will have
with Post Office and what Post Office model type they will operate) from when the postmaster
submits an initial application through to appointment.

1.5 The risk

Post Office is committed to provide a supportive and straightforward onboarding journey, with the
view to ensuring the right appointment decision for both Post Office and the prospective postmaster.
Failure to do so could create risks to both the Post Office and postmaster, including:

e Financial assessment fails to flag appropriate risk weighting

* Incorrect contract agreement issued to postmasters

e Branch assistants are not vetted correctly

*  Postmasters do not receive the appropriate training

* Non-compliant transactions due to sharing of Smart ID

« Non-compliance with Fit & Proper requirements for postmasters
* Data shared to unauthorised people on calls

Section 2.5 sets out the policy required operational standards Post Office has implemented to control
these risks.

1.6 Legislation

Post Office seeks to comply with all relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements including (but not
limited to):

« Sections 15 to 25 of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 (the 2006 Act),
section 24B of the Immigration Act 1971, and Schedule 6 of the Immigration Act 2016.
Legislation to prevent illegal working.

e Section 122 of the Police Act 1997. Ensuring potential new postmasters or their
directors/partners (if a potential new postmaster is a limited company or partnership) who
have a criminal record are treated fairly and not discriminated against automatically because
of a conviction or other information revealed.

“In this Policy “employee” means permanent staff, temporary including agency staff, contractors, consultants and anyone else
working for or on behalf of Post Office and, for clarity, does not include postmasters or their staff.

INTERNAL Postmaster onboarding policy V4.1 Page 5 of 21
POL00448294
POL00448294

* The Data Protection Act 2018. Provision for the regulation of the processing of information
relating to individuals.

e Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer)
Regulations 2017.

INTERNAL Postmaster onboarding policy V4.1 Page 6 of 21
POL00448294

POL00448294

2 Risk appetite and required operational standards

2.1 Risk appetite

Risk appetite is the extent to which the Post Office will accept that a risk might happen in pursuit of
day-to-day businesses transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of activity and levels of
exposure that the Post Office are willing and able to tolerate.

The Post Office takes its legal, regulatory and contractual responsibilities seriously and consequently
has:

*  Averse risk appetite to risks around service and support provided to postmasters.
e  Averse risk appetite to being non-compliant with our statutory and regulatory obligations.

*  Averse risk appetite towards risks around our core operational processes that impact
postmasters.

*  Averse risk appetite for financial crime to occur within any part of Post Office or the network.

© Averse risk appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by Post Office employees.
© Averse risk appetite to risks around disputes and litigation.

* Cautious risk appetite towards the risk of service interruptions that would considerably
reduce branch availability across the network resulting in the inability to serve customers.

Post Office acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls have been
implemented a risk may still sit outside the agreed Risk Appetite/Risk Tolerance. Risks outside of
Appetite/Tolerance may be presented to the relevant governance forums for escalation/agreement of
the risk position.

Ifa risk is identified which is outside of agreed policy a risk exception note will be required, details of
which can be found here.
2.2 Policy framework

This policy is part of a framework of postmaster support policies that has been established to set the
minimum operating standards relating to the management of postmaster contract risks throughout
the business and network in line with Post Office's risk appetite. These are subject to an annual
review. The framework includes the following policies:

* Postmaster Onboarding (this policy)
* Postmaster Training

* Postmaster Complaint Handling

* Network Monitoring and Branch Assurance Support

e Network Cash and Stock Management

INTERNAL Postmaster onboarding policy V4.1 Page 7 of 21
POL00448294
POL00448294

e Network Transaction Corrections

* Postmaster Account Support

e Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution

* Postmaster Contract Performance

e Postmaster Contract Suspension

« Postmaster Contract Termination Decision Review

« Postmaster Decision Review

2.3, Who must comply?

Compliance with this policy is mandatory for all Post Office employees that manage postmaster
(including Banking Hub) onboarding processes.

Where non-compliance with this policy by Post Office employees is identified by Post Office, Post
Office will carry out an investigation. Where it is identified that an instance of non-compliance is
caused through wilful disregard or negligence, this will be investigated in accordance with the Group
Investigations Policy.

2.4 Roles & responsibilities jointly responsible for onboarding

e Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee — is the Committee of the Post Office Limited Board
which reviews and approves Postmaster Support policies

e Risk and Compliance Committee - is the standing committee of the Strategic Executive
Group who review and approve Postmaster Support policies for recommendation to the
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.

* Retail Engagement Director ~ is the policy owner, who must comply with the governance
responsibilities set out at section 5.1.

« Head of Postmaster Onboarding - is accountable for the deployment of this policy. This role
is also responsible for regularly reviewing the standards and processes set out in this policy
and for drafting any amendments that may be required.

©  Onboarding Manager(s) - is accountable for the deployment of procedures and decisions
required in this policy and supporting Onboarding Support Advisors who onboard
postmasters.

¢  Onboarding Support Advisor(s) — carries out onboarding processes and checks and should
be fully conversant with this policy and linked policies.

¢ Financial Analysts — carries out the financial analysis behind Financial Assessments which

are submitted as part of the postmaster onboarding process.

INTERNAL Postmaster onboarding policy V4.1 Page 8 of 21
POL00448294
POL00448294

* Business Support Managers ~ carries out suitability assessments along with Area Managers.
They are accountable for providing basic training to branch staff and ensuring the
commercial opportunities available to postmasters are understood.

* Area Managers - the primary contact point for branch staff. They provide tailored support for
an individual branch's needs and share performance data and discuss operational issues with
postmasters.

© Smart ID Lead - part of the onboarding team is accountable for the deployment of this policy
and is responsible for supporting the team that vets Assistants and manages the annual fit &
proper declaration checks.

* Vetting Team — part of the Onboarding Support Advisors team carry out vetting checks on
Assistants and should be fully conversant with this policy and linked policies.

* Fit & Proper Advisor(s) -carry out annual fit & proper checks in relation to postmasters
(where the postmaster is an individual), the relevant partner (where the postmaster is a
partnership) or the relevant director (where the postmaster is a company and should be fully
conversant with this policy and linked policies.

* Network Provision and Property Manager - helps to maintain the network by sourcing new
possible postmasters and premises from which Post Office services can be provided.

e Network Provision and Property Lead - owns and develops the relationship with all
potential new postmasters (and their directors/partners, if applicable) in advance of them
submitting an application for a Post Office branch.

* Scheduling Assistant — is responsible for allocating eLearning modules to postmasters and
for scheduling classroom and onsite training.

e Onsite trainer — is responsible for delivering a comprehensive package of training and
delivering up to 6 days of onsite support to new branch teams. This training is supplemented
by a minimum of one repeat visit to prepare postmasters for the weekly accounting process.

* Head of Banking Hubs: - is accountable for the deployment of the Banking Hub onboarding
policy. This role is also responsible for regularly reviewing the standards and processes set out
in this policy and for drafting any amendments that may be required.

* Banking Hubs Operations Manager - Is accountable for ensuring the Banking Hub sifting
process is implemented fairly and within the Banking Hub onboarding timelines. They will
regularly review the sifting process and measures introducing any amendments and updates
once identified.

INTERNAL Postmaster onboarding policy V4.1 Page 9 of 21
2.5 Policy required operational standards

A required operational standard defines the level of control that must be in place to manage inherent risks so that they remain within the defined Risk
Appetite statements. This section of the policy also sets out the Business Area(s) responsible for managing that risk through their controls, and all employees

must ensure that they comply with the policy requirements. There must be mechanisms in place within each business unit to demonstrate compliance. The

POL00448294
POL00448294

policy required operational standard can cover a range of control types, i.e., directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks
are managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required policy operational standard in consideration of the stated risk appetite.

The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk area Description of risk Required operational standard Business Control(s) Frequency
owners
Postmaster Financial assessment I Detective Control
Onboarding fails to flag The Postmaster Onboarding Team will quality assure I Head of Vetting checks of On every new
appropriate risk all vetting checks carried out, using Experian or Postmaster all potential new potential
weighting Equifax, before the completed Financial Assessment I Onboarding postmasters as part I postmaster
can be sent to Finance for review. of the Financial
Assessment
Incorrect contract Detective control
agreement issued to I Quality assurance must be in place to check all Head of Quality assurance _I Every time an
postmasters agreements issued by the Postmaster Onboarding Postmaster checks to be agreement is
Team contain the correct documentation and Onboarding completed by issued or
information. Postmaster received.
Onboarding on all
produced
agreements, prior
to issuing.

INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1

Page 10 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

Risk area Description of risk Required operational standard Business Control(s) Frequency
owners
Detective control
Quality assurance must be in place to check all Head of Quality assurance I Every time an
agreements returned by a Postmaster have been Postmaster of all returned agreement is
completed correctly, have the right signatory and Onboarding agreements to issued or
there have been no amendments made to the Postmaster received.
agreement. Onboarding
Branch assistants are I Preventive control
not vetted correctly _I All branch assistants must successfully complete the I Head of Correct P250 form I Every time
vetting process prior to appointment. They will be Postmaster template version
advised by letter if they are unsuccessful and any Onboarding has been received
appeals to the decision will be quality assured to and fully completed
make sure the correct outcome has been reached.
Retaining copies of
unsuccessful letters
Validating the
correct appeals
process has been
used
Postmasters do not Preventive control
receive the The Training & Scheduling Team will quality assure I Head of Remote Training Every time
appropriate training _ I all allocated training for all incoming Postmasters to Postmaster Requirements for
make sure the correct training requirements have Onboarding Postmaster
been agreed and arranged.
INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1 Page 11 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

Risk area Description of risk Required operational standard Business Control(s) Frequency
owners
Training
Requirements for
Postmaster
Non-compliant Preventive control
transactions due to The Smart ID team will perform random checks to Head of Monitor and check I Monthly
sharing of Smart ID make sure the status of accounts is correct, and Postmaster postmaster Smart
quality assure the activation or deactivation of a Onboarding ID creation volumes
Smart ID has been completed correctly.
Retired 2+ years
and 90-day
dormant status
Accounts.
Deactivation for
‘leavers’
Detective Control
Upon notification of a Smart ID being shared in Head of Volumes of shared I Upon
branch, the Smart ID team will log the occurrence to _I Postmaster Smart IDs being notification a
understand volumes, potential gaps in the process Onboarding monitored on a shared Smart ID
and future improvement opportunities. monthly basis
They will also inform key departments, for example Deactivation been
the Postmaster Contracts Team and Area Managers, completed for
who will contact the individual to understand why Branch(es) who
the Smart ID is being shared and report the outcome have not provided
back to the Smart ID team. additional P250s
forms on second
Branches will be required to submit vetting forms for request
the branch assistant(s) without a Smart ID. If the
INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1 Page 12 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

Risk area Description of risk Required operational standard Business Control(s) Frequency
owners
forms are not submitted after the second and final
request, the Smart ID for the branch will be
deactivated.
Non-compliance with I Preventive control
Fit & Proper The Fit and Proper Team will communicate with Head of Addition and Monthly
requirements for postmasters to make sure the Responsible Person(s) I Postmaster Removal of
postmasters recorded on the branch account are accurate andup_ I Onboarding authorised
to date correct. responsible people
Where branches fail to return the Annual Declaration Overdue Annual
within the required time limit to confirm the details of Declarations
the Responsible Person(s) are correct, Bureau De
Change and International Money Services will be
automatically turned off.
Preventive control
The Postmaster Onboarding team complete a quality I Head of Validation of the Every time
assurance check on each entity change request they I Postmaster person requesting
receive. This is to make sure the request has come Onboarding an entity change
from an individual named on the current agreement.
Data shared to Detective control
unauthorised people I The Postmaster Onboarding team confirm the Head of Verification of all On every
on calls identity of the person they are speaking to, tomake I Postmaster inbound/outbound I inbound and
sure they are talking to the right person on all Onboarding caller identification I outbound call
inbound and outbound calls.
INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1 Page 13 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

3 Procedures

3.1 Postmaster/Banking Hub Operators® onboarding requirements

It is imperative that all onboarding activities are completed in a supported, transparent, and fully
engaged manner. This will ensure that Post Office and postmasters and their teams work together to
achieve a confident and trustworthy relationship. In support of this, Post Office will provide
comprehensive supporting documents and telephone calls to offer substantial support throughout
the onboarding journey.

The type of onboarding differs depending upon the Post Office branch type (including Banking Hubs)
— please see internal processes, which are version and dated controlled and located centrally on the
onboarding knowledge centre. A RACI system is in place to clarify who is responsible, accountable,
informed or consulted across Post Office teams.

The list below details the high-level activities required in respect of onboarding: -

All opportunities are to be advertised on our Run a Post Office website (RaPO). This also includes
Temporary Branches and Banking Hubs. The Network Provision Team own the notification of the
opportunity to the Onboarding Team, with the Onboarding Team responsible for uploading and
taking down the adverts. For Banking Hubs, the Network Correspondence Team own the notification
of the opportunity to the Onboarding Team, with the Onboarding Team responsible for uploading
and taking down the adverts.

* The prospective new postmaster (or its directors/partners) submits the application which is
tracked by the Onboarding Support Advisor

e The prospective new postmaster is invited to submit a detailed Financial Assessment

* Post Office Finance team, which is part of the onboarding structure, makes a financial
decision as to the ongoing sustainability of the operation based on the Financial Assessment;
they notify the Onboarding Support Advisor who updates the potential new postmaster.

e If unsuccessful, the potential new postmaster can resubmit the Financial Assessment. If there
is a further unsuccessful submission of the Financial Assessment, the potential new
postmaster will not be able to reapply for a further 6-month period. This is not applicable for
Banking Hubs due to a much simpler and shorter Financial Assessment.

* The Suitability Assessment is conducted by the Business Support Manager/Area Manager;
they confirm the outcome of the assessment with the potential new postmaster

e Onboarding Support Advisor is notified of the suitability assessment outcome

5 In this policy “Banking Hub operator” refers to a limited company, partnership, limited liability partnership, other entity or
individual that contracts with Post Office for the operation of a Banking Hub.

INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1

Page 14 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

e If successful, agreement is created by the Onboarding Support Advisor and sent to the
potential new postmaster for signature

«The agreement is signed by or on behalf of the postmaster, checked, countersigned by a Post
Office Limited representative and a copy is returned to the postmaster

« Anannual review assessing the financial standing of the business plan will be carried out.
This aims to ensure its feasibility and highlight any area where additional support might be
necessary to meet the requirements.

3.2 Onboarding journey timelines

Postmaster On-boarding Journey (Application)

Tore wees Financial Toae2 wets Agreement
‘s Your dedicated support Assessment Review ** Your dedicated Business Production

advisor will guide you Support Manager will contact

through completing your “= Upon submission of your you to arrange a conversation + Providing everything isin

financial assessment. financial assessment, this will uss the potential order, we wil ssue your
‘*The financial assessment can be evaluated by our Finance Partnership, to ensure both ‘agreement; once you have

bbe completed as quickly as Team to understand Parties are happy. signed and returned this,

applicants are able to. everything isin order for long we're good to go!

term success.
Financial Suitability
Assessment Tonpet 2 weeks Assessment Target 2 weeks

BENNY we VY

Postmaster On-boarding Journey (Support)

End of your on
—— boarding journey
‘average: 19-12 weeks Classroom Business Support
“Should you require any Training ‘* We have dedicated Onsite Manager

Trainers that will be with
you every step of the way
for the first six days of

building work, you will be
visited by a Property
Project Manager, who will
plan your new office with
you.

‘Prior to opening we offer
‘an extensive training
package, we provide
‘eLearning for you to.
‘complete and classroom
training for you to attend.

*A Business Support
Manager will work with you
for up to six months to
ensure you feel confident
and can do the basics
brilliantly!

opening, onsite at your
branch.

Build

=z \VS/ °NY4

Onsite Training

INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1

Page 15 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

3.3 Scheduling of operational training

Banking Hub operators will be omitted from formal training due to their appointment from within the
existing postmaster population. For all other appointments, operational training will be organised as
follows:

* Training dates will be mutually agreed and scheduled once the agreement between Post
Office and the postmaster is signed and returned (i.e., the time at which the
contract/appointment is confirmed).

e —eLearning/classroom/onsite training will be discussed with prospective new postmasters or
their staff (as applicable) 6 weeks prior to go live for new branches.

e —Incommercial transfer situations, we will aim to contact prospective new postmasters within
7 days of receipt by Post Office of the signed contract.

*  Atthe point of being booked onto the classroom training, attendees will be registered
through the LMS, to enable them to access the eLearning material

e The relevant branch staff will attend the classroom training as listed in section 3.1 of the
Training Policy. (Such training is specific to the branch model).

* Once the classroom course is completed, the attendees will have a debrief session with the
classroom trainers to discuss learning outcomes.

* Branch staff will receive in-branch support and training from the Onsite trainer for 6 days
starting on the first day of branch operation and a follow visit for follow up balancing (FUB).

3.4 Collaborative working

Weekly or monthly calls with other functions allow Onboarding to review specific cases if required,
talk about challenges that Onboarding or other teams may be experiencing and also share good
experiences and practices.

Regular calls are held with the following:
e Strategic Partners
«Network Provision
° Hard to Place team
* Network Maintenance
e Training

* Business Support Managers

INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1

Page 16 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

« National Federation of Sub-Postmasters

e Postmaster remuneration

INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1

Page 17 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

4 Where to go for help

4.1 Additional policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found on the SharePoint Hub
under Postmaster Support Policies.

4.2 How to raise a concern

Any postmaster, any postmaster’s staff or any Post Office employee who suspects that there is a
breach of this Policy should report this without any undue delay.

If a postmaster or any postmaster's staff are unable to raise the matter with the area manager of the
relevant branch or if a Post Office employee is unable to speak to her or his line manager, any person
can bring it to Post Office’s attention independently and can use the Speak Up channels for this
purpose. Any person can raise concerns anonymously, although disclosing as much information as
possible helps ensure Post Office can conduct a thorough investigation.

For more details about how and where to raise concerns, please refer to the current Speak Up Policy
which can be found on The Hub under Post Office Key Policies, accessed here, or report online at:
http://speakup.postoffice.co.uk or call the Speak Up Line on! GRO.

Please note that a postmaster may also contact the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters (NFSP)

for help and support, by contacting their helpline on

4.3 Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this policy or wish to report: ion to this policy,

please contact the Retail Engagement Director at tracy.marshalt GRO I

INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1

Page 18 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

5 Governance

5.1 Governance responsibilities

The Policy sponsor, the Group Chief Retail Officer of Post Office, takes responsibility for policies

covering their areas.

The Policy Owner is the Retail Engagement Director who is responsible for ensuring that the content
is up to date and is capable of being executed. As part of the review process, they need to ensure
that the minimum controls articulated in the policy are working or to identify any gaps and provide an
action plan for remediation

Additionally, the Retail Engagement Director is responsible for providing appropriate and timely
reporting to the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee as

required.

The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing
compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting Post Office's risk appetite.

INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1

Page 19 of 22
POL00448294
POL00448294

6 Document control

6.1 Document control version

Summary

GE policy sponsor Standard owner Standard implementer Standard approver
Martin Roberts (Group Tracy Marshall (Retail Jayne Pardoe (Head of R&CC/ARC

Chief Retail Officer) Engagement Director) Postmaster Onboarding)

Document rev
ly Policy ~ effective date Policy location

period

Postmaster Support
41 Annual 07/2024 Policies on SharePoint
Hub

Revision history

on I Date hanges Updated by
0.1 17th August 2020 Draft Version Marie Pyatt
1.0 18th February 2021 Updated Draft Version Jayne Pardoe
11 18th March 2021 Amendments to align with postmaster support Jo Milton
policies
12 30th March 2021 Addition of non-compliance minimum control Jayne Pardoe
standard

Final approved by ARC
13 30th April 2021 Extra references to branch staff and partners and Jo Milton
directors of Ltd companies

Amendments to align with postmaster support
policies
14 25th May 2021 Added linked policy statement to front page Jo Milton

Added reference to the Group Investigations Policy
to section 2.3 Who Must Comply?

Updated link to section 4.1

Added footnote to link to the vetting policy referred
to in this policy.
15 26th October 2021 Updated scheduling of operational training 3.2 Jayne Pardoe

Roles & responsibilities jointly responsible for
onboarding 2.4
16 18" February 2022 Annual Review Jo Milton
1.2 Addition of section stating that a postmaster
may authorise someone to act on theirfits behalf
2.1 Updated risk appetite statements to include
Operational statements
3.1 Added a paragraph on Run a Post Office
website

INTERNAL Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1

Page 20 of 22
20 1 April 2022 3.2 Inserted timeline graphics

Amended version number following approval

22 14" November 2022 Annual Review

23

Addition of references to Banking Hub operators
where their onboarding differs from postmasters.
2.5 Addition of ServiceNow control checks on
Notice to Leave packs, quality assurance on all
agreements, validation of entity changes and caller
identity on all calls

13% December 2022 _1.2 Removal of section acknowledging a

postmaster’s assistant can perform the steps in this
policy

1.5 Clarification of risk relating to contract issuing
2.5 Addition of regular engagement with NFSP to
discuss stalled cases

5.2 Added Speak Up contact details

3.0 27 January 2023 Updated to full version number following approval

at ARC

3.1 8th December 2023 Amended risk exception statement

Updated framework policy name ~ Contract
Termination Decisions Review

3.2 16" January 2024 Annual Review

2.5 Mention of a separate Finance team removed
3.1 Added that a RACI system is in place

Added annual reviews of business plan

3.3 Inclusion of eLearning

3.4 Collaborative working — new section

4,2 Added NFSP contact details

4.0 3° April 2024 Updated version number following ARC approval

41 2

GE replaced with SEG
at" June 2024 1.5 Risks amended to reflect ServiceNow
2.4 GE replaced with SEG
2.5 Minimum Control Standards changed to Policy
Required Operational Standards and updated to
reflect ServiceNow

6.2 Oversight committee

Jo Milton

Jayne Pardoe

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

Jayne Pardoe

Jayne Pardoe

Jo Milton

Jo Milton

POL00448294
POL00448294

Oversight committee: Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee

Committee Date approved

POL R&CC 12 MARCH 2024

POL ARC 20 MARCH 2024
Next review: 31 MARCH 2025

6.3. Company details

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers 2154540 and

08459718 respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

INTERNAL

Postmaster Onboarding Policy V4.1

Page 21 of 22
POL00448294

POL00448294

