POL00028186
POL00028186

benefits

ba
agency

BENEFITS AGENCY

SOCIAL SECURITY AGENCY (NI)
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LIMITED

PROGRAMME DELIVERY AUTHORITY
MASTER PLAN

Version 3

8 April 1997

__v3f_l.doc Document Reference No: PDA / SUP / PLG 001
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

Distribution:

__v3f_l.doc

PDA

Peter Crahan
Bruce McNiven
Keith Downer
Craig Lewis
Pat Kelsey
Stuart Riley
Gael Stewart
Rod Stocker
John Meagher
David Anders
Keith Baines
Liz Blackburn
Dick Brazear
John Bruce
Debra Channon
Janis Hatchell
Jaya Karlekar
Gareth Lewis
Dave McLaughlin
Tony Mulhearn
Robin O’Connor
Martin O’ Toole

Martin Renwick
Karen Rogers

POCL

Stuart Sweetman
Paul Rich
Jonathan Evans
Mena Rego
David Smith
Tan Gair

Dave Waltho
Wendy Powney
Peter Dent
John Scannell
Paul Santilli
Paul Harris
Alan Shepherd

Director PDA

Deputy Director PDA

Planning, Organisation, People and Processes Manager
Communications Manager

Contract Manager

Finance Manager

Implementation Manager

Stage 2 Manager

Product Management Team Leader
Facilities Manager

POCL Commercial Team Leader
Programme Finance Team Leader

Planning & Performance Reporting Manager
POCL Systems Migration Team Leader
Communications Manager

Roll Out Team Leader

BA Commercial Team Leader

Fraud and Security Group Team Leader
Service Management Team Leader
Organisation and People Team Leader
Design Team Leader

Process & Programme Support Team Leader

Integration / Testing Manager
Business Procedures Team Leader

Managing Director

Development Director

Network Director

Head of Programme Development
Automation Change Programme Manager
Head of Automated Products

Head of Partnership Development

Head of Information Systems Strategy
Transaction Information Processing Programme
Automated Benefit Encashment Data Project
POCL Reference Data Programme

Financial Markets Business Centre

POiT
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
2 BA/CAPS
2 Peter Mathison Chief Executive
2 George McCorkell BA Support Services Director

__v3f_l.doc

Jane Rintoul
Brenda Fordy-Scott
Colin Goldsworthy
David Riggs
Derek Brown

Rob Langford

Don Rendall

Ken Davenport
Alistair Burgess
Paul Coulson
Mick Davison
Doreen Dickinson
Gary Hall

Peter Hartley
Gordon Hextall
Jane Humphries
Mike Newton
Ellen Thomas
Duncan Riddell
Tom Wright

SSA NI

Alec Wylie
Sean Johnston
Brendan O'Neill

ICL Pathway
Keith Todd
John Bennett
Terry Austin
Barrie Vaughan

Director CAPS Programme
CAPS Programme Office
CAPS Programme Office

BA FD

BA BAB

BA PAG

BA POGAB

BA POGAB

BA IT Programme Management
BA (PFD3)

CSA

BA (PFD2 - PFI)

BA Security

BA Security

ITSA

BA Data Administration Unit
BA Resources

BA Resources

CA

Corporate IS/IT

Chief Executive
Programme Director
Project Manager

Chief Executive, ICL
Managing Director
Operations Director
Programme Office Manager
POL00028186
POL00028186

Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA)
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN
Social Security Agency (NI)

Version 3

(Final)
8 April 1997

CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION
11 Purpose
1.2 Structure of the Master Plan Document
13 Changes from Previous Versions
14 Status
15 Related Documents
1.6 Terminology
2. STRATEGIC MILESTONES
21 List of Strategic Milestone
22 Strategic Milestone Relationships
3. KEY ELEMENTS OF THE MASTER PLAN
3.1 Plan Structure
3.2 Plan Summary
3.3 Responsibilities
3.4 Plan Assumptions
3.5 External Dependencies
3.6 Internal Dependencies
3.7 Significant Risks to the Programme
3.8 Programme Organisation
3.9 Programme Resourcing
3.10 Reporting
3.11 PDA Master Plan Version 4
APPENDICES
A. Overview Plan
B. Strategic Milestone Definitions
Cc Integrated Plan - Activities Supporting Delivery of Strategic Milestones
D. Assumptions
E. Definitions

__v3f_l.doc
POL00028186
POL00028186

Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
: INTRODUCTION
11 Purpose
This document sets out the Master Plan for the delivery of the PDA programme. It brings
together the activities of the Benefits Agency, Social Security Agency Northern Ireland, Post
Office Counters Ltd and ICL Pathway and covers the timescale up to completion of the
programme.
The objectives of this plan are to:
© integrate at the high level the activities of all parties. Each activity on the plan will be
supported by a lower level sub-ordinate plan
* communicate key information on the status of the programme regarding scope,
implementation approach, responsibilities and timescales
e clarify uncertainties and communicate their status
¢ to provide the framework for ongoing management (monitoring, reporting and control).
This version of the PDA Master Plan has been revised through extensive consultation with all
sponsors and the supplier. The strategic milestones are now under formal change control. In
future, the plan will be revised as required, whenever a change has been agreed to any strategic
milestone.
1.2 Structure of the Master Plan Document

The main body of the plan contains the following sections:
1. Introduction

2. Strategic Milestones
* asummary of those milestones critical to the overall success of the programme and
which are the responsibility of all parties

3. Key Elements of the Master Plan
¢ the overall structure of the strategic milestones
¢ asummary of the rollout of automation into offices and product availability
¢ the responsibilities of the organisations
¢ key assumptions on which the plan is based
¢ the reporting process

There are five appendices:

AL Overview plan - the top level Gantt chart, structured in line with the strategic
milestones, and which summarises the integrated plan and the working level plans.

B Strategic Milestone Definitions, which describe the scope of the strategic milestone;
the conditions and deliverables which need to be in place for the milestone to have
been achieved; and the target date.

Cc Integrated Plan - the middle level Gantt chart, which identifies the key milestones and
activities of the stakeholder organisations, and their interdependencies. Progress will be
monitored against the integrated plan.

_vsr 1p0c Page I of 15
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
D. Key Assumptions inherent in the plan, listed in organisation order.
E. Definitions of acronyms and key terms used in the plan.

13

Changes from Previous Version

This version of the PDA Master Plan follows a substantial review of the plans of the
stakeholder organisations, as a result of which the strategic milestones identified in PDA
Master Plan Version 2 have been extensively reviewed and redefined. This activity has
concentrated on:

¢ disaggregating the existing groups of strategic milestones to avoid multiple deliverables and
provide a clearer view of what has to be delivered

¢ defining the strategic milestones in terms of availability for use and acceptance by the
stakeholder organisations of key deliverables or groups of deliverables

This has produced a revised and slightly larger set of strategic milestones, but does not
materially alter the composition of the plan.

The format of the main body of the document has not been changed materially, except that a
section on high level risks to the Programme has now been shown.

The format and content of the appendices have been enhanced from PDA Master Plan Version
2, as follows:

¢ the format and content of the overview plan (appendix A), key assumptions (appendix D),
and definitions (appendix E ) have not been changed

¢ the format of the strategic milestone definitions (appendix B) has been simplified to provide
a clearer focus on the key elements of the milestone

¢ the integrated plan (appendix C), which was in table form in Version 2 of the PDA Master
Plan, has been reformatted as a Gannt chart to give a clearer indication of the timescales
and dependencies of the key milestones and activities

¢ the list of dates for reporting progress against the PDA Master Plan (appendix F in Version
2) has been withdrawn and will be managed separately.

_vsr 1p0c Page 2 of 15
POL00028186

POL00028186

Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

14

1.6

Status

This version of the plan was endorsed by the PDA Board on 20 March 1997 and is the baseline
against which progress will be reported to the Board. The strategic milestones and the strategic
milestone definitions at appendix B are baselined, and may only be changed through the PDA
change control process.

Nothing contained in this plan shall be deemed or construed to affect the existing contractual
obligations or create new contractual obligations between BA, SSA NI, POCL and Pathway. In
addition nothing contained in this plan shall construe a waiver of any default and the contents
of the plan are without prejudice to the rights and remedies of BA, SSA NI, POCL and
Pathway, which are hereby expressly reserved.

Related Documents
The content of the PDA Master Plan has been designed to minimise duplication with other
documents. The plan should therefore be read in conjunction with the following:

¢ Project Initiation Document for definition of programme objectives, responsibilities and
business risks

¢ Contracts between ICL Pathway and the Department of Social Security / Post Office
Counters Ltd for the contractual definition of deliverables and responsibilities

e Business Cases for the key assumptions on what the programme will deliver and at what
cost in delivering the required benefits

e¢ ICL Pathway Systems Architecture Definition Document and Release Contents
Documents for Pathway release functionality

Terminology
Terminology varies across the programme (sponsors and service provider). Appendix E
provides definitions of acronyms and common terms that are used throughout this plan.

Please note that, throughout the document, where square brackets [ I are used this denotes that
the data inside the brackets has to be confirmed.

_vsr 1p0c Page 3 of 15
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

2. STRATEGIC MILESTONES

The plan is designed to achieve the strategic milestones and target dates listed below which are
defined in Appendix B. Progress toward the strategic milestones will be monitored in greater

detail against the integrated milestones and activities listed in Appendix C.

Milestone Description

One office automated for Child Benefit
payment by card to selected customers

Ten offices automated for restricted Child
Benefit payment by card

Pathway computer centres at Bootle and
Wigan set up, commissioned and available
for use in Model Office Testing

Pathway Release 1b (OBCS functionality)
gains qualified authorisation for restricted
live use

Pathway Release lc (OBCS / BPS
functionality) gains qualified authorisation
for restricted live use

Pathway Release le (OBCS / BPS /
EPOSS / APS functionality) gains
qualified authorisation for use in live trial

Pathway Release I (OBCS / BPS / EPOSS
/ APS functionality, together with the
communications plan) authorised for full
use in the national roll out

Pathway Release 2 - authorised for
national use
Pathway Release 3 - authorised for

national use

Pathway Release 4 - authorised for
national use

21 List of Strategic Milestones
Initial Go Live Al
(IGL)
A2
Pathway BI
Infrastructure
Pathway B2
Releases
B3
B4
BS
B6
B7
B8
_var_1.D0c

Page 4 of 15

Target Date

23 September 1996
Completed

21 October 1996
Completed

7 March 1997
Completed

28 April 1997

30 June 1997

8 September 1997

21 November 1997

26 January 1998
(interfacing to
CAPS Release 3.0)

April 1998

October 1998
POL00028186

CAPS Releases

POCL Feeder
Systems

Roll out for
Live Trial -
primary
stream

_V3F_1. Doc

Cl

C2

C3

C4

Len}

D2

D3

D4

El

E2

CAPS Release 2.0 (functionality for
increased volumes for Child Benefit
payments) - testing complete and
authorised for use

CAPS Release 2.1 (functionality to handle
post office closures; standing agents; and
PAS exceptions) - testing complete and
authorised for use

CAPS Release 2.2 (performance upgrade) -
testing complete and authorised for use

CAPS Release 3 - testing complete and
authorised for use

CAPS Release 4 - testing complete and
authorised for use

Reference Data System available for end to
end testing

HAPS system available for end to end
testing

TIP Phase 3 (Full Interim TIP) available
for end to end testing

POCL Feeder Systems authorised for use
in Live Trial

Commencement of Roll out to up to 190
manual post offices plus 10 IGL post
offices

Up to 200 post offices available and ready
for customer use

Page 5 of 15

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
Milestone Description Target Date

31 March 1997
(interfacing to
Pathway Release
la) Completed

12 May 1997
(interfacing to
Pathway Release
lc)

21 July 1997
(interfacing to
Pathway Release
Id)

19 January 1998
(interfacing to
Pathway Release 2)

6 July 1998

10 March 1997
(linked to Pathway
Release Ic)
Completed

27 March 1997
(linked to Pathway
Release le)

27 March 1997
(linked to Pathway
Release le)
Completed

8 September 1997

28 April 1997

30 June 1997
POL00028186

Roll out for
Live Trial -
primary
stream

Rollout -
secondary
stream

Mainland roll
out

Northern
Treland roll out

_V3F_1. Doc

E3

E4

ES

E6

FI

F2

F3

F4

FS

F6

Gl

G2

Commencement of Live Trial evaluation
period

Live Trial Evaluation complete and
authorised

Commencement of roll out to 450 post
offices with limited functionality and up to
1000 post offices with full functionality
prior to National Roll out

450 post offices with limited functionality
migrated to full system

Start of national roll out to post offices and
BA district offices in all areas of mainland
Britain

Installation at all post offices and BA
district offices in large conurbations
complete and available for customer use

Installation at all main post offices (with
four or more counters) complete and
available for customer use

Start of roll out to existing ECCO / ALPS
post offices and BA district offices within
the M25

Installation at all existing ECCO / ALPS
post offices and BA district offices within
the M25 complete and available for
customer use

Installation at all post offices and BA
district offices complete and available for
customer use

Start of roll out to post offices and SSA
local offices in Northern Ireland

Installation at all post offices and SSA

local offices in Northern Ireland complete
and available for customer use

Page 6 of 15

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
Milestone Description Target Date

8 September 1997

24 November 1997

28 July 1997

January 1998

24 November 1997

[TBA]

[TBA]

[TBA]

[TBA]

[TBA]

[TBA]

[TBA]
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
Milestone Description Target Date
BA benefit Hl Payment of Child Benefit in Great Britain 12 May 1997
migration available for customer use at non-IGL
offices
H2 Payment of Income Support and PSCS / 20 January 1998
Incap benefits in Great Britain available
for customer use
H3 Payment of Job Seekers Allowance, 30 April 1998
Family Credit, Disability Working
Allowance and Earnings Top Up in Great
Britain available for customer use
H4 Payment of Attendance Allowance, 31 July 1998
Disability Living Allowance and Social
Fund payments in Great Britain available
for customer use
H5 Payment of War Pensions, I[DB and ICA. 30 November 1998
in Great Britain available for customer use
H6 All benefits can be paid by card at post May 1999
offices in mainland Great Britain to
customers whose personal details have
been loaded to the PDR
SSA NI Benefit I Payment of Income Support in Northern January 1998
Migration Treland available for customer use
2 Payment of PSCS / Incap benefits and Job April 1998
Seekers Allowance, Family Credit and
Disability Working Allowance benefits in
Northern Ireland available for customer
use
13 Payment of Child Benefit in Northern. January 1998
Ireland available for customer use
4 Payment of Social Fund payments and July 1998

_V3F_1. Doc

clerical benefits in Northern Ireland
available for customer use

Page 7 of 15
POL00028186
POL00028186

Benefits Agency
Post Office Counters Ltd
Social Security Agency (NI)

Programme Delivery Authority (PDA)
MASTER PLAN

Version 3

(Final)
8 April 1997

SSA NI Benefit
Migration

POCL Client
Take On

Programme
Complete

_V3F_1. Doc

15

J

J2

J3

J4

JS

KI

Milestone Description

All benefits can be paid by card at post
offices in Northern Ireland to customers
whose personal details have been loaded to
the PDR

Client Take On Release I -
transactions re-engineered and
implemented for customer use

Client Take On Release 2 -
transactions re-engineered and
implemented for customer use

Client Take On Release 3 -
transactions re-engineered and
implemented for customer use

Client Take On Release 4 -
transactions re-engineered and
implemented for customer use

Client Take On Release 5 -
transactions re-engineered and
implemented for customer use

All elements of the Programme in place,

and ongoing responsibilities transferred to
supplier / sponsor organisations

Page 8 of 15

Target Date

May 1999

October 1997

January 1998

April 1998

October 1998

April 1999

[TBA]
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

2.2 Strategic Milestones

(Visio document v3.vsd goes here)

The relationships between the milestones and the plan activities are set out in 3.1 below.

_vsr 1p0c Page 9 of 15
POL00028186
POL00028186

Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA)
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN
Social Security Agency (NI)

Version 3

(Final)
8 April 1997

THE MASTER PLAN
Plan Structure

The plan has been structured with these principles in mind;

1. The work (and the plan) divides into the eleven groups set out in sections 2.1 and 2.2.

Group A- Initial go Live - activities leading to the setting up of the
initial trial at ten post offices and first card payment at an

automated outlet

Group B- Pathway infrastructure & releases - creation of the
operational infrastructure and development and
acceptance of software releases with increasing levels of

functionality

Group C- CAPS Releases - development and acceptance of CAPS
Programme software releases with increasing levels of

functionality

Group D- POCL Feeder Systems - Establishment of POCL
systems and operational sofiware necessary to support
and interface with ICL Pathway operational systems

Group E- Live Trial Roll out - The roll out and evaluation of the
automated system at up to 300 trial post offices, and the
commencement of a limited roll out to a further 1900 post

offices

Group F- Mainland Roll out - national roll out to post offices and BA
district offices in all areas of mainland Britain

Group G- Northern Ireland Roll out - roll out to post offices and SSA

local offices in Northern Ireland

Group H- BA benefit migration - Programme of release of BA

products into the automated programme

GroupI- SSA NI benefit migration - Programme of release of
SSA NI products into the automated programme

Group J- POCL Client Take on - Programme of re-engineering
and release of POCL client products into the automated

programme

Group K- Programme Completion - the ‘programme complete”
strategic milestone when all post offices and BA / SSA NI
local offices are connected to the automated network; all
main benefits can be paid electronically; and all POCL

_vsr 1p0c Page 10 of 15

(Al and A2)

(B1 to B8)

(Cl to C5)

(D1 to D4)

(El to E6)

(F1 to F6)

(GI and G2)

(HI to H6)

(I to IS)

(JI to JS)

(KI)
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
current products are re-engineered and implemented
2. Responsibility for activities which support the delivery of strategic milestones will be

identified to named individuals in the sub-ordinate plans (integrated plan and working
plans). This will facilitate the process for ongoing management review and reporting.

3.2 Plan Summary
The overview plan is presented in Appendix A. The plan is summarised in the diagram below.

Preparatory activities:

IG.
Live Trial rollout > >I

National rollout

Multiple Online
ToL ch ml Benet Interface

CAPS releases: ChB

Pathway releases:
(live for card issue)

Pativay Release 10- (ORCS)
Pathway Release Le- (BPS) {}
Pathway Release 1e- POSS, APs) {h

oom

som

‘Total no. of
Post Offices
automated: 00

Products 198 9
and rollout:
CB (restricted)

ChB (Non Selected Customers)

(ovat)

Income Support
PSCS / 1B

ISA
FAMC/DWAETU.
DLAVAA

00g

Social Fund
wecs
DB

VV ow

VV Yow

ICA

ALBA and SSA customers and benefits can be paid by card

POCL Feeder Systems (Reference Data)

POCL Feeder Systems ( (HAPS & TIP)

_vsr 1p0c Page 11 of 15
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

3.3

Responsibilities
Responsibilities are defined in detail in the Programme Initiation Document. At a high level
the responsibilities of the parties are:

CAPS Programme and Benefits Agency

* to deliver the CAPS systems on time and meeting the requirements in the interface
specification (feeds, responses etc)

© to upgrade the functionality of equipment in BA offices and centres

* to develop processes and procedures for the new systems

* to ensure customer data is migrated in a timely manner to be fed to Pathway to the agreed
quality

Post Office Counters Ltd

© to provide the interim TIP system in time for national roll-out, preceded by ABED for IGL

© to provide reference data in an agreed format to meet the programme timescales and agreed
quality standards

¢ to make all relevant staff available for training

© to edit, print and distribute appropriate Post Office procedures

¢ to manage data links with client systems ensuring feeds operate satisfactorily

¢ to specify re-engineered, and new, products for Pathway to implement

© to provide details of outlets to be automated

© to provide agreed access for ICL Pathway to outlets

Social Security Agency Northern Ireland

© to upgrade the functionality of equipment in district offices, introduce new processes and
train staff appropriately

© to ensure customer data is migrated in a timely manner to be fed to Pathway

ICL Pathway

To provide the service as set out and defined in the contract and in particular

© to develop, test, implement, operate and maintain the service

© to install equipment in Post Offices, write procedures and train staff to meet the roll-out
programme

© to produce cards and manage all customer communications

¢ to migrate existing POCL services onto the Pathway services

Programme Delivery Authority

* to provide overall management and co-ordination of the programme to ensure the business
case objectives are met

© to monitor the development of the service to assure satisfactory performance and that the
service is fully secure

© to co-ordinate the user requirements and sign these off on behalf of the Benefits Agency,
Social Security Agency Northern Ireland and Post Office Counters Ltd

* to manage the contracts with ICL Pathway

© to oversee Pathway testing (functional, performance and security) and conduct end to end
tests. To provide a model test office with the full range of Post Office equipment.

* to manage the implementation of the new systems within the Benefits Agency and Social
Security Agency Northern Ireland district and local offices.

_vsr 1p0c Page 12 of 15
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
3.4 Plan Assumptions
In preparing the plan a number of assumptions have been made. These are set out in Appendix
D with the key ones being:
¢ astable interface has been established between Pathway and CAPS in line with the Batch
Interface Specification (v6) which will be valid for all future CAPS releases.
¢ that following the commencement of national roll out to post office, ICL Pathway will
maintain an installation programme of 300 post offices per week, and that POCL and BA
will be able to support this rate of roll out.
¢ that the POCL migration plan will maintain a seamless service to the AP clients allowing
the best reaction to Pay Point. It is expected that POCL will, however, take additional
measures.
The plan is constrained by a number of factors. The key constraints are:
e SSA require all Giro Payments to be transferred to card by 31 March 1998
¢ Post Office roll-out must not disrupt POCL business during the busiest trading period from
mid November to the end December
3.5 External Dependencies
The programme has few external dependencies. The primary one is government policy and
other political decisions or priorities which may affect the direction or speed of the programme.
The SSA are dependent on ITSA completing activities by particular dates, as identified in the
SSA plan
3.6 Internal Dependencies
The major dependencies between parties are identified as milestones in Appendix C which
gives the date for the provider / recipient handover.
Other dependencies are included in sub-plans. The monthly Corporate Review Process
endorsed by the PDA Board will develop the plans such that dependencies are well understood
and communicated to the responsible parties by the programme management process, and will
ensure that conflicts are resolved or escalated in a timely manner.
3.7 Significant Risks to the Programme

The process for the identification and response to risks at a Programme level is currently under
review. The key risks which may inhibit or prevent the successful delivery of the Programme
fall into the following areas:

¢ Government action = impact of Government budgetary restraint on PDA / CAPS
Programmes
= privatisation of benefit payment

e Supplier viability = impact of slippage on business case
= capacity of constituent companies to work together
+ reliability of sub-contractors

© Customer attitude = resistance to new technology
= confusion about change to existing processes

= negative response to transaction or authentication failures

¢ = Structural / = complexity of the organisational structure

_vsr 1p0c Page 13 of 15
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

3.8

39)

organisational factors «conflicts of interest between sponsors / supplier
«lack of clarity around responsibilities / ownership of
activities and data streams

e Risks to timescale «conflict of political / commercial imperatives against
operational logistics
«plans concentrated on the short term
«failure to deliver to deadline
«late changes to specification for sponsors’ requirements
* sponsors’ capacity to manage and fund change

¢ Risks to quality = use of unproven equipment, software and processes

«unclear specification - solutions do not meet sponsors’
interpretation of requirements

+ use of Rapid Application Development may lead to lack of
acceptance by sponsors

«tight timescales for testing and evaluation

+ failure to communicate opportunities to POCL clients and
agents

¢ Commercial risks + failure to deliver business cases
« damage to sponsor / suppliers reputation from any failure
in systems or process
= damage to client relationships from disruption to service
during installation

Responsibility for managing these risks and escalating them when necessary rests with the
PDA.

Programme Organisation

The PDA organisation is defined in the Programme Initiation Document together with the
major responsibilities. The supplier / sponsor organisation is the responsibility of each supplier
/ sponsor.

Programme Resourcing

A Resource Plan has been developed based on PDA Master Plan Version 2. It will shortly be
revised to identify the current assessment of PDA resourcing requirements. This will be further
updated as the Programme workload stabilises, or if any significant change arises. Supplier /
sponsor resourcing is the responsibility of each supplier / sponsor.

Reporting
Progress against this plan will be reported monthly to the PDA Board, in the format agreed at
the PDA Board Meeting on 9 October 1996.

_vsr 1p0c Page 14 of 15
POL00028186
POL00028186

Benefits Agency
Post Office Counters Ltd
Social Security Agency (NI)

Programme Delivery Authority (PDA)
MASTER PLAN

Version 3
(Final)
8 April 1997

3.11 PDA Master Plan Version 4
Some elements of the Programme subsequent to Live Trial evaluation (particularly the Roll out
to post offices and BA / SSA NI districts) are still under review, and strategies to deliver them
will need to be redefined to fit with the outcome of the replanning exercise. The detail of these
revisions will be incorporated into Version 4 of the PDA Master Plan, which will be issued

during April 1997.

_V3F_1. Doc

Page 15 of 15
POL00028186
POL00028186

Benefits Agency
Post Office Counters Ltd
Social Security Agency (NI)

Programme Delivery Authority (PDA)
MASTER PLAN

Version 3
(Final)
8 April 1997

APPENDIX A - OVERVIEW PLAN

The overview plan has been structured into the eleven groups defined in Section 3.1. The plan
includes a reference to the organisation and person responsible for each of the key activities and

milestones.

Group A: Initial go live

Group B: Pathway Infrastructure and Releases
Group C: CAPS Releases

Group D: POCL Feeder Systems
Group E: Roll out for Live Trial
Group F: Mainland Roll out

Group G: Northern Ireland Roll out
Group H: BA benefit migration
Group I: SSA NI benefit migration
Group J: POCL Client Take On
Group K: Programme Completion

Programme support activities are captured within the areas supported. For the most part, these are

identified in lower level plans

VaF_L.Doc
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
APPENDIX B - STRATEGIC MILESTONE DEFINITIONS
The Strategic Milestone Definitions that follow describe:
. the scope of the strategic milestone
. the premises (the conditions and deliverables which need to be in place for the milestone to have

been achieved)
. the target date.

VaF_L.Doc
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

APPENDIX C - INTEGRATED PLAN

The key intermediate milestones leading to the delivery of each strategic milestone are identified in this
appendix.

Note:

Within the Programme Delivery Authority, a naming convention has been adopted to indicate
significant steps in functionality. Individual releases are code-named and numbered to represent the
upgrade of one or more release domains. Current releases within Stage 2 of the Programme are code-
named ‘Congo’. The constituent elements of the Congo releases are defined below:

Pathway Releases CAPS Releases
Congo Release I Pathway Release la (IGL 0.3) CAPS Release 2.0
Congo Release 2 Pathway Release 1b
Congo Release 3 Pathway Release la (IGL 0.3) CAPS Release 2.1
Congo Release 4 Pathway Release Ic CAPS Release 2.1
Congo Release 4.1 Pathway Release Id CAPS Release 2.2
Congo Release 5 Pathway Release le CAPS Release 2.2

The Congo release groupings are used primarily for release authorisation by the PDA. Within the
Integrated Plan in this appendix, the individual Pathway and CAPS Release dates are identified, but the
Congo Releases are not.

VaF_L.Doc
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

APPENDIX D - ASSUMPTIONS

This details the specific programme assumptions upon which the plan is based and the organisations to

which they relate.

Page D1 of 4
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
APPENDIX D - ASSUMPTIONS
Assumption Description
Number

Benefits Agency

BAI

BA2

BA3

BA4

BAS

BA6

BAT

BA8&

BA9

BAI0

BAII

Batch Interface Specification (Vn6) is valid for all CAPS releases.

Implementation of new BA Benefit Payments will not require changes to
Pathway systems or training of PO staff (except where specifically
identified) but Pathway will most probably wish to carry out regression
testing prior to roll out of new benefits.

CAPS delivery schedules are achieved such that live operation can
commence in line with the release plan listed in CAPS Version One Plan
(Vn 1.0). No other releases are foreseen or planned for within the
programme.

The BA are able to resolve any conflicts over priority of access to the EDS
systems (the CAPS systems provider) at weekends for testing and data
conversion.

The BA will arrange special procedures to ensure the convergence of Child
Benefit Payee details to Personal Details Computer System (PDCS) to
support end to end testing and the evaluation of the Live Trial.

CAPS System redevelopment under the BA Change Programme doesn’t
change the interfaces and that all necessary redevelopment of the BA feeder
systems will be completed in time for the roll-out

CAPS Release 3 will support the take on of at least IS/JSA and PSCS/IB.
Any further CAPS Release would provide all of the existing requirements

Initial Go Live with Child Benefit is limited to 10 Post Offices.
There will be no Limited Go Live for the introduction of FAMC / ETU /
DWA and DLA/ AA.

Once CAPS Release 2.2 is implemented (July 1997) then the BA will not be
a constraint on the rate of roll-out providing adequate notice of plans is
given.

The project plans are unaffected by the possibility of the privatisation of the
Child Benefit Centre or any other part of the Benefits Agency.

CAPS central data and support systems (including EDS / ITS post office
table building etc) can cope with the roll out of 300 POs per week from
January 1998

Page D2 of 4
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997
POCL
POI POCL plans for the re-engineering of their current products will be defined
and agreed in sufficient time for the first products to be incorporated in the
January 1998 Pathway release.
PO2 POCL Feeder Systems (Reference Data, HAPS and Interim TIP) will be
tested and implemented by the agreed dates.
PO3 POCL will have established reliable processes to manage and validate
changes to reference data by the start of the appropriate Model Office
Rehearsal.
PO4 POCL will have a system acceptable to BA for reconciling card payments
by the relevant Model Office Rehearsal
POS PO Regions will be able to cope with levels of work generated by up to 75
post offices being rolled out per week in each region from 31 January 1998
PO6 POCL central data and support systems can cope with the roll out of 300
post offices per week from 31 January 1998
Pathway
PWwl Pathway Release le contains all of the functions described in the Release
Contents Document for Release 1. Exceptions listed in the Release
Contents Document (including Smart AP) will be implemented in Release 2
PW2 The frequency of Pathway software releases will be two per year (April and
October) after release 2 in January 1998. The commercially-agreed
functional specification for each release will be nine months in advance of
the release date. The interfaces for each release will be stable, for testing, at
least four months prior to the release date.
PW3 Three weeks of installation will be lost due to breaks during Christmas
pressure and installation will be completed by [ I.
Pw4 Following the primary and secondary stream roll out to post offices during
the Live Trial period, the rate of roll-out will be maintained at 300 POs per
week, achieved by four teams.
PW5 If the joint testing of Pathway Release I proceeds according to plan, the

same strategy will be adopted for subsequent Pathway releases.

Page D3 of 4
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

Social Security Agency

SSI

SS2

SS3

SS4

SSS

SS6

SS7

SS8

SSA benefits systems are identical to the Great Britain systems, except that
they do not have ETU. SSA will migrate from the existing Child Benefit
system to the Great Britain system in time for card roll out.

The SSA will, in general, rely on the PDA team for their Government and
other communications. However, they will maintain their own parallel
communication stream into the NI Ministers for use as appropriate. All
customer communications, including PUNs and forms, will be reviewed by
the SSA to allow changes to reflect the different Agency name,
organisations, legislative references etc.

Any help desks supporting the SSA will have slightly modified procedures
for SSA calls, reflecting their organisation and different terminology and
forms. The SSA will review the procedures manual and identify any
changes required to reflect these differences.

The SSA will follow the Great Britain (GB) card procedures.

The SSA will accept whatever account reconciliation mechanism is agreed
between BA and POCL.

The SSA will implement payment of each benefit by card either in parallel
with the BA or after. The implementation of benefits will be carried out in
broadly the same way as within the BA, despite the differences in size and
benefit administration.

Cards and customer documents will all be made available for the SSA to

review in sufficient time for them to be customised prior to implementation.

The NI POs will all be brought live over a continuous period of
approximately six weeks.

Page D4 of 4
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

APPENDIX E - DEFINITIONS

TERM:
AA:
ABED:

ALPS:

APACHI:
APS:
BES:
BPS:
CBC:
CBDB:
ChB:
CMS:
CPCS:
CTP:

DLA:
DNS:
DWA:

End to end test:

ECCO:
EPOSS:
ETU:
FamC:
FCP:

Foreign Encashments:

FRM:
FS:

DEFINITION:
Attendance Allowance

Automated Benefit Encashment Data (temporary system to provide
preliminary TIP functionality)

Automation of London Post Offices (stop notice system in use at
post offices within the M25)

Automated Payment At Chesterfield Interface

Automated Payment Systems (POCL system for bill prepayment)
Benefit Encashment Service

Benefit Payment Service

Child Benefit Centre (Washington)

Counters Business Database

Child Benefit

Card Management System

The CAPS Customer Payment Computer System

Client Transaction Processing - an existing POCL system to be
partially replaced by TIP.

Disability Living Allowance
Department of National Savings
Disability Working Allowance

The final testing of the entire system prior to its live use. It is
intended to prove both technical and business process aspects of the
system

Electronic Cash Registers at Counters
POCL Electronic Point of Sale System
Earnings Top Up

Family Credit

‘First card payment’ is the date of the first card payment of a
particular benefit. Note that this may be initiated by normal
renewal cycle, manually prepared entries or by a set of special
circumstances

when a customer collects a benefit from a Post Office that is not
their normal Office

Fraud Management Procedures

‘Full service’ is when payment of a particular benefit by card is
released for all applicable customers

Page El of 3
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

HAPS:

ICA:
IGL:

IIB:
INCAP:
IS:
JSA:
LGL:

LIFs:

Live for Card Issue:

Live trial:

National Roll-out:

NI:
NRC:
OBCS:

On-line interface:

PAS:
PACS:
PDCS:

PUN:

PSCS:

Reference Data Project:

RFRO:

Host Automated Payment System - current system for consolidating
and distributing POCL client automated payment system data

Invalidity Care Allowance

‘Initial go live’ is the programme of work leading to the payment of
Child Benefit at 10 Post Offices, starting with FCP on 23
September 1996. This programme will continue until the first 10
offices are upgraded to the full release specification

Industrial Injuries Benefit
Incapacity Benefit
Income Support

Job Seeker’s Allowance

‘Limited go Live’ is the trial period for a limited release of a
benefit.

‘Leaflets, Instructions and Forms’ sent to benefit customers

The date when CAPS releases will issue instructions to the CMS to
issue live cards.

An eleven week period for the bringing live of automation
equipment and trialling of the payment of ChB and EPOSS, APS
and OBCS functions at 200 Post Offices. This leads to full service
acceptance

Making available for customer use automation equipment at Post
Offices throughout the UK in accordance with the agreed roll-out
plan.

Northern Ireland
Normal Renewal Cycle for BA and SSA cards and tokens
Order Book Control System

Interface required to provide fast updates to the PAS details
allowing urgent card payments and stops.

Payment Authorisation System
Programme Accounting Computer System

Personal Details Computer System. The single system to which the
personal (customer) details are to be migrated from the many
different benefit systems

Pick Up Notice - advice to customer that benefit card is available at
post office

Pensions Strategy Computer System

POCL project to develop feeder system to provide reference data on
post offices and products to the Pathway systems

‘release for roll-out’ is the time when software becomes available
for global implementation.

Page E2 of 3
POL00028186

POL00028186
Benefits Agency Programme Delivery Authority (PDA) Version 3
Post Office Counters Ltd MASTER PLAN (Final)
Social Security Agency (NI) 8 April 1997

RP:
SIGs:
SLAs:
SF:
TIP:

TMS:
WarP:

Retirement Pension
Special Interest Groups
Service Level Agreements
Social Fund

Transaction Information Processing, the planned POCL settlement
and reconciliation system

Transaction Management System

War Pensions

Page E3 of 3
