POLO00116788
POL00116788

148 Old Street
London
EC1V 9HQ

E paula.vennells:

The Rt Hon James Arbuthnot MP.

House of Commons .
LONDON

SW1A OAA

5 November 2014

Re: Complaint and Mediation Scheme

I wanted to follow up on our telephone conversation on 28 October. You raised a number of
concerns over Post Office’s engagement with the Scheme and I am grateful to you for doing so. Iam
also grateful to you for accepting that there are two sides to every story.

As we discussed, Post Office has gone to great lengths to respond to the issues raised by Members of
Parliament, the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance (JFSA), and now individual applicants about the
Horizon system.

You will recall that both JFSA and Second Sight were involved in the design of the Scheme, the
establishment of the Working Group and the appointment of the independent chair.

To date, Post Office has investigated over 100 cases and is on course to complete all investigations
by Christmas. We provide the funding and Secretariat for the Working Group and we also provide
funding for applicants to obtain professional advice in preparing their complaints. On any
reasonable view, the measures we have taken cannot be characterised as being suggestive of bad
faith.

As I said when we spoke, we have found no evidence of a fault with Horizon in any of those cases. I
am clear that this is not cause for complacency and we will be as rigorous in investigating the
remaining cases as we have been with those we have investigated.

However, Post Office cannot ignore these investigation findings in determining its approach to
mediation in each case. In particular, Post Office cannot be expected to accept responsibility for
matters where there is no evidence that it is at fault and where, instead, errors (and sometimes
dishonesty) on the part of an applicant or their staff have been shown to have caused or contributed
to the losses in the branch. To my mind, that is not a legalistic but a fair-minded and rational
approach.

www.postoffice.co.uk "

ost Office Limited 4 registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 0. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London ECAV 9HO git J]

Post Difice and the Post Office lago are registered trade marks of Pos nite

POLO00116788
POL00116788

I am also concerned at the size of some of the claims for compensation, many of which are
unrealistic or opportunistic or both, Especially in the absence of evidence of a fault with the Horizon
system, this sort of claim can only serve to weaken the prospects for resolution for the applicants.
Whilst Post Office is keeping an open mind to all possibilities for resolution, with compensation
being one, the Scheme is not and has never been a compensation scheme. Whilst I realise that
speculation about Horizon continues, Post Office must base its position on substance and facts and
the need to ensure it spends taxpayer money prudently.

However, I can assure you that where the facts and the applicants’ expectations offer a reasonable
chance of resolution, the Post Office has and will continue to enter into those discussions positively
and try to achieve a mutually acceptable resolution.

I also believe that the success or otherwise of the Scheme does not rest solely with Post Office. It
seems that, despite the agreement of all parties on the need for confidentiality, that commitment is
not being honored and this has the potential to undermine the Scheme. Similarly it is regrettable,
as you say, that JFSA is not now fully participating in Working Group discussions as it undermines the
role of the Working Group which it played such a key part in establishing.

Given that some people may have been expecting that a fault with Horizon would be found it is
perhaps not surprising that they may be disappointed. However, in view of the considerable effort
Post Office has gone to in establishing, funding and supporting a Scheme that JFSA and Second Sight
helped to design, I am naturally disappointed to hear the concerns you set out. However I am
confident that Post Office has, at every stage of the process, acted in good faith in taking forward
the work of the Scheme. Indeed, it is not at all clear to me what more Post Office could reasonably
have done.

Nevertheless, I have listened to your concerns and will reflect on them very carefully.

Finally, further to our discussion about your letter of September 4th, I can confirm that I have asked
Angela Van Den Bogerd to look into the case. Once her enquiries are complete, one of the team will
be in touch with your office to discuss next steps, including the possibility of a meeting.

I look forward to our meeting on 17 November and I imagine your office will be in touch with mine
with a suggested agenda and a list of attendees in due course.

GRO

Yo!

Chief Executive

www.postoffice.co.uk

land and Wales, Registered No, 2154540. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London ECV 9H.

registered trade marks of Post Office Limnited,

Post Office Limited is register
Post Office to

Past Office and thi

