POL00415520
POL00415520

Message
From: Sharron Logan iZ
Sent: 18/05/2017 09:
To: Helen Dickinso! h istopher G Knight
! Robert Daily
drew Wise
Stephanie J Ball
ce:
Subject:

Attachments: Disclosure of documents in litigation.pdf; Claimants and Intended Claimants as at 12.05.17.xIsx; image003.png;
image001.png; image002.png

Hi all

Please ensure you read this email carefully and comply with the requirements of it with immediate effect.
Of particular note is point 3 below.

We will go through this in more detail at our meeting next week but in the meantime if you have any
questions then please direct them to myself or Helen.

Thanks all,

I Z Sharron Logan
AN Security Operations Lead - South

& _ G11, 1 Future Walk
a  ~ Chesterfield, $49. 1PF

_For Government Security Classifications OFFICIAL please use:

—

From: John Breeden

Sent: 15 May 2017 14:45

To: Lesley McNally; Gayle A Peacock; Sharron Logan; Kim Abbotts; Steve Norris

Cc: Mark Raymond; Pamela J Heap; Tamara Coley; Mark Ellis

Subject: FW: IMPORTANT EMAIL RE: PRESERVATION OF DOCUMENTS / HIGH COURT LITIGATION

All,

Please see the email below and attachments provided by Rod Williams following his session at the team meeting on
Thursday.

Please forward to your teams in accordance with the instructions provded below.
Thanks

John

POL-BSFF-0235502
POL00415520
POL00415520

‘ John Breeden
Head of Agency Contracts Deployment
c/o Branch Services Support Team
Post Office Ltd

1st Floor Future Walk

West Bars
Chesterfield

S49 1PF

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 12 May 2017 1
To: Mark Ell
Ce: Yuri Tsukita {
Subject: IMPORTANT EMA\

Mark, John - following your Lead Team meeting yesterday, I set out below an email to circulate to your teams reminding
them of the approach we need to take to documents as the defendant in the “Post Office Group Litigation” (Bates & Ors
v. Post Office Limited, Claim No. HQ16X01238 in the High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division).

IMPORTANT — PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY. IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT ITS CONTENTS ARE COMPLIED
WITH.

IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS IN RESPECT OF ITS CONTENTS OR EFFECT THEN PLEASE CONTACT YURI TSUKITA OR
RODRIC WILLIAMS IN LEGAL SERVICES.

As you may be aware, 198 mostly former postmasters have issued a High Court claim against Post Office Limited
advancing allegations about the Horizon IT system and Post Office’s engagement with them. I attach a list of the 198
“claimants”, which also includes the further postmasters who have said they intend to join the claim.

The claim requires you and your team members to be familiar with Post Office’s document disclosure obligations, and to
ensure that you comply with them. Please therefore circulate this email to your team members who may hold
documents related to the claimants and/or their claims.

In short, the three crucial document rules that must be followed are:

(1) You must not destroy or delete any documents which may be relevant to the claim. In particular, make sure
that any automatic deleting/archiving systems are suspended now until further notice. If you have any question
about whether a document is relevant, please contact Legal Services and preserve the document in the
meantime;

(2) You must not amend any existing documents which may be relevant to the claim. For example, do not make
handwritten notes on existing documents or try to change the content of a document; and

(3) You must recognise that any documents that you create from now on may have to be disclosed to the other

side in the case. If in any doubt, think about whether you would be happy for the email or document to be read
out loud in court.

POL-BSFF-0235502_0001
POL00415520
POL00415520

l attach a more detailed note on this, which can be used as a reference going forward.

If you have any questions concerning these requirements, please contact Yuri Tsukita or me for further guidance.

With thanks for your cooperation, Rodric

FAQs

1, What is a ‘document’?

Documents are defined very broadly to mean anything in which any information is recorded. Examples include: emails,
paper documents, handwritten notes, Word/Excel/PowerPoint documents (including draft versions of these
documents), database records, minutes of calls or meetings, text messages, internal memos, meeting agendas or tape
recordings.

2. What are ‘relevant’ documents?

Relevant documents are any documents that could: either support or undermine the case of any party to the
litigation.

END
5 Rodric Williams

Head of Legal, Dispute Resolution & Brand
20 Finsbury

POL-BSFF-0235502_0002
