Your Branch Assurance Visit Today

Branch Name
Branch Code (FAD)
Date of visit

Lead Branch Assurance Advisor

Dear Postmaster or Officer in Charge,

POL00448253

POL00448253

We have visited you today to support your branch with a Branch Assurance visit. The purpose of this is to count

and validate the accuracy of your stock, cash, and foreign currency, and to offer you any required support

regarding the operational effectiveness of your branch.

During today’s visit, my colleague and I undertook a full count of all cash and cash equivalents in the branch and

compared the physical count to the figures showing on the Horizon ‘Office Snapshot' printed in branch. The

findings of today's Branch Assurance Visit show there is a variance of:
Cash

Stock
Foreign Currency
Other

Total

I have now updated your branch balances on Horizon to match the physical cash and
physical stock counted in branch today. The above variance has now been settled to your
central Postmaster account. This stock adjustment has been recorded and is traceable to
my ID. Please contact the Branch Support Centre of “Ithey are open in
the following hours shown on the table to the right of this text, they are also able to
assist with complaints.

The Branch Support Centre will assist you in handling this variance. In addition, if you
would like further assistance or guidance the National Federation of Subpostmasters

offer support to all postmasters, you can contact them on {_
Please note you may be contacted by the Post Office training team to discuss any
potential training needs.

I hope you have found this visit useful today. We value your feedback. We would be
grateful if you could complete a survey using this link:

https://ncv.microsoft.com/M5IRfAAgX3 or scanning this QR code. You have the option

of keeping any feedback you give anonymous.

Finally, if you need to raise any concerns around wrongdoing or unethical behaviour,
these can be done confidentially by calling Speak Up oni

Yours sincerely,
Post Office Branch Assurance Team
Post Office Limited is registered in Enland and Wales Registered No, 2354540,

Registered Office 100 Wood Street, London, EC2V 7ER,
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited.

Branch Support Centre

Operating Hours:
Monday 8am - 6.30pm

Tuesday 8am - 6.30pm
Wednesday 8am - 7.30pm
Thursday 8am - 6.30pm
Friday 8am - 6.30pm

Saturday 8.30am - 4pm

Sunday 9am- 1pm.

QR Code linking to survey

Page 1 of 1

postoffice.co.uk
