POL00100474
POLO0100474

The Rt. Hon. James Arbathnot, M.P.

ae

HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWIA 0AA

26 March 2014

Paula Vennells
CEO

The Post Office
205 Old Street
London EC1V 9QN

Dens Pants

;
I thought this week's meeting went as well as could be expected in the circumstances!
Thank you for coming and speaking.

I wanted to follow up on two matters that were raised. The first is the prospect of a further
meeting in July, which I would like to look at getting in the diary now. Might Monday 21 July
work for you? If not, perhaps you might suggest some other dates. I know we all have
reservations about whether in practice such a meeting can go ahead, but getting it in your
and my diaries will be a good first step.

I know you sensed that MPs are beginning to want to hear something more than that the
cases are going through mediation. There was some dismay, I thought, at the prospect
mentioned that even when the mediation process is complete, MPs are not going to get a
chance to hear the result of investigations. I am fairly certain this will not wash and that
something Is going to have to be offered by way of reported results, even if only on a
generic basis.

Everyone understands the point about the integrity and independence of the working group
being respected, but the reason this entire process has been instigated is that MPs agitated
on behalf of their constituents for it. Given that Second Sight are producing a report within
days, I think it is quite justifiable that MPs believe that results of some description are being
arrived at, and we are getting hungry to know what they are. Might a report be made
available soon, or can results be made known at this July meeting? Perhaps you can let me
know your thoughts about this?

POL00100474

The second matter is the one Alan raised about where historical cases which have come to
light after the mediation process deadline was reached may be sent, and what happens to
them. Could you send me details of how the Post Office will look into their cases, please? I
would like to be clear in my own mind how a new case will be handled if outside the

mediation process so that I can tell colleagues who could not attend the meeting this week.

Finally, to my mind it is quite appropriate that constituents involved in these newly raised

historic cases raise their concerns with their MPs. Same have clearly done so, as my office
has received queries about this. Would you like MPs to send these cases on, and if so, to

whom? I would like to be able to tel! colleagues what to do if they are approached.

I maintain my belief that this matter can be brought to a satisfactory conclusion for ail
concerned, but I sensed a slight disquiet at the meeting this week and it is something you
and I need to do everything in our powers to dispel.

I James Arbuthnot

i
i]
i
i
i
i
i
7
i
i
i
I
i
i
i
