POL00026043
POL00026043

Message
From:
Sent:
To: Mark R
ce:
k]; Melanie
Massey, Kirsten
Subject: Update on Horizon Issues Trial - Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD.

Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

All,

The Claimants’ IT expert Jason Coyne was cross-examined today on the issues of “remote access” (i.e. the ability for
Fujitsu to alter branch transaction data from outside the branch premises) and Horizon audits.

Evidence helpful to Post Office’s case today included Mr Coyne accepting that:
he was not aware of any instance where transaction data had been remotely deleted or edited;
- although there were instances where Fujitsu had remotely made insertions into transaction data, these were
very rare, only done where necessary, and carried out with great care;
- contrary to how they were portrayed in his reports, post-2011 audit reports on Horizon did not:
o identify deficiencies in Horizon’s control environment, but rather made only recommendations to
enhance or improve it; or
o show that Post Office failed to act on audit recommendations.

Mr Coyne became increasingly reluctant to making even plain concessions as the day proceeded (e.g. that Horizon
service audits more specifically addressed Horizon than Post Office’s financial audits). This made for slow going at times
and ultimately led to the Managing Judge reminding Mr Coyne to answer the questions he was being asked rather than
try to debate the issues.

Mr Coyne’s cross-examination will continue into tomorrow afternoon, after which he will be re-examined by the
Claimants’ counsel Patrick Green QC for c.45 minutes before the Court concludes its business for the week.

Kind regards, Rod

Rodric Williams
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand
bury Street

2017 Winner of the Global Postal Award for Customer
Experience

2A I ICCC RRR FAIA RR RR 2 0 RR 10K 0 08 B11 0 08 0 08 RR CG 0

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POL-0022522
POL00026043
POL00026043

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2A ICCC RRR I I CR ERR A I ISA RRR I ISOS RRR I SBF RRR ICCD RGR RR I COEDS

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

POL-0022522
