POL00102016

POL00102016

Message
From: Ruth X Barker}
on behalf of — Ruth X Barkeri_
Sent: 16/01/2015
To: ‘BARTY, Susan’
cc: Melanie ic FB Rodric

Williams Tom Wechsler Patrick Bourke
Subject: Ri DEADLINE SUNDAY AFTERNOON/EVENING - INSIDE OUT/BBC BREAKFAST ITEM FOR MONDAY
Hi

ve spoken to Claire at the BBC. She claims that it was flagged to them through internal prospects today. I’ve stressed
the lack of notice and also that they need to fully review our statement and consider its content,

ve asked for the name of their duty lawyer but they say can’t share names. However, have confirmed if we email Mark
Grannell he will forward any correspondence. They have asked if Mark can be first point of call or at least be ce’d in on
any correspondence. He will be working the 10 ~ 10 shift both Saturday and Sunday.

The editor is Adam Bullimore and they have reassured me that he will be picking up emails regularly over the weekend if
we want to contact.

I rather than the generic press office email.

Ruth

From: BARTY, Susan [...
Sent: 16 January 2015 18:36

To: Mark R Davies; Pressoffice

Cc: Melanie Corfield; Belinda Crowe; Rodric Williams

Subject: RE: DEADLINE SUNDAY AFTERNOON/EVENING - INSIDE OUT/BBC BREAKFAST ITEM FOR MONDAY

Dear Mark

lagree that this is an unreasonable deadline ~ although I suspect the Breakfast schedules are worked on
a lot over the weekend.

Ihave called the BBC Legal Advice team ~— saying without instructions and not mentioning any client
name, to get an email address (normally we correspond by fax). Unfortunately they do not know who will
be dealing with that just yet. If I need to get in touch with them over the weekend, I can call the duty
lawyer and get an email address.

Kind regards

Susan

Susan Barty
Partner

POL-0101599
POL00102016
POL00102016

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP I Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street I London EC1A 4DD I United Kingdom

www.cms-cmek.com
www.cms-lawnow.com

From: Mark R Davie:
Sent: 16 January 2015 18:25
To: Pressoffice

Cc: Melanie Corfield; Belinda Crowe; BARTY, Susan

Subject: Re: DEADLINE SUNDAY AFTERNOON/EVENING - INSIDE OUT/BBC BREAKFAST ITEM FOR MONDAY

lam copying Susan Barty. I think their deadlines are unreasonable. They have given us approximately 45 minutes of the
working week when they must have known they were planning this earlier. Views please?

Ruth: please can you ask them for the name of the editor of BBC Breakfast?
thanks

Mark

Mark Davies

Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Mobil

Sent from my iPad

On 16 Jan 2015, at 17:12, "Pressoffice": wrote:

Hi
This has come in from BBC Breakfast.

There’s clearly elements/inaccuracies of questioning which need to be challenged using responses in our
prepared statements and Q&A. Ill start going through them this evening.

ve spoken to Claire to get a bit more detail on deadlines and what they intending to run.

They are proposing to run an approx. 2.5 min piece on Monday Breakfast between 6.00 and 9.00, no set
time as yet but they seem v firm that it will run.

The piece will include an extract of the inside Out programme — she couldn’t clarify which elements
exactly as its currently being edited. They will then move to a studio interview with Noel

Thomas. They’ve already spoken to him and he will be discussing his case, the move to a plea to false
accounting and subsequent prison sentence. He will of course be focussing on the impact this has had
on him in terms of bankruptcy, spending 60" birthday in prison and he will be highlighting the fact that
he had served over 42 years with the business prior to the charges being made. They'll also be asking
what he would like to see happen next. It seems he has also mentioned that the business has been
impacted by being pulled around by various govts (no suggestion that this is relevant to his
circumstances though!}.

POL-0101599
POL00102016
POL00102016

They will probably use our responses to prompt Noel’s questions and then use our statement at the
end. She’s asked that our statement start with an explanation on why can’t discuss individual cases such
as Noel's.

Ym on call over the weekend so happy to pull together. Sunday evening is the deadline. Let me know if
would like to discuss.

Ruth

From: Claire Hamilton I
Sent: 16 January 2015 16:51

To: Pressoffice

Cc: Mark Grannell

Subject: FW: DEADLINE SUNDAY AFTERNOON/EVENING - INSIDE OUT/BBC BREAKFAST ITEM FOR
MONDAY

Importance: High

Further to my last email the deadline for this would be Sunday, as the item is due to air early on Monday
morning at some point between 0600-0900.

I won’t be in over the weekend, but Mark Grannell is the day editor in charge ~ and I’ve copied him in to
this email.

if the statement you provide us with could incorporate all of the questions below — that would be great.

Kind Regards,
Claire Hamilton

<1MAGEDD3 J PQ> crverenion sree ura

pays, M50 2QH

From: Claire Hamilton ;
Sent: 16 January 2015 16:32

To: ‘pressoffics
Subject: INSIDE OUT/BBC BREAKFAST ITEM FOR MONDAY

Importance: High

Hi there,
Thanks for your time just now. We’re running an item on Monday morning’s programme which is based
ona story running on a number of the regional Inside Out programmes on Monday evening.

It’s about the handling of the Post Office’s IT system which caused at least 150 sub-postmasters being
accused of false accounting and fraud. The Sub-postmasters say computer software was responsible for
the apparent loss of hundreds of thousands of pounds. The programme follows up this story as the
postmasters meet to look at what action they will take next.

POL-0101599
POL00102016
POL00102016

We just wanted to request a response from the Post Office on a number of issues

Q) As far as the post office is concerned, how much money went missing — and what happened?

Q) Who is responsible? Does the Post Office admit they were wrong in any of the cases?

Q) Many of the sub-postmasters believe that they have been victims of miscarriages of justice — what is
the Post Office’s official response to this..?

Q) What is the Post Office going to do about the situation now?

Kind Regards,

Claire

= =
< I m a g e 00 3 J pg > core Hamilton Broadcast Journalist
2nd Floor, Quay Hous: laGityUK, Salford Qt 50 20H

7 mittion people watch BRC Breakfast every day!

JOH IOI IDO IDO IO IOI IOI IO DIDI ISO IID IDIOT III AIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

ere ete teeter etree ret ter trerret ree tet tert tere ter terete ret ter

2A I IF RRR FARR oR ICO ROR O01 0 08 1008 0 GO ROR OR OR CICS OR

CMS has 59 offices around the world, located in Aberdeen, Algiers, Amsterdam, Antwerp, Barcelona, Beijing,
Belgrade, Berlin, Bratislava, Bristol, Brussels, Bucharest, Budapest, Casablanca, Cologne, Dubai, Duesseldorf,
Edinburgh, Frankfurt, Geneva, Glasgow, Hamburg, Istanbul, Kyiv, Leipzig, Lisbon, Ljubljana, London,
Luxembourg, Lyon, Madrid, Mexico City, Milan, Moscow, Munich, Muscat, Paris, Podgorica, Prague, Rio de
Janeiro, Rome, Sarajevo, Seville, Shanghai, Sofia, Strasbourg, Stuttgart, Tirana, Utrecht, Vienna, Warsaw,
Zagreb and Zurich.

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a member of CMS Legal Services EEIG (CMS EEIG), a European Economic
Interest Grouping that coordinates an organisation of independent law firms. CMS EEIG provides no client
services. Such services are solely provided by CMS EEIG’s member firms in their respective jurisdictions.

POL-0101599
POL00102016
POL00102016

CMS EEIG and each of its member firms are separate and legally distinct entities, and no such entity has any
authority to bind any other. CMS EEIG and each member firm are liable only for their own acts or omissions
and not those of each other. The brand name "CMS" and the term "firm" are used to refer to some or all of the
member firms or their offices. Further information can be found at www.cmslegal.com

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with
registration number OC310335. It is a body corporate which uses the word "partner" to refer to a member, or an
employee or consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications. It is authorised and regulated by the
Solicitors Regulation Authority of England and Wales with SRA number 423370 and by the Law Society of
Scotland with registered number 47313. A list of members and their professional qualifications is open to
inspection at the registered office, Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4DD. Members are either
solicitors or registered foreign lawyers. VAT registration number: 974 899 925. Further information about the
firm can be found at www.cms-cmck.com

The contents of this e-mail (including any attachments) are confidential and may be legally privileged. If you
are not the intended recipient of this e-mail, any disclosure, copying, distribution or use of its contents is strictly
prohibited, and you should please notify the sender immediately and then delete it (including any attachments)
from your system. Notice: the firm does not accept service by e-mail of court proceedings, other processes or
formal notices of any kind without specific prior written agreement.

PAR NR RR fA A RR A RR RF RRR A A RR A RR RR CB RR

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0101599
