POL00060942
POLo0060942

Application Form
For Second Sight use only
Case ref:
Your Details
Surname: Forenames:
Yates David Peter

Your address:

Email address:

ydavidlorrainei_.

My current Member of Parliament is: Michael Gove

Your Branch

Please insert the details of the branch where you worked. If you worked at more than one branch,

please provide details on an extra sheet of paper.

Name of branch:
Walton On Thames

FAD Code of branch:
090 023 0

Address of branch:
73 Hersham Road, Walton On Thames
Postcode:KT12 1LN

Your role at the branch (ie. Subpostmaster, Subpostmistress, clerk, etc.):

Subpostmaster

When did you begin in this role?
1997

Are you still in this role?
O YES
xO NO

If no, when did you leave this role: March 2003

POL00060942
POL00060942

Initial Case Overview
To the best of your knowledge, is your case (or any part of it) currently subject to any on-going criminal

investigations or proceedings (including the issue of a summons, sentencing hearings or a confiscation
order)?

O YES — you may still submit your case, but Second Sight may not be able investigate it whilst criminal
investigations or proceedings are on-going.

xO NO

The purpose of the ‘Initial Case Overview’ is to summarise the main issues you wish Second Sight to
consider. If your case is accepted for mediation, you will then have an opportunity to supply much more
detail together with supporting evidence.

The following Key Questions may help you with this Initial Case Overview but please feel free to supply
any information that you consider may help explain your complaint.

What is the main issue or issues you wish us to consider that relate to Horizon or its associated
processes?

That the losses started to appear within weeks of the Horizon system being
put in and kept growing alarmingly each week.

When did the incidents relating to the main issue or issues occur?

From Horizon being put in until 2003

What prior contact have you had with the Post Office in regard to the incidents/issues that you are now
reporting?
I was prosecuted by Post Office.

How was the issue or issues resolved at the time they occurred?

I was prosecuted by Post Office

What is the monetary value of the issue or issues you are now reporting?

£350,000

POL00060942
POL00060942

Were you the subject of either civil recovery action or criminal prosecution regarding the main issue or
issues you are now reporting?

I was criminally prosecuted and chased through civil courts to repay the money.

How were these actions against you (if any) resolved?

I spent 13 months in prison and thirteen weeks on Home detention curfew. I paid the

Post Office £41,000 which I borrowed from a friend to settle the civil recovery.

What is your explanation for the events forming the main issue or issues you are now reporting?

I had worked since 1979 as a counter clerk, Branch Manager, and finally a Sub
Postmaster. I never had any problems with balancing until the Horizon system was put
in. I know I acted stupidly by not seeking help about the losses, but I thought the
Horizon system would rectify itself.

Did you request assistance from the Post Office regarding the issue or issues you are now reporting?

I did not seek help which I know was a big mistake.

What assistance if any was provided?

N/A

Please attach additional sheets of paper if you require more space.

POL00060942

POL00060942

Declaration
I acknowledge that:
. As part of the Scheme, I must promptly provide information about my case to Second Sight. If I

do not provide full information in a timely manner, I accept that it may not be possible to

investigate or mediate my case.
. Information I provide about my case or the findings of Second Sight's investigation may help

reach a resolution with Post Office but that it may also reveal further claims against me.
. I am only entitled to financial support from Post Office if I have signed a Funding Agreement.

I confirm that:
. My case relates to the Horizon system or an associated issue.

. Post Office may communicate details of my case to Second Sight, JFSA, my Member of
Parliament and/or its professional advisors.

. The facts and matters set out in this Application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge and belief.

I confirm that I am:

O Currently serving as a Subpostmaster and have already raised my case with Post Office and have
completed all Post Office's internal complaint processes.

xO Not currently serving as a Subpostmaster.
(Please tick one box)

If you are unable to give all the above acknowledgements and confirmations, your case may not be
eligible for the Scheme. In that circumstance, please contact the JFSA for assistance.

This Application Form and your involvement in the Scheme do not create any legally binding contract or
obligations between Post Office and you.

The Working Group, its members and their advisors owe no obligations or duties, and accept no liability,
to you in connection with the Scheme.

Signed

Name

Date

