POLO0085008

POL00085008
BOEP Debt Review — Workflow Management Tools - Terms of Reference
Change Debt Workflow Management ResultsChain 1-18 & 1-24
Initiative/Project Tools Ref
Sponsor TBA Project Lead TBA
Programme BOEP Version Draft 0.1
Alignment
Author Irene Loader Date 30" November 2009

Section 1. Proposed Change Description

Background — Several departments across POL (including Royal Mail Group) are involved in managing and
briefly describe what I recovering debt and losses arising from Sub-postmaster, Crown Offices and Multiple Partner

is behind the need to I activities. These departments will all have their own individual role to perform. As a result, there
change, how this are many hand-offs throughout the lifecycle of the process. The current process is fragmented
proposal emerged, and generally silo working. Individuals and teams require various pieces of information at

any issues/problems I various points in the process to effectively perform their role and complete their activities. At

it is addressing etc. present, each area will create their own cases as they become involved in the debt processes
and store information about the case in a variety of systems and media. One such database
being used by security is Grapevine. It is understood there are others used by Legal services
and for most information is recorded locally on spreadsheets, word documents and the like.
There is no unique reference ID created for a case and therefore, searching for information
across areas is very difficult. Not all information about a case is stored electronically and for
some they are only known by the individual dealing with it. Additionally, there are currently a lot
of paper copies being stored. Some of which are required for legal reasons and there is a need
to provide evidence of transactions, TCs and other related evidence to support the case. The
reliance on paper often results in delays in getting the relevant information and can often result
in further requests from Tracing Agents and Solicitors It has been identified through the initial
debt reviews that there is a need to improve the knowledge share of case information enabling
multiple people and departments to input and view a single case. It is also recognised, that with
technology advancements, it may be possible to reduce the reliance on paper documents and to
move to electronic transfer of documents where legally applicable and practical to do so.

Proposed Change The proposed change is to rationalise the existing methods of capturing, recording and
— briefly describe the I retrieving information about debt cases and develop a unified, on-line Case and Workflow
change, that is being I Management solution that can be used by all relevant stakeholder groups. This should enable

proposed, what will each Case to be given a unique reference number enabling multiple users to add, view and edit
be different, give information captured by others. The solution should have inherent workflow processes built into
examples where it to enable smooth transition of processes and to ensure key activities and approvals are
possible etc performed. The solution should also incorporate the facility to scan in relevant documentation,

where practical, so that evidence and associated paperwork can also be viewed by others
without having to send for the originals from originating departments and be directly associated
with the case. The solution should enable variable permissions to be set depending on the role
performed. It should enable the user to search on-line for key information using a variety of
search criteria and for them to then add further information, make additional comments etc.
The initial work proposed is to conduct feasibility into the options to consolidate and streamline
case working practices across the organisation. One of the options to explore maybe the use of
existing capability within Credence.

Change Scope - The scope of this would be contained to the areas that perform a role in the management of
identify the key debt and losses. The following are initial thoughts on the key areas involved:
areas, processes, e Security & Investigations

and systems etc that
are proposed to be
in scope. Also note
any explicit and
relevant areas that
are out of scope and
why.

P&BA Debt Management Teams — Current, Former, Multiples, Crowns
P&BA Branch Investigation Team.
Legal Services
Branch Conformance Team
Network Support Team — Audit
e Contract Management
The processes and existing media that this would cover will be identified as part of the
Feasibility study.

In Confidence 21/12/2009 3
POL00085008
POL00085008

BOEP Debt Review — Workflow Management Tools - Terms of Reference

Section 2. Proposed Outcome/Benefit

ResultsChain Primary Outcome:

Outcome — note the I O-81 Increased accuracy, validity and consistency of information captured, used to

identified outcomes I resolve/settle cases

as identified via the I O-68 Ability created to electronically submit, track and store key and supporting documents
ResultsChain Associated Outcomes:

exercise 0-55 Increased automation, enhanced and streamlined debt management tools

0-193 Enhanced, streamlined and consistent debt management processes created across the
organisation

O-16 Increased effectiveness of debt recovery processes across the organisation

Benefits — describe I Detailed benefits (tangible and non tangible) will be identified as part of the feasibility. The
any additional high Following are initial thoughts on benefits that could be achieved additionally to the outcomes
level benefits that detailed above:
this initiative will e Increased knowledge share across key stakeholder groups
deliver e Increased efficiency of knowledge processes which should lead to a decrease in
operating costs to seek/establish information already known
e Potentially decreased time to resolve matters, issues
e Potential headcount saving across teams due to “wastage” being removed from the
workflow
Decreased paper storage costs

Consequences of If this initiative is not progressed, then the implications would be continued silo working on the
Not Progressing same case by various teams, fragmented information held by POL related to the same case,
Initiative continued delays in getting relevant information to the various parties requesting information
and an incomplete picture of a particular case. It is unlikely that many more efficiencies will be
gained throughout the end to end process without a tool that would support better workflow and
sharing of information.

Section 3. Work Plan

Activity and The primary activity is to conduct a feasibility study that will explore the options to achieve the

Deliverables — desired outcomes and benefits and will recommend the preferred option. It will review in some

describe the detail the current processes, practices and systems, identifying existing issues and problems

deliverables and identify where there are good practices that could be leveraged.

expected The main deliverable will be a Feasibility Report which will be in line with the standard POL
Feasibility Report template.

Timescales — if Planned Start: 2" Jan 2010

there is a target

timescale to Planned Finish: 31% Mar 2010

complete this then

please state here Estimated Effort in Days: This is a complex area and will take some time to fully understand

the existing methods, understand the requirements and identify, evaluate the options. It is
estimated that a minimum of 60 days effort will be required to conduct the feasibility.

Resources — TBA
identify any known

resources planned to
work on the initiative

Priority - indicate This initiative ranked 6" overall in terms of the most important initiatives evaluated in the Debt

the ranking of the workshop on the 21 Sept 2009. It ranked no 1 and 3” in terms of the top four Initiatives that
initiative will increase the success of recoveries in a cost effective way.

Key Stakeholders — I The following are key stakeholders initially identified who will be required to input to the initiative
identify any and review the recommendations. It is not known at this stage the level of sign-off required in

stakeholders that will I terms of the options/solutions. This will be determined as part of the feasibility.
need to be involved I Internal Stakeholders (POL/RMG):
— internal and ¢ Alison Bolsover — P&BA Branch Conformance & Liaison
external Cathy MacDonald —- P&BA Fraud & Conformance team
Paul Dann — P&BA Current Agent Accounting
Jackie Witham — P&BA Former Agent Accounting
Andy Hayward — Security & Investigations
Joanne Hancock — Security & Investigations
Mandy Talbot - Legal Services
John Breeden - Network — National Contract Manager
Gayle Laverick — Network Coordination Manager

e Andy Bayfield — Network Support
External Stakeholders:

a

In Confidence 21/12/2009 3
POLO0085008
POL00085008

BOEP Debt Review — Workflow Management Tools - Terms of Reference

e Potentially CSC and/or Steria to review system options e.g. Credence
« Current Database Suppliers e.g. providers of Grapevine

In Confidence 21/12/2009 3
