POL00305453
POL00305453

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce:

Subject:

Thank you Belinda
This is very helpful
--Ian

Sent from my iPad

On 30 Jul 2014, at 12:56, Belinda Crow

IR

Re: Non Disclosure Agreement (Post Office and Second Sight) Kim Evans

wrote:

All

As discussed, I attach a confidentiality agreement for Kim. It’s in word form so as to enable you to add in
Kim’s address.

As far as your engagement with Post office is concerned (which is for forensic accountancy services) it is
a matter for Second Sight to assure itself that it meets any professional, regulatory and insurance
requirements in terms of the staff/contractors it engages. Second Sight will also remain responsible for
the assessing the suitability of those staff/contractors and any activities they undertake. Post Office will
continue to require that it is notified of any new staff/contractors to be deployed by Second Sight under
the terms of the engagement letter and that those staff/contractors complete a confidentiality
agreement.

To facilitate this, and to ensure that Post Office is able to properly assess value for money on work done—
a necessary requirement or all its contracts — Second Sight has committed to consider how the existing
charging arrangements can be amended to better reflect productivity and deliverables relating to
individual case reports.

Best wishes

Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

I GRO

POL00305453
POL00305453

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

<Non Disclosure Agreement (Post Office and Second Sight) Kim Evans.doc>
