POL00004106

POL00004106
Claim No. HQ16X01238, HQ17X02637 & HQI7X04248
THE POST OFFICE GROUP LITIGATION
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
QUEEN’S BENCH DIVISION
BEFORE THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE FRASER
BETWEEN:
ALAN BATES & OTHERS.
Claimants
AND
POST OFFICE LIMITED
Defendant

POST OFFICE’S WRITTEN OPENING SUBMISSIONS
COMMON ISSUES TRIAL

Key abbreviations used in this document

“Post Office” refers to the Defendant; “Cs” refers to the Claimants.

“AGPOC” refers to the Amended Generic Particulars of Claim [B3/1/1]

“GDXC” refers to the Generic Defence and Counterclaim [B3/2/1]

“Generic Reply” refers to the Generic Reply and Defence to Counterclaim [B3/3/1]
“Bates IPOC” refers to the Individual Particulars of Claim of Mr Bates [B5.1/2/1]

“Name WS” refers to the named witness’ witness statement.

B11.2/11/1
POL00004106

POL00004106

A. INTRODUCTION ....cecssssccssssssssssssssseessssssssseensssssssssennsssssnsseesensnsnsesennunssnsseseeniensee 3
(1) NATURE OF THE RELATIONSHIP ......cccssssssssssssssssssssssssssessssssssssensesisnsseeeee 6
(2) ROLE OF THE LEAD CASES .......cssssssssssssssssssssevssssssessesasesenenseveseseeenneenenseeee 9
(3) I SCOPE OF THE PRESENT TRIAL
(4) LAW ON THE INTERPRETATION OF COMMERCIAL CONTRACTS 1

B. SUBPOSTMASTERS’ OBLIGATIONS
(1) I AGENCY AND ACCOUNTING (COMMON ISSUES 12 AND 13)...::ccc0:s00000-19
(2) RESPONSIBILITY FOR LOSSES (COMMON ISSUES 8 AND 9) ....-sccccseesse-0-25
(3) I ASSISTANTS (COMMON ISSUE 23)

C. IMPLIED TERMS: GENERAL
(1) AGREED IMPLIED TERMS .........0s-ssscccsssssssssessssssessssessssesstetsssneetsetsssseeeeees SI
(2) RELATIONAL CONTRACT (COMMON ISSUE 1) --.ssssccsssssssssvsssssseessvvsseeeees 56
(3) I THE GENERAL IMPLIED TERMS (COMMON ISSUE 2).....-.:::cccsssssssseeesseee
(4) SCOPE OF THE GENERAL IMPLIED TERMS (COMMON ISSUE 3)

D. OTHER SPECIFIC IMPLIED TERMS .. see
(1) I SUPPLY OF GOODS AND SERVICES ACT (COMMON Ik ISSUE £4) cecceseseeeeee 76
(2) PROVISION OF HORIZON .....cccccsssssssscssessssssssvsssessssessssssensssnssensensesssseeee 80
(3) I MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNTS
(4) TRAINING AND SUPPORT.

(5) I OBLIGATIONS TO COMMUNICA’

(6) — SHORTFALL INVESTIGATIONS ......:sccsssssssssssssssesssstssssssesessssnssseeessssnnsseeeee: 86
(7) SUSPENSION .o.....cssssssccccssssssssessssssssesusssnssetsssesssessnsssnsaseenissnsnnsenunessseeeee 87
(8) I TERMINATION

E. THE “TRUE AGREEMENT” (COMMON ISSUES 17 AND 18)

F. POST-TERMINATION......-cccccccsssssssssssssssssssevsssssesesssesssnssssssssnsesnnssnssnseeeniesnesseee 98
(1) I COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE (COMMON ISSUE 19)....-.:...000-- 98
(2) LIMITATION OF LOSSES (COMMON ISSUE 20)

(3) I SUBSEQUENT SUBMPOSTMASTERS (COMMON ISSUE 21

G. AGENCY
(1) POST OFFICE AS AGENT (COMMON ISSUES 10 AND 11)...::cssssssesseeeeesseee 99

H. ASSISTANTS oo.ccccssssssssssssssssssessvessssssvessssssnuessssssessensnnssneeeumnnnsnsseninsssenseeenee
(1) I COMMON ISSUE 22

I. INCORPORATION AND VALIDITY
(1) I INCORPORATION OF TERMS (COMMON ISSUES 5 AND 6
(2) UNFAIR CONTRACT TERMS ACT 1977 (COMMON ISSUE 7) ....---s:c0000-- 112

2

B11.2/11/2
POL00004106
POL00004106

A. INTRODUCTION

1. The purpose of this trial is to determine the meaning and effect of the parties’ contractual
relationship, encompassing disputes as to construction, implied terms and other related issues.

The issues for trial — the Common Issues ~ are identified at Schedule I to the First CMC Order."

2. Post Office has to place a great deal of trust in Subpostmasters (“SPMs”). They run its agency
branches and handle large quantities of cash and stock that belong to Post Office. If SPMs or
their assistants are careless, incompetent or dishonest, Post Office stands to lose large sums of
money. Approximately 47 million transactions are undertaken in Post Office branches every
week, and at any given time an average of £643 million in cash is held within the network.’
Over 11,000 agency branches produce daily cash declarations, amounting to over 286,000 cash
declarations per month.’ These cash declarations form an important part of Post Office’s high-

level oversight of its network and the assets within it.

3. In broad summary, Cs mount a two-pronged attack on (1) the responsibility of SPMs to Post
Office for what goes on in their branches (with money and stock) and to duly account to Post
Office in respect thereof, and (2) the ability of Post Office to terminate the agency contract on
notice (or otherwise) when things go wrong. If Cs were right in the broad thrust of their case,
this would represent an existential threat to Post Office’s ability to continue to carry on its

business throughout the UK in the way it presently does.

4. If it were right that Post Office had to prove how losses of cash or stock had occurred in a
branch in order to recover in respect of the resulting shortfalls, this would have a very serious
impact on Post Office and its ability to control its network throughout the UK. That network,
in an age when very many bank branches are closing, is the only way in many places that
communities (individuals and businesses) are able to access cash, banking services, and
financial services. Post Office is required by government to maintain a broad network of
branches across the country, even in locations that would not normally be commercially viable,
and it can only do this because of the high degree of control that it has over branch operations
and the strength of its contractual and common law rights to protect its cash and stock against

‘shrinkage’ in branches.

' Order dated 25 October 2017. [B7/7/1]
? Angela Van-Den-Bogerd WS, para. 28. [C2/1/7]
3 ibid, para. 129. [C2/1/35]

B11.2/11/3
POL00004106
POL00004106

5. Similarly, if Cs were correct, and Post Office were not able to bring contracts to an end on 3
months’ notice (under the SPMC) or 6 months’ notice (under the NTC) when problems
emerged, Post Office would be required to keep in place SPMs who (for whatever reason) were
failing to meet the standards set by Post Office. Cs contend that the period of notice was
(despite what the contracts actually say) at least 12 months, which would involve putting Post
Office cash and stock at risk for long periods of time. No commercial business of this kind

could ever have agreed such a restriction.

6. Furthermore, it is important to recognise (as explained below in section C.1) that Post Office
contended even at the pre-action stage of these proceedings for the implication of a term that
Post Office provide reasonable co-operation to SPMs where this is necessary to the
performance of their obligations.’ Cs admitted this term. This will enable the Court to do justice
in individual cases if it is shown that the overall contractual super-structure, which worked for
the overwhelming majority of SPMs on the express terms alone, would otherwise fall short on
individual occasions, for individual SPMs. The “necessary co-operation” implied term
provides the answer to the question of how the contract would work to prevent outcomes that
neither side can have anticipated and which were not catered for in the express terms. The
answer is not to construe that contractual super-structure in a strained way; nor is it to imply a
further phalanx of highly specific and onerous implied terms, terms which would often be of
significant detriment to the operations of the overwhelming majority of SPMs and/or to the

public interest inherent in the continued operation of Post Office.

7. In broad terms, Cs are trying to rewrite the agency contracts, twisting what is expressly a
principal-agent, business-to-business relationship, into some kind of quasi-employment
relationship (indeed, in key respects going beyond what even an employment relationship
would require*). In doing so they seek to significantly re-write the bargain struck by the parties
as reflected in the words of the contracts, and to alter the balance of risk and reward inherent

in that agreed relationship.

* See para. 105 of the GDXC [B3/2/47].

> For example, Cs contend that on termination the protection given to SPMs even exceeds that given
to employees — whose contracts (at common law) are readily terminable in accordance with the
express notice time limits set out in such contracts, however unreasonable the employer’s behaviour
in deciding to terminate see: Geys v Societe Generale [2012] UKSC 63, Cs, by contrast, say that
such notice provisions in their contracts for 3 months’ written notice (SPMC) or 6 months’ written
notice (NTC) are unenforceable (on Interfoto and UCTA grounds) and/or do not represent the “true
agreement” between the parties (Autoclenz). This is a very ambitious proposition. If right, it would
have significant ramifications for the very many commercial contracts that include similar terms.

B11.2/11/4
POL00004106

POL00004106

That approach is fundamentally wrongheaded. It should not be surprising that its
wrongheadedness feeds through, in perplexing and unorthodox ways, into (a) which issues are

being contested at all and (b) the detail of the Cs’ positions on individual issues.

As to (a), whilst there are a number of genuine, if limited, issues which will require careful
consideration, other matters that Cs have put in dispute have straightforward answers. It is
peculiar that the relevant allegations were made at all, let alone maintained to this stage. This

applies to many of the clauses that are challenged by reference to UCTA 1977, for example.

As to (b), Cs’ approach leads them to assault, rather than interpret, the terms of the contracts
in issue and the relationship that they set out. They seek, without the aid of any textual warrant
or commercial imperative, to insert a phalanx of 21 implied terms, including a very wide
implied term relying on classifying the contract as “relational”, and assuming from that the
implication of an unusually extensive term as to good faith. Cs also advance an unparticularised
case on the incorporation and validity of terms (using the Interfoto principle and UCTA) to
say that express terms do not mean what they say and otherwise to do violence to the
conclusions which flow from the application of ordinary legal principles to the Common
Issues. They also invoke the exceptional principle in Autoclenz to say that the express terms
dealing with termination on notice in a detailed written business-to-business contract do not

reflect the parties’ “true agreement”. On any view, this approach is radical and unorthodox.

. As noted above, it is crucial to understand that this assault upon the terms of the contract is

proceeded with notwithstanding the fact that at a very early stage Post Office averred that the
standard terms often implied into contracts of this type fall to be implied here, namely (1) a
necessary co-operation term (2) a Stirling v Maitland term.° Those are significant implied
terms, and importantly Cs have admitted’ that those terms are to be implied into the contracts
(“the Agreed Implied Terms”). Those implied terms will, in appropriate cases, enable the
court to justly determine disputes between the individual SPMs and Post Office where SPMs
allege that Post Office did not co-operate with them sufficiently or at all, including in relation

to any disputed shortfalls.

. Accordingly, Cs’ case that yet further terms fall to be implied into the contract requires to be

considered against the backdrop that the Agreed Implied Terms are already incorporated and

© See para. 105 of the GDXC [B3/2/47].

7 Cs did not make this admission in the Generic Reply, but it was recorded in Schedule I to the First
CMC Order at Issue 2.

B11.2/11/5
POL00004106
POL00004106

already providing “necessary co-operation” obligations on both sides. To mount such a case,
Cs necessarily have to identify the gaps which they say remain following the incorporation of
the Agreed Implied Terms which make necessary the implication of a further raft of implied
terms. They have singularly failed to do so. Cs instead make repeated and often heated
criticisms of Post Office for its supposed failure to explain to them the precise practical effects
of the Agreed Implied Terms. Post Office anticipates that Cs will persist at trial in this
misguided attack in relation to the meaning and effects of implied terms that they have
admitted. It is, in Post Office’s submission, nothing more than an attempt to divert the Court’s

attention away from the weakness of Cs’ case on the alleged further implied terms.

13. Cs have adopted a “kitchen sink” approach to this case - to throw every conceivable allegation
at this contract and see what comes out. As the Court will see, the case advanced is exorbitant
and largely unparticularised.* Cs’ hope seems to be that, if they overshoot the bounds of what
is reasonably arguable, and point repeatedly to inadmissible material on the supposed merits
of these lead Cs’ cases, they will get “half a loaf”. That aspiration does not merit any measure
of success. It should be remembered that over the last 18 years there have been a significant
number of SPMs in the network, the vast majority of whom have operated their branches
successfully and without issue. The SPMs now raising issues are a very small proportion of the
SPMs in the existing network, and an even smaller proportion of those loyal and successful
SPMs who have been in post over the last 18 years (during which time Horizon has been
operating).° Furthermore, it should be noted that the National Federation of Subpostmasters
(“NFSP”), which is the organisation which represents SPMs and their interests nationwide,

does not support this action and does not endorse the factual premises of the Claims.

1) NATURE OF THE RELATIONSHIP

14. It is common ground that SPMs are not employed by Post Office.’° This is unsurprising given

that the contracts at issue are in place not just with individuals but also with corporate SPMs,

8 For example, the attack on incorporation based on the Interfoto principle extends to every written
term in issue and set out in Section B.2 of the AGPOC [B3/1/16-34] (without setting out a case in
relation to each term as might be expected): see para. 66 of AGPOC) [B3/1/38]. The case on UCTA
simply repeats the case on Interfoto, again attacking each and every term in issue as “unreasonable”
without seeking to set out a case on each of the terms (see para. 68 of AGPOC [B3/1/39]). Cs
promised better particulars in the Generic Reply, but that document provides none. Even the IPOCs
plead by reference to all the terms taken together see, e.g., Bates IPOC, paras. 93-97 [B5.1/2/25].

° Post Office estimates that, over a 20-year period, there have been around 35,000 SPMs.

1° Notably, even if these were employment contracts, that would not detach them from the ordinary
tules of construction: see Geys v Societe Generale [2012] UKSC 63, per Lord Sumption

6

B11.2/11/6
POL00004106

POL00004106

including large retailers.'' Some Cs were never themselves SPMs but were merely the owners

of companies that contracted with Post Office on the terms that they now seek to re-write.

. The Post Office branches that SPMs run are, in important respects, their own businesses, and

SPMs almost invariably run completely freestanding retail offerings alongside those
businesses. Post Office’s understanding is that only a very small minority of agency branches,
i.e. branches run by SPMs such as Cs, do not include parallel retail offerings.'* A key attraction
of becoming an SPM is that the availability of Post Office products and services in the branch

can be expected to drive footfall and revenue for the associated retail business.'*

. SPMs often take on a Post Office branch precisely because they value the autonomy and

flexibility that the role involves.'* As befits independent business owners, they decide how
much work to carry out themselves, how much to delegate, and to whom.'* And as befits a
business-to-business relationship, prospective SPMs were free when applying to take whatever

independent advice they deemed appropriate, including as to the contractual terms on offer.

The trust that Post Office necessarily reposes in SPMs has been referred to above. Post Office
does not have a day-to-day presence in the branches. It relies on SPMs to accurately conduct
and record transactions and to take proper conduct of Post Office’s cash and stock.'” Post
Office is exposed to the full range of frauds (both determined schemes and those instances of

false accounting which begin as relatively innocent attempts to make the numbers work'®). It

(dissenting in part, but not on this point) at para. 118: “Subject to the intervention of statute,
contracts of employment are governed by the same principles as other contracts, except in those
cases where their subject-matter gives rise to compelling policy considerations calling for a
different approach.”

1 Angela Van Den Bogerd WS, para. 27. [C2/1/7]
” ibid, para. 66.

3 ibid, para. 65.

4 ibid, para. 71.

'S Sarah Rimmer WS, paras 12 to 19. [C2/4/3]

*© Timothy Dance WS, para. 20. [C2/5/7] This was made express in the documentation upon the
introduction of the NTC contract — see: E6/37/1, which “strongly suggest/ed]” applicants to seek
legal advice on the contract.

7 Angela Van Den Bogerd WS, paras 126 to 127 [C2/1/34].
1S See Helen Dickinson WS [C2/6].

B11.2/11/7
POL00004106

POL00004106

is also exposed to SPMs’ error, and to fraud or errors by assistants (whom only the employing

SPM is in a position to supervise’’).
18. This reliance provides crucial context for three important aspects of the parties’ relationship.

19. First, it underscores how carefully Post Office (as well as the prospective SPM) needs to
consider, pre-appointment, the suitability of a given applicant to run a given branch. For its
part, Post Office insists on the production of a business plan, and on testing the applicant’s
skills and business acumen at interview.”° It is similarly incumbent on prospective SPMs to
consider thoroughly whether they will be able to run a branch competently, to assess the level
of remuneration that it will likely provide, and to decide whether they want to employ assistants

to discharge some or even all their day-to-day responsibilities.

20. Second, Post Office lays down certain standards governing the operation of branches.”! These
range from rules on what products and services to sell within the branch, to the requirement to
submit prospective assistants for basic vetting,” to accounting processes. As with Post Office’s
assessment of a prospective applicant, these rules are designed, in part, to mitigate the risks
attendant on giving the SPM broad day-to-day autonomy (and to make sure that the people
providing these products and services are suitably vetted), without undermining that autonomy
so much as to make the position less attractive to applicants. They exist in the context of Post
Office’s regulatory obligations and its contractual obligations to its clients/ government. They
are similar, in generic terms, to the sort of rules that a franchisor might lay down for its

(independent) franchisees.

21. Third, and most importantly, SPMs act as Post Office’s agents when transacting Post Office
business, with all the ordinary obligations and liabilities that agency entails.” Ultimately, Post
Office cannot (and does not seek to) supervise or prescribe in detail everything that SPMs do
in operating the agency business, but the basic fact is that SPMs are transacting Post Office
business on its behalf. As with a more straightforward commission-based agency, SPMs are

generally remunerated by reference to the number and value of Post Office transactions they

” See ibid, para. 26 [C2/6/7].

*° See John Breeden WS, para. 13 [C2/3/3]. See also Timothy Dance WS, para. 10 [C2/5/3].
2! Angela Van-Den-Bogerd WS, para. 72 [C2/1/22].

» Sarah Rimmer WS, paras 12 to 19 [C2/4/3].

*3 As is stressed to applicants: Sarah Rimmer WS, para. 65 [C2/4/14].

B11.2/11/8
22.

23.

24.

POL00004106

POL00004106

carry out.* The express and implied terms of the SPMC and the NTC need to be viewed
through the prism of an expressly created agency relationship, and so the express contractual
terms sit atop the body of law regulating the duties of agents to their principals. The common
law principles of agency are important background to the contracts. And any implied terms

need to be considered (and shown to be necessary) against that agency background.

As such, SPMs are obliged to account to Post Office as its agent. They are acting on Post
Office’s behalf, and Post Office relies on them to do so. SPMs are fiduciaries; Post Office is

“entitled to [their] single-minded loyalty”.*° This core fact suffuses the contractual relationship.

2 ROLE OF THE LEAD CASES

It is important to stress one further point by way of general introduction. Post Office
acknowledges that many of the Claimants feel aggrieved, and wish to put forward their stories.
Post Office sees these proceedings as being the best means of resolving what in many cases
are long-held and deeply-felt grievances. This is not, however, a general inquiry into the actions
of Post Office. It is group litigation. The purpose of the Common Issues trial is to advance the
resolution of that litigation by, in particular, construing the key contracts which governed the
relationships between the bulk of the 557°” Cs and Post Office. Within the framework set by
the Court, the role of the lead cases, and their attendant factual evidence, is to provide relevant
context. As Leading Counsel for Cs put it, at the First CMC, “the relevance of the evidence
here is to give the court the context in which to construe and determine the contractual

questions and to provide evidence so that the court is not doing the exercise in a vacuum.”**

The six cases before the Court at this trial are lead cases, not test cases. The distinction is
important. They have not been chosen (and could not have been chosen) to fairly represent the
large population of claims in this group litigation in relation to matters such as the types of
breach allegations that they make, the factual circumstances of the alleged breaches or the types
of losses alleged to have been suffered. They have been chosen simply as claims which cover
the SPMC and NTC contract periods. Beyond that, there were no express criteria for selection.

Cs chose three, and Post Office chose three. As such, the six lead Cs’ experiences will not

*4 Nicholas Beal WS, para. 42 [C2/2/9].
?5 See the GDXC at paras. 69(3), 90-91, 93 and 183 [B3/2/33; 41; 42; 71].

© Bristol and West Building Society vy Mothew [1998] Ch 1, per Millett LJ at p.18. See also
Bowstead & Reynolds (21* Edition) at 6-001 and 6-033.

27 A Notice of Discontinuance in respect of 4 Cs was served on 18 October 2018.
*S Transcript of CMC on 19 October 2017, 12B [B8.2/3/4].

B11.2/11/9
25.

26.

27.

28.

POL00004106

POL00004106

necessarily be representative of anyone else’s experience, and should not be treated as if they
were. They are being used to provide context to the contractual documents, in order to reach
conclusions on construction and other legal questions which can apply to all Cs. In some cases,
that context will be of greater utility than in others (for some of these lead Cs, whose claims
appear to be clearly statute-barred, their very old accompanying factual allegations would

ordinarily be too stale to even reach trial).

A lot of time will doubtless be spent in cross-examination aimed at determining what
documents these six lead Cs were provided with prior to contracting and what their reasonable
expectations were upon entering into the contract. These points are peculiar to these six claims,
although of course similar issues may arise in other claims. Against that background, the
purpose of this trial is to reach conclusions which can be applied across the whole Claimant
group. That ought to be possible — it would, after all, be completely unworkable if the standard
form contracts were to mean dramatically different things for different Cs. But, for precisely
that reason, the detailed factual nuances of each case cannot play a significant role in the

determination of the Common Issues.

The huge costs of this trial are not justified by reference to the particular outcomes for these
six lead Cs. The exercise can only be justified if the answers provided are capable of being
generic. These claims only comprise about 1% of the total 557 claims. As such, it would not
advance these proceedings (indeed, would positively retard them) if the Court (only) engaged
in a highly fact-specific construction of these contracts in the particular factual matrices
attaching to each of the lead Cs. The implication of that approach would be that hundreds of
further such exercises would have to be undertaken, for each of the other Cs, in the light of
their particular factual circumstances. That would neutralise the utility of this trial. It would
also, for reasons outlined below, require the Court to attach far too great a weight to individual
matrix of fact and far too little weight to the overall commercial context of the agreements and

the words that they parties used to record their agreement in detailed written contracts.

In this context, it may assist the parties to know to what extent the Court’s conclusions on the
issues would or might have been different, based on slight changes to the facts as found: for
example, would it have made any difference to the Court’s conclusion on a given issue if

Claimant A had (contrary to the Court’s finding) in fact seen document X pre-contract?

Normally, Courts are appropriately reluctant to determine such hypothetical questions. But for
the usefulness of the Judgment to be maximised for the benefit of a// the claims in this group
litigation, Post Office respectfully invites the Court to consider such points rather than limiting

itself strictly to the facts as found in these particular claims. Such an approach is also suggested

10

B11.2/11/10
POL00004106
POL00004106

by the effects of CPR, r. 19.12 which provides that a Judgment on “one or more of the GLO
issues” is binding on all other claims on the Group Register when the judgement is given —

“unless the court orders otherwise”. Therefore, a highly fact-specific judgement — without
more — is unlikely to be capable of being binding (in any meaningful sense) on the many other

claims in this group litigation.

3) SCOPE OF THE PRESENT TRIAL

29. This trial is the first stage in the resolution of the issues in the group litigation. It necessarily
precedes the determination of issues as to the functions and reliability of the Horizon system

and the determination of matters going to breach of contract and liability in individual cases.

30. The Court confirmed in Judgment No. 2 that it would not be drawn into “making findings on
the Horizon Issues, or...making findings on breach” at the present trial (para. 52). Post Office
welcomes that ruling. Post Office anticipates that Cs’ case on the supposed relevance of its

breach allegations to the Common Issues will become more fully articulated at trial.

31. Inany event, it will be important for the parties not to stray into issues that fall to be determined
at the Horizon trial and/or issues as to breach. The Court will recall that Post Office has not
adduced any evidence at this trial to make good its case on Horizon; nor has it sought to address
in evidence the various breach allegations that appear in Cs’ witness evidence. Post Office has
not prepared for a trial on Horizon or a trial on breach. The function of this trial is not to reach

any findings on those issues, or on facts that go to those issues.

4 LAW

THE INTERPRETATION OF COMMERCIAL CONTRACTS

32. Many of the Common Issues are, or involve, issues of contractual interpretation. It is useful to
set out, in this introduction, the key legal principles on which Post Office will rely in the course

of its submissions.

Contractual construction: legal principles
33. First, the “court’s task is to ascertain the objective meaning of the language which the parties
have chosen to express their agreement”: Wood vy Capita Insurance Services Ltd,” per Lord

Hodge at para. 10.

34. Second, “where the parties have used unambiguous language, the court must apply it”: Rainy

Sky SA v Kookmin Bank,*’ per Lord Clarke at para. 23. The more difficult questions of

?? 12017] A.C. 1173.
9/2011] 1 W.L.R. 2900.

B11.2/11/11
POL00004106

POL00004106

construction only arise if the “/anguage used by the parties...[has] more than one potential

meaning”, so that “there are two possible constructions”: ibid. at para. 21.

35. Third, when “interpreting a contractual provision, one can only take into account facts or
circumstances which existed at the time that the contract was made, and which were known or
reasonably available to both parties”: Arnold v Britton,*! per Lord Neuberger at para. 21;

Lewison, The Interpretation of Contracts (6" Edition), at 3.17(d) and (e).

36. Fourth, the above rule does not apply to knowledge of any “clear and well known legal
principles” that are relevant to the parties’ relationship and/or the transaction(s) at issue;
contracts are to be construed in light of the relevant law, even if it was not known to the parties
at the time of contracting, at least where the legal position was clear at that time. This was
recently confirmed by the Court of Appeal in First Abu Dhabi Bank v BP Oil

F?

International”, approving dicta of Vos J in Spencer v Secretary of State for Defence.**

37. Fifth, the construction exercise proceeds by “focussing on the meaning of the relevant
words...in their documentary, factual and commercial context”: Arnold v Britton, per Lord
Neuberger at para. 15. Even if that language is not wholly unambiguous, its ordinary meaning

will generally be decisive (ibid., at paras. 17 and 18):

The exercise of interpreting a provision involves identifving what the parties meant through
the eyes of a reasonable reader, and, save perhaps in a very unusual case, that meaning is
most obviously to be gleaned from the language of the provision. Unlike commercial common
sense and the surrounding circumstances, the parties have control over the language they
use in a contract...the clearer the natural meaning the more difficult it is to justify departing
from it. (emphasis added)

38. Moreover:

The mere fact that a contractual arrangement, if interpreted according to its natural
language, has worked out badly, or even disastrously, for one of the parties is not a reason
for departing from the natural language. Commercial common sense is only relevant to the
extent of how matters would or could have been perceived by the parties, or by reasonable
people in the position of the parties, as at the date that the contract was made...

[A] court should be very slow to reject the natural meaning of a provision as correct simply
because it appears to be a very imprudent term for one of the parties to have agreed, even
ignoring the benefit of wisdom of hindsight. The purpose of interpretation is to identify what

3112015] A.C. 1619.

>? [2018] EWCA Civ 14 at para. 37(iii) per Gloster LJ (with whom Patten LJ and Lord Briggs
agreed).

33 [2012] EWHC 120 (Ch) at paras 73-74.

B11.2/11/12
POL00004106
POL00004106

the parties have agreed, not what the court thinks that they should have agreed. Experience
shows that it is by no means unknown for people to enter into arrangements which are ill-
advised, even ignoring the benefit of wisdom of hindsight, and it is not the function of a court
when interpreting an agreement to relieve a party from the consequences of his imprudence
or poor advice. Accordingly, when interpreting a contract a judge should avoid re-writing it
in an attempt to assist an unwise party or to penalise an astute party. (ibid., para. 19 and 20)

39. Lord Steyn made the same point in Mannai Investment v Eagle Star Life Assurance Co
Ltd,™ at p.768, by saying that the relevance of “surrounding circumstances” will be limited

by “what meanings the language read against the objective contextual scene will let in”.

40. Sixth, contractual construction is a “unitary exercise”. It “involves an iterative process by
which each suggested interpretation is checked against the provisions of the contract and its
commercial consequences are investigated”: Wood v Capita, per Lord Hodge at para. 12. In
assessing what “a reasonable person, that is a person who has all the background knowledge
which would reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were
at the time of the contract, would have understood the parties to have meant”, the Court “must
have regard to all the relevant surrounding circumstances”: Rainy Sky, per Lord Clarke at

para. 21.

41. Seventh, the relative significance of the different factors will vary depending on the type of

contract that is being construed. As Lord Hodge explained in Wood v Capita, at paras 12-13:

To my mind once one has read the language in dispute and the relevant parts of the contract
that provide its context, it does not matter whether the more detailed analysis commences
with the factual background and the implications of rival constructions or a close
examination of the relevant language in the contract, so long as the court balances the
indications given by each.

Textualism and contextualism are not conflicting paradigms in a battle for exclusive
occupation of the field of contractual interpretation. Rather, the lawyer and the judge, when
interpreting any contract, can use them as tools to ascertain the objective meaning of the
language which the parties have chosen to express their agreement. The extent to which each
tool will assist the court in its task will vary according to the circumstances of the particular
agreement or agreements. Some agreements may be successfully interpreted principally by
textual analysis, for example because of their sophistication and complexity and because they
have been negotiated and prepared with the assistance of skilled profe:
interpretation of other contracts may be achieved by a greater emphasis on the factual matrix,

for_example because of their informality, brevity or the absence of skilled professional
assistance. But negotiators of complex formal contracts may often not achieve a logical and
coherent text because of, for example, the conflicting aims of the parties, failures of

sionals. The correct

411997] A.C. 749.

B11.2/11/13
POL00004106
POL00004106

communication, differing drafiing practices, or deadlines which require the parties to
compromise in order to reach agreement. There may often therefore be provisions in a
detailed professionally drawn contract which lack clarity and the lawyer or judge in
interpreting such provisions may be particularly helped by considering the factual matrix
and the purpose of similar provisions in contracts of the same type. (emphasis added)

42. In practice, there is what might be called an “interpretative spectrum” of contracts, ranging
from sophisticated contracts which have been carefully negotiated and/or professionally
drafted, at one end, to informal and/or brief contracts which have not been carefully negotiated
and/or professionally drafted at the other. The nearer the contract in question is to the former
category, the greater the emphasis that is given to the natural meaning of the contractual words

used. The contracts in this case fall towards the sophisticated end of the spectrum.

43. Finally, it is worth noting that Cs place undue weight on the contra proferentem principle of
construction. That principle in fact applies only where the term is ambiguous and the ambiguity
cannot be resolved through the application of the usual principles of construction; it should not
be used for the purpose of creating an ambiguity; it is, or is close to, a principle of last resort:
see Chitty, at 13-086; Lewison, at 7.08(h). It cannot do anything like the extreme work that Cs

want it to do in re-writing the contracts.

Implied terms: legal principles
44. In Geys v Société Générale*’, Baroness Hale stated that there are two types of implied terms:

In this connection, it is important to distinguish between two different kinds of implied terms.
First, there are those terms which are implied into a particular contract because, on its
proper construction, the parties must have intended to include them: see Attorney General of
Belize v Belize Telecom Ltd [2009] 1 WLR 1988. Such terms are only implied where it is
necessary to give business efficacy to the particular contract in question. Second, there are
those terms which are implied into a class of contractual relationship, such as that between
landlord and tenant or between employer and employee, where the parties may have lefi a
good deal unsaid, but the courts have implied the term as a necessary incident of the
relationship concerned, unless the parties have expressly excluded it... (emphasis added)**

45. The implied terms asserted by Cs are all terms in the first category: terms that it is alleged

should be implied in fact — terms that must have been intended on the facts of these agreements.

512013] 1 A.C. 523.

56 The Court of Appeal recently confirmed the importance of this distinction in J N Hipwell & Son
v Mrs Clare Szurek [2018] EWCA Civ 674.

B11.2/11/14
POL00004106
POL00004106

46. In Marks and Spencer v BNP Paribas Securities Services,*” the Supreme Court re-affirmed
the high threshold for implying a term in fact. Lord Neuberger, with whom Lords Sumption
and Hodge agreed, clarified that the process of implication is distinct from the construction of

the contract. He said, at para. 29:

...the process of implication involves a rather different exercise from that of construction. As
Bingham MR trenchantly explained in the Philips case [1995] EMLR 472, 481:

“The court's usual role in contractual interpretation is, by resolving ambiguities or
reconciling apparent inconsistencies, to attribute the true meaning to the language in which
the parties themselves have expressed their contract. The implication of contract terms
involves a different and altogether more ambitious undertaking: the interpolation of terms to
deal with matters for which, ex hypothesi, the parties themselves have made no provision. It
is because the implication of terms is so potentially intrusive that the law imposes strict
constraints on the exercise of this extraordinary power.”

47. Lord Neuberger also emphasised that the test for the implication of a term in fact, no matter
precisely how that test is expressed, always requires that the term be necessary, rather than

merely reasonable, fair or appropriate. He said, at paras 21 and 23:

. a term should not be implied into a detailed commercial contract merely because it
appears fair or merely because one considers that the parties would have agreed it if it had
been suggested to them. Those are necessary but not sufficient grounds for including a term.

... the notion that a term will be implied if a reasonable reader of the contract, knowing all
its provisions and the surrounding circumstances, would understand it to be implied is quite
acceptable, provided that (i) the reasonable reader is treated as reading the contract at the
time it was made and (ii) he would consider the term to be so obvious as to go without saying
or to be necessary for business efficacy... The first proviso emphasises that the question
whether a term is implied is to be judged at the date the contract is made. The second proviso
is important because otherwise Lord Hoffmann’s formulation may be interpreted as
suggesting that reasonableness is a sufficient ground for implying a term. (For the same
reason, it would be wrong to treat Lord Steyn’s statement in Equitable Life Assurance Society
v Hyman [2002] 1 AC 408, 459 that a term will be implied if it is essential to give effect to
the reasonable expectations of the parties as diluting the test of necessity. That is clear from
what Lord Steyn said earlier on the same page, namely that “The legal test for the implication
of ... a term is...strict necessity”, which he described as a stringent test.)

48. His Lordship went on at para. 21 to set out six overarching principles of implication as follows:

In my judgment, the judicial observations so far considered represent a clear, consistent and
principled approach. It could be dangerous to reformulate the principles, but I would add
six comments on the summary given by Lord Simon in the BP Refinery case 180 CLR 266 as

37 [2015] 3 W.L.R 1843.

B11.2/11/15
49.

50.

POL00004106

POL00004106

extended by Bingham MR in the Philips case [1995] EMLR 472 and exemplified in The APJ
Priti [1987] 2 Lloyd's Rep 37.

First, in Equitable Life Assurance Society v Hyman [2002] 1 AC 408, 459, Lord Steyn rightly
observed that the implication of a term was “not critically dependent on proof of an actual
intention of the parties” when negotiating the contract. If one approaches the question by
reference to what the parties would have agreed, one is not strictly concerned with the
hypothetical answer of the actual parties, but with that of notional reasonable people in the
position of the parties at the time at which they were contracting.

Secondly, a term should not be implied into a detailed commercial contract merely because
it appears fair or merely because one considers that the parties would have agreed it if it had
been suggested to them. Those are necessary but not sufficient grounds for including a term.

However, and thirdly, it is questionable whether Lord Simon's first requirement,
reasonableness and equitableness, will usually, if ever, add anything: if a term satisfies the
other requirements, it is hard to think that it would not be reasonable and equitable.

Fourthly, as Lord Hoffmann I think suggested in Attorney General of Belize v Belize Telecom
Ltd [2009] 1 WLR 1988, para 27, although Lord Simon's requirements are otherwise
cumulative, I would accept that business necessity and obviousness, his second and third
requirements, can be alternatives in the sense that only one of them needs to be satisfied,
although I suspect that in practice it would be a rare case where only one of those two
requirements would be satisfied.

Fifihly, if one approaches the issue by reference to the officious bystander, it is “vital to

formulate the question to be posed by [him] with the utmost care”, to quote from Lewison
The Interpretation of Contracts Sth ed (2011), p 300, para 6.09.

Sixthly, necessity for business efficacy involves a value judgment. It is rightly common
ground on this appeal that the test is not one of “absolute necessity”, not least because the
necessity is judged by reference to business efficacy. It may well be that a more helpful way
of putting Lord Simon's second requirement is, as suggested by Lord Sumption JSC_in
argument, that_a_term can only be implied if, without the term, the contract would lack
commercial or practical coherence. (formatting and underlining provided)

There are several other important and well-established principles that flow from these

overarching rules and operate to restrict the implication of terms in fact.

First, a term will not be implied where it would be inconsistent with the express terms of the

contract. In the Court of Appeal in Autoclenz,** Aikens LJ expressed the principle as follows:

Once it is established that the written terms of the contract were agreed, it is not pi
imply terms into a contract that are inconsistent with its express terms. The only way it can
be argued that a contract contains a term which is inconsistent with one of its express terms

38 [2009] EWCA Civ 1046. Affirmed by the Supreme Court: [2011] ICR 1157.

16

B11.2/11/16
POL00004106
POL00004106

is to allege that the written terms do not accurately reflect the true agreement of the parties.
(para. 88; emphasis added)

51. One effect of this principle is that the Court must, before considering whether to imply any
terms, first construe the relevant express terms of the agreement. Lord Neuberger pointed this
out in Marks & Spencer, and it was recently confirmed and applied by the Court of Appeal
in Robert Bou-Simon v BGC Brokers LP.”

52. Second, there is a strong presumption against implying terms where the agreement is a detailed
written contract that appears to represent a complete bargain and, in particular, appears to cover
the subject matter in relation to which it is argued a term should be implied. In Greatship
(India) v Oceanografia SA de CV,” Gloster J said at para. 41:

Moreover, there is real difficulty in seeking to imply a term into a detailed standard form
contract such as the Supplytime 1989 form, where the strong presumption is likely to be that
the detailed terms of the contract are complete; see A-G of Belize v. Belize Telecom [2009]
1 WLR 1988 per Lord Hoffmann at paragraphs 17-27; and Mediterranean Salvage v.
Seamar Trading [2009] EWCA 531 per Lord Clarke MR. at paragraphs 10, 15-18.
(emphasis added)

53. Dyson J made essentially the same point in Bedfordshire CC v Fitzpatrick Contractors:

... the court should in any event be very slow to imply into a contract a term, especially one
which is couched in rather general terms, where the contract contains numerous detailed
express terms such as the contract in this case. In my judgment, in such a case, the court
should only do so where there is a clear lacuna. The parties in this case took a great deal of
trouble to spell out with precision and in detail the terms that were to govern their contractual
relationship. The alleged implied term is expressed in broad and imprecise language. I can
see no justification for grafting such a term onto a carefully drafted contract such as this.
(emphasis added)

54. Third, a term will not be implied merely because, had the parties considered or anticipated the
subject matter of the alleged implied term, it is clear that they would have made some provision
for it. It must be shown that the alleged implied term is the very term that they would
necessarily have chosen and agreed. Sir Thomas Bingham MR expressed this principle as

follows in Phillips Electronique Grand Public vy British Sky Broadcasting:

* [2018] EWCA Civ 1525 at [13] per Asplin LJ, with whom Singh and Hickinbottom LJJ agreed.
4° [2012] EWHC 3468 (Comm).

4.11998] 62 Con LR 64.

#11995] EMLR 472 at p.481.

B11.2/11/17
POL00004106
POL00004106

... itis not enough to show that had the parties foreseen the eventuality which in fact occurred
they would have wished to make provision for it, unless it can also be shown either that there
was one contractual solution or that one of several possible solutions would without doubt
have been preferred.

55. Fourth, the Court must always bear in mind that a party that argues for an implied term is
engaged on an “ambitious undertaking” and that English law “imposes strict constraints on the
exercise” of the “extraordinary power” to imply terms: see Marks & Spencer at para. 29,

quoting from Phillips Electronique. The hurdle is a high one.

56. Fifth, it is an error of law to rely on post-contractual facts to justify the implication of a term.
In a famous passage from the Phillips Electronique case, the Master of the Rolls warned of
the risk of using hindsight to justify an implied term (at p.482):

The question of whether a term should be implied, and if so what, almost inevitably arises
afier a crisis has been reached in the performance of the contract. So the court comes to the
task of implication with the benefit of hindsight, and it is tempting for the court then to fashion
a term which will reflect the merits of the situation as they then appear. Tempting, but
wrong.

57. The temptation must be resisted because the question of whether or not a term is necessary “is
to be judged at the date the contract is made” (Marks & Spencer at para. 23). This is
unsurprising given that the classic tests for implication — the “so obvious as to go without
saying” and “officious bystander” tests — logically must be applied at that time. The implied
term, if to be implied at all, must have been implicit in the contract when it was made and not

at some later date or because of later facts.

58. The principle was recently re-affirmed in the Bou-Simon case.“ In that case, HHJ Curran QC
(sitting as High Court Judge) erred in implying a term requiring Mr Bou-Simon to repay money
paid to him by the broker partnership should he leave the organisation within an initial period.

The Court of Appeal held that Judge had wrongly allowed hindsight to affect his analysis:

It seems to me that the judge succumbed to the temptation described by Bingham MR in
the Philips case, referred to in Marks & Spencer at [20] and therefore, fell foul of the first
proviso to what Lord Neuberger described as a "notion" at [23]. The judge implied a term in
order to reflect the merits of the situation as they now appear. He did not approach the matter
from the perspective of the reasonable reader of the Agreement, knowing all its provisions
and the surrounding circumstances at the time the Agreement was made. It is not appropriate

48 This passage was approved by Lord Neuberger in Marks & Spencer at [19].

# [2018] EWCA Civ 1525 at para. 13 per Asplin LJ, with whom Singh and Hickinbottom LJJ
agreed.

B11.2/11/18
POL00004106
POL00004106

to apply hindsight and to seek to imply a term in a commercial contract merely because it
appears to be fair or because one considers that the parties would have agreed it if it had
been suggested to them. Those are necessary but not sufficient grounds for the implication of
aterm: see Marks & Spencer per Lord Neuberger at [21].

59. Ona proper analysis of the circumstances of the agreement, the facts that had actually arisen
(the payment having been made to Mr Bou-Simon without his becoming a partner and his then
leaving before the end of the initial period) were not covered by the agreement at all: see paras.
18 and 22 in the Court of Appeal. The agreement did not lack practical or commercial
coherence merely because it failed to provide an answer to a question of what should happen

in circumstances that had not been anticipated at the time the agreement was made.

60. At the present trial, the Court has before it considerable amounts of evidence from Cs as to
alleged crises in the commercial relationship and their views as to how they felt let down by
Post Office. It would be tempting, but wrong, to have regard to that evidence and to accede to
Cs’ requests to re-write the contracts so as to make them respond better or more fully to the

facts as they allege them to be.

B.__ SUBPOSTMASTERS’ OBLIGATIONS

AGENCY AND ACCOUNTING (COMMON ISSUES 12 AND 13

12 Was the extent and effect of the agency of Subpostmasters to Post Office such that the
principles of agency alleged at Defence 91 and 93(2) and (3) applied as Post Office contends?

13 Did Subpostmasters bear the burden of proving that any Branch Trading Statement
account they signed and/or returned to Post Office was incorrect?

Outline of the parties’ contentions

61. At paras 90 to 93 (and paragraphs 69(3) and 183) of the GDXC, Post Office contends that
SPMs, as Post Office’s agents, were bound by certain obligations characteristic of agents: (1)
they were fiduciaries for Post Office and owed it a duty to account, (2) they were bound by
such an account “unless and to the extent that he discharges the burden of demonstrating that
there are mistakes in the account that he should be permitted to correct” (GDXC, paragraph
93(2)), and (3) where “an agent deliberately renders a false account to his or her principal, in
relation to the matters covered by the account the Court should make all presumptions of fact
against that Subpostmaster as are consistent with the other facts as proven or admitted”

(GDXC, paragraph 93(3)).

B11.2/11/19
POL00004106

POL00004106

62. Cs admit that they were agents.“> However, they deny that this “affords the Defendant any

246

defence to the Claimants’ claims’**, and specifically deny that the SPMs were bound by the

accounts which they submitted.

63. It is not clear on what basis Cs contend that SPMs are not presumptively bound by the accounts
that they render to Post Office. In the IPOCs, it is contended that Post Office is wrong to draw
an “analogy with traditional accounting by an agent... to his principal” *” But Post Office does
not rely on analogy; it relies on the express terms and the common law principles that are

imported by the parties’ express choice of an agency accounting relationship.
64. More specifically, Post Office submits as follows:

(a) First, ordinary principles of agency, as described above, apply by reason of the express
terms of the contracts and, in particular, the agreement that SPMs shall be agents to Post

Office and shall account to it.

(b) Second, it is for the SPM to show that he should not be bound by his account. Post Office
accepts that this can be done by showing a mistake in the account or, in theory at least,

by showing that equity demands that the account be re-opened entirely.

(c) Third, the application of these principles (i.e. the question of whether any particular SPM
should be permitted to correct or re-open any particular account) is not a Common Issue

and does not fall for determination in this trial.

(i) The principles on which Post Office relies apply to the relationship

65. SPMs are Post Office’s agents under the express terms of the contracts.** The parties expressly
chose that relationship and the ordinary legal incidents of it. The common law rules and
principles that apply to agency relationship are also admissible background to the construction

of the contracts.’”

“5 Reply, para. 60.1 [B3/3/33].

46 Reply, para. 59 [B3/3/33].

47 See, e.g., Bates IPOC, para. 106. [B5.1/2/29]

48 SPMC, section I, clause I [D2.1/3/5]; NTC Part 2, para 1.2 [D1.6/3/6].

+ See para. 36 above.

B11.2/11/20
POL00004106
POL00004106

66. Those principles form part of the contractual relationship unless modified or excluded by
agreement.*” Cs have not pleaded any relevant modification or exclusion of those principles

under the contracts.

67. It follows that SPMs, in their fiduciary capacity, are required to account to Post Office, both on
the face of the contracts*! and as a matter of applying the common law principles that apply to
the relationship. In this context, Cs are accounting parties and bear the burden of proof to show
that their accounting was wrong: see Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (21“ Edition), at 6-097
and Post Office Ltd v Castleton.**

68. Indeed, Cs accept, in their skeleton argument on Post Office’s application to strike out evidence,
that “as a matter of principle where accounts show that an agent has credited his principal with
money received, the agent will be presumed to have received that money and will be liable for

it to his principal.”

69. Furthermore, where a fiduciary’s breach of duty (such as a failure to comply with accounting
and associated obligations) has led to an incomplete evidential picture, the Court will be
“entitled to make every assumption against the party whose conduct has deprived it of necessary
evidence”: per Lord Millett, in the Hong Kong case of Libertarian Investments Ltd v Hall;**
see also Snell’s Equity, [20-018(4)]. Cs have not identified anything in the contracts to exclude
or modify the application of this principle.

(ii) It is for the SPM to show that he should not be bound by his account

70. The scope of the dispute between the parties on this issue is not entirely clear. It may even be
common ground that it is for Cs to show that the account should not be binding (either in relation
to a specific entry because it contains a mistake that should be corrected and/or because equity

demands that the account be re-opened generally)

71. In their Skeleton Argument on Post Office’s application to strike out evidence, Cs revealed

something of the case that they apparently intend to run. It appears that Cs rely on the principle

*° See Chitty, 31-006: “On the orthodox and accepted analysis, the full paradigm relationship of
principal and agent arises where one party, the principal, consents that another party, the agent,
shall act on his behalf, and the agent consents so to act.”

5! §PMC, section 12, clause 4 [D2.1/3/51]; NTC, Part 2, para 3.6.6 [D1.6/3/12].
* [2007] EWHC 5 (QB), at para.1.

+ Para. 80 at [B8.10/1/29].

*4 [2013] HKCFA 93, at [174].

B11.2/11/21
POL00004106
POL00004106

that an agent’s account that has been accepted by the principal may be re-opened where the

accounts were settled under undue influence on the part of the agent: Bowstead, at 6-098. In

that connection, they refer to three 19" century cases: Watson v Rodwell®, Coleman v

Mellersh®°, and Lewes v Morgan*”.
72. As to these authorities:

(a) Watson was a case in which an account was settled between a solicitor and his client
principal, an elderly lady. The account was reopened, because it was found that the
principal had acted under undue influence and without sufficient information when she
agreed the account. She was dependent on his advice, and, abusing her trust, he “avail/ed]
himself against an unprotected client, a lady of advanced years”, by demanding the

payment of improper charges: per James LJ, at p.158.

(b) In Coleman, an account settled between solicitors and their client principal was reopened
on the basis that the solicitors had put in a false charge. The Court, per Lord Cottenham
LC, said, at p.317, that this was “not only an error in the sense in which the term is used
for the purpose of opening accounts, but a misstatement and a false representation
designedly made.” Lord Cottenham noted that the Court could direct “the taking of an
open account” if it would be “inequitable for the accounting party to take advantage of
it’, and said that “Amongst the grounds on which the Court rests the application of this
principle, none are stronger than the fact that the accounting party was the solicitor or
agent of the party sought to be charged, or that the circumstances gave him a
commanding power or influence over him, or that the facts prove that he possessed and

abused the confidence which had been reposed in him” (pp.314-315).

(c) Lewes was a broadly similar (although much more complicated) case, with broadly

similar conclusions.** It is not an easy case to follow.

5511879] 11 Ch DISO.
5611850] 2 Mac & G 309.
57 [1817] 5 Price 42.

** Per its internal summary, or quasi-headnote, at p.42: “dn attorney acting as agent for the
mortgagor and mortgagee, in the matter of the mortgage, and as agent and quasi banker, for the
mortgagor (that is, receiving the mortgage money, and giving his accountable receipts to the
mortgagor), will not be allowed to charge the mortgaged premises with a greater sum, (although
actually advanced by him on account of his principal and client, and within the amount of the sum
to be borrowed on mortgage) than shall be proved to have been really paid to him in money by the
mortgagees, on account of and as agent for the mortgagor.” And per Baron Graham, at p.156: “the

22

B11.2/11/22
POL00004106
POL00004106

73. Standing back, we are left with three cases in which an agent was not allowed to rely on his
own misconduct in securing his principal’s agreement to the settlement of accounts. It is
difficult to see how that could ever apply to a principal. Cs’ aforementioned Skeleton Argument
concedes that “/t does appear to be relevant whether the party seeking to reopen the settled
accounts is the principal or the agent.”* That rather seriously understates the position. Cs have
cited no authority for the proposition that an agent can re-open the account that he has given in

relation to his principal’s business.
74. Indeed, in the (slightly more recent) case of In Re Webb“, Davey LJ said, at p.84, of Coleman:

That is the law, as I understand it, stated by Lord Cottenham in Coleman v Mellersh, where
he points out that there is this material difference in dealing with settled accounts where the
parties between whom the account has been settled are in a fiduciary position and where they
are not. Where they are in a fiduciary position the Court sets aside the account upon proof
of some error and allows the account to be taken notwithstanding the settlement; but where
the parties are not in a fiduciary position, upon proof of an error in the absence of fraud, all
the Court does is to give an opportunity to surcharge and falsify.

75. On the present state of the law, it is unclear whether and in what circumstances an agent may
re-open an account that he has rendered to his principal and confirmed to be true. On the face
of it, if that were to be permissible, the agent would at least have to show that he had been
tricked by the principal into declaring a mistaken account and that the circumstances were
otherwise such that equity would intervene to require that the account be re-opened. Those
circumstances might include the dealings between the agent and the principal and, in principle,
even the personal circumstances of the agent (bearing in mind that the age and vulnerability of

the elderly lady client appeared to be important to the result in the Watson case).

76. The Court is, however, not required to address those matters in detail at the present trial, for the

reasons given below.

(iii) The application of the pleaded principles is not a matter for this trial

77. The issues for trial are whether the principles on which Post Office relies applied to the
relationship (Common Issue 12) and whether, under those principles, SPMs bear the burden of
proving that any statement that he signed or returned to Post Office was incorrect (Common

Issue 13). Each of these issues goes to the nature of the relationship between Post Office and

final settlement of the accounts is the only argument that remains; but that has been answered again
and again, by the fact of the peculiar circumstances in which these parties were situated.”

* See at para. 81.1 at [B8.10/1/29].
© 1894] 1 Ch 73.

B11.2/11/23
POL00004106

POL00004106

SPMs generally. They are accordingly appropriate issues to be determined as Common Issues,

the determination of which will bind all Cs.

78. The further factual matters that Cs appear to want to investigate are not Common Issues. Cs
appear to want to address, and obtain findings on, the individual accounts that the lead Cs

rendered to Post Office. There are four fundamental objections to that idea.

79. First, any issue as to whether or not a particular account falls to be corrected or re-opened is not

a Common Issue. It is not directed for trial.

80. Second, unsurprisingly, therefore, Post Office has not adduced evidence in relation to the
specific accounts that Cs seem to want to put in issue. Post Office has not, for example, sought
to prove the false accounting that it will allege in any trials as to breach / liability; ©’ more
generally, it has not led any evidence dealing with each of the potentially relevant branch
accounts over the months and years that the lead Cs want to put in issue. The kind of detailed
factual investigation that may be required in any dispute over specific accounts is clear from
the Castleton case: in that case, the Judge went through the accounts on a week-by-week
basis, analysing stock levels and hearing evidence from Fujitsu and from persons other than the
SPM who had worked in the branch. Only 10 weeks of accounts were in issue, but the trial of
that one case took 6 court days. It would be extremely unfair to make any findings on specific

accounts in the absence of evidence from Post Office and full disclosure from the lead Cs.

8

. Third, Cs’ case on these issues necessarily overlaps with the factual issues for determination at
the Horizon Trial. Cs cannot advance their case without, for example, findings as to Horizon’s

reliability and their ability to investigate shortfalls using it.

82. Fourth, the lead Cs have not pleaded by reference to specific accounts that they contend should
be re-opened or corrected. In fact, the pleadings are entirely general and, in some instances,
seem to assert hypothetical facts.“ No specific account is properly in issue on the pleadings. In
this context, Post Office has done what it can to give a generic response to some of the points
that Cs have raised. Specifically, Post Office has accepted that if, in any particular case, Post

Office instructed an SPM to sign off an account that it knew to be false and the SPM did so, it

°! See, e.g. Stockdale Defence, para. 35(11)(c) [B5.6/3/17].

© [2007] EWHC 5 (QB).

°3 See, e.g., Bates Reply, para. 100.3. [B5.1/4/46].

°4 See, e.g., Bates Reply, paras 100.2 as to when the principles “would not apply” [B5.1/4/45].

24

B11.2/11/24
POL00004106

POL00004106

could not rely on the principles as to false accounting in relation to that account® (although this

point does not strictly fall within the Common Issues). There is nothing like full pleading.

83. Post Office anticipates that the precise scope of the dispute between the parties, and what Cs
in fact invite the Court to find under Common Issues 12 and 13, will become clearer at trial
and can be addressed more fully in closing. In particular, it is possible that Cs might (depending
on determinations in the Horizon trial) subsequently seek to argue that they have grounds to
open the accounts based on the accounting system being faulty. But that would depend upon
them proving that, and demonstrating that any such fault caused an error to be made in their
account which they wish to correct. Obviously, this is not a matter for this trial. But what it
demonstrates is that issues of burden of proof (at the breach trial) may depend, at least in part,

on the outcome of the Horizon trial as well as the outcome of the present trial.

@ RESPONSIBILITY FOR LOSSES (COMMON ISSUES 8 AND 9)
COMMON ISSUE 8

84. Common Issue 8 concerns “the proper construction of section 12, clause 12 of the SPMC”:

The Subpostmaster is responsible for all losses caused through his own negligence,
carelessness or error, and also for losses of all kinds caused by his Assistants. Deficiencies
due to such losses must be made good without delay.

Outline of the parties’ contentions

85. Issues 8 and 9 concern the proper approach to responsibility for losses. They should be
considered against the factual background of how accounting works in a Post Office branch,
as described by Angela Van-Den-Bogerd at paras. 73 to 82, and 126 to 140, of her witness

statement.°°

86. Cs contend that clause 12 makes SPMs liable only for “actual losses” caused by negligence,
carelessness or error on the part of either the SPM or his assistant and that the contract allocates
a legal burden of proof to Post Office: see AGPOC, para 55. Cs also contend (apparently as a
matter of construction) that the SPM would not be liable for any loss that was “caused or

contributed to by the Defendant's own breach of duty”.

87. Post Office submits that Cs’ supposed “construction” of clause 12 is, in reality, no such thing.
It is an unwarranted attempt to replace the term that the parties in fact agreed with one devised

for the purposes of these proceedings. It also would lead to a position where Post Office could

°5 See, e.g., Bates Defence, para. 100(1). [B5.1/3/54]
6 [€2/1/22-25] and [C2/1/34-38]

yD
By

B11.2/11/25
88.

89.

POL00004106

POL00004106

not, or it would be extremely difficult for Post Office to, recover shortfalls, to the extent that

its very business model might not survive.

It is understandable that Cs should want to make sure that clause 12 cannot create liability for
apparent shortfalls or losses that do not result from transactions in the branch (or anything else
done in the branch) but instead result from bugs or errors in the Horizon system. But Cs do not
need to do any violence to the clause to achieve that objective, because the clause does not, on
its proper construction, extend to mere apparent shortfalls that are shown on Horizon and result
from bugs or errors in the system. Cs want to write into the clause several vague, complex and
uncommercial limitations that are aimed at preventing something that cannot happen even

without those limitations.

Post Office’s case on clause 12 is relatively simple and, more importantly, respects the plain

language of the contract. In short:

(a) First, the term does not seek to define what qualifies as a “/oss”. It does not limit or
modify the ordinary meaning of that word. The same is true of the word “deficiency”,
which it is common ground has the same meaning as “shortfall”. Neither concept is

defined to be whatever may be shown on Horizon.

Crucially, on the plain meaning of these words, there is no “deficiency” where Horizon
shows only an apparent shortfall, attributable to a bug or error in the system. There is

only liability where there is in fact a shortfall.

(b) Second, the clause distinguishes between (1) liability in respect of shortfalls that result

from losses caused by the SPM and (2) liability in respect of shortfalls that result from
losses caused by the SPM’s assistants. The distinction is important because liability in

the latter case is strict, whereas liability in the former case is not.

(c) Third, as to the burden of proof, although this is not strictly a matter of contractual
construction,®” Post Office accepts that it bears the burden of showing a “deficiency”
and a “/oss” for the purpose of clause 12. A “deficiency” or shortfall that was generated
by Horizon could not be used to prove the existence of a “/oss” under the clause. Aside
from this, the term should be read consistently with the SPM’s duty to account to Post
Office as fiduciary and the agency law principles on which Post Office relies more

generally. In that context, and as a matter of making commercial sense of the clause,

°7 This point does not, therefore, fall within Common Issue 8.

26

B11.2/11/26
POL00004106

POL00004106

the words of clause 12 cannot legitimately be read as imposing a “contractual burden”
of proof on Post Office to identify the specific losses underlying the shortfall and show
them to have resulted from the SPM’s negligence, carelessness or error (or that of an
assistant). There is no express contractual allocation of the burden of proof on these

matters.

The meanings of “deficiency” and “loss” under the clause

90. The clause operates by reference to two important concepts — a “deficiency” and a “loss”. It

OL.

92.

93.

is common ground that the latter term is synonymous with “shortfall”, the term that is more

commonly used in practice.

There is nothing in the words of the clause or in the admissible background to suggest that
“deficiency” was intended to refer to anything other than a shortfall between (1) the cash and
stock that the SPM declares he holds in the branch (or that is identified in branch on an audit)
and (2) the cash and stock that should be in the branch, based on the transactions conducted in
the branch (i.e. derived figures for cash and stock). The clause does not use “deficiency” to
mean whatever is presented as such on Horizon, not least because the clause was drafted and

in use for many years before Horizon even existed.

In any event, clause 12 does not require SPMs to make good all deficiencies. It is only
deficiencies that result from losses for which the SPM is responsible that must be made good:
“Deficiencies due to such losses must be made good without delay” (emphasis added). Post

Office itself bears the cost of any other deficiencies.

Putting Horizon to one side, it is important to recognise the fundamental difference between
Post Office’s case on clause 12 and the case advanced by Cs. Post Office contends that clause
12 forms part of the accounting relationship between Post Office and the SPM. It does not
relate to the relationship between Post Office and the customer or Post Office and the third-
party client. Post Office is responsible for the transaction as a whole (and is liable as such to
the third-party client and the customer), whereas the SPM is only responsible for the branch
operations and for effecting transactions correctly. If the SPM makes no error, it does not
matter what ultimately happens in the transaction — if an SPM correctly processes a cheque in
payment for stock, it is Post Office that loses out if the cheque then bounces. This is essential

context to the construction of the clause.

°8 SPMs and Post Office staff often use the terms “loss” and “shortfall” interchangeably, but the
two concepts are importantly distinct.

B11.2/11/27
POL00004106

POL00004106

A loss caused by Horizon would not quality under section 12, clause 12

94. Post Office pleads at GDXC, para. 41 a meaning for the word “/oss” in the context of the
accounting relationship between the parties — in short, any event that causes a negative
difference between two things: (1) the actual cash and stock position in the branch and (2) the
cash and stock position for the branch derived from the transactions conducted in the branch.
This would, on the natural meaning of the word “Joss”, include both (1) physical losses, such
as mislaying or stealing cash from the branch (2) transaction losses in the branch, such as taking
too little payment for a given item of stock (e.g. taking £10 in payment for an item of stock

with a price of £20®, resulting in a £10 loss on that transaction).

95. A deficiency giving rise to liability under clause 12 must be one that results from a loss-causing

event (or more than one such event) in the branch.

96. Crucially, the clause does not impose liability for any apparent deficiency that results instead
from a bug or error in Horizon. If Horizon is affected by some bug or error that prevents it
showing the true data for the branch transactions, what the system shows when it conducts a
balance is not the comparison between the “actual” and “should be” positions for cash and
stock that is essential to the concept of a deficiency or shortfall. If Horizon were to be affected
by a bug that caused it to inject £100 into the derived cash figure for the branch, it may then

show an apparent shortfall of £100, but that would not be the result of either a physical loss or

a transaction loss at the branch, and there would be no “deficiency” within the meaning of

clause 12. The SPM is liable for shortfalls that result from losses in the branch, not for whatever
number may be shown on Horizon. This is unsurprising given that the clause pre-dates

Horizon.

97. Cs ignore this basic and important point because it suits them to suggest that Post Office’s case
is that clause 12 can somehow be used to impose liability for apparent shortfalls that are
generated by Horizon, rather than resulting from the conduct of the branch. Cs use this to
distract the Court from the true issues that arise under that clause. If Horizon fails to reflect the

transactions that were conducted in the branch, its error does not create liability.

© Post Office sets these prices. The SPM cannot sell at a loss in the usual sense of that concept (i.e.
setting a price that is below some relevant measure of cost and deliberately selling at that price). In
this context, a loss only results where the transaction is performed wrongly.

28

B11.2/11/28
POL00004106
POL00004106

Post Office’s detailed submissions on the meaning of “loss”

98. Loss is an ordinary word. As noted above, it is used here to refer to transaction (or accounting)
losses, which is one of its ordinary uses, and also to physical losses in the sense of cash or stock
going missing, being stolen or being lost to damage or fire, etc. The clause does not distinguish

between types of loss because they all result in the same thing: a shortfall on the account.”

99. A loss is an event that results in there being less cash or stock than there should be based on

the transactions that have been conducted in the branch. To take two examples:

(a) If an assistant sells I packet of stamps but accidentally provides the customer with 2
packets of stamps, that event gives rise to a loss of I packet of stamps. There is a loss

on a specific transaction.

(b) If, over a day, the branch conducts transactions that, taken together, should result in a
net outflow of £1,000 in cash, but at the end of the day the branch declares cash that is
£1,100 lower than it was on the previous day, there is a loss of £100, taking the
transactions on that day together. This daily loss may have arisen from a single event or
it could have arisen incrementally from a number of smaller loss-causing events (such

as an assistant giving too much change or putting cash in the wrong till).

100. This is basic and essential to the accounting relationship: if the accounting party has less cash
and stock than follows from his dealings with the principal’s assets, there is a shortfall, and

there must logically have been at least one underlying loss-causing event.”!

Cs’ case on “loss”: four supposed restrictions on Post Office’s ability to enforce a shortfall

101.Cs have not identified any specific factual matrix said to bear on the meaning of the word

“Joss” in clause 12. There is no good reason to give it anything other than its ordinary meaning.

102.Cs nonetheless assert that clause 12 extends only to “actual losses”, a concept that does not
appear anywhere in the contract and that Cs even now cannot define. Cs provide at para. 55 of
the AGPOC examples of what they say would not qualify as an “actual loss”, i.e. examples of
what the concept excludes. But there is no attempt to define the positive content of the phrase.

If Cs wanted simply to clarify that “/oss” would not include a loss that was only apparent (i.e.

™ Strictly, a loss will necessarily result in a shortfall unless it is cancelled out by a gain (or gains)
or a Transaction Correction of equal or greater size before the end of the accounting period.

7I Similarly, if the accounting party has more cash and stock than follows from his dealings with
the principal’s assets, there is a gain. He may take the benefit of that gain at the end of the
accounting period.

B11.2/11/29
POL00004106

POL00004106

did not in fact exist), that could hardly be controversial. But Cs want instead to import a whole

raft of limitations as to what qualifies as “actual” or “real”.

103. This is clear from Cs’ pleaded examples of what the concept of an “actual loss” would exclude.

These examples show that importing the concept would involve nothing short of a radical re-

drafting of clause 12. In effect, Cs advance four alleged restrictions on Post Office’s ability to

require SPMs to make the account whole, none of which appears in the clause. The restrictions

go well beyond any sensible attempt to try to exclude liability for Horizon-generated shortfalls

(which, as explained above, does not require any words to be read in); they involve instead a

wholesale assault on the SPM’s liability for branch losses.

104. The first restricti

real loss to the Defendant’. This piles a second vague concept ~ a “real loss to the Defendant

n is that there will be no “actual loss” where such loss does not “represent a

— on top of the first vague concept of an “actual loss”. If, which is unclear, Cs intend to

distinguish between a loss on the branch accounts and some ultimate economic detriment to

Post Office, that is plainly not what is intended by the word “/oss”:

(a)

(b)

There is nothing in the clause or the contract as a whole to support the idea that

identifying a loss requires an investigation of Post Office’s ultimate economic position.

The SPM is under a duty to account to Post Office. The business conducted in the branch
is Post Office business, conducted through its agent, the SPM. It would involve a
fundamental subversion of the basic principles of the relationship to turn the focus away
from the agent’s account and onto the presence or absence of an ultimate economic
detriment to the principal. Post Office is entitled to an account of the transactions
undertaken with its assets, and it is entitled to the net cash that results from those
transactions and the payment by the agent of any shortfall on the account. Similarly, the
SPM is responsible only for the conduct of the branch, and not the overall transaction
from customer to third-party client (with all the regulatory and commercial duties and

risks that those transactions may involve).

105. It is useful to test Cs’ preferred “construction” of clause 12 against a hypothetical scenario:

(a)

(b)

An assistant processes a £100 bank deposit in the branch, but he in fact takes only £10

in cash from the customer.

On any sensible view, this generates a loss of £90 in the branch: the transaction creates

a liability for £100 but only £10 of that liability is offset by the money taken in.

30

B11.2/11/30
(c)

(d)

POL00004106

POL00004106

But on Cs’ case, there is not necessarily a loss at this point. There could only be a
potential loss. The “actual loss” or “real loss” would only occur/ crystallise once Post
Office is in fact out of pocket as a result of the transaction — i.e. when it pays over £100
to the bank but receives only £10 from the branch. If the SPM accounts to Post Office
before the ultimate position is resolved with the bank and the customer, his account
would presumably have to show a contingent or incipient loss (perversely, even though
he may not yet know that a mistake has happened). The SPM would not know whether
there was an “actual loss” until Post Office had concluded its dealings with the third-
party client and reported those to the SPM. This process could take days or weeks,
leaving the SPM in limbo and unable to finalise his accounts for any accounting period.

That would be a bizarre and novel form of accounting relationship.

There is nothing in the contract or any of the matrix of fact to suggest that the parties
intended to create such a heavily modified accounting relationship. It is alien to the
basic principles of accounting that the parties adopted and that provide key background
to the construction of clause 12. The SPM should not have to ask questions of Post
Office to find out whether the branch operations, for which she is responsible, have
resulted in a loss; Post Office should not have to report to the SPM in relation to its

dealings with its third-party clients. The parties are entitled to the benefit of the account.

106. This hypothetical scenario can be taken further to demonstrate the logical irrelevance of what

ultimately happens between Post Office and its third-party client:

(a)

(b)

Tf the bank were, for whatever reason, to fail to recover the £100 from Post Office, Cs
would presumably argue that there would be no “real loss” to Post Office and so no

“actual loss” under clause 12.

Cs case would require that Post Office pass on to the SPM the benefit of the bank’s
failure to recover in relation to the deposit. But if that were right, logically Post Office
would also be able to pass on to the SPM any detriment that it suffers where a client
fails to meet its side of a transaction. If Post Office were unable to recover from a bank
in respect of a cash withdrawal made in a particular branch, for example, Cs case would
seem to imply that Post Office could call on the relevant SPM to indemnify it against
the loss it would suffer. This would be so even though the branch account would

(correctly) show no shortfall. Cs’ “construction” makes a nonsense of the agreement

and ignores the obvious commercial logic that underpins it.

31

B11.2/11/31
POL00004106
POL00004106

(c) In reality, the position is much simpler: the SPM effects the transaction for Post Office,
and it is Post Office that is responsible for that transaction with the client and the
customer, for good and for bad. ’* It is Post Office that may be sued by the client or the
customer. The accounting position between Post Office and the SPM must make
commercial sense on its own terms, rather than depending on what ultimately may
happen with Post Office’s third-party client or the customer. That is part of the essence
of an accounting relationship: it is largely self-contained, and it protects the SPM from
the commercial risk of the business that it carries out on Post Office’s behalf. 7° This is
a huge advantage to the SPM relative to operating a substantial and cash-intensive

business on his own account.

107. Further, there is again no reason to strain the language of the contract to achieve the result that

Cs seem to want to achieve. The goal of this part of Cs’ “construction” of the clause appears
to be to prevent the SPM being out of pocket where the transaction was mistaken and can be
corrected. There is no need to do violence to clause 12 to achieve that. The contract already
provides adequate and appropriate protection for that eventuality. Specifically, in the scenario

set out above — the deposit of £100 where only £10 in cash was taken from the customer:

(a) It could be that the SPM intended to carry out a deposit for £10, i.e. the amount collected
from the customer was “right” but the deposit that the SPM in fact recorded (£100) was

“wrong”.”4

(b) Ifthe bank is informed of the mistake and agrees that it be corrected, Post Office would
propose to the branch a Transaction Correction, which (if accepted) would reverse the
£90 loss at the branch. Post Office accepts that it is required by the contracts to propose
corrections to the branch account where it becomes aware of an error that can be
corrected, including from information provided to it by third-party clients. It would be
a breach of the Necessary Cooperation Term for Post Office to fail to propose a

correction in that circumstance.

” See Angela van Den Bogerd WS, paras 79-80 as to the absence of commercial sense to the
suggestion that Post Office should somehow involve the SPM in its relationships with clients.
[C2/1/24]

7 Ms Van Den Bogerd describes in para.77 of her WS the distinction between responsibility for the
transaction as a whole (which the SPM does not have) and responsibility for the branch operations
and accounts (which the SPM does have). [C2/1/23]

74 Equally, however, it could be that it was the amount of money taken that was the error. Either
part of the intended transaction could have been performed wrongly.

32

B11.2/11/32
(c)

108. The second res!

POL00004106

POL00004106

But unless and until a correction takes place, the SPM’s error has caused a loss on the
branch accounts, and there is nothing surprising or unfair about his being liable in
relation to it. It is commercially reasonable for the cost of the error to rest with the

accounting party, unless and until the transaction and the account are corrected.

n that Cs say flows from the use of the word “/oss” being taken to mean

“actual loss” is that there would be no loss until it is “established by the Defendant, after due

enquiry, to be such a real loss”. No explanation is given as to how the words of the contract

are said to give rise to that condition. Clause 12 does not refer to any action by Post Office, let

alone “due enquiry”. Again, Cs advance a case that does not involve construction or

interpretation at all, but a re-writing of the agreement.

109.In any event, Cs

construction” here makes no commercial sense. On Cs’ case, Post Office

would be required to carry out “due enquiry” into the loss or losses underlying each and every

shortfall in the thousands of branches across its network. The obligation would be extremely

broad, onerous and unreasonable. No rational commercial party in Post Office’s position would

ever have agreed to. Further:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

The obligation would apparently apply to all shortfalls, even where (as in in the
overwhelming majority of cases) the shortfall is not disputed by the SPM. There is no

commercial or even rational justification for that.

The contract reflects the SPM’s common law duty to account to Post Office. The
essence of an accounting relationship is that the parties are ordinarily entitled to rely on
the account. The proposed obligation is inconsistent with the accounting relationship

and would remove much of its benefit to both parties.

An obligation on Post Office to investigate and identify the underlying loss(es) before
requiring repayment of a shortfall would generate a perverse incentive for SPMs to
maintain poor records or, in an extreme case, actively conceal the circumstances leading

to shortfalls.

The supposed obligation to make “due enquiry” is vague and unlikely to be the subject
of agreement by any sophisticated commercial party. It would inevitably lead to
disputes as to what enquiry was “due” in all the circumstances of any shortfall, bearing
in mind that Post Office is not present in the agency branch and has no first-hand
knowledge of its transactions. Further, the object of enquiry is itself unclear: it is to
ascertain whether the shortfall in the account “represents a real loss to” Post Office, but

it is unclear even now what Cs mean by a “real loss”. There is nothing in the contract

33

B11.2/11/33
POL00004106
POL00004106

to suggest that the parties had such a concept in mind at all, let alone that it would

control the operation of clause 12 and subvert the accounting relationship.

110.Cs then try to impose a third restriction that is not set out in the clause, namely that Post Office
cannot enforce any shortfall where the underlying loss was “caused or contributed to by the
Defendant's own breach of duty”. This is not a process of construction. There is nothing in the
clause or the contract to give rise to such a restriction. Cs want to restrict Post Office’s ability
to exercise its rights under clause 12 where it is itself in breach of contract (in some relevant

way), but that is a legal argument and not a matter of construing the clause.

Il

.In Carewatch Care Services v Focus Caring Services’, Henderson J rejected an attempt to
import into a franchise contract the principle that a party is not entitled to benefit from its own
wrong. The principle was pleaded in that case as an implied term. He refused to imply the term
on the basis that it was “essentially a proposition of law and “not really an implied term at
all’.”° The same point applies to Cs’ attempt to restrict the operation of clause 12 by reference
to a proposition of law that Post Office’s (unspecified) breach of contract may prevent it relying
on its rights under the clause. As in Carewatch,” it is of course possible that the principle of
law that Cs seek to rely upon could help them in some cases, but it does not form part of the

contract (whether by construction or by implying a term).

112. Taken as a whole, Cs’ restrictions do not amount to any genuine attempt to construe the words
of clause 12 against the admissible background to the agreement. None of them should be

implied by way of supposed construction of the clause.

(ii) Distinction between the SPMs’ personal liability and liability for assistants
113.The words of the term draw a clear distinction between liability in two distinct factual

circumstances:

(a) Liability for shortfalls where the underlying losses resulted from acts or omissions on
the part of assistants, where there is no fault requirement — using the words “/osses of

all kinds caused by... Assistants” (emphasis added).

* [2014] EWHC 2313.
76 ibid, at paras 102 to 103.
” ibid, at para. 112.

34

B11.2/11/34
POL00004106
POL00004106

(b) Liability for shortfalls where the underlying losses resulted from acts or omissions on
the part of the SPM, where a degree of fault is required — using the words “all losses

caused through his own negligence, carelessness or error”.

114.Cs’ attempt to remove this distinction would do gross violence to the words of the clause and,
in particular, the use of the plain words “/osses of all kinds” as regards assistants. Cs’
“construction” is not supported by any linguistically available reading of the words used in the

clause. It flies in the face of those words.
115. Post Office makes two further points in relation to the distinction.

116. First, the fact of strict liability for losses caused by assistants is clear from other provisions of
the contract: see, most notably, section 15, clause 2, providing (amongst other things) that the
SPM “will also be required to make good any deficiency, of cash or stock, which may result
from his assistants’ actions” (emphasis added). Clause 12 must be read so as to cohere with

the rest of the contract.
117.Second, the basic commercial sense of the distinction is obvious:

(a) Post Office has no contractual relationship with the assistant. Post Office does not even
require that the SPM employ assistants. If he does, Post Office does not require that
they perform any specific roles or tasks within the branch.”* Post Office has no

substantial involvement in the selection and supervision of assistants.

(b) It is the SPM, and not Post Office, that decides whether to employ an assistant and, if
so, whom to employ and in what specific role. It is the SPM, and not Post Office, that
is then able (and required by the contract) to monitor his assistants for competence and

honesty and to provide such training and/or assistance as may be necessary.

(c) The use of an assistant is therefore fairly at the SPM’s risk in the sense that, where an
assistant causes a loss in the branch, it is the SPM (as his employer) that is liable for
that loss. It is for the SPM to reflect that risk as he sees fit in the terms of his contractual

relationship with his assistants.

(d) By contrast, the SPM was selected and trained by Post Office, and he has a contractual

relationship with Post Office. It is commercially rational for Post Office to be prepared

78 Tn practice (and as would be understood or at least anticipated by an applicant for the role), SPMs
take differing approaches to how they manage and staff their branches: see Angela Van Den Bogerd
WS, para. 71 [C2/1/21].

B11.2/11/35
POL00004106
POL00004106

to absorb the cost where its agent causes a loss acting within his authority and without

negligence, carelessness or error.”

(iii) I The burden of proof

118.Post Office’s case is that the burden of proof in any specific disputed shortfall will ultimately
be determined largely by reference to the principles of agency and accounting and the ordinary
common law principles by which the burden of proof is allocated. Post Office pleads these
principles at paras 69(3), 93 and 183 of the GDXC.

119. It follows that the bulk of Post Office’s case on the burden of proof does not strictly fall under

Common Issues 8 and 9, as these issues are concerned only with contractual construction.

The requirement to prove a deficiency
120. The contract does, however, identify the factual issues in relation to which the burden of proof
must ultimately be allocated. Most notably, section 12, clause 12 only applies at all where there

is a “deficiency”. There are three important points in relation to this issue.

121.First, Post Office accepts that it, as the party asserting that there is a deficiency, bears the

burden of proving it. This is not strictly a matter of construction, but it is important to note.

122.Second, Post Office will ordinarily seek to prove the existence of a deficiency (shortfall) by

teference to the branch accounts. There are therefore two different types of case:

(a) Where the SPM has signed off on the relevant account®’, it will be for the SPM to
challenge the finality of the account by showing a mistake in it and/or showing that
equity otherwise requires that it be re-opened. That gives rise a case-specific factual
enquiry that could extend to a consideration of the circumstances in which the account

was settled (e.g. where economic duress is asserted).

(b) Where the deficiency is not apparent from accounts that have been signed off, any
dispute as to the accuracy of the figures on which Post Office relies to show a deficiency
is at large. Post Office may rely on an inference from the general reliability of Horizon,
whereas the SPM may argue that the figures shown on Horizon should not be taken to

be reliable (generally and/or by reference to factors specific to the branch or even the

” It would be equally rational for liability to be strict or near-strict. There is a range of commercially
rational and comprehensible bargains that could have been struck.

S° Or otherwise rendered an account to Post Office such that the principle pleaded at para. 93(2) of
the GDXC applies.

36

B11.2/11/36
POL00004106

POL00004106

particular account at issue). The strength of the case on each side will depend, in large
part, on the resolution of the issues to be considered at the Horizon trial. If, for example,
Horizon has a high degree of reliability, it will inevitably be harder (all else being equal)
to suggest that it generated an apparent shortfall in the relevant account. If the opposite
is true, it may be much easier for the SPM to undermine reliance on Horizon to prove a

shortfall. There may also be factors specific to a given branch at a given time.

(c) In either of these two factual scenarios, however, Post Office bears the ultimate legal

burden of proving the deficiency.

123. Once it established that Post Office bears the burden of showing a deficiency and that a mere
apparent shortfall would not qualify as such, there is relatively little practical importance to the

dispute over the burden of proof under clause 12. This is for two reasons:

(a) First, the fact of a discrepancy / shortfall itself proves by necessary inference that there
must have been one or more losses in the relevant period.*' Proof of a deficiency

necessarily implies proof of a loss.

(b) Second, the only remaining issue is therefore whether the loss is a qualifying loss under
the words of clause 12, namely a loss that was either (1) caused by an assistant or (2)

caused by an SPM’s own negligence, carelessness or error.

The burden of proof as to who caused a loss and whether there was negligence etc.

124. As to this remaining issue, Cs plead at para. 55 of the AGPOC that clause 12 places a
“contractual burden of proof’ on Post Office to prove that the underlying loss was caused by
the negligence, carelessness or error on the part of the SPM or an assistant. The contention that

liability for losses caused by assistants is fault-based has been addressed above.

125.On the burden of proof, the first point is that clause 12 does not, on its face, deal with the
burden of proof at all. It does not identify the party that must prove or show any particular fact.

It does not even use the language of proving or showing. There is no express allocation.

126.Cs are forced to argue, therefore, that clause 12 somehow implicitly allocates a contractual

burden of proof to Post Office. That is a hopeless contention, for three reasons.

S! This is complicated slightly by the use of Transaction Corrections, but these can only affect which
accounting period shows the shortfall, and not whether one exists at all.

37

B11.2/11/37
POL00004106
POL00004106

127.First, there is nothing in the clause or the part of the contract in which the term appears to

suggest that the parties intended a contractual allocation of a burden of proof on this issue.

128. Second, the parties contracted against the background of the agency and accounting principles
on which Post Office relies in the GDXC. Those principles are relevant background to the
construction of clause 12, irrespective of whether they were known to the SPM. The parties

expressly chose a relationship of principal and agent.**

The contract includes provisions that
reflect and coincide with the ordinary legal incidents of that relationship: see section 12, clause
3, imposing a duty to maintain and produce accounts as requested. Cs appear to accept that

SPMs are accounting parties (although this is not stated in terms in the Reply).

129. These incidents of the agency accounting relationship include that the accounting party is
ordinarily bound by the account that he renders to his principal unless and to the extent that he
discharges the burden of demonstrating that there are mistakes in the account that he should be
permitted to correct: see GDXC, para. 93(2), reflecting the rule identified in Bowstead at 6-
098. He can also seek to re-open the account on equitable grounds (as Cs now argue). But it is
for him to show that this is justified. Against this legal background, there is nothing in the
clause to suggest that the parties intended to create an unusual bespoke regime that would put

the onus on the principal to prove that the account should be made whole.

130. Third, and in any event, the allocation of a burden to Post Office would be so commercially
unreasonable that the Court should strain against that outcome, rather than seeking to impose

it without any clear basis in the words of clause 12. There are two reasons for this.
131. The first is a matter of making sense of the clause as a whole:

(a) The clause makes a clear distinction between liability in respect of shortfalls that result
from losses caused by assistants, where liability is strict, and liability in respect of
shortfalls that result from losses caused by the SPM, where it is not. There is an

inescapable contractual intention to treat the two situations differently.

(b) Liability is strict where an assistant caused the loss. If the SPM wishes to dispute
liability on the basis that the loss did not result from negligence, carelessness or error,

he must first say that it was him, rather than an assistant, that caused it. It is for the SPM

®° See First Abu Dhabi Bank v BP Oil International [2018] EWCA Civ 14 at para. 37(iii) per
Gloster LJ (with whom Patten LJ and Lord Briggs agreed).
5 Section 1, clause I of the SPMC [D2.1/3/5].

38

B11.2/11/38
POL00004106
POL00004106

to prove that assertion, not least given that it entitles him to the potential benefit of an
exception to liability. The factual enquiry that goes to that initial question overlaps
substantially with the enquiry as to whether the loss arose from negligence, carelessness
or error: most obviously, the loss itself must be identified or at least localised by time
and/or by transaction before the person responsible can be identified and the issue of

fault explored.

(c) It is here that the matters pleaded by Post Office in para. 93 of the GDXC come into
play: losses do not arise in the ordinary cause without negligence, careless or error*;
the truth of the matter as to whether the loss in a particular case did so arise lies within
the peculiar knowledge of the SPM as the person with conduct of the branch operations;
it would be unjust for Post Office to be required to prove something (the presence or
absence of negligence or error in causing the loss) that falls within the peculiar
knowledge of the SPM; and where a person, such as the SPM, is subject to a fiduciary
obligation as regards his dealing with assets, it is for him to justify his dealing with
those assets. These points are principally relevant to the allocation of the legal burden
under the usual principles applied by the Court, rather than contractual construction, but
they reveal the lack of commercial sense in Cs’ suggestion that the contract implicitly
allocates a burden to Post Office. The account itself will show only that there is a
shortfall (and so there must necessarily** have been one or more losses). Much of what
remains to be known inevitably falls within the knowledge and responsibility of the
person who operates the branch in which the loss occurred. Applying the usual
principles as to allocation of the legal burden would result in the burden falling on the

SPM. There is nothing in the contract to justify a stark departure from that outcome.

132. It may be important to note that the practical importance of the legal burden on this issue would
often be relatively small. Were Post Office to bear the legal burden, it would typically be able
to discharge that burden by relying on an inference of negligence, carelessness or error from
the simple fact of the loss. In circumstances where Horizon cannot be blamed for the loss

(because, if it were, there would be no deficiency under clause 12 in the first place), it is

“4 See the examples given at paras 117-125 of Ms Van Den Bogerd’s WS [C2/1/33].
85 It is important to recall here that a Horizon-generated shortfall would not engage section 12,
clause 12 at all for the reasons given above.

39

B11.2/11/39
POL00004106
POL00004106

difficult to imagine how a loss could arise without negligence, carelessness or error.®° At the
very least, the SPM would have to give some particular explanation as to how he caused a loss
but did so without any error on his part. Post Office accepts that one such circumstance would
be where the SPM was, in causing the loss, merely doing, in good faith, something that Post
Office had instructed him to do (because, in that case, the error would be that of Post Office,
rather than the SPM). But that situation is unlikely to arise with any real frequency relative to

the ordinary run of slips and mistakes.

133. The second point involves testing the commercial sense of Cs’ “construction” against the kind

of hypothetical facts that are obviously within the contemplation of the agreement:

(a) Assume an incompetent assistant that often (but without any dishonest intent) gives the
wrong amount of change to customers.*’ The SPM is in a position to supervise his or
her assistants and to identify any lack of competence or diligence. Post Office, by
contrast, is not in the branch and has no relationship with the assistants. On the face of
the account available to Post Office, a transaction that involves an overpayment of
change is identical to one that does not, and the loss will only be revealed in the accounts
once a physical count of cash is undertaken and compared against the accounting

position.

(b) Assume a branch in which the division between Post Office business and the associated
retail business is not well observed by the assistants, and cash sometimes goes into the
wrong till. The “root cause” of shortfalls in the branch would be the physical act of
putting cash in the wrong till — something that leaves no trace on the account available
to Post Office but can and should be prevented by the person who has responsibility for

the branch operations.

(c) Assume an SPM or assistant with an intention to steal Post Office cash. It is common
ground that there are dishonest SPMs and assistants. Under its agency branch business
model, Post Office is exposed to the risk of dishonesty on the part of the agents to whom

it entrusts its cash and stock. It is also exposed to dishonesty on the part of persons that

86 This was the approach of HHJ Havery in Post Office Limited v Castleton [2007] EWHC 5, at
paras 2 (last line), 39 and 40.

87 Incompetence of this kind will tend to lead to shortfalls (rather than net gains) for the obvious
reason that people are more likely to report being given too little change than too much.

88 Section 12, clause 3 requires the SPM, amongst other things, to “be careful to keep the Post Office
money separate from any other monies” [D2.1/3/51].

40

B11.2/11/40
POL00004106
POL00004106

those agents then choose to employ to work in its branches. If Post Office were required,
before enforcing a shortfall, to identify and prove the event that caused loss and then to
go on to prove the existence of negligence, carelessness or error in that event, the
dishonest SPM could remove Post Office cash from the branch with near-impunity.
There would be nothing on the account to identify that cash was being taken from a till

or never put into it.

134. It would make no commercial sense for the contract to allocate a burden of proof to Post Office
in relation to matters that turn, at least in large part, on what in fact takes place in the branch.
It would generate perverse incentives and would undermine the viability of the network and

the agency business model. There is no such allocation.

135.In the alternative, for the same reasons as set out above, Post Office contends that any implicit
allocation of the burden would result in the following: where an SPM disputes liability for a
deficiency under clause 12 on the basis that there was no negligence, carelessness or error, he
must show (1) that it was his act (rather than that of an assistant) that caused the loss and (2)
that the loss did not involve negligence, carelessness or error. This would be consistent with
section 12, clauses 17 and 18, each of which envisages the onus being on the SPM to prove the

facts relevant to “relief” from liability.

Cs’ miscellaneous points

136.Cs invoke the contra proferentem principle in relation to clause 12 (and generally).*” But they
do not identify any ambiguity in the words of the clause that should be resolved against Post
Office in accordance with that principle. The principle is of limited use in construing

commercial contracts (see para. 43 above), and it has no application here.

137.Cs’ case that clause 12 is onerous, oppressive and/or unfair is addressed under Common Issues
5, 6 and 7. In short, Cs’ attack on the clause is misguided and misplaced, not least because the
clause is consistent with the common law that applies to accounting parties and so can hardly

be said to onerous, oppressive or unfair.

COMMON ISSUE 9
138.Common Issue 9 concerns “the proper construction of Part 2, paragraph 4.1 of the NTC”. Post

Office refers to this below as “para. 4.1”. It reads as follows:

The Operator shall be filly liable for any loss of or damage to, any Post Office Cash and
Stock (howsoever this occurs and whether it occurs as a result of any negligence by the

® See, e.g., Bates IPOC, para. 98.1. [B5.1/2/28]

41

B11.2/11/41
POL00004106
POL00004106

Operator, its Personnel or otherwise, or as a result of any breach of the Agreement by the
Operator) except for lo. arising from the criminal act of a third party (other than
Personnel) which the Operator could not have prevented or mitigated by following [Post
Office’s] security procedures or by taking reasonable care. Any deficiencies in stocks of
products and/or resulting shortfall in the money payable to [Post Office] must be made good
by the Operator without delay so that, in the case of any shortfall, [Post Office] is paid the
full amount when due in accordance with the Manual.

Outline of the parties’ contentions
139.Cs’ only pleaded case on para. 4.1 is that it should be construed as having the same meaning
as section 12, clause 12 of the SPMC (addressed above): see AGPOC, para 55.” Para. 4.1 is

said to be a “similar clause” to clause 12.°!

140. This is yet another instance of Cs’ almost total disregard for the words of the contracts. No
matter how inventive an approach to construction is taken, para. 4.1 cannot be read as having
the same meaning and effect as section 12, clause 12. At the most basic level, the words of the
two terms are very different. That does not totally preclude them having the same meaning, but

it is certainly not a good starting point for Cs’ contention.
141. Post Office contends that there are two obvious and important differences between the terms:

(a) Unlike clause 12, para. 4.1 does not draw any distinction between liability for shortfalls
that result from losses caused by (1) acts of the SPMs herself and (2) acts of assistants.

That distinction is plain on the face of clause 12 but entirely absent from para. 4.1.

(b) Unlike clause 12, para. 4.1 does not use the concept of “negligence, carelessness or
error” to limit the SPM’s liability for shortfalls that result from losses that she causes.
It uses different words and creates a narrower exception to liability (i.e. where there is

a criminal act by a third party).
142. There are, however, several features that are common to clause 12 and para. 4.1:

(a) Both provide that the SPM is liable for shortfalls / deficiencies except in specified

circumstances, creating exceptions to liability.

(b) Both create an obligation to make good shortfalls / deficiencies that result from losses

other than those that are covered by the exception to liability.

°° (B3/1/24]
°! The IPOCs take Common Issues 8 and 9 together: see, e.g., Bates IPOC, paras 98-99 [B5. 1/2/28].

42

B11.2/11/42
POL00004106
POL00004106

(c) The points made at paras 128 to 129 above in relation to the agency and accounting law
principles that provide the background to the SPMC apply also to para. 4.1. The NTC
creates an agency relationship”’, and the SPM is subject to an express duty to account.’

This is important background to the construction of para. 4.1.

(d) Cs’ case on the burden of proof does not differ between the two terms. Cs therefore
argue that para. 4.1 must be read as imposing a burden on Post Office to prove that the
narrow exception to liability does not apply (i.e. to prove a negative, namely that the

loss was not caused by the criminal act of a third party). That is fanciful.

143.As regards the meaning of “/oss” and the meaning of “shortfall”, Post Office repeats its
submissions in relation to clause 12. In addition, Post Office submits that para. 4.1 has, on its

proper construction, four essential elements:
(a) First, it is irrelevant whether the loss was caused by an act of the SPM or of an assistant.

(b) Second, there is no general fault requirement for liability. The starting point is that the

SPM is liable for all shortfalls, whatever the cause of the underlying loss.

(c) Third, the SPM is only not liable in specific and carefully delineated circumstances.

There is a narrow exception to liability.

(d) Fourth, as regards the burden of proof: (1) as with the SPMC, it is for Post Office to

prove the existence of a shortfall, and an apparent (Horizon-generated) shortfall would
not qualify; and (2) on the remaining issue requiring proof, whether the exception to
liability applies, it would be for the SPM to show that the facts of the loss fall within

the exception to liability (whether or not this is characterised as a contractual allocation

of the burden).
(0) No distinction between losses caused by assistants and those caused by the SPM
144. The term draws no distinction here. The SPM “shall be fully liable for any loss... (howsoever

this occurs and whether it occurs as a result of any negligence by the Operator, its Personnel
or otherwise...) except for” a specific class of losses caused by third-parties “other than

Personnel”. References to “Personnel” include assistants.”

* Part 2, para. 1.2 [D1.6/3/6].
°3 See, most notably, Part 2, para. 3.6.6 [D1.6/3/12].

°4 The NTC defines “Personnel” as “the Operator’s employees, agents, contractors and advisors
(including Assistants)” [D1.6/3/4].

43

B11.2/11/43
POL00004106

POL00004106

145. It is plain, including from the use of the word “howsoever”, that the circumstances of the loss
will generally not affect liability. One such circumstance is the identity of the person who
caused the loss. The fact that losses caused by Personnel are to be treated no differently from
losses caused by the SPM is also clear from the drafting of the exception to liability — for the
purpose of that exception, third-party losses do not include losses caused by Personnel; the

term uses the words “other than Personnel”.

(ii) No general fault requirement

146. If the words in parenthesis in the first sentence are removed, it reads, “The Operator shall be
‘fully liable for any loss of or damage to, any Post Office Cash and Stock ... except for [the
narrowly defined category of third-party loss]”. There can be no possible doubt that, absent the

words in parenthesis, there would be no general requirement for fault.

147.The question, therefore, is whether the words in parenthesis introduce a general fault

tequirement. Post Office submits that there are three reasons to conclude that it does not.
148. First, the words in parenthesis are themselves exhaustive of all possible causes of losses:

(a) The first part of the phrase in parenthesis is “howsoever this occurs”. It is difficult to

imagine a clearer set of words to emphasise that the cause of the loss is irrelevant.

(b) The word chosen to link “howsoever this occurs” and the examples that follow is “and”,
rather than any word suggesting that the examples will somehow contradict or limit the

effect of those general words. The use of “and” suggests consistency, not contradiction.

(c) There then follows reference to “negligence” and to breach of the agreement, but the

addition of the words “or otherwise” in the middle of the phrase makes clear that these

are non-exhaustive examples of how a loss may arise.
149. Second, it is relevant that the drafter of the clause put the phrase in parenthesis:

(a) This indicates that it is subordinate in some way to the main text of the clause.” It is

likely to be intended to explain, confirm or qualify the words in the main text.

(b) In this case, the parenthetical phrase comes after the use of the general words “any loss”.
In that context, the phrase in brackets is likely to do one of two very different things:

either (1) confirm/clarify/explain the concept stated in those general words or, on the

°5 See Carnwarth LJ’s approach to the parenthetical phrase at issue in KPMG v Network Rail
Infrastructure [2007] L. & T.R. 32 at paras 52 to 54 (a case on correction by construction). Sir
Paul Kenedy and Mummery LJ agreed.

B11.2/11/44
POL00004106
POL00004106

contrary, (2) qualify/cut down/limit that concept in some way. Any intention to do the
second of these two things — to limit the breadth of any “any Joss” — would be

communicated by the use after the opening bracket of words such as “except”, “other
than” or “save for”. No such words appear in this clause. Instead, the drafter begins the
parenthetical phrase with the opposite kind of word ~ “howsoever” — a word that

confirms the breadth of “any loss”.

(c) It is true that the parenthetical phrase could be removed entirely without changing the
meaning of the rest of the sentence. Yet that does not mean that it is superfluous.°®
Words in parenthesis often perform a role of explaining, clarifying or “unpacking” the
words that appear before them. That is what the words do here. The parenthetical phrase
confirms and clarifies that it is indeed “any Joss” that is the subject of liability (save for

the where the exception to liability applies).

150. Third, para. 4.1, read as a whole, only makes sense if there is liability for shortfalls arising
from losses of all kind other than those covered by the express exception to liability discussed
below. If the parenthetical phrase were somehow construed so as to limit the concept of “al/
losses” to cases of fault and/or breach of contract, there would be no need for the carefully
worded exception to liability that begins, “except for losses arising from...”. There would no
need for the exception (and, in particular, the requirement that any loss under it be non-
negligent) because non-negligent losses would not, even without the exception, give rise to
liability. Any construction that deprives the whole second half of the clause of sense and effect

cannot be right. Cs’ construction would do precisely that.

(iii) I The specific and narrow exception to liability

151.On the words of para. 4.1, the SPM is not liable for losses that satisfy three cumulative criteria:
(1) the loss arose from the criminal act of a third party other than Personnel, (2) the SPM could
not have prevented or mitigated the loss by following Post Office’s security procedures and (3)

the SPM could not have prevented or mitigated the loss by taking reasonable care.

°° Even if the words were superfluous, that would carry very little weight in determining the proper
construction of the term: see Lewison, at 7-03, citing (amongst other authority) Antigua Power
Company Ltd v AG of Antigua and Barbuda [2013] UKPC 23 at [38] per Lord Neuberger (with
whom Lords Mance, Sumption and Toulson agreed; Lord Carnwath dissented, but not on the issues
of contractual construction).

B11.2/11/45
POL00004106
POL00004106

152. Despite these clear words, Cs maintain that para. 4.1 has the same meaning and effect as section
12, clause 12 of the SPMC. That is untenable. The conditions for non-liability are clear. The

words of the term do not permit any alternative construction.

(iv) The burden of proof in relation to liability under para. 4.1
153.Cs contend that para.4.1 imposes a “contractual burden” on Post Office to show that the loss

was due to the SPM’s negligence, carelessness or error or that of his assistants.
154. There is no such contractual allocation of that burden to Post Office, for three reasons.

155. First, liability under para. 4.1 does not depend on negligence, carelessness or error. It does not
even rely on any of those concepts (except in the narrow exception). The clause cannot allocate

a burden to prove facts that are not necessary for liability.

156. Second, as with clause 12, the term does not involve any express allocation of any burden. Any
allocation would have to be implicit. Cs cannot point to anything that shows an implicit

allocation. Post Office’s primary case is accordingly that there is no contractual allocation.

157. Third, the structure of para. 4.1 is plainly to impose liability for all shortfalls (howsoever
caused), save for where the shortfall results from a loss that falls within the narrow exception
to liability discussed above. Once it is shown that there is a shortfall, the term does not require

any further factual enquiry, unless the SPM alleges that the exception applies.” As to this:

(a) It is the SPM who must raise that contention. It is his branch that is (or alleged to have

been) the subject of a criminal act (typically, third-party theft).

(b) Under the legal principles set out in para.93 of the GDXC, it would therefore be for the
SPM to show that the three conditions for non-liability are met. It is the SPM who asserts
that those conditions are met, and the facts relevant to determining the truth of that
assertion are peculiarly within his knowledge. The SPM is responsible for his branch
and should know what security procedures were in place, what level of care was in fact
taken and, relatedly, whether the loss would have arisen even had Post Office’s

procedures been followed and reasonable care taken.

(c) Post Office therefore submits, in the alternative, that any contractual allocation of the

burden would leave that burden with the SPM, rather than Post Office. The plain logic

°7 It is implicit in the structure of the clause and the use of the words “resulting shortfall” that the
obligation in the second sentence only applies to losses falling within the first sentence (i.e. all
losses that are not covered by the exception to liability).

46

B11.2/11/46
POL00004106
POL00004106

and commercial sense of the term is that, save in specified circumstances (which are
within the peculiar knowledge of the SPM), Post Office can establish liability by the
fact of the shortfall. There is nothing surprising or uncommercial about that given that
the SPM has a common law and contractual duty to account and can ordinarily be held

to that account. It is precisely what would be expected.

Cs’ miscellaneous points
158. Post Office repeats its submissions at para 136 above as to C’s attempted reliance on the contra
proferentem principle and the (presumably alternative) case that the liability provisions are

onerous, oppressive or unfair. C has no case on those points that is specific to para.4.1.

(3)___ ASSISTANTS (COMMON ISSUE 23)

23 What was the responsibility of Subpostmasters under the SPMC and the NTC for the

training of their Assistants?

159. This issue can be taken relatively shortly. The SPMC and the NTC make clear that the SPM
was ultimately responsible for providing or procuring the provision of such training as was

necessary to enable the assistant to assist the SPM in discharging his obligations to Post Office.

160. The most obviously relevant express terms are quoted at para. 56 of the AGPOC,”* and include

the following:

(a) In the SPMC (1994-2006), section 15, clause 2 provides: “Assistants are employees of

the Subpostmaster” °°

(b) In the SPMC (as amended in July 2006), section 15, clause 7.1 provides: “...it is the
Subpostmaster’s responsibility to ensure the proper deployment within the Post Office
® branch of any materials and processes provided by [Post Office] and to ensure that
his Assistants receive all the training which is necessary in order to be able to properly

provide the Post Office ® Products and Services...” !"

(c) Inthe NTC, Part 2, para 2.4 provides: “The Operator shall ensure that the first Manager

cascades the training to all other Assistants and to any replacement Manager in order

°8 [B3/1/25]
°° (1D2/3/65]
10 [D2.1/4/32]

47

B11.2/11/47
POL00004106
POL00004106

to ensure that all subsequent Managers and all other Assistants receive sufficient initial

training from properly trained Managers.”

161. There is no proper pleading in the AGPOC or Reply as to the content of the contractual duties

in relation to training assistants. In their IPOCs, the lead Cs contend as follows:'°*

...the responsibility of the Claimant to train Assistants...was qualified by the implied terms
alleged by the Claimants and/or admitted by the Defendant and should be construed by
reference to the commercial implications of the constructions for which the parties
respectively contend.

In result, the obligations on the Claimant to train Assistants cannot be construed to require
the Claimant to have been better able to train Assistants than the Defendant's own
professional team or beyond the training provided to the Claimant himself.

162. Unhelpfully, Cs do not identify the implied terms that they contend qualify the obligations to

train assistants. Cs’ case is again very unclear.

163.In any event, the contracts make clear that a SPM need not rely on assistants to operate the
branch but that, if he does, they are his employees and he is responsible for any losses that they
cause.'”? In that context, it follows that, to the extent that an assistant cannot perform properly
his duties without training, it is incumbent on the SPM to provide or procure such training.

This is a practical consequence of his contractual responsibility for assistants.

164. The commercial sense of that position is obvious. Post Office is not in a position to identify
what, if any, training or further training may be required to enable an assistant to discharge his
duties and, in turn, assist the SPM in discharging his obligations to Post Office. Furthermore,
assistants’ wages are paid by the SPM, who may or may not wish to incur the costs of sending
assistants on training courses. Ultimately, how much training to provide, and in what form, is

left up to the SPM.

165.It is important to take a step back and consider the commercial sense of Cs’ case here. The
SPM chooses whether or not to employ assistants, and if so whom and on what terms and to
perform what role. The SPM can assess potential assistants for competence. The SPM is
responsible for the branch operations and can supervise the assistant in practice and identify

any requirement for advice, training or other help. The SPM is in a position to provide that

101 (1D 1.6/3/7]
10 See, e.g., Abdulla IPOC, paras 95-96 [B5.4/2/23].
13 See (1) the SPMC at section 12, clause 12 [D2.1/3/53] and section 15, clause 2 [D2.1/3/65] and

(2) the NTC at Part 2, para. 4.1 [D1.6/3/13] and Part 2, para. 3.1.4 [D1.6/3/9].

48

B11.2/11/48
POL00004106
POL00004106

help first-hand and immediately. By contrast, Post Office has no relationship with the assistant
whatsoever, is not responsible for the branch operations and is not able to supervise the
assistant and identify any need for training or support. It is not there to provide a guiding hand

or a firm word. It has no contract with the assistant.
166. There is accordingly no basis on which to read into the contract some implied limitation on the
SPM’s responsibility for his assistants, including to train them as necessary.

167. As Ms Van Den Bogerd explained at paras 88.2 to 88.3 of her witness statement’:

If Post Office were to compel all forms of training for an assistant, he would generally be
entitled to be paid by the Subpostmaster for that period of training. The Subpostmaster might
prefer not to pay that cost, being happy to run his branch with untrained assistants or to
dismiss an assistant. It may be that the Subpostmaster has given the assistant only a limited
role in the branch, such that some parts of the training may not be needed for their job.

Post Office does not know what, if any, supervisory regime the Subpostmaster has put in
place. It may be that the Subpostmaster is closely supervising his staff, on the one hand, or
providing no supervision at all (in the case of an ‘absentee’ Subpostmaster), on the other
hand. Subpostmasters can tailor the training that they provide to reflect the roles that they
have given to their assistants and the extent of oversight that they themselves wish to provide.

Cc. IMPLIED TERMS: GENERAL

INTRODUCTION

168.Cs’ case on implied terms is extreme and contrary to orthodoxy. Cs seek to imply no fewer
than 21 implied terms into the detailed written agreements that were entered into on a business-
to-business basis. That would be unprecedented. As with their case on contractual construction,
Cs propose to re-write the contracts and to fundamentally subvert the agency and accounting

telationship to which they voluntarily signed up in the expectation of profit.

169. Post Office opposes the vast majority of Cs’ implied terms. Post Office has, however, identified
some powers and discretions under the contracts to which some limited implied restriction
should apply. Post Office has done this without the benefit of any properly particularised case
from Cs to which it can respond. As regards the terms that Post Office opposes, none of these
is necessary, and Post Office relies (amongst other things) on the express terms of the
agreements and the implied terms that are agreed between the parties. The further implied terms

that Cs allege would contradict those terms and/or are unnecessary in light of them.

14 [C2/1/27]

49

B11.2/11/49
POL00004106
POL00004106

170. Post Office anticipates that Cs will criticise it for the firm position that it has taken on implied
terms. Cs have argued, often in an intemperate tone, that Post Office has somehow failed
properly to explain the meaning of the implied terms that Post Office asserts and that Cs have
admitted. Cs also argue, again often intemperately, that (contrary to what the GDXC says) Post
Office must “in substance” admit some of Cs’ alleged implied terms but is refusing to say
which. The position is simple: Post Office admits none of those terms, as is clear from its

pleadings. The criticisms are entirely misplaced and should never have been made.

171. The Court will of course ignore the noise and focus on the arguments. On the arguments, and

on proper application of the test, Cs’ alleged implied terms fall to be refused.

Overview of the parties’ contentions
172. As long ago as the pre-action correspondence in 2016'”°, Post Office asserted two important

and powerful implied terms that it contended formed part of the SPM contracts:

(a) A term requiring that each party refrain from taking steps that would inhibit or prevent
the other party from complying with its obligations under or by virtue of the contract
(the “Stirling v Maitland Term”).

(b) A term requiring that each party provide the other with such reasonable cooperation as
is necessary to the performance of that other’s obligations under or by virtue of the

contract (the “Necessary Cooperation Term”).

(Taken together, the “Agreed Implied Terms”.'°°)

173.Cs admit those terms.’°’ They accordingly form part of the agreements. Post Office’s case is
that these implied terms meet any necessity to imply general obligations to make the express
terms of the agreements work as expected and to provide a fact-sensitive response to difficult
or unanticipated factual circumstances. Those are the conventional purposes of the Agreed
Implied Terms and why they are often appropriate to be implied into complex commercial
arrangements. They do the job that might otherwise be done by more specific implied terms

(which would typically be hard to show were necessary at the time the contract was agreed).

1°5 See the Letter of Response (July 2016) at para. 4.35. [H/2/18]
19 Post Office pleaded these terms at GDXC, para. 105. [B3/2/47]

107 Cs did not admit these terms in the Generic Reply, but then stated in Schedule I to the First
CMC Order that they were admitted: see the note to Issue 2. [B7/7/13]

50

B11.2/11/50
POL00004106
POL00004106

174.Cs nonetheless persist in seeking no fewer than a further 21 implied terms, which are pleaded
in para. 64 of the AGPOC and para. 96.1 of the Reply.'°* Post Office opposes Cs’ alleged
further implied terms. None of them satisfies the test for implication. Many of the alleged
implied terms can fairly be characterised as nothing more than examples of the very many

terms that the parties could possibly have agreed but did not.

175. There is one further introductory point. Cs’ case on many of their alleged implied terms has
not, even now, been properly pleaded. Most notably, Cs have not identified the contractual
powers, discretions or rights that they say are subject to implied restrictions as to rationality,
non-maliciousness, etc. Post Office has taken it upon itself to identify certain powers and

109

discretions'”” that it accepts are subject to implied restrictions. However:

(a) Post Office should not be required to plead against itself. It maintains a strong objection

to Cs’ approach and their decision not to articulate a proper case.

(b) It is for Cs to identify the terms that they contend are subject to implied restrictions, and
such terms must be relevant to claims that are articulated in the AGPOC. It is
impermissible to allege some ambulatory restriction on the exercise of unidentified

contractual provisions. This is not a public inquiry into the contracts.
176. The rest of this section is divided into three parts, as follows:
(a) The Agreed Implied Terms.
(b) The “relational contract” argument and the Yam Seng implied term (Common Issue 1).
(c) Other alleged implied terms governing the relationship generally (Common Issue 2).

a AGREED IMPLIED TERMS

177. The Stirling v Maitland Term is often implied into complex commercial agreements, although

even it must satisfy the test of necessity if disputed: see Lewison, at 6.14. It serves an important

function of ensuring that the parties’ legitimate expectations are respected: given that each side
is required to perform, it must be anticipated that the other side will not get in the way of that

performance.

108 (B3/3/43]
1 See, for example, Individual Defence to Bates IPOC, at para 65(2) [B5.1/3/38]; Individual
Defence to Stockdale IPOC, at para 47 [B5.6/3/24].

51

B11.2/11/51
POL00004106

POL00004106

178. The Necessary Cooperation Term is in many respects similar to the Stirling v Maitland Term.
But it creates a broader and more powerful obligation in that it may require positive action to
facilitate the other party’s performance, rather than merely not hindering it. It is nonetheless
bounded in its operation by the express terms of the agreement and the need to make the
contract work in accordance with those express terms: see Lewison, at 6.15. In James E
McCabe v Scottish Courage Ltd [2006] EWHC 538 (Comm), Cooke J expressed the essence

of a duty to cooperate as follows at [17]:

A duty to co-operate in, or not to prevent, fulfilment of performance of a contract only has

content by virtue of the express terms of the contract and the law can only enforce a duty of

co-operation to the extent that it is necessary to make the contract workable. The court
cannot, by implication of such a duty, exact a higher degree of co-operation than that which
could be defined by reference to the necessities of the contract. The duty of co-operation or
prevention/inhibition of performance is required to be determined, not by what might appear
reasonable, but by the obligations imposed upon each party by the agreement itself."

179.Cs admitted both of these implied terms. They have nonetheless, since that admission,
repeatedly asked Post Office to explain what effects the Agreed Implied Terms (that they
admit) would have in various factual circumstances, including as to when and to what extent
those terms’ effects would overlap in practice with the effects of the further implied terms that

Cs allege. Most notably!"':

(a) Request 61 of Cs’ First RFI asked which of the Cs’ further alleged implied terms were
“in substance accepted” because of Post Office’s averment of the Agreed Implied
Terms. Post Office responded on 13 September 2017 that, amongst other things, none
of the further terms was admitted and that the existence of the Agreed Implied Terms

was a reason not to imply those alleged terms."

(b) On 29 December 2017, Cs made another RFI on these issues. Post Office responded
on 9 February 2018, contending that it was for Cs to identify the reasons for which the
further alleged implied terms are necessary and giving (amongst other things) detailed

examples of the inconsistencies between the alleged further implied terms and the

11° This passage was recently approved by the Court of Appeal in Ukraine v The Law Debenture
Trust Corp PLC [2018] EWCA Civ 2026 at para. 207.

1! The Court should be aware that there has also been substantial correspondence on this issue and
also exchanges between Counsel for the parties (including a meeting).

12 (Bq /2/24].

B11.2/11/52
POL00004106
POL00004106

express provisions of the contracts.''> Despite threats to apply for yet further

information, Cs did not make any such application.

180.In Post Office’s submission, Cs’ challenge to Post Office’s case on the importance of the

Agreed Implied Terms is wrongheaded:

(a) Those terms are common ground. They are as much part of the agreements as are the

express terms. They have a proper construction and can be understood on that basis.

(b) On their proper construction, the terms are necessarily fact-sensitive in their application
and, in that sense, protean. This is why they are so valuable in complex commercial
contracts: they provide a versatile tool for dealing with matters that are not addressed in
detail by the express terms and/or that were not capable of anticipation at the time of
agreement but to which the contracts must respond. The purpose of the Agreed Implied
Terms is to make the contracts work properly against the (perhaps difficult) facts of
specific cases and, in particular, to allow the contracts to provide an appropriate

response to facts that are not catered for sufficiently by the express terms alone.

(c) In that context, the parties will of course make submissions as to how the express terms,
the Agreed Implied Terms and the various alleged implied terms may respond to
particular types of factual scenario. That process forms part of any argument as to the
necessity of implied terms. But those submissions must be grounded in the question of
whether a given term falls to be implied in light of the admissible background material
to the entry into the contract. The factual scenarios must be considered prospectively,
from the position of the parties at the time of contracting. This is different from using
the benefit of hindsight'™* to test various implied terms against the facts of individual

cases to see which of them would best meet the merits of those cases.

181. Post Office can provide some examples as to how the Agreed Implied Terms would, at the time

of contracting, have been anticipated to make the contracts work effectively.

182. First, as regards training and support’!*:

13 1B4/3/1].

"4 To test implied terms against post-contractual facts would involve the error of law discussed in
Bou-Simon v BGC Brokers LP [2018] EWCA Civ 1525 at [9] and [12] per Asplin LJ (with whom
Hickinbottom and Singh LJJ agreed).

15 Support can be provided by written or oral guidance and advice and/or through visits to the
branch: see Angela Van Den Bogerd WS, paras 114-115. [C2/1/32]

53

B11.2/11/53
POL00004106
POL00004106

(a) Post Office accepts that, for new SPMs!!°

', it could be required, by the Necessary
Cooperation Term, to provide reasonable initial training.''’ SPMs could, depending on
the circumstances, be unable properly to discharge their obligations under the contract
without such training, such that it was necessary for Post Office to provide reasonable

cooperation in that regard.

(b) Where the SPM requested further training or support and such training or support was
necessary to the proper discharge of his obligations under the contract, the Necessary
Cooperation Term would require Post Office to cooperate in providing (or helping the
SPM to procure) reasonable further training or support. This may, for example, be the
case where a new product or service or technology was introduced; alternatively, it
might be reasonable for Post Office to rely upon the provision of written guidance. A
good example of where further reasonable training was required was the introduction

of Horizon (where Post Office in fact offered training).

(c) The same analysis applies to assistance provided through the Helpline. The scope of the
Agreed Implied Terms does, therefore, overlap to some extent with the further implied
terms alleged at para. 64.2 of the AGPOC (i.e. adequate training and support). But the

obligations are not the same.

(d) Post Office would not, however, be required to monitor and assess the SPM’s individual
training and support needs from time-to-time. It is for the SPM to seek cooperation in
the performance of his obligations. The SPM is well-placed to identify any obstacles to

his proper performance of his obligations and to explain why cooperation is needed.

183.Second, as regards the means by which SPMs account to Post Office (including, as relevant,

through Horizon):

(a) The Agreed Implied Terms require (1) that any system provided by Post Office and that
it requires SPMs to use be such as to not inhibit or prevent SPMs from complying with
their obligations to account and (2) that Post Office operate such system so as to
cooperate reasonably with SPMs where such cooperation is necessary to the

performance of the SPMs’ obligations.

6 This would not be true of all applicants. In particular, some applicants have worked for years as
assistants and/or as SPMs in other branches.

"7 Under the SPMC, section 7 of the Operations Manual required the provision of such training
[F4/85/24].

54

B11.2/11/54
POL00004106
POL00004106

(b) For example, the Agreed Implied Terms would be breached if Post Office were
knowingly to require SPMs to account through a system that was so flawed that it
prevented them being able to discharge accounting obligation. If it was impossible for
an SPM to, by using the system, reliably provide an account of the transactions
performed in branch, the requirement to use the system would hinder the discharge of
the SPM’s accounting obligations (in breach of the Stirling v Maitland Term) and/or
Post Office would be required to take steps to facilitate performance of those obligations
by some other means (under the Necessary Cooperation Term). Post Office could not
sit on its hands if it knew that the system through which it required SPMs to account
was fundamentally unreliable (whether generally or in relation to a specific branch at a

specific time).

(c) The scope of the Agreed Implied Terms does, therefore, overlap to some extent with
the further implied term alleged at para. 64.1A of the AGPOC (ie. to provide a system

that was reasonably fit for purpose). But the obligations are not the same.

184. Third, as regards the investigation of any disputed shortfalls:

(a) It is in relation to this kind of issue that the application of the Agreed Implied Terms is
necessarily highly fact-specific. That is to be expected and is an advantage of the terms
for both parties. The terms’ application will depend, for example, on the specific issues
in dispute between the parties, the information available to each of them in relation to
those issues, the degree of cooperation that each party is reasonably entitled to expect
of the other (including under the express terms of the agreement) and the background

to the dispute.

(b) It is nonetheless possible to provide some examples that, in Post Office’s submission,
fall clearly on either side of the line — (1) cases where Post Office would clearly be
required to take steps to assist an SPM and, on the other hand, (2) cases where the

Agreed Implied Terms would not require any action on Post Office’s part.

(c) In the first category — cases where the Agreed Implied Terms would require Post Office
to act — the most obvious example is where Post Office is aware of some important fact
about the branch’s accounts that is (through no fault of her own) not known the SPM.
If Post Office is aware, for example, that a transaction shown in the account is in fact
mistaken and can be corrected, it must inform the SPM of this. This is done by means

of proposing a Transaction Correction to the branch (e.g. where Post Office has checked

B11.2/11/55
POL00004106
POL00004106

the transactions against a third-party data source and concludes that the branch account

contains an error).

(d) In the second category — cases where the Agreed Implied Terms would not require Post
Office to act — the most obvious example is where the SPM has made any effective
investigation impossible through false accounting and/or his own refusal to cooperate.
An SPM may disguise the existence of a shortfall for months by inflating his cash
declarations to Post Office and falsifying his accounts, making it at least extremely
difficult for anyone other than the SPM to identify even the time at which the loss(es)
underlying the shortfall arose. In that kind of case, the SPM may then refuse to attend
an interview and/or refuse to provide any answers to questions that Post Office has about
the account. In a case where the party seeking cooperation has acted dishonestly and/ or
in such a way as to render the object of the cooperation impossible or excessively
difficult, no cooperation may be necessary (or, which amounts to much the same thing,

it may be reasonable to take no active steps in cooperation).

(e) Between these two sets of cases, the obligation on Post Office is to provide reasonable
cooperation to SPMs in relation to disputed shortfalls where such cooperation is
necessary to the performance of their obligations. It is impossible to delineate all the
circumstances that would trigger a requirement for positive steps (and what positive

steps) to be taken in performance of that duty. The duty is necessarily fact-sensitive.

185.It follows that Post Office’s obligations in relation to shortfalls under the Agreed Implied
Terms will overlap to an extent with the obligations that Cs would seek to impose by the further

implied terms alleged in paras. 64.3-64.12 of the AGPOC. But the obligations are not the same.

186.In this context, it would always be difficult for Cs to show that the parties must have intended
far more specific implied terms (and precisely the alleged terms rather than other terms that
might also have been chosen) to deal with factual situations that Cs say arose in practice. This

is the effect of the strict principles by reference to which implied terms must be proven.

Q) RELATIONAL CONTRACT (COMMON ISSUE 1)

Was the contractual relationship between Post Office and Subpostmasters a relational
contract such that Post Office was subject to duties of good faith, fair dealing, transparency,
co-operation, and trust and confidence (in this regard, the Claimants rely on the judgment of
Leggatt J in Yam Seng Pte v International Trade Corp [2013] EWHC 111)?

56

B11.2/11/56
POL00004106

POL00004106

Outline of the parties’ contentions

187.Cs place a great deal of weight on the suggestion that the contracts in this case are “relational”
in the sense in which that term is used in Yam Seng.’'* Cs use Yam Seng as a springboard to
taking a radical approach to the agency contracts in this case, using it as a supposed reason to
put strained (and even impossible) constructions on the contracts’ express terms and to imply

a raft of implied terms in addition to the kind of terms discussed in Yam Seng.

188. Post Office invites the Court to resist that invitation, to apply the orthodoxy and to follow the
overwhelming judicial trend against developing some new and uncertain legal principle from

the interesting discussion in Yam Seng.

189. More specifically, Cs contend that each of the contracts in this case is “properly characterised
as a ‘relational contract” and that, “as such”, Post Office was subject to “a duty of good faith
and obligations of fair dealing, transparency, co-operation and trust and confidence,
governing Post Office's exercise of all powers and discretions under the contract and relating

to the relationship arising thereby between the parties”: see para. 63 of the AGPOC.'!
190. Post Office makes three principal submissions in response:

(a) First, the contracts are not “relational contracts” in the Yam Seng sense. Amongst other
things, they are terminable on relatively short notice (which is entirely inconsistent with

that characterisation).

(b) Second, if the contracts were “relational”, this would not alter their interpretation or
effects, because there are no special rules or principles that apply to such contracts. Such
characterisation simply raises the possibility that if such a contract contains a lacuna
then the law will look at applying existing principles of implication of terms to reflect

that status.

(c) Third, the implied term(s) alleged by Cs in reliance on Yam Seng should not be implied
because they do not satisfy the test for implying terms in fact, including because they
would contradict the express terms of the contracts. The terms that Cs allege go well
beyond the terms that were implied in Yam Seng itself, and nothing said in that case

could logically justify their implication in this.

“8 Yam Seng Pte v International Trade Corp [2013] I CLC 662.
419 (B3/1/35].

57

B11.2/11/57
POL00004106
POL00004106

191. Before turning to those three principal submissions, it is important to identify (1) the key
elements of the discussion in Yam Seng and (2) what the Courts have since said as to the

proper interpretation of that case and any new principle of law that it may contain.

The principles discussed in Yam Seng

192.Yam Seng contains a detailed and interesting discussion of the English legal system’s
traditional hostility to any general guiding principle of good faith (or similar general
obligations). Much of that discussion is simply background to the key parts of Leggatt J’s

reasoning on the case before him.
193. The background discussion is linked to the core reasoning by the following passage:

Under English law a duty of good faith is implied by law as an incident of certain categories
of contract, for example contracts of employment and contracts between partners or others
whose relationship is characterised as a fiduciary one. I doubt that English law has reached
the stage, however, where it is ready to recognise a requirement of good faith as a duty
implied by law, even as a default rule, into all commercial contracts. Nevertheless, there
seems to me to be no difficulty, following the established methodology of English law for the
implication of terms in fact, in implying such a duty in any ordinary commercial contract
based on the presumed intention of the parties. (para. 131; emphasis added)

194. Leggatt J (as he then was) then moved from a consideration of legal policy to a more concrete
discussion of the circumstances in which a term as to good faith can be implied in fact in
commercial contracts. He referred at para. 142 to a category of contract that he says may more

readily accept the implication of obligation to share information (i.e. a duty to disclose):

... While it seems unlikely that any duty to disclose information in performance of the contract
would be implied where the contract involves a simple exchange, many contracts do not fit
this model and involve a longer term relationship between the parties which they make a
substantial commitment. Such ‘relational’ contracts, as they are sometimes called, may
require a high degree of communication, cooperation and predictable performance based on
mutual trust and confidence and involve expectations of loyalty which are not legislated for
in the express terms of the contract but are implicit in the parties’ understanding and
necessary to give business efficacy to the arrangements. Examples of such relational
contracts might include some joint venture agreements, franchise agreements and long-term
distributorship agreements.
195. This is the only paragraph of the judgment in which the word “relational” appears. The Judge
did not have to decide whether the contract before him included a positive obligation of

disclosure (as an element of some broader duty as to good faith): see at para. 143.

196. Against this background, the Judge in fact implied two fairly limited obligations: first, that the
defendant would not knowingly provide false information to Yam Seng on which it was likely

to rely (at para. 156) and, second, that the defendant would not authorise the sale of any product

58

B11.2/11/58
POL00004106
POL00004106

in the domestic market of any territory covered by the agreement at a lower retail price than
the duty free retail price for the product which had been specified in the agreement with Yam
Seng (at para.164). The Judge was only persuaded to imply this second term because, amongst
other things, the contract was a “skeletal document which does not attempt to specify the
parties’ obligations in any detail” and, in such a case, “it is easier than in the case of a detailed
and professionally drafted contract to suppose that a part of the bargain has not been expressly

stated”.

197.In a more recent case, Al Nehayan v Kent'”’, Leggatt LJ (now elevated but sitting as a High

Court Judge) provided a gloss on his reasoning in Yam Seng:

I have previously suggested in Yam Seng Pte Ltd v International Trade Corp [2013] EWHC
111 (QB), at para 142, that it is a mistake to draw a simple dichotomy between relationships
which give rise to fiduciary duties and other contractual relationships and to treat the latter
as all alike. In particular, I drew attention to a category of contract in which the parties are
committed to collaborating with each other, typically on a long term basis, in ways which
respect the spirit and objectives of their venture but which they have not tried to specify, and
which it may be impossible to specify, exhaustively in a written contract. Such ‘relational’
contracts involve trust and confidence but of a different kind from that involved in fiduciary
relationships. The trust is not in the loyal subordination by one party of its own interests to
those of another. It is trust that the other party will act with integrity and in a spirit of
cooperation. The legitimate expectations which the law should protect in relationships of this
kind are embodied in the normative standard of good faith. (emphasis added)

198.In the Al Nehayan case, a key factual finding that contributed to the decision that the joint
venture agreement included an implied duty of good faith was that the parties had not attempted
“to formalise the basis of their cooperation in any written contract but were content to deal
with each other entirely informally on the basis of their mutual trust and confidence that they
would each pursue their common project in good faith” (at para. 173). As in Yam Seng itself,
there was scope to imply general obligations to give effect to the essential nature of the

telationship because the parties had failed to articulate the basis of their cooperation.

The status of the discussion in Yam Seng
199. Since Yam Seng, the Court of Appeal has emphasised that English law does not recognise any

general principle of good faith in contractual performance.

20 £2018] EWHC 333 (Comm).

59

B11.2/11/59
POL00004106
POL00004106

200. First, in Mid Essex Hospital Services NHS Trust v Compass Group UK and Ireland,!”!
Jackson LJ said at para. 105:

...J start by reminding myself that there is no general doctrine of “good faith” in English
contract law, although a duty of good faith is implied by law as an incident of certain
categories of contract: see Horkulak at paragraph 30 and Yam Seng Pte Ltd v International
Trade Corporation Ltd [2013] EWHC 111 (QB) at paragraphs 120-131. If the parties wish
to impose such a duty they must do so expressly (emphasis added).!”?

201.The passage referred to from Yam Seng includes the statement that English law does not

recognise a duty of good faith to be implicit in all commercial contracts.

202. Second, in Globe Motors v TRW Lucas Varity Electric Steering at paras 67-68,'”> Beatson
LJ stated (obiter)'** as follows:

One manifestation of the flexible approach referred to by McKendrick and Lord Steyn is that,
in certain categories of long-term contract, the court may be more willing to imply a duty to
co-operate or, in the language used by Leggatt J in Yam Seng PTE v International Trade

Corp Ltd [2013] EWHC 111 (QB) at [131], [142] and [145], a duty of good faith. Leggatt
J had in mind contracts between those whose relationship is characterised as a fiduciary one
and those involving a longer-term relationship between parties who make a substantial
commitment. The contracts in question involved a high degree of communication, co-
operation and predictable performance based on mutual trust and confidence and
expectations of loyalty “which are not legislated for in the express terms of the contract but
are implicit in the parties’ understanding and necessary to give business efficacy to the
arrangements”. He gave as examples franchise agreements and long-term distribution
agreements, Even in the case of such agreements, however, the position will depend on the

terms of the particular contract. Two examples of long-term contracts which did not qualify
are the long-term franchising contracts considered by Henderson J in Carewatch Care
Ltd and Grace [2014] EWHC 2313 (Ch) and the
agreement between distributors of financial products and independent financial advisers
considered by Elisabeth Laing J in Acer Investment Management Ltd and another v The
Mansion Group Ltd [2014] EWHC 3011 (QB) at [109].

Services Lid v Focus Caring Servic

This is not the occasion to consider the potential for implied duties of good faith in English
law because the question in this case is one of interpretation or construction, and not one of
implication. It suffices to make two observations. The fir:
statement in Marks and Spencer PLC v BNP Paribas Security Services Trust Co (Jersey) Lid

is to reiterate Lord Neuberger's

21 [2013] EWCA Civ 200.
2 T ewison LJ agreed with Jackson LJ’s reasoning: see para. 132. Beatson LJ agreed as to the
outcome and provided reasoning of his own, not touching on this specific point.

23 12016] EWCA Civ 396.

4 Underhill and More-Bick LJJ agreed with Beatson LJ but made no reference to his comments
on implying duties of good faith.

60

B11.2/11/60
POL00004106
POL00004106

(see [58] above) that, whatever the broad similarities between them, the two are “different
processes governed by different rules”. 1 see the statement of Lord Bingham in Philips
Electronique Grand Public SA v British Sky Broadcasting Lid [1995] EMLR 472, at 481 cited
by Lord Neuberger, because “the implication of contract terms involves a different and

altogether more ambitious undertaking: the interpolation of terms to deal with matters for

which, ex hypothesi, the parties themselves have made no provision”. The second is that, as

seen from the Carewatch Care Services case, an implication of a duty of good faith will only
be possible where the language of the contract, viewed against its context, permits it. It is

thus_not_a reflection of a special rule of interpretation for_this_category of contract.
(emphasis added)

203. Third, in MSC Mediterranean Shipping Co v Cottonex Anstalt,'?> Moore-Bick LJ said as

follows at para. 451°, addressing the approach taken by Leggatt J at first instance in that case:

The judge drew support for his conclusion from what he described as an increasing
recognition in the common law world of the need for good faith in contractual dealings. The
recognition of a general duty of good faith would be a significant step in the development of
our law of contract with potentially far-reaching consequences and I do not think it is
necessary or desirable to resort to it in order to decide the outcome of the present case. It is
interesting to note that in the case to which the judge referred as providing support for his
view, Bhasin v Hrynew 2014 SCC 71; [2014] 3 SCR 494, the Supreme Court of Canada
recognised that in Mid Essex Hospital Services NHS Trust v Compass Group UK and Ireland
[2013] EWCA Civ 200 this court had recently reiterated that English law does not recognise
any general duty of good faith in matters of contract. It has, in the words of Bingham LJ in
Interfoto Picture Library Lid v Stiletto Visual Programmes Ltd [1989] QB 433, 439,
preferred to develop ‘piecemeal solutions in response to demonstrated problems of
unfairness’, although it is well-recognised that broad concepts of fair dealing may be
reflected in the court's response to questions of construction and the implication of terms. In

my view the better course is for the law to develop along established lines rather than to
encourage judges to look for what the judge in this case called some ‘general organising
principle’ drawn from cases of disparate kinds. For example, I do not think that decisions
on the exercise of options under contracts of different kinds, on which he also relied, shed
any real light on the kind of problem that arises in this case. There is in my view a real
danger that if a general principle of good faith were established it would be invoked as ofien

to_undermine as to support the terms in which the parties have reached agreement._The
danger is not dissimilar to that posed by too liberal an approach to construction, against
which the Supreme Court warned in Arnold v Britton [2015] UKSC 36; [2015] AC 1619.
(emphasis added)

204. Many first instance Judges have also emphasised that Yam Sang does not stand as authority

for some general principle as to implied duties of good faith: see Hamsard 3147 v Boots

25 12016] 2 C.L.C. 272

26 Tomlinson LJ and Keehan J agreed.

61

B11.2/11/61
POL00004106
POL00004106

UK” (Norris J) at para. 86; Greenclose v National Westminster Bank'?’ (Andrews J) at
para. 150; Carewatch Care Services v Focus Caring Services'”’ (Henderson J) at para. 108
(agreeing with Norris J in Hamsard), Myers v Kestrel Acquisitions'*’ (Sir William
Blackburne) at paras 40 (agreeing with Andrews J in Greenclose), 43 and 50 to 63; and Monde
Petroleum v WesternZagros'*! (Richard Salter QC) at paras 249 to 250. In the last case, the
Deputy Judge stated pithily that, save where a duty of good faith is implied by law’, “such a
duty will only be implied where the contract would lack commercial or practical coherence

without it and where all the other requirements for implication are met”.

205. For completeness, it should be noted that, as Leggatt LJ identified in Al Nehayan, there have
also been several cases in which duties of good faith have been implied into so-called relational

contracts, relying on Yam Seng: see Al Nehayan at paras 167 to 169.

206. Overall, however, the picture that emerges from the subsequent cases and dicta is clear. Yam
Seng and the concept of a “relational” contract have not made any (or any substantial) change
to the principles by which the Court must consider whether to imply terms into commercial

contracts. The discussion in Yam Seng yields to the test as stated in Marks & Spencer.
207. Against this background, Post Office moves to its three principal submissions.

(i) The contracts in this case are not “relational”

208. It appears from Yam Seng that there are three key characteristics of a “relational” contract: (1)
the agreement requires cooperation and collaboration (rather than being a “simple exchange”),
(2) the agreement is long term and (3) the parties have failed to specify in their agreement the
basic nature of their relationship and the cooperation required under it, such that there is a
lacuna to be filled by an implied term that addresses those things. The contracts in this case

can be tested against those characteristics / requirements.

209. First, - the agreement requiring cooperation and collaboration - this is true to an extent of the

contracts at issue in this case. However, the extent of that cooperation and collaboration is

27 12013] EWHC 3251.

8 12014] 1C.L.C.562.

29 [2014] EWHC 2313.

89 [2016] 1 B.C.L.C 719.

13112017] I AILE.R. (Comm) 1009.

1S? As Leggatt J stated in Yam Seng, a duty of good faith is implied by law into partnership contracts
and fiduciary relationships, for example.

B11.2/11/62
POL00004106
POL00004106

provided for in the express terms of contracts (including the express choice of an agency and

accounting relationship) and in the Agreed Implied Terms.

210. Second, - the agreement being long-term - this does not apply to the contracts at issue in this

case. They are expressly terminable on relatively short notice: 3 months in the SPMC™*, and
6 months (but notice not to expire within the first year) in the NTC!*. In Hamsard 3147 v
Boots UK,'** Norris J found that the agreement at issue, which was terminable on reasonable

notice,!*°

was not a relational contract, including because it was not a “long-term
arrangement’. Similarly, in Acer Investment Management v The Mansion Group,'*” Laing
J found that the agreement before her was terminable on a “relatively short period of notice”
and that this was a reason (amongst others) to reject the submission that it was a relational
contract: see para. 109.'** In Globe Motors, Beatson LJ rightly identified the duration of a
contract as essential to any characterisation of it as “relational”, referring at para. 67 to a

“longer-term relationship”.

21

. The contracts to which Leggatt J referred in Yam Seng typically have minimum durations
measured in years, rather than months. The fact that the contracts here are terminable on short

notice is fatal to the suggestion that they are “relational”.

212.The third characteristic is the absence of express provision for the nature or extent of the
parties’ relationship and the cooperation that it requires. This is essential to the characterisation
of an agreement as “relational”, bearing in mind that the purpose of that characterisation is to

identify whether it is appropriate to imply a term as to good faith — a term to fill a gap.

213. The contracts at issue here do not have this fundamental third characteristic. Post Office and
the SPMs agreed expressly to a relationship of agent / principal, including duties to account.
There is very substantial content to that relationship, derived both from the common law and
from the detailed express provisions of the contracts. The parties expressly chose the particular

legal character and content of their relationship and cooperation. The express choice of a legal

133 Section 1, clause 10 of the SPMC [D2.1/3/6].
1 Part 2, para. 16.1 of the NTC [D1.6/3/25].

185 [2013] EWHC 3251 (Pat). This case concerned an agreement under which a retailer had
outsourced the supply of own-brand children’s clothes for sale in its stores

'8¢ Norris J found that the notice that was in fact given, 9 months, was reasonable: see para. 78.

137 2014] EWHC 3011 (QB). This case concerned an agency agreement for the sale of financial
investment products.
138 The notice period was implied, rather than express: see Acer at para. 87.

63

B11.2/11/63
POL00004106
POL00004106

relationship with a defined character and content precludes any characterisation of the

agreement as “relational”.

214.Further, the parties made detailed express provision for the operation of the agency and
accounting relationship in the particular context of operating a Post Office agency branch. This
includes not only the long written agreements but also operating manuals and other contractual
documents that provide the granular detail of how the relationship would work. This is in stark
contrast to Yam Seng and Al Nehayan and the “ske/etal” express provision in those cases.
There is no lacuna. There is no space for any general implied term to spell out the basic

character and legal content of the relationship. The parties spelled it out for themselves.

215. Lastly, any gap that there otherwise might be in the express provision is filled by the Agreed
Implied Terms. This is the final nail in the coffin of the idea that these contracts might somehow

require the imposition of a further implied term to spell out what was obvious but unsaid.

216. It is in this context that Cs are forced to make the strange case that is set out in the Individual
Replies. Specifically, Cs contend that the existence of the agent / principal relationship, and
even the existence of the Agreed Implied Terms are positive reasons to treat the contracts as
“telational”, rather than reasons for which they resist that characterisation.'*? This involves a
fundamental misunderstanding of the reasoning in Yam Seng and Al Nehayan. Cs do not
engage at all with the fundamental point that a general implied term will be precluded by the
existence of express terms that cover the same ground (i.e. the essential legal character of the

telationship and the basis of the parties’ collaboration).

217. Applying the reasoning in Yam Seng and Al Nehayan, the contracts do not fall to be

categorised as “relational”.

(ii) If the contracts were “relational”, this would make no difference
218.It is clear from the cases cited above (including Beatson LJ’s remarks in Glebe Motors) that
whether or not a term as to good faith falls to be implied depends on an examination of the

contract at issue, rather than any exercise in classifying it as “relational”.

219. Any other approach would involve a departure from the law as stated in Marks & Spencer.

There is no special test for the implication of terms that applies to “relational” contracts.

3° See, e.g., Bates Reply, paras 57-59 [B5.1/4/22]
64

B11.2/11/64
POL00004106
POL00004106

(iii) I The implied terms pleaded by Cs should not be implied in any event

220.A remarkable feature of Cs’ pleading on Yam Seng is that they try to use that case to justify
the implication of a series of terms that go far beyond anything Leggatt J was prepared to imply
in Yam Seng itself. Cs put forward not only three extremely broad general terms (identified in
para. 63 of the AGPOC) but also the 20 implied terms set out in para. 64 of the AGPOC, which
are advanced on the primary basis that the Court should imply them “hy reason of the contract
being relational”. Cs expressly set this up as a further or alternative basis to the orthodox tests
in Marks & Spencer (which they refer to implicitly by using the words “business necessity

and/or obviousness”).

22

-Seen in this light, Cs’ case invites the Court to go well beyond anything that can be justified
by the reasoning in Yam Seng. It is a frontal assault on the restrictive approach to the
implication of terms. If right, it would mean that there is some new and radical exception to

the principles in Marks & Spencer.

222.As to the general terms set out in para. 63 of the AGPOC, the very breadth and generality of
the implied terms is a reason to reject them. In Yam Seng, Leggatt J was careful to imply only
the minimum obligations that were necessary to make the contract work as it must have been
intended to work. He did not imply some overarching and vague duty as to good faith and/or
“obligations as to fair dealing, transparency and cooperation, and trust and confidence” as
Cs invite this Court to do. Terms of that extraordinary generality would have to be agreed

expressly (as Beatson LJ stated in Globe Motors).

223.Further, as argued above, the implication of such general terms as to the nature of the
relationship would cut across and be inconsistent with the parties’ express choice of an agent /
principal relationship. Cs want to imply terms to provide for the basic nature of the contractual
relationship, but that space is already filled. Specifically, Cs seek to impose a duty of “¢rust
and confidence” — the characteristic duty of employer and employee — in circumstances where
the parties expressly chose a relationship of agent / principal and expressly rejected an
employment relationship.'*° Cs admit that they were not employees but then try to escape the
consequences of that admission by imposing the essence of an employment relationship in an

implied term — getting through the back door what they admit cannot fit through the front.

224. In the Carewatch case, Henderson J too was faced with a slew of very general alleged implied

terms that were, as here, said to be justified by the nature of the contract at issue - a long term

4 Section 1, clause I of the SPMC [D2.1/3/5] and Part 2, para. 1.2 of the NTC [D1.6/3/6].

65

B11.2/11/65
POL00004106

POL00004106

franchise agreement. The Judge reminded himself that the parties (as in this case) had
contracted “for a commercial relationship, from which both parties hoped to profit, and where
both sides had interests of their own to protect”. He found “no “clear lacuna” in the detailed
provisions of the agreement which has to be filled if the agreement is to work commercially”.
He applied the orthodox test for the implication of terms in fact, refusing to imply any term

that would be inconsistent with the express terms and rejecting the alleged implied terms."

225. Post Office commends Henderson J’s approach to the Court: any implied term, whether as to
good faith or anything else, must satisfy the strict test for implication in fact; if it does not, it
cannot be implied. The discussion in Yam Seng does not authorise the kind of dramatic

departure from orthodoxy that Cs want to press upon the Court.

226.In the pleadings, Cs argue that they were heavily reliant on Post Office, arguing that this
characteristic of the relationship necessitates implying the broad terms that they allege.'*” But

there are three glaring problems with their arguments in that regard:

227. First, Cs seek to rely on post-contractual events (such as the introduction of Horizon) to justify
treating the contract as “relational” and implying terms as to good faith and transparency
(etc).'“> This involves a fundamental error of law. Whether a contract is “relational” and
whether it includes implied terms as to good faith are matters that have to be judged at the

inception of the contract, by reference to the admissible background at that time.'“*

228.Second, one party may be heavily reliant on the other even in an ordinary commercial
relationship. He may be unable to monitor the performance in which he trusts and on which he
telies. None of that requires the Court to intervene and impose a different legal character on

the relationship: see, by analogy, Re Goldcorp Exchange Ltd'* at p.98 per Lord Mustill.

229. Third, without the alleged implied terms, Post Office owed obligations as principal, under the

express terms and under the Agreed Implied Terms. There is no gap that cries out to be filled.

141 See at paras 101 to 112.
'® See, e.g., Bates IPOC, para. 84.11 [B5.1/2/23] and Bates Reply, para. 61 [B5.1/4/23]

43 See, e.g., Bates IPOC, paras 84.10 and 84.12 - 84.14 [B5.1/2/23] and Bates Reply, para. 61
(B5.1/4/23]

M4 See, for example, Globe Motors, per Beatson LJ at [68]: “an implication of a duty of good faith
will only be possible where the language of the contract, viewed against its context, permits it. It is
thus not a reflection of a special rule of interpretation for this category of contract.”

45 £1995] 1 A.C.74 (PC).

66

B11.2/11/66
POL00004106
POL00004106

230.As to the more specific terms set out in para. 64 of the AGPOC, these are addressed in due
course. In short, none of them is necessary, and many of them would contradict the express

terms of the agreements and so cannot be implied.

(3) THE GENERAL IMPLIED TERMS (COMMON ISSUE 2)

231.Many of Cs’ alleged implied terms are addressed by topic area in these submissions — for
example, the term alleged at AGPOC, para. 64.14, which relates to termination, is addressed

in the section on termination below.

232. Five of the terms alleged in para. 64 of the AGPOC, however, relate to the nature and content
of the contractual relationship in general and can usefully be taken together. They are pleaded
at AGPOC, paras 64.15 to 64.19.

Outline of the parties’ contentions
233.Unfortunately, Cs’ case on these alleged terms has not been pleaded with clarity or

completeness. Post Office has had to do what it can to make sense of the case against it.

234. Prior to the Individual Replies, Cs’ case on these alleged terms was extremely sparse. All 20
of the implied terms alleged in para. 64 of the AGPOC are taken together in the IPOCs: see,
for example, Bates IPOC, paras 86-90'"°. It was only in response to the detailed pleading from
Post Office in the Individual Defences, that Cs decided to go into any detail whatsoever on

these alleged implied terms: see, e.g., Bates Reply, paras 70, 72 and 73.'"7

235. Even in the Replies, however, Cs still refuse to provide proper particulars of the contractual
discretions and powers that they contend are affected by the alleged implied terms: see Bates

Reply, para. 73.1, referring to “all contractual and other powers and discretions”. Cs even

purport to put Post Office to proof of some general “entitlement...to act...dishonestly or in bad
faith in its dealings with the Claimant” — i.e. a requirement on a defendant to prove the absence
of implied terms that would control (unidentified) contractual entitlements. There is no pleaded

allegation of bad faith or dishonesty to which this bizarre plea is anchored.

146 [BS5.1/2/24].
47 1B5.1/4/30].

67

B11.2/11/67
POL00004106

POL00004106

236. Against this background, Post Office contends that none of the implied terms alleged in para.

64 of the AGPOC satisfies the test for implication. Post Office relies'** on the following general

matters:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

None of the terms is so obvious as to have gone without saying. The contracts do not

lack practical or commercial coherence without them.

The contracts are detailed and professionally drafted written agreements designed and
used for a business-to-business relationship. They make express provision for the nature
of the parties’ relationship and contain detailed terms addressing the key elements of
the contractual and agency relationship (e.g. the duty to account). They are not the kind

of contract into which terms can readily be implied.

The contracts contain the Agreed Implied Terms, which complement the express terms.
and further identify the cooperation required for the proper operation of the contractual
relationship. In addition to these terms, the contracts also include an implied restriction
on Post Office’s power to change the contract and/or operational instructions and other

specific implied restrictions identified below.”

The fact that Cs plead so many detailed and overlapping implied terms demonstrates
that none of them is a term upon which the parties would necessarily have agreed had
they sought to make express provision for its subject matter. There is a vast number of
substantially or subtly different terms that the parties could have agreed in relation to
any given subject matter falling within the contractual relationship, but they in fact

chose the terms of the written contracts.

The alleged terms would have prevented or constrained the parties’ acting

commercially, sensibly or flexibly.

Had it been asked to do so, Post Office would not have agreed the alleged implied terms,
not least because they would be onerous, unreasonable, uncommercial and/or

unnecessary in practice. Such a refusal would have been reasonable.

237. Post Office now addresses the specific terms alleged in AGPOC, paras 64.15-64.19.

148 See, e.g., Bates Defence, para.56. [B/5.1/3/34]
149 See, e.g., Bates Defence, para. 65(2). [B5.1/3/38]

68

B11.2/11/68
POL00004106
POL00004106

The implied term alleged in AGPOC, para. 64.15
238. The implied term alleged in AGPOC, para. 64.15 is “Not to take steps which would undermine
the relationship of trust and confidence between Claimants and the Defendant.”. In addition to

the general reasons set out above, there are two specific reasons not to imply this term.

239.First, it forms part of Cs’ attempt to replace a business-to-business agency and accounting
telationship with an employment relationship. It would contradict the express terms of the
contracts, including the express choice of an agent-principal relationship and the express
rejection of any employment relationship.'*” The parties of course owed each other the
common law duties of agent and principal, but these are not the same as the employment law

duties that Cs wish to crowbar into the agreement.

240. Second, outside an employment relationship, there is no necessity for such a broad, general

and imprecise term, especially where the parties have agreed detailed express terms. The
implication of broad terms of this kind into commercial agreements is consistently refused. A
good example is Bedfordshire County Council v Fitzpatrick Contractors Ltd’*’, in which
Dyson J was asked to imply a term of trust and confidence into a long-term highway

maintenance contract. He held that the proposed term was not necessary. He continued:

Secondly, the court should in any event be very slow to imply into a contract a term, especially
one which is couched in rather general terms, where the contract contains numerous detailed
express terms such as the contract in this case. In my judgment, in such a case, the court
should only do so where there is a clear lacuna. The parties in this case took a great deal of
trouble to spell out with precision and in detail the terms that were to govern their contractual
relationship. The alleged implied term is expressed in broad and imprecise language. I can
see no justification for grafting such a term onto a carefully drafied contract such as this.

241.Dyson J’s approach was followed by Henderson J in relation to the long-term franchise

152

agreement in the Carewatch case’»’, and it should be followed here.

The implied term alleged in AGPOC, paras 64.16 to 64.17
242.Cs plead at paras 64.16 to 64.17 two terms that would restrict the exercise of contractual powers
and discretions. Cs do not identify the powers and/or discretions that are the target of these

alleged implied terms, which are as follows:

'S° Section 1, clause 1 of the SPMC [D2.1/3/5] and Part 2, para. 1.2 of the NTC [D1.6/3/6].

151 [1998] 62 Con LR 64.

152 See at paras 106 and 109, in particular.

69

B11.2/11/69
POL00004106
POL00004106

64.16. To exercise any contractual, or other power, honestly and in good faith for the purpose
Sor which it was conferred.
64. 17 Not to exercise any discretion arbitrarily, capriciously or unreasonably.
243.Cs left it to Post Office to identify the contractual powers and discretions that might
conceivably be in issue. That is an inappropriate and fundamentally objectionable approach. It
is for Cs to identify (1) the powers and discretions that they contend are subject to implied
restrictions and (2) how those powers and discretions are said to be relevant to claims that are

advanced in the AGPOC. Cs have done neither of those things.

244. Without prejudice to this objection, Post Office identified in its Individual Defences several

153

potentially'** relevant contractual powers, and it has volunteered restrictions on those powers

in the Individual Defences. Specifically:

(a) Under section 1, clause 18 of the SPMC, Post Office has a power to change the contract
and its operational instructions. Post Office accepts that, where it proposes to use this
power to make a change without the agreement of the NFSP,'* it cannot exercise that
power dishonestly or in an arbitrary, capricious or irrational manner. An implied

restriction to that effect is appropriate. '*°

(b) Under Part 2, para 20.2 of the NTC, Post Office is entitled to make certain sorts of
amendments to the contract on giving 3 months’ notice (or shorter notice where
necessary to comply with a statutory or regulatory requirement). Post Office accepts
that this entitlement is subject to a restriction that it cannot be exercised dishonestly or

in an arbitrary, capricious or irrational manner.'*°

(c) By Part 3, para 3.1 of the NTC, Post Office is entitled to vary on notice the fees payable

for the performance of transactions. Post Office accepts that there is an implied

'S3 Post Office of course does not concede such relevance.

154 Where the agreement of the NFSP is obtained, the requirement for agreement with the
representative body provides the control mechanism intended by the parties, and the existence of
this mechanism prevents the implication of any other control on the power: see Mid Essex Hospital
Services NHS Trust y Compass Group UK and Ireland [2013] B.L.R.265 at [139] per Lewison
LJ.

155 See, for example, Individual Defence to Bates IPOC, at para 65(2) [B5. 1/3/38].
156 See, for example, Individual Defence to Stockdale IPOC, at para 47(2) [BS.6/3/24].

70

B11.2/11/70
(@)

POL00004106

POL00004106

restriction that such entitlement cannot be exercised dishonestly or in an arbitrary,

capricious or irrational manner.'*?

By Part 5, para 1.3 of the NTC, Post Office is entitled to amend on notice the list of
documents coming under the definition of “Manual” and to amend the content of those
documents. Post Office accepts that there is an implied restriction that this entitlement

cannot be exercised dishonestly or in an arbitrary, capricious or irrational manner.'**

245. Beyond this, Post Office is left guessing at what other (if any) contractual rights, powers or

discretions it is that Cs are seeking to control by the general implied terms alleged in paras

64.16 and 64.17. It is important to identify the precise contractual entitlements at issue because

the appropriateness of implying a term (and what term) depends on the nature of the express

term at issue, including whether it creates, on its proper construction, a contractual discretion

(properly so-called) or a contractual power or a contractual right. Specifically:

(a)

(b)

It is only contractual discretions (properly so-called) that typically invite the implication
of a term to prevent irrationality and capriciousness: see Mid Essex Hospital Services
NHS Trust v Compass Group UK and Ireland’? at [83]-[95] per Jackson LJ and

British Telecommunications v Telefonica O2 UK'™ at [37] per Lord Sumption.

Contractual powers may be subject to slightly different restrictions, depending on the
particular power at issue and its context: see, for example, the restriction discussed in
Property Alliance Group v The Royal Bank of Scotland’! (requiring a contractual

power to be exercised in the pursuit of legitimate commercial aims and not maliciously).

Contractual rights, by contrast, are not controlled by any general implied restriction.
The existence of an express and unconditional right precludes the implication of a term

that would be inconsistent with it (by turning it into a conditional or limited right).

246.Cs’ unexplained failure to plead a properly articulated case has prevented Post Office being

able to provide a full response by reference to these well-established principles. Post Office

cannot admit to any general restriction without knowing to what terms it is alleged to apply.

'S7 See, for example, Individual Defence to Stockdale IPOC, at para 47(3) [B5.6/3/24].
158 See, for example, Individual Defence to Stockdale IPOC, at para 47(4) [B5.6/3/24]].
'S9 [2013] B.L.R.265.

169 [2014] Bus L.R. 765

161 12018] I W.L.R 3529.

7

B11.2/11/71
POL00004106

POL00004106

The implied term alleged in AGPOC, para. 64.18

64.18 To exercise any such discretion in accordance with the obligations of good faith, fair
dealing, transparency, co-operation, and trust and confidence.

247. In addition to the general reasons, there are two specific reasons to reject this alleged term.

248. First, the case for its implication assumes that Cs succeed on Common Issue 1. In the absence

of the implied terms that Cs plead in para. 63 of the AGPOC, there can be no argument for the

control on discretions pleaded in para. 64.18. Post Office submits that this implied term falls

away with those alleged under Common Issue 1.

249. Second, even were Cs right on the “relational” contract issue, there could be no justification

for such a broad and vague control on Post Office’s discretions (which are not identified):

(a)

(b)

(c)

In Yam Seng itself, Leggatt J was careful only to imply the minimum necessary terms
to give effect to the principles as he saw them —~ he crafted the implied terms around the
express terms and in light of the background, rather than imposing a broad and vague
obligation of the kind that Cs seek to impose. Cs’ approach is vastly more ambitious

than Leggatt J’s and is flatly contrary to the principles in Marks & Spencer.

The Courts have repeatedly stressed that broad and vague obligations cannot be implied
into detailed commercial contracts: see the cases cited at paras 240 and 241 above. It
is wholly unclear what practical effects Cs’ alleged term would have. Outside the types
of relationship where such broad obligations are implied by law, the parties to
commercial contracts can of course agree them expressly, but it is inappropriate to
impose them in the guise of terms implied in fact (see, e.g., the Mid Essex Hospital

Services NHS Trust case at para. 105 per Jackson LJ, quoted above at para. 200).

In this case, the Agreed Implied Terms meet any need for fact-sensitive and flexible
terms, and they do so in a structured way that is appropriate to commercial contracts
and supported by authority. Specifically, they ensure that the express terms work
properly in the face of unanticipated circumstances and in accordance with the parties’
legitimate pre-contractual expectations. If the circumstances make it necessary for Post
Office to provide reasonable cooperation to the SPM for her to be able to perform her

obligations under the contract, such cooperation is required of Post Office.

The implied term alleged in AGPOC, para. 64.19

64.19 To take reasonable care in performing its functions and/or exercising its functions
within the relationship, particularly those which could affect the accounts (and therefore

liability to alleged shortfalls), business, health and reputation of Claimants.

B11.2/11/72
POL00004106

POL00004106

250. In addition to the general reasons, there are three specific reasons to refuse this alleged term.

251.First, it would hollow out and replace the parties’ expressly chosen relationship of agent and

principal with something less specific, less structured and very different. Implying a broad duty
of care would be inconsistent with the parties’ decision to create and regulate their relationship

in accordance with detailed written agreements and the agent-principal relationship. Implying

such a duty would cut across that choice and would be inconsistent with the express terms of

the agreements. The Court must be careful to avoid interfering with a commercial bargain by
implying broad and general terms, including where such terms may limit each side’s ability to

further its own interests: see, e.g., Carewatch at para. 109.

252. Second, the term implicitly assumes some responsibility, on Post Office’s part, for the “health
and reputation” of Cs. There is no pleaded case that such responsibility arose under any express
or implied term of the agreements. Imposing it by the back door is impermissible. Such a duty,
is, any event, obviously not necessary to a business-to-business relationship entered into in the
expectation of profit, including where not all SPMs are even natural persons. The idea that it

could be so obvious as to have gone without saying is fanciful.

25.

ey

. Third, implying such a broad and vague term would cut across Post Office’s entitlement to
have regard to its own commercial interests in the operation of its network. It is unrealistic to
contend that Post Office must necessarily have undertaken some duty to protect the SPMs’
“business”. Can it really be said that the agreement would lack commercial or practical
coherence unless Post Office undertook such a duty? Would it extend to the protection of the

SPMs’ associated retail business? Post Office has an express contractual right to withdraw

services from branches, notwithstanding that doing so may of course be to the disadvantage of

a particular SPM and his associated retail business. But that is of the essence of the relationship:
Post Office has to have a good measure of control over its network of branches, given that it is
Post Office that has the contracts with the third-party clients and Post Office that owes
obligations to government. Post Office therefore needs the ability to take actions to benefit its
business and the branch network as a whole. Post Office would obviously never have agreed
to such a vague and potentially powerful restriction on its right to run its business and network

162

in accordance with its commercial interests‘ and the public interest’®’. Those interests will

not always overlap with those of any particular SPM. Cs’ implied term would risk turning all

1©2 See Angela Van Den Bogerd’s WS at paras 23-32 [C2/1/7].
163 Thid, paras 33-37 [C2/1/8].

73

B11.2/11/73
POL00004106
POL00004106

express contractual rights into contractual discretions to be exercised with regard to both sides”
interests on an individual SPM-by-SPM basis, which would be impossible to do in a network

with more than 11,000 branches.
254. In this context, Cs’ argument for the implied term in the Individual Replies is telling:

The duty...is entirely consistent with the nature of the relationship between a statutory
monopoly and individuals in the position of Subpostmasters. There is nothing inherently

unreasonable (still less onerous, uncommercial or unnecessary) in requiring the taking of
164

reasonable care.

255. There is no attempt to show the term to be necessary (but only reasonable). There is no attempt
to show that the term would be consistent with the detailed written agreement that Cs chose to
enter into with Post Office on a business-to-business basis. Cs do not even engage with the
obvious point that Post Office is entitled to run the network in accordance with its own
commercial interests, without (in general) having to somehow try to balance its interests

against those of each and every individual SPM and his associated retail business.

The Discretionary Payments Agreement
256.For the first time in their Individual Replies, Cs seek to rely on the Discretionary Payments
Agreement dated I April 1989 (“the DPA”) as forming part of the contracts and so limiting

16!

Post Office’s exercise of unspecified contractual rights, powers and discretions.'®° This attempt

to somehow force the DPA into the contracts should be rejected, for four reasons:

(a) First, the contracts contain express provisions as to how they are to be varied.'®* None
of them was ever varied so as to incorporate the DPA. No allegation to that effect is

even pleaded.

(b) Second, none of the lead Cs was ever a party to the DPA. It is an agreement between

Post Office and the NFSP. There is no pleaded basis for any suggestion that the NFSP

contracted as agent for Cs.

(c) Third, the DPA is a discretionary arrangement that operates outside the contractual

rights and obligations as between Post Office and the SPM.’ It is expressly stated not

14 See, e.g., Bates Reply, para. 74. [B5.1/4/32]

165 See, e.g., Bates Reply, para. 70. [B5.1/4/30]. It is also pleaded in relation to the NTC: see, e.g.,
Dar Reply, para. 60. [B5.5/4/26]

166 Section 1, clause 18 of the SPMC [D2.1/3/8] and Part 2, para 20.2 of the NTC [D1.6/3/30].

17 This is made clear by the DPA itself, referring throughout to “discretionary payments” and to

SPMs being “eligible for consideration” in certain circumstances. [G/84/1]

74

B11.2/11/74
POL00004106

POL00004106

to be legally enforceable.’® It assumes the operation of the contracts in accordance with
their terms, rather than modifying or qualifying those terms. It is wrong and
unprincipled to read the extra-contractual scheme into the contract, not least because
the DPA would obviously (were it an enforceable agreement between the parties)

contradict the express terms of the contracts into which it is supposedly to be inserted.

(d) Fourth, there is an important point of legal policy. If it were right that a discretionary

compensation scheme could be used to attack the express provisions of the agreement
in relation to which it operates, that would create a strong disincentive to the use of such
schemes. It should be open to large organisations to agree mechanisms for discretionary
payments that sit outside the terms of the contractual relationship, without risking

undermining their contractual rights under that relationship.

257.Cs further contend that the implied terms alleged in paras 64.14 to 64.19 prohibited the exercise

of powers and discretions in a relation to termination, compensation for loss of office and/or

subsequent appointment “so as to subvert the DPA or any entitlement to or eligibility of the
Claimant for compensation thereunder”. Post Office does not know what this is supposed to
mean. There is no pleading as to any “subversion” of any provision of the DPA that is said to
have resulted from anything Post Office is alleged to have done in accordance with the

contracts’ terms (express or implied). Again, Cs have decided not to plead a proper case.

The implied term alleged at Reply, para. 96.1

258.Cs allege that Post Office’s entitlement to recover in respect of shortfalls was limited by an
implied term to the effect that any claim had to be made “within a reasonable time of discovery
or the date by which, with reasonable diligence, Post Office could have made such

discovery”.' Confusingly, Cs also refer to this as a “construction” of the contract.

259. The only matter that Cs advance in favour of this implied term is the suggestion that imposing
it would be “consonant with” the requirements for SPMs to make good shortfalls “without

delay” under section 12, clause 12 SPMC and para. 4.1 of the NTC.
260. The allegation that there was such an implied term is beyond the scope of reasonable argument:

(a) It cannot sensibly be said that an implied restriction on Post Office’s right is necessary

for the business efficacy of the agreements. The agreements work perfectly well without

168 See clause 24. [G/84/6]
69 (3/3/43).

B11.2/11/75
POL00004106
POL00004106

any such restriction. The parties contracted against the background of the existence of

limitation periods and the relevant principles under the common law.

(b)  Itis impossible to argue that such a restriction can have gone without saying. Post Office
would obviously never have agreed a term that would see it potentially lose its rights to
enforce shortfalls within the limitation period; it would obviously never have agreed to

a duty to investigate whether it might have a claim “with reasonable diligence”.

(c) The term would be onerous, uncommercial and unreasonable. On the face of it, it would
prevent Post Office recovering even in cases of fraud, as long as the fraud should have

been discovered earlier with “reasonable diligence”

(d) Ifthe fact that Post Office contracted for a requirement that SPMs make good shortfalls
“without delay” is relevant at all, its relevance is that it undermines the suggestion that
some cognate obligation was placed on Post Office to act without delay in enforcing its
rights, but without similar words being used. The obvious inference from the absence

of any such words is that parties chose not to impose such an obligation on Post Office.

(4) SCOPE OF THE GENERAL IMPLIED TERMS (COMMON ISSUE 3)

261.As already noted, Cs have not pleaded the terms to which the implied terms above are alleged
to apply. It follows that there is no properly pleaded case that Cs can advance under Common
Issue 3. Post Office has identified above the contractual entitlements that it accepts are subject

to implied restrictions.

262. Post Office will respond in closing to any case that Cs decide to bring at trial. For the avoidance

of doubt, Post Office does not accept that Cs are entitled to advance an un-pleaded case.

D. OTHER SPECIFIC IMPLIED TERMS

rel SUPPLY OF GOODS AND SERVICES ACT (COMM: SSUE 4)

4, Did Post Office supply Horizon, the Helpline and/or training/materials to Subpostmasters

(i) as services under “relevant contracts for the supply of services” and (ii) in the course of

its business, such that there was an implied term requiring Post Office to carry out any such

services with reasonable care and skill, pursuant to section 13 of the Supply of Goods and
Services Act 1982?

263.Cs have alleged wide-ranging implied terms governing Post Office’s provision, to SPMs, of

Horizon, the Helpline and training. Those terms are alleged to be implied both under section

13 Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 (“the Act”), and as freestanding terms.

76

B11.2/11/76
POL00004106
POL00004106

264. There is no basis for implying any of these terms. The so-called “services” provided do not fall
within the scope of the Act, and the test for the implication of terms is not close to being met.
(It is also worth noting that there is a particular oddity, with which Cs have not grappled, about
asserting that Post Office agreed to provide Horizon when, for some of the relevant period

covered by the contracts, Horizon had not yet been introduced.)
265. Section 13 of Act provides as follows:

Ina [relevant contract for the supply of a service] where the supplier is acting in the course
of a business, there is an implied term that the supplier will carry out the service with
reasonable care and skill.

266. The relevant part of the statutory definition is as follows, at section 12:

(1) In this Act a “{relevant contract for the supply of a service] means, subject to subsection
(2) below, a contract under which a person (“the supplier”) agrees to carry out a service [,
other than a contract to which Chapter 4 of Part 1 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 applies.]

(3) Subject to subsection (2) above, a contract is a [relevant contract for the supply of a
service] for the purposes of this Act... whatever is the nature of the consideration for which
the service is to be carried out.”

267.A number of authorities have considered the scope of this provision. They clearly establish that

the answer to this Common Issue is ‘no’.

268.Euroption Strategic Fund v Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken'” involved a claim brought
by an investment fund against its bank. The fund failed to deposit a contractually mandated
margin payment, following which the bank exercised its contractual right to close out the
fund’s portfolio. The fund contended that the bank had carried out the close-out negligently.
One issue was whether, in carrying out the close-out, the bank was bound by a term implied
pursuant to section 13 of the Act.

269. At paras 111-113, Gloster J (as she then was) concluded that no such term should be implied:
In my judgment, SEB's rights under the Mandate to impose limits on Euroption's activities
under clause 6, to close out Euroption's positions under clause 11, or to refuse instructions
under clause 12 (c) cannot be characterised as “services” within the definition contained in
section 12 (1) of the Act. The definition in section 12(1) of “contract for the supply of a

service” is (subject to exclusions) “a contract under which a person (‘the supplier’) agrees
to carry out a service”. Thus the “implied term about care and skill” imposed by section 13

179 £2012] EWHC 584 (Comm).

77

B11.2/11/77
POL00004106
POL00004106

of the Act only applies to services agreed to be provided under a contract for services and
not to all rights and obligations under such a contract. Section 13 provides:

“In a contract for the supply of a service where the supplier is acting in the course of a
business, there is an implied term that the supplier will carry out the service with reasonable
care and skill.” (Emphasis added)

B's right to impose limits, its right to refuse instructions, or its right to close out...were
not on any basis services which SEB had agreed to carry out under the Mandate. First, it is
difficult to see how, in ordinary language, the exercise of such rights by SEB, at its discretion,
Jor the purposes of protecting its own position, could be characterised as a “service” being
provided “to” Euroption. Even if, contrary to my view, the exercise of such rights could
arguably be so characterised, since SEB had not agreed under the Mandate, to provide any
such “service”, it is difficult to see how rights exercisable at SEB's discretion could be said
to be “services” for the purpose of section 13.”. (emphasis in original)

270.Field J reached a similar conclusion in Marex Financial v Creative Finance.’”! That case
involved a broker seeking money due on its account with the defendant. The broker had closed
out the defendant’s account, and, again, one issue was whether in carrying out the close-out,
the bank was bound by a term implied pursuant to section 13 of the Act. Field J said at
paragraphs 70 to 71:

Mr Cox argued that s._ 13 is not confined to the performance of “primary” services to be
supplied under the contract but applies also to services that are ancillary to the primary
subject matter of the contract, whether that subject matter concerns the sale of goods or the
provision of a service. In his submission, the closing out of positions forms part of the wider
process by which Marex provided its clients with access to the FX markets. Positions that
were built up also need to be closed out, whether forcibly or otherwise. It is artificial to sever
the close-out from the parties' wider relationship.

71 I decline to accept Mr Cox's submissions. In my judgement, the implication under Section
13 is in respect of the particular service which the supplier has agreed to carry out pursuant
to the contract, and the exercise by Marex of its right to close out the Defendants’ positions
was not a “service” that Marex had agreed to carry out for the Defendants. Rather, it w«

a right that Marex elected to exercise in its own interests and for its own protection. This
was the view of Gloster J in Euroption (paras 111, 113 and 114) and I agree with her
analysis.” (emphasis added)

271.In DC Accountancy Services v Education Development International,’” the question was
what duties were owed by a company (EDI) which awarded qualifications when it carried out
assessments of (and imposed sanctions on) a business school (DCAS). Andrews J held at paras
31 to 32:

71 12013] EWHC 2155 (Comm).
'? 12013] EWHC 3378 (QB).

78

B11.2/11/78
POL00004106
POL00004106

Section 13 applies only to the services that one party agrees to provide to the other
contracting party, so I have to ask myself: “Was the Recorder wrong in his analysis that no
service was provided under this contract to DCAS?” Well, what service was? On one view
the provision of a certificate and even the registration might be regarded as a service, but no
complaint is made about those matters. The complaint is about the manner in which EDI
exercised its regulatory functions. The regulatory functions were something that there was
already an obligation to carry out, as a result of the Code being imposed upon EDI, and
therefore the obligation arose regardless of, and independently of, any contract with DCAS.
EDI were not providing any service in relation to the supervising and regulation of accredited
bodies such as DCAS.

Moreover, even if their regulatory obligations could be so characterised, they were not
supplying those services to DCAS or equivalent bodies. If they were supplying “services” to
anybody, which is highly questionable, it would be to the regulator. But they were not being
paid by DCAS for sending out verifiers to make sure that the people they accredited were
doing what they were supposed to be doing, and that aspect of EDI's function was no part of
the parties’ contractual bargain. That is a plain and short answer to the contract point.
(emphasis added)

272.The reasoning in these authorities applies straightforwardly to the provision of Horizon, the
Helpline, training and/or materials. Post Office has not agreed to supply these things; it is not
selling, or renting, them to SPMs. In the language of Andrews J, Post Office was not “being
paid’, in any form of consideration, for their provision. Rather, Post Office chose to provide
them, for its own ultimate benefit. The putative “services” are merely facilitative of the more
substantial exchange under which it is SPMs that provide the services and Post Office that pays
the remuneration. Their essential function is to operate as part of a mechanism that enables

SPMs to fulfil their side of the contractual bargain.

273. Further, a party seeking to imply a term pursuant to section 13 must identify relevant provisions
in the contract by which the other party has specifically agreed, in exchange for consideration,
to assume the obligation to provide a relevant service to and for the benefit of the first party.
Itis necessary to “plead and prove a contract under which the Defendant has agreed to provide
a service that included the provision of” the relevant service: Finch v Lloyds TSB Bank’”*,
per HHJ Pelling QC at para.49. Cs have not done so; nor could they, as there are no contractual

provisions to which they could refer.

274. The closest that Cs come, and only in their witness evidence, is to say that they were “told lots

of positive things about the Helpline”,'™ that the Helpline was described to them as an

173 12016] EWHC 1236 (QB).
14 Mr Sabir’s witness statement, paragraph 106 [C1/3/18].

79

B11.2/11/79
POL00004106
POL00004106

“excellent service”,'”> and that they were emailed a restrictions policy which noted that SPMs

benefitted from being part of the Post Office network, including by getting support such as the
Helpline.'° That does not come close to placing the provision of that, or any other, service, as
something Post Office is agreeing to provide as part of a contractual bargain. As to Horizon,
Mr Bates argues that its provision fell within the Act because it was “imposed upon me by Post
Office with no prior consultation”, and because its purpose was “to enable me to carry out
transactions in the Branch and record Branch accounts accurately”.‘”” These are factors which
in fact point strongly away from treating Horizon as something which Post Office was
providing to Mr Bates as a benefit for which he was bargaining. It was being provided at Post

Office’s initiative, and for Post Office’s ultimate benefit.

2) PROVISION OF HORIZON
Implied term alleged at para. 64.1A

64.1A to provide a system which was reasonably fit for purpose, including any or adequate
error repellency (as at paragraph 24.1 above)

275.This alleged implied term partly duplicates, in respect of Horizon only (which presumably is
the intended target of the unparticularised reference to a “system”’”’), the implied term which
the Cs also seek to imply pursuant to the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 (while also

imposing an obligation to provide a “system” in the first place).

276. The onus is on the Cs to show that the test for the implication of terms is met for this, and the
other, alleged implied terms. That test, which is discussed in detail above, cannot be met. There

is no commercial imperative necessitating the implication of this term, in circumstances where:

(a) Overarching responsibility for accounting rests with the SPMs. Section 22, clause 3 of
the SPMC provides that “7he Subpostmaster will be responsible for ensuring that
transactions are carried out accurately”.'” Part 2, para. 3.1.4 of the NTC provides that

the Operator shall “accept full responsibility for the proper running of the Branch” ‘°°

15 Mr Bates’ witness statement, paragraph 122 [C1/1/26].

16 Ms Dar’s witness statement, paragraph 106 [C1/5/20].

17 Mr Bates’ witness statement, paragraph 124 [C1/1/26].

18 The vagueness of this term is another reason why it should not be implied.
179 1)2.1/3/99]

8 [)1.6/3/9]

80

B11.2/11/80
POL00004106
POL00004106

(b) Pursuant to the Agreed Implied Terms, Post Office is obliged to provide all reasonable
cooperation which is necessary for SPMs to fulfil their obligations. By definition, if
Post Office’s support is required, it will be provided. Conversely, if the system as
provided, including (for the sake of argument) any flaws therein, was sufficient to
enable SPMs to fulfil their obligations, Cs cannot imply any obligation of which Post

Office would have been in breach.

(c) Post Office does have specific obligations in relation to the provision of the Horizon

system, as set out in Part 4, para. 5 of the NTC:'*!

Where Appendix 2 of the Preface so specifies, the Operator shall be responsible for arranging
and ensuring all repairs and maintenance of, and shall observe all statutory obligations and
regulations in respect of the operation of, the relevant item of Equipment. Post Office Ltd will
maintain the Horizon equipment and Post Office Ltd shall be responsible, at its cost, for
repairing inherent defects in any other item of the Post Office Ltd Funded Equipment which
are not caused by the act or omission of the Operator or its Personnel.

Those maintenance obligations are precisely delineated. They do not include any

generalised obligation to provide a system meeting certain set standards.

277.The SPM contracts work perfectly well without any need to make specific provision for the
quality of the Horizon system. If Post Office were to provide a system that was so inadequate
as to prevent SPMs being able to comply with their duties to account (for example, by inserting
false transactions or entries into branch accounts), it would be in breach of the Agreed Implied

Terms. There is no necessity to go further.

(3) MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNTS

Implied terms alleged at paras. 64.2 and 64.3

64.2. properly and accurately to effect, record, maintain and keep records of all transactions
effected using Horizon;

64.3. properly and accurately to produce all relevant records and/or to explain all relevant
transactions and/or any alleged or apparent shortfalls attributed to Claimants

278. These terms should not be implied for very similar reasons.

279.The contracts firmly place responsibility for the production and maintenance of accounts on

the SPM.

'S! (D1.6/3/39]

81

B11.2/11/81
POL00004106
POL00004106

280. Section 12, clause 4 of the SPMC provides as follows:'*?

The Subpostmaster must ensure that accounts of all stock and cash entrusted to him by Post
Office Counters are kept in the form prescribed by Post Office Counters Lid. He must
immediately produce these accounts, and the whole of his sub-office cash and stock for
inspection whenever so requested by a person duly authorised by the Regional General
Manager.

281.The relevant sub-clause of Part 2, para. 3.6 of the NTC provides!®* that the SPM shall:

3.6.1 record such data and information relating to the Branch as Post Office Ltd may require;

3.6.2 at the request of Post Office Ltd, promptly provide either Post Office Ltd or any third
party with such information and data as Post Office Ltd may reasonably require;

3.6.3 maintain an accounting system, prepare, sign and maintain financial statements and
accounts, record Transactions and maintain all records in accordance with the provisions
contained in the Manual, in particular paragraphs 9.2 to 9.4 (inclusive)...

3.6.6 account for and remit to Post Office Ltd all monies collected from Customers in
connection with Transactions in accordance with the Manual

282. It is the SPMs who are contractually responsible for the accounts — unsurprisingly, given that
they are agents and accounting parties. And they are the people with control of the branch and

with knowledge and control over the transactions carried out.

283. Specifically as to the implied term alleged at para. 64.3 of the AGPOC, that term fails the test

of necessity for at least four reasons.

284. First, it is hopelessly vague. It seeks to impose an obligation to “produce all relevant records
and/or explain all relevant transactions and/or any alleged or apparent shortfalls attributed to
Claimants”. It does not identify any test by reference to which the relevance of any particular
category of “records” or transactions could be ascertained. It does not even identify the

circumstances in which the obligation to “produce all relevant records” would be triggered.
285.Second, it would be onerous and unreasonable and so cannot be implied:

(a) Ifan SPM with a disputed shortfall that he had concealed for months were to call on
Post Office to “produce all relevant records” and “explain all relevant transactions”,
he could impose a practically impossible burden on Post Office. Post Office would
typically be unable to identify from the transaction data alone which transactions might

have been mis-performed in some way, because it is not present in branch and there is

182 12.1/3/51]
'83 (D1.6/3/11]

B11.2/11/82
POL00004106
POL00004106

often nothing in the transaction data to indicate that some mistake may have been made.
But an obligation to explain each and every transaction, irrespective of whether it may

have been mis-performed would be bizarre and obviously uncommercial.

(b) The obligation is unbounded in time. An SPM could, on the face of it, require Post
Office to “explain” transactions and produce records going back months or even, on Cs’
case, many years. No commercial party in Post Office’s position would ever have

agreed to such an obligation.

(c) It is thoroughly uncommercial. It would impose a potentially onerous and expensive set
of obligations on one party without necessarily conferring any valuable benefit on the
other party. In many cases, the SPM would not benefit from Post Office providing a
deluge of documents and explanations in relation to weeks or months or years of
accounting. Post Office might spend thousands of pounds dealing with a £10 shortfall
that, in the overwhelming majority of cases, would be attributable to some undetectable
and minor error in the branch operations (such as giving too much change to a
customer). Would Post Office be able somehow to recover the costs of the process
where the loss is finally shown to have resulted from the SPM’s error? No bargaining

process could result in such an obligation. It cannot have gone without saying.

286. Third, it is inconsistent with, and would contradict, the express terms of the contracts that give
rise to an accounting obligation on SPMs, rather than Post Office. It would subvert the agency
and accounting relationship by requiring Post Office to account to the SPM in relation to the

branch’s transactions — transactions performed by the SPM as agent to Post Office.

287. Fourth, there is no gap to be filled. In any case where it is necessary for Post Office to produce
records and/or explain transactions in order to provide reasonable cooperation to an SPM in
telation to a disputed shortfall, the Agreed Implied Terms provide the necessary obligation.
They provide an obligation that will respond appropriately to the facts of the shortfall and the

dispute, rather than imposing an onerous and uncommercial blanket duty.

288. The contention that such an implied term is “obvious” and/or is necessary for the “commercial
or practical coherence” of the contracts is beyond reasonable argument. Many thousands of
SPMs have operated branches in a satisfactory way for many years without the need for any
such obligation. It is a term fashioned with the benefit of hindsight and without any genuine

attempt to make sense of the parties’ contractual relationship.

289. Again, Post Office will, pursuant to the Agreed Implied Terms, have to provide any reasonable

cooperation that is necessary for the SPMs to fulfil their obligations. Again, there is no basis

83

B11.2/11/83
POL00004106

POL00004106

for implying any further obligation. Even more plainly here than is the case regarding provision
of the Horizon system, imposing detailed accounting obligations on Post Office would cut

directly against the contractual allocation of responsibility.

(4) TRAINING AND SUPPORT

Implied term alleged at para. 64.1
64.1. to provide adequate training and support (particularly if and when the Defendant
imposed new working practices or systems or required the provision of new services);

290. Once again, the contracts are very clear as to the circumstances in which SPMs should receive

training or other support.

291.Pursuant to the SPMC, section 24, clause 5.1,'*4 Post Office accepted an obligation to provide
“Training in all aspects of Mailwork to include not only new entrant training but also on-going
training.” Mailwork is defined, at clause 1 of the section,'®* as “the provision of sorting

facilities, and supervision of Postmen for both delivery and collection of mail”.
292. Pursuant to the relevant sub-clauses of Part 2, para. 2 of the NTC:'*°

2.3 Where Post Office Ltd considers it necessary, it shall initially train the first Manager and
such number of Assistants as Post Office Ltd shall determine, in the operation of the System
at the Branch...

2.5 Post Office Ltd may require the Manager and/or the Assistants to undertake further
training at any reasonable location and time during the Term if Post Office Ltd:

2.5.1 reasonably considers such training to be essential; or

2.5.2 wishes to train them in new and improved techniques which have been devised and
which the Operator will be required to use in operating the System...

2.9.8 The Operator shall:

..properly complete, and ensure that the Assistants properly complete, any Compliance
Training required by Post Office Ltd by the deadline(s) notified by Post Office Ltd.

293. There is no generalised obligation on Post Office to provide training. The relevant provisions
provide for Post Office to (a) provide very specific, limited training, (b) provide further training
where it deems it necessary, (c) oblige SPMs and/or assistants to undertake further training in

184 (D2.1/3/105]
185 (D2.1/3/103]
'86 (1D 1.6/3/6]

84

B11.2/11/84
POL00004106
POL00004106

stipulated circumstances. To imply a further, broad, obligation, would completely cut across

this contractual scheme.

294.The same goes for unparticularised allegation of an obligation to provide “support”. Where
Post Office is to provide specific support, the relevant contract says so, as where Part 2, para.
1.6.1 of NTC states that Post Office shall provide “a helpline to enable the Operator to consult
with Post Office Ltd about running the Branch” 1°"

295.There is no necessity for Post Office to be under an obligation to provide “training and
support” beyond (a) the express provisions of the contract, and (b) the requirements of the
Agreed Implied Terms. Pursuant to these requirements, Post Office must provide such
reasonable training and support as is necessary to enable SPMs to perform their functions.

Implying more than that cannot be a necessity, or so obvious as to go without saying.

(5) OBLIGATIONS TO COMMUNICATE

Implied terms alleged at paras. 64.8, 64.9, 64.10

64.8. to communicate, alternatively, not to conceal known problems, bugs or errors in or
generated by Horizon that might have financial (and other resulting) implications for
Claimants;

64.9.to communicate, alternatively, not to conceal the extent to which other Subpostmasters
were experiencing [sic ~ presumably ‘problems’] relating to Horizon and the generation of
discrepancies and alleged shortfalls;

64.10. not to conceal from Claimants the Defendant's ability to alter remotely data or
transactions upon which the calculation of the branch accounts (and any discrepancy, or
alleged shortfalls) depended

296. This is a strange litany of implied terms in relation to disclosing problems with Horizon. They
obviously do not meet the test for implied terms. The idea that the suggestion of these terms at
the time of contracting would have been met with a terse “of course” can be dismissed with

nearly equal brevity.

297. It is particularly obvious that this scheme cannot be described as having gone without saying
in circumstances where the parties had in place detailed contracts, supplemented by the Agreed

Implied Terms — and also had operations manuals covering much of this ground.

298. Importantly, if it is necessary for Post Office to communicate with SPMs in order to enable

them to fulfil their obligations, then the Agreed Implied Terms will meet that necessity. For

57 (D1.6/3/6]

B11.2/11/85
POL00004106
POL00004106

example, in certain, very limited, circumstances, it could be necessary for Post Office to tell
SPMs about a particular problem with Horizon in order to enable them to comply with their
accounting obligations. It is this criterion of necessity which will determine whether the Agreed

Implied Terms are triggered.

299. Moreover, in certain other, very limited, circumstances, provision is made for Post Office to
communicate with SPMs; at section 24, clause 9 of the SPMC,'* it is stated that:

Any changes in conditions of service and operational instructions, including those which are

agreed with the National Iederation of Sub-Postmasters, will be communicated to

Subpostmasters either directly, through “Counter News” or by amendment to Postal
Instructions

300. Beyond these limited circumstances, in which there is an obligation to communicate, there is

no room for implying, out of thin air, further such obligations.

6) SHORTFALL INVESTIGATIONS
Implied terms alleged at paras. 64.4, 64.5, 64.6, 64.7, 64.11, 64.12

64.4. to co-operate in seeking to identify the possible or likely causes of any apparent or
alleged shortfalls and/or whether or not there was indeed any shortfall at all;

64.5. to seek to identify such causes itself, in any event;

64.6. to disclose possible causes of apparent or alleged shortfalls (and the cause thereof) to
Cs candidly, fully and frankly;

64.7. to make reasonable enquiry, undertake reasonable analysis and even-handed
investigation, and give fair consideration to the facts and information available as to the
possible causes of the appearance of alleged or apparent shortfalls (and the cause thereof);

64.11. properly, fully and fairly to investigate any alleged or apparent shortfalls;

64.12. not to seek recovery from Claimants unless and until: a. the Defendant had
complied with its duties above (or some of them); b. the Defendant has established that the
alleged shortfall represented a genuine loss to the Defendant; and c. the Defendant had
carried out a reasonable and fair investigation as to the cause and reason for the alleged
shortfall and whether it was properly attributed to the Claimant under the terms of the
Subpostmaster contract (construed as aforesaid)

301. These alleged implied terms would provide for a detailed scheme of obligations in relation to

dealing with shortfalls.

302. The idea that this extensive and freestanding system of obligations would have gone without

saying verges on the absurd.

88 (2. 1/3/106]

86

B11.2/11/86
POL00004106
POL00004106

303.It is the SPMs who are obliged, both as agents and pursuant to the relevant contracts, to
maintain accounts and avoid shortfalls. Insofar as Post Office’s cooperation is necessary in
order to enable them to do that, it is obliged to provide that cooperation pursuant to the Agreed
Implied Terms. There is no basis, on any possible reading or application of the test for implied
terms, for going beyond that. None of the terms are commercially necessary — indeed, some
would be potentially commercially disastrous. If Post Office cannot seek recovery of any
shortfall before engaging in a lengthy fact-finding exercise, that would be commercially
paralysing. It is difficult to see how a party in Post Office’s position would or could ever agree

to pre-conditions which could have this effect.

304.The implied term alleged at para. 64.5 of the AGPOC is about as unnecessary and
uncommercial as can be imagined. It would require Post Office, without any request from an
SPM, to “seek to identify the likely causes of any apparent or alleged shortfalls”. There is no
threshold for this potentially onerous obligation to be triggered — nothing as to the size of the
shortfall or the circumstances in which it arose or the grounds on which it has been disputed
(ifat all). The lack of commerciality is obvious if the alleged term is tested against the ordinary
case where Post Office has no real insight into how a modest shortfall may have arisen. On the
face of the term, Post Office would be required in that kind of case to go through the motions
of “seeking to identify the likely causes”, only to conclude that the cause could be any one or
more of the very mundane ways in which losses typically arise in branches.'*? Post Office
would then, presumably (although the term does not say this), have to communicate this
unhelpful conclusion to the SPM. No commercial party, acting rationally, would ever have

bargained for such an obligation, let alone obtained agreement on it.

7 SUSPENSION

Issue 14, implied term alleged at para. 64.13

14 On a proper construction of the SPMC and NTC, in what circumstances and/or on what
basis was Post Office entitled to suspend pursuant to SPMC Section 19, clause 4 and Part 2,
paragraph 15.1 NTC?

64.13. not to suspend Claimants: a. arbitrarily, irrationally or capriciously; b. without
reasonable and proper cause; and/or c. in circumstances where the Defendant was itself in
material breach of duty

1 See, for example, paras 116-125 of Ms Van Den Bogerd’s WS. [C2/1/34]

87

B11.2/11/87
POL00004106
POL00004106

305. In addition to the implied term alleged at para 64.13, the lead Cs now contend in their IPOCs'*°

that, on their proper constructions, the express contractual terms dealing with suspension were
limited in the following ways (1) Post Office could not suspend on a “knee jerk” basis and (2)
Post Office could not suspend without first giving “fair consideration to all relevant
circumstances and to whether or not to suspend the Claimant even if the threshold for doing

so was established”.

306.In fact, the circumstances in which Post Office can suspend an SPM are set out, in detail, in

the relevant contracts.
307. The SPMC provides as follows, at section 19, clause 4:'"?

A Subpostmaster may be suspended from office at any time if that course is considered
desirable in the interest of Post Office Counters Ltd in consequence of his: (a) being arrested,
(b) having civil or criminal proceedings brought or made against him, (c) where
irregularities or misconduct at the office(s) where he holds appointment(s) have been
established to the satisfaction of Post Office Counters Ltd, or are admitted, or are suspected
and are being investigated.

308. And the NTC provides, in the relevant part of Part 2, para. 15.1:1

15.1 Post Office Ltd may suspend the Operator from operating the Branch (and/or, acting
reasonably, require the Operator to suspend all or any of its Assistants engaged in the Branch
from working in the Branch), where Post Office Ltd considers this to be necessary in the
interests of Post Office Ltd as a result of:...

15.1.3 there being grounds to suspect that the Operator is insolvent, to suspect that the
Operator has committed any material or persistent breach of the Agreement, or to suspect
any irregularities or misconduct in the operation of the Branch, the Basic Busin
other Post Office® branches with which the Operator and/or any Assistant is connected
(including any financial irregularities or misconduct)

Sor any

309.Cs’ case involves no attempt to make sense of the contractual words used by the parties. Each

of the express terms identifies in detail the circumstances in which the power to suspend arises.

310. There is no room for over-writing these terms with a (vague) requirement that suspensions
should not be “knee jerk”, or should involve the (equally unparticularised) “fair consideration”
of “all relevant circumstances” (where relevance is defined, only in negative terms, as being

not limited to consideration of the contractual grounds for suspension).

10 See, e.g. Abdulla, para 86 [B5.4/2/22].
191 19)2.1/3/87]
2 (D1.6/3/24]

88

B11.2/11/88
POL00004106
POL00004106

311. There is nothing in the contractual words used to suggest that Post Office would have a duty
to give “fair consideration”. On the contrary, the words used indicate that Post Office is
(merely) required to reach a view that suspension is “desirable” in its interests (under the
SPMC) or “necessary” in its interests (under the NTC), for one or more of the stated reasons.
It would be commercially absurd for Post Office to be unable to suspend a SPM whom it
suspected (on reasonable grounds) of having stolen or mishandled its cash or stock merely
because it had not yet been able to carry out the kind of investigation and consideration that Cs
contend was required. Post Office is unable to supervise SPMs on a day-to-day basis. It is
unsurprising that Post Office should insist upon a right to suspend on suspicion alone, given

the obvious need to preserve its cash and stock and, more generally, the integrity of its business.

312. The terms of the suspension provisions make it clear that Post Office is entitled to act in its
own interests and is under no duty to attempt to balance its interests against those of the SPM.
In these circumstances, there is no scope for implying a term which would impose the

substantial constraints on the power to suspend that Cs propose.

313.At most, it might be implied, by strict reference to the specified contractual grounds for
suspension, that Post Office’s decision to suspend should be reasonably based on one of those
grounds (and hence, not arbitrary, irrational, capricious, or without reasonable and proper cause

(i.e. reasonably and properly related to one or more grounds for suspension)).

314. Similarly, it might be argued with some force that the power to suspend the Subpostmaster’s
remuneration during any period of suspension (SPMC, section 19, clauses 4 and 5; NTC, Part
2, para. 15.2.1) should not be exercised dishonestly or in an arbitrary, capricious or irrational

manner.

315. However, there are no contractual words referring to Post Office’s own conduct, let alone to
any “material breach” on its part. As a matter of the commercial sense of the agreement, it is
difficult to see why Post Office should lose the power to suspend merely because it is itself in
breach of contract, given that such breach could be entirely irrelevant to the circumstances of
the intended suspension. It is important to emphasise that, while a SPM remains in post, he has
control of Post Office cash and stock; he has the right to enter into transactions on its behalf;
and, in the locality of his branch, he is the face of the Post Office brand. Given the wide rights
that he enjoys, and the substantial damage that he could do if he misconducts himself, it is to
be expected that Post Office should be able to suspend him from his post in circumstances

where it no longer has faith in his willingness or ability to do fulfil the role of SPM properly.

89

B11.2/11/89
POL00004106
POL00004106

8) TERMINATION

Summary Termination: Common Issue 15, implied term alleged at para. 64.14
15 On a proper construction of the SPMC and NTC, in what circumstances and/or on what
basis was Post Office entitled summarily to terminate?
[GPOC, paras 34-37, 61, 64 and 99; Defence, paras 66-72, 100,104-106 and 142]

16 On a proper construction of the SPMC and NTC, in what circumstances and/or on what
basis was Post Office entitled to terminate on notice, without cause?

[GPoC, paras 49, 61 and 64, Defence para. 100]

64.14. not to terminate Claimants' contracts: a. arbitrarily, irrationally or capriciously; b.
without reasonable and proper cause; and/or c. in circumstances where the Defendant was
itself in material breach of duty

316. Just like suspension, termination (both summary and on notice) is covered by detailed express

contractual provisions.

317.As to summary termination, section 1, clause 10 SPMC states (as relevant): !°*

The Agreement may be determined by [Post Office] at any time in case of Breach of Condition
by [the Subpostmaster] or non-performance of his obligation or non-provision of Post Office
Services...

318. Part 2, para 16.2 NTC provides (as relevant):!°4

[Post Office] may terminate the Agreement immediately on giving written notice to the
Operator if the Operator:

16.2.1 commits any material breach of the provisions of the Agreement or any other contract
or arrangement between the Parties and fails to remedy the breach (if capable of remedy)
within 14 days of written notice from [Post Office] specifying the breach and requiring the
same to be remedied. Any references in these Standard Conditions to a breach of a particular
obligation by the Operator being deemed to be material and/or irremediable are not intended
to be exhaustive and shall not prevent [Post Office] from exercising its rights under this
clause in respect of any other breach of the Agreement which is material and/or irremediable;

16.2.2 fails to provide the Products or Services to the standards required by [Post Office] as
set out in the Manual and fails to remedy the failure (if capable of remedy) within 14 days of
a written notice from [Post Office] specifying the failure and requiring the same to be
remedied, ...

16.2.15 fails to properly account for any money due to, or stock of, Post Office Ltd or the
Clients; or

193 1D)2.1/3/6]
4 (D1.6/3/25]

90

B11.2/11/90
POL00004106

POL00004106

16.2.16 fails to pay any sum due to [Post Office] under the Agreement by the due date.

319. These terms expressly permit summary termination for cause, subject only to the limitations

expressly identified.

320.Cs’ position is that, in addition to the restrictions imposed by the implied terms alleged at para

64.14, Post Office could not terminate on a “knee jerk” basis.!°> This should be rejected for

much the same reasons as apply to Cs’ similar arguments on suspension.

32

.In relation to section 1, clause 10 of the SMPC, the short answer to Cs’ argument is that a

clause which entitles a party to terminate a contract if the other party commits any breach of

the contract is in general interpreted as being limited to repudiatory breaches: Lewison, at 17-

16. That is supported here by the clause’s use of the phrase “Breach of Condition”.!°° The test

for repudiatory breach is an objective one. That being so, there is no basis, and no room, for
interpreting the clause in the way suggested by Cs. Nor is there any necessity to subject it to

implied terms to the same effect.

322. As regards the right to terminate provided for in Part 2, para 16.2 of the NTC, the grounds of

termination are exhaustively set out in paras 16.2.1 to 16.2.16. Para 16.2 is the sort of clause,
and it is drafted in a way, that one frequently sees in commercial contracts. Para 16.2 is clear
on its face. Cs’ case involves an attempt to re-write its terms to coincide with their perception
of fairness, rather than to discern the meaning of the contractual words used. Cs have not
identified any ambiguity in those words and there is no basis, no room and no necessity for

subjecting them to the constraints that Cs advance.

Termination on notice: Common Issue 16
323.As to termination on notice, section I, clause 10 SPMC states (as relevant): “Zhe Agreement...

may be determined by [Post Office] on not less than three months notice”.°"

324. Part 2, para 16.1 NTC provides (as relevant):!°°

The Agreement will continue until:

15 See, e.g., Abdulla, paras 87 (referring in error to GPoC, para 64.13; the reference should be to
para 64.14) [B5.4/2/22].

16 The phrase is not defined in the SPMC and it appears to be used in its technical sense of a term
of which any breach gives the innocent party the right to terminate.

17 1)2.1/3/6]
8 (D1.6/3/25]

OL

B11.2/11/91
POL00004106
POL00004106

16.1.1 either Party gives to the other not less than 6 months’ written notice (unless otherwise
agreed between the Parties in writing), which cannot be given so as to expire before the first
anniversary of the Start Date...
325.Nonetheless, in addition to the implied terms alleged at para 64.14 of the AGPOC, and to the
alleged prohibition on “knee jerk” termination, Cs contend that termination could not be given
without Post Office applying “conscientious” consideration to whether to terminate, and what
period of notice to give,'”? and that:
70. In reality, and in the circumstances set out at paragraph 43 above, neither party intended

that the Claimants' investments in goodwill or otherwise in the business should or would be
Jorfeited on 3 months' notice:

70.1. without substantial cause or reason, established after a fair investigation and
consideration;

70.2. if the Defendant was itself in material breach of contract;
70.3. vindictively, capriciously or arbitrarily; or

70.4. in response to reasonable correspondence about (i) any apparent breach by the
Defendant, or (ii) alleged shortfalls and the difficulties faced by Subpostmasters in
investigating alleged shortfalls (such as in the case of Alan Bates and his letters dated 19
December 2000, 18 July 2001, 7 January 2002, and 13 February 2002).?°

326.There is simply no basis for any of this. The words of the clause are clear. There is no
ambiguity in the language. It is the sort of language that is common in commercial contracts.
There is no properly arguable basis to read in those requirements, either in the words of the

terms, the commercial sense of the agreements or the matrix of fact.

327. The attempt to insert a restriction based on Post Office’s breach suffers all the same vices as it

does when Cs make the same argument for the suspension clauses.

328.No process of consideration going beyond the words of the clauses is required. Nor is there
any basis on which to identify the factors that Post Office would have to take into account, and

to identify what would constitute a “swhstantial cause or reason”.

329. If the Court were to read in such a requirement in the SPMC and the NTC, it is difficult to see
why it would not read in the same requirement in the many other contracts which use similar

language. And as Richard Salter QC pointed out in Monde Petroleum v WesternZagros””"

199 See Abdulla IPOC, para 88 [B5.4/2/22].
2 AGPOC, para. 70 [B3/1/39].
2° [2017] I AIL E.R. (Comm) 1009.

B11.2/11/92
POL00004106
POL00004106

at para. 272, the “purpose of a contractual right to terminate is to give the party on whom that
right is conferred the power to bring the contract to an end. It is a right to bring an end to the
parties’ shared endeavour. It is unlikely that the hypothetical reasonable commercial man
would expect the party exercising that right to be obliged to consult anyone’s interests but its

own.”

330.Furthermore, at least in the absence of any clear criteria against which to measure the
appropriateness of any proposed notice period on the facts of any given case, a requirement to
give “conscientious” consideration would be both vague and potentially onerous to Post Office
and would give relatively little comfort to any prospective SPM, whilst undermining legal

certainty on both sides.

33

-The curiously specific stipulation that termination should not follow “reasonable
correspondence” (again, whatever that might mean) is even odder. There is no limitation on
the circumstances which could lead Post Office (or, indeed, the SPM) to decide to terminate
on notice. The idea that a stipulation of this kind is so obvious that it would have gone without

saying can plainly not be sustained.

332.Indeed, it is worth noting that SPMs could also terminate on 3 months’ notice: see the first
sentence of clause 10. There are advantages to both sides in being able quickly to extricate
themselves from the relationship should it prove not to work as well as anticipated (especially
given that some SPMs would have no prior experience of operating a Post Office branch or
any other similar business). Indeed, even if the relationship is working well, the SPM might
decide to pursue another opportunity, or Post Office might decide (unusually) to place another
SPM in branch. Those are things that each party is entitled to do, so long as they comply with
the notice provisions. There is no justification for ignoring the plain words of their bargain.
Post Office has a commercial need to be able to terminate on notice, in particular if there is
either a “capability or performance issue”? with the SPM or a broader imperative, such as a
branch closure programme.”°> That is why, from Post Office’s perspective, these clear

provisions need to be in place. Cs’ implied terms would completely cut across that.

333.This is another example of the Cs seeking to inappropriately borrow concepts from the
employment law context. But even employment contracts at common law are terminable on

notice — however unfair that might turn out to be in an individual case — see Geys v Societe

202

John Breeden’s witness statement, para. 60 [C2/3/15].
°° ibid., para. 65 [C2/3/16].

93

B11.2/11/93
POL00004106
POL00004106

Generale”™ where Mr Geys, a senior (and very successful) MD, was terminated on notice to
seek to prevent him obtaining a large end of year bonus. The Supreme Court had no problem
with that in principle, providing that due notice/payment in lieu was given (which, on the facts,
it was not). The only protection employees have from terminations duly given on notice is that

205

provided by statute*”’ giving them a right not to be “unfairly dismissed.” That is provided as a

matter of public policy by Parliament. The current attempt by Cs to apply a like principle (via

the common law) not to have a commercial contract “unfairly terminated” is absurd,

unprincipled and would involve a radical change to the law governing commercial contracts.

E.__ THE “TRUE AGREEMENT” (COMMON ISSUES 17 AND 18)

17 Do the express written terms of the SPMC and NTC between Post Office and
Subpostmasters represent the true agreement between the parties, as to termination (in this
regard, the Claimants rely on Autoclenz v Belcher [2011] UKSC 41)?

[GPOC, paras 50, 69-71; Defence, paras 86, 110-112]

18 If not, was the “true agreement” between the parties as alleged at GPOC, para. 71?
334. If Cs lose on construction/ implied terms, their fall-back is to assert that the “true agreement”

206

as to termination on notice,*”° albeit not reflected in the relevant contracts, was that Post Office

would observe the limitations pleaded in AGPOC, para. 70.

335. They also seek to deploy this “trwe agreement” argument for an additional purpose: to contend
that Post Office cannot “terminate without giving such notice as the court may hold to be
reasonable (which the Claimants will contend was, on any view, never to be less than 12

months).”?°"

336. Cs are arguing that there is a clear gap, not bridgeable by the ordinary processes of construction
or the implication of terms (or indeed rectification), between the contract as agreed, and what

the “true agreement” between the parties in fact was.

337. That is a highly unorthodox submission. Any suggestion that the Court look beyond the written

terms signed by the parties to find their “¢rwe agreement” would ordinarily be rejected as

204 [2012] UKSC 63.
205 Employment Rights Act 1996.

26 Tmplicitly their argument must be restricted to termination on notice rather than summary
termination, although they do not make this expressly clear.
257 AGPOC, para. 71 [B3/1/40].

94

B11.2/11/94
POL00004106
POL00004106

contrary to principle. As Lord Neuberger has observed, in the case of Secret Hotels2 v

HMRC” at para. 31, the correct approach is as follows:

Where parties have entered into a written agreement which appears on its face to be intended
to govern the relationship between them, then, in order to determine the legal and commercial
nature of the relationship, it is necessary to interpret the agreement in order to identify the
parties’ respective rights and obligations, unless is established that it constitutes a sham.

338. The sham exception is explained in this way in Chitty, at 2-170:

In deciding issues of contractual intention, the courts normally apply an objective test... The
objective test, moreover, merely prevents a_ party from relying on
his uncommunicated belief as to the binding force of the agreement. The test therefore does
not apply where the parties have expressed their actual intention in the document alleged
to constitute the contract: the question whether they intended the document to have
contractual force then becomes one “of construction of the documents as a whole what
effect is to be given to such a statement”; and the general rule in cases of this kind is that
a party who has signed the document is then bound by its terms, as so construed.

This general rule is however subject to two exceptions. First, where the express terms of
the document are a “sham”, in the sense of being designed by one party to give the
appearance that the relationship created by the contract differs from the reality of that
relationship, so as to deprive the other party of some protection or benefit given by law to
a class of persons to which that other party belongs (e.g. as tenants or as employees). Thus,
an agreement may take effect as a lease even though it is expressed by the lessor to take
effect only as a licence; and an agreement may take effect as a contract of employment even
though (contrary to the reality of the relationship created by it) it described the party who
is_in_truth the other's employee _as_being an independent _contractor_and_not_an
employee. Second, an agreement, may, on its true construction, be of a different character
from the way in which it has been characterised. Thus, where “the parties may have thought
that they were creating a tenancy” but their “agreement is incapable of taking effect as a
tenancy for some old and technical reason of property law”, then there is “no reason for
not holding that they have agreed a contractual licence” if applying the objective test, that
is what “they are likely to have intended”. (underling for emphasis added)

339.Chitty footnotes Autoclenz v Belcher following the underlined text, classifying it as an

instance of the sham doctrine (or a variant of it) that applies especially in employment contexts.

340. Autoclenz was a case in which twenty individuals who had been engaged as car washers
alleged that they were “workers” under the National Minimum Wage Regulations 1999 and
the Working Time Regulations 1998, and accordingly were entitled to the minimum wage and
paid holiday. They were required to sign written contracts in which they were described as sub-

contractors, were said to responsible for paying their own tax and national insurance, and were

208 [2014] UKSC 16.

B11.2/11/95
POL00004106
POL00004106

said to be entitled to provide a substitute to carry out the work. The contracts also stated that
they were not obliged to work and that the car wash company did not undertake to provide
them with work. However, the company in fact told them how to carry out the work, provided
the cleaning materials, determined the rate of pay, prepared their invoices and required them
to give prior notification if they were unable to work. The Supreme Court held that the written
contracts did not reflect what had actually been agreed between the parties, and that under their
“true agreement”, the car washers were workers. This fits into the orthodox approach, as
described in Secret Hotels2, without any particular difficulty. It is simply a modern example

of the exception referenced by Lord Neuberger.

34

. The Supreme Court in Autoclenz stressed just how narrow this exception was. At para. 21,

Lord Clarke said:

Nothing in this judgment is intended in any way to alter those principles, which apply to
ordinary contracts and, in particular, to commercial contracts. There is, however, a body of
case law in the context of employment contracts in which a different approach has been
taken”

342. The principles to which his Lordship was referring he took, at para. 20, from paras. 87 to 89 of
Aikens LJ’s judgment in the Court of Appeal:

Express contracts (as opposed to those implied from conduct) can be oral, in writing or a
mixture of both. Where the terms are put in writing by the parties and it is not alleged that
there are any additional oral terms to it, then those written terms will, at least prima facie
represent the whole of the parties' agreement. Ordinarily the parties are bound by those terms
where a party has signed the contract: see eg L'Estrange v F Graucob Ltd [1934] 2 KB 394.
Ifa party has not signed a contract, then there are the usual issues as to whether he was made
sufficiently aware of the clauses for a court to be able to conclude that he agreed to the terms
in them. That is not an issue in this case.

88. Once it is established that the written terms of the contract were agreed, it is not possible
to imply terms into a contract that are inconsistent with its express terms. The only way it can
be argued that a contract contains a term which is inconsistent with one of its express terms
is to allege that the written terms do not accurately reflect the true agreement of the parties.

89. Generally, if a party to a contract claims that a written term does not accurately reflect
what was agreed between the parties, the allegation is that there was a continuing common
intention to agree another term, which intention was outwardly manifested but, because of a
mistake (usually a common mistake of the parties, but it can be a unilateral one) the contract
inaccurately recorded what was agreed. If such a case is made out, a court may grant
rectification of a contract. See, generally, the discussion in the speech of Lord Hoffmann,

2” Lords Hope, Walker, Wilson and Collins agreed.

96

B11.2/11/96
POL00004106
POL00004106

[48] to [66], in Chartbrook Ltd v Persimmon Homes Ltd [2009] UKHL 38, [2009] 1 AC
1101 with whom all the other law lords agreed...

343. Lord Clarke went on, at para. 32, to quote Aikens LJ again, with approval:

“Aikens LJ stressed at paras 90 to 92 the importance of identifving what were the actual legal
obligations of the parties.... In addition, he correctly warned against focusing on the “true
intentions” or “true expectations” of the parties because of the risk of concentrating too
much on what were the private intentions of the parties. He added:

“What the parties privately intended or expected (either before or afier the contract was
agreed) may be evidence of what, objectively discerned, was actually agreed between the
parties: see Lord Hoffmann's speech in the Chartbrook case at [64] to [65]. But ultimately
what matters is only what was agreed, either as set out in the written terms or, if it is alleged
those terms are not accurate, what is proved to be their actual agreement at the time the
contract was concluded. I accept, of course, that the agreement may not be express; it may
be implied. But the court or tribunal's task is still to ascertain what was agreed.”

Tagree. (emphasis added)

344. The Court’s role is to determine what was agreed. Its first, and usually last, port of call will be
the four corners of the contract. Exceptionally, it can look beyond that, where there is clear
evidence that the parties intended something different from what they have written down. But
in either case, the purpose of the exercise is to identify the actual legal obligations, as agreed —
not to displace them by reference to what one party would like the agreement to mean, or to

what the usual or invariable practice of the parties may have turned out to be.

345. It is worth underscoring what Cs are trying to do by relying on Autoclenz. They are not saying
that this was, in truth, an employment relationship. Nor are they seeking to reclassify the
relationship in some other way, or to assert a different agreed understanding of some specific
contractual provision. They are, in effect, seeking to imply a slew of detailed implied terms,
providing a new, and extremely unusual, detailed framework governing termination on notice.
There is no contractual warrant for that, and Autoclenz is not close to being authority for such

a proposition.
346. More specifically:

(a) Itis very odd for Cs to argue that the termination provisions only (but not the rest of the
written contract) did not represent the “true agreement”. Autoclenz was about
mislabelling the nature of a relationship or contract. It does not allow one party to select

parts of a contract to rewrite.

(b) Cs have not identified any conduct on the part of Post Office from which it could

sensibly be inferred that the “true agreement” was as they allege. Cs in fact contend that

97

B11.2/11/97
POL00004106

POL00004106

Post Office’s conduct in relation to termination was consistent with the terms set out in
the written agreements, rather than being consistent with the terms that they now allege:
see AGPoC, para. 99. Indeed, it is not in dispute that Post Office did in fact exercise its
tight to terminate on notice without compensation. Obviously, there is no analogy with

the stark contrast in Autoclenz between the written terms and the facts on the ground.

(c) Even if Cs were to plead and prove that Post Office did not enforce the termination
provisions as drafted, this fact would also be consistent with Post Office adopting a
practice that was more favourable to SPMs than the terms agreed between the parties
would have allowed: see, by analogy, Pimlico Plumbers” at paras 88 and 131. The
fact that one party acted more generously than it was required to under the terms of a
written agreement that, on its face, governs the relationship is not enough to show that
those terms were not part of the “true agreement”. If Post Office often or sometimes did
not use its right to terminate on notice without cause (or gave longer notice), that is
consistent with a preference to adopt a more flexible attitude in some circumstances. It

does not bespeak any acceptance that the disputed contractual right does not exist at all.

347. In the language of Lord Clarke’s judgment in Autoclenz, the SPMC and NTC are “ordinary

contracts” or “commercial contracts” and are to be construed in the usual way.

F.__ POST-TERMINATION

qd) COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE (COMMON ISSUE 19)

19 On a proper construction of the SPMC and NTC, where Post Office lawfully and validly
terminated a Subpostmaster’s engagement, on notice or without notice for cause, was the
Subpostmaster entitled to any compensation for loss of office or wrongful termination?

348. It appears from the IPOCs”!' that this issue no longer arises. Cs apparently do not intend to

make any construction argument on this point.

2) LIMITATION OF LOSSES (COMM! SUE 20.

20 On a proper construction of the SPMC and NTC, in what, if any, circumstances are
Subpostmaster’s breach of contract claims for loss of business, loss of profit and
consequential losses (including reduced profit from linked retail premises) limited to such

210 Pimlico Plumbers v Smith [2017] I.C.R. 657, at para. 88 per Sir Terence Etherton MR and per
Underhill LJ at para. 131. Davis LJ agreed with both judgments.

711 See Abdulla, para. 91 [B5.4/2/23]; Bates, para.114 [B5.1/2/31]; Sabir, para. 93 [B5.3/2/24];
Stockdale, para.105 [B5.6/2/24]; Stubbs, para. 117 [B5.2/2/27] and Dar, para. 106 [B5.5/2/27].

98

B11.2/11/98
349.

350.

POL00004106

POL00004106

losses as would not have been suffered if Post Office had given the notice of termination
provided for in those contracts?

The position here is the same as for Common Issue 19. Cs appear to have dropped their

construction argument.?!?

3 Ss

U

SUBMPOSTMASTERS (COMMON ISSUE 21

21 Ona proper construction of the SPMC and NTC, what if any restrictions were there on
Post Office’s discretion as to whether or not to appoint as a Subpostmaster the prospective
purchaser of a Subpostmasters’ business?

Cs rely on the implied terms that they allege at AGPoC, paras 64.15 to 64.19.7!3 There is no

construction issue on the IPOCS, only an implied term issue.

G._ AGENCY

qd) POST OFFICE AS AGENT (COMMON ISSUES 10 AND 11)

(10) Was Post Office the agent of Subpostmasters for the limited purposes at GPOC
paragraphs 82 and 83?

(11) If so, was the Defendant thereby required to comply any or all of the obligations at
GPOC paragraph 84?

Outline of the parties’ contentions

351.Cs contend at AGPOC, para. 82 that Post Office was their agent “for the purposes of rendering

352.

353.

and making available accounts and/or was under an equitable duty to render accounts” 2"

They go on to plead, in the alternative, that Post Office acted both for itself and, simultaneously,
as agent for Cs in “effecting, reconciling and recording transactions” (para. 83). Cs plead
various duties that Post Office is therefore alleged to have to owed to them as a result of the

supposed agency relationship (para. 84).

Post Office respectfully submits that Cs’ case on this issue is extravagant and finds no
support in authority or principle. It amounts to yet another attempt to rewrite the basic

nature and content of the contractual and common law relationship between the parties.

Post Office’s more detailed response is in three parts:

2)? ibid.

213 See Abdulla, paras 92-93 [B5.4/2/23]; Bates, paras 115-116 [B5.1/2/31]; Sabir, paras 94-95
(B5.3/2/24]; Stockdale, paras 106-107 [B5.6/2/24]; Stubbs, paras 118-119 [B5.2/2/27] and Dar,
paras 107-108 [B5.5/2/27].

24 [3/1/45]

99

B11.2/11/99
POL00004106

POL00004106

(a) First, Post Office did not agree to act as agent for SPMs. It did not do so under the

contracts or under some later agreement (no such agreement is pleaded).

(b) Second, Post Office did not undertake any of the characteristic functions of an agent

(such that a relationship of agency could be implied).

(c) Third, the factual matters that Cs allege could not, even if true, justify the imposition

of an agency relationship.

354. In making these submissions, Post Office relies on the following principles of law:

(a)

(b)

@)
355.No

Absent an express agreement to act as agent for SPMs, Post Office will not be treated
as an agent (and so will not be fixed with the duties of an agent) unless it has, as a
matter of substance, undertaken one or more of the characteristic functions of an agent.

215

This is an objective question*!> — it is irrelevant that an SPM may have thought Post

Office was undertaking such functions if it was not in fact doing so.

The defining characteristic of a fiduciary is that, within the scope of the relationship,
he is required to subordinate his own interests and to act solely in the interests of his

principal: see Snell’s Equity, 7-005 to 7-006.

Such a relationship of subordination may arise where the putative fiduciary undertakes
to act on behalf of another person (the putative principal) in the sense of assuming
responsibility for that other person’s affairs. A classic example of this is where an
agent is authorised to enter into agreements that bind his principal (and not himself)
or otherwise to conduct his principal’s business (by, for example, selling goods that

belong to his principal, as SPMs do for Post Office).

Post Office did not agree to act as agent to SPMs

such agreement appears on the face of the contracts. No such agreement can be implied

into them. Cs do not purport to identify any such express or implied agreement. On the

contrary, the contracts make clear that it is the SPM that is agent to Post Office, and not

the other way around. Implying an agency in the opposite direction would contradict the

express terms of the contracts.

215 See Chitty, at 31-022.

100

B11.2/11/100
POL00004106
POL00004106

356.Cs do not even plead any later written or oral agreement under which Post Office promised
to act as their agent for any purpose. None of the lead Cs gives evidence of any such

agreement, or even facts from which the existence of such an agreement could be inferred.

(ii) Post Office did not undertake any of the characteristic functions of an agent

357.This is an objective question. It would be irrelevant, if true, that any SPM thought that Post
Office was acting as his or her agent for any purpose. But lest there be any misunderstanding,
Post Office’s own evidence is crystal clear that it never undertook any such role: Ms Van
Den Bogerd notes, “Nobody at Post Office would say that it effects customer transactions
on behalf of Subpostmasters or that Post Office acts as the agent of Subpostmasters in

216

recording and processing transactions. That would be contrary to the core nature of

the relationship under the contracts and under the common law.

358. The simple fact is that Post Office did not effect transactions on behalf of SPMs. Nor did it
commit SPMs to transactions with third parties. This is obvious from the basic structure of the

relationship:

(a) The business that is conducted through the Post Office agency branch is Post Office's
business. The SPM operates the branch as Post Office’s agent.

(b) The 130 third-party clients”'”, such as banks, Camelot and government departments
whose goods and services are sold through Post Office branches are Post Office’s
clients. It is Post Office that has contracts with these parties. It is Post Office that pays

them and receives money from them. That money is Post Office’s money.

(c) Post Office is the party that must pay out or recover from the third-party client as
appropriate, and it bears the commercial risk on the transactions. If a bank becomes
insolvent and fails to pay out in respect of a withdrawal of money from a Post Office
branch, it is Post Office that is out of pocket, not the SPM. The SPM is responsible only
for his branch accounts that he keeps as agent to Post Office. He is not liable for the

transaction to the third-party client or customer. That structure suits both parties. *!*

216 Paragraph 80.4 [C2/1/24]. See also Mr Carpenter’s witness statement, paragraph 10 [C2/10/4];
Mr Haworth’s witness statement, paragraph 20 [C2/14/6]; Ms Ridge’s witness statement, paragraph
19 [C2/12/5].

217 See Angela Van Den Bogerd WS, para. 50 [C2/1/13]
218 Thid, para. 65 [C2/1/18]

101

B11.2/11/101
POL00004106
POL00004106

359. Further, Post Office did not agree at any point to subordinate its own interests to those of SPMs.
Specifically, Post Office maintained accounts and reconciled and recorded transaction data
because the accounts in question were the accounts relating to the conduct of its own business,
conducted through the agency of the SPM but involving its own transactions with or for third
parties, its own stock and its own cash. It did not do any of these things on behalf of the SPM;
it makes no sense to describe Post Office as conducting the affairs of the SPM or subordinating
its interests to those of the SPM in circumstances where the business is Post Office’s business.

That basic point deals with the whole of Cs’ case on this issue.

360. Lastly, the express appointment of SPM’s as agents to Post Office makes it logically
impossible to impose a fiduciary relationship in the opposite direction, in relation to similar
and even overlapping functions (most obviously, accounting). The legal relationship that

governs those functions has one and only one essential character.

(ii) The matters relied upon by Cs cannot establish an agency relationship
361. As noted above, Post Office performed transactions and reconciled data on its own account
and in relation to its own business. Cs’ reliance on the fact of Post Office doing those things

cannot therefore support an assertion that it acted as agent to SPMs.

362. Cs also rely on a more general assertion that they were required to place their trust and
faith in Post Office to perform its functions properly.”!? But that is not sufficient to establish
a relationship of agent-principal or to impose a fiduciary duty. A party can be required to
depose trust and faith in another’s performance without the law imposing a fiduciary

relationship. This is well-established: see, for example, Al Nehayan at paras 164-165:

164 It is also necessary to identify more precisely the nature of the trust and confidence which
is a feature of a fiduciary relationship. There plainly are many situations in which a party to
a commercial transaction may legitimately repose trust and confidence in another without
the other party owing any fiduciary duties. Thus, inRe Goldcorp Exchange Ltd (In
Receivership) [1995] 1 AC 74, the Privy Council rejected an argument that a company was
a fiduciary because it had agreed to keep gold bullion in safe custody for customers in
circumstances where the customers were totally dependent on the company and trusted the
company to do what it had promised without in practice there being any means of verification.
Lord Mustill said (at 98):

"Many commercial relationships involve just such a reliance by one party on the other, and
to introduce the whole new dimension into such relationships which would flow from giving
them a fiduciary character would (as it seems to their Lordships) have adverse consequences

719 See, e.g., Bates Reply, para. 97 [BS.1/4/44].

102

B11.2/11/102
POL00004106
POL00004106

... It is possible without misuse of language to say that the customers put faith in the
company, and that their trust has not been repaid. But the vocabulary is misleading; high
expectations do not necessarily lead to equitable remedies."

165 Mutual trust and confidence between parties dealing with one another can be of different
kinds. At a basic level any contracting party is entitled to rely on the other party to perform
its contractual obligations without having to monitor performance or even if (as in Re
Goldcorp Exchange Ltd) it is unable to monitor performance. The kind of trust and
confidence characteristic of a fiduciary relationship is different. As dis
founded on the acceptance by one party of a role which requires exercising judgment and
making discretionary decisions on behalf of another and constitutes trust and confidence in
the loyalty of the decision-maker to put aside his or her own interests and act solely in the

interests of the principal. (emphasis added)

363. For these reasons, the Court can confidently reject the extravagant suggestion that Post

ussed above, it is

Office was an agent to its agent SPMs. The question of what duties Post Office would owe,
were it to have been Cs’ agent does not therefore arise. Post Office will address that issue

further, if appropriate, in closing submissions.

H.__ASSISTANTS

1) COMMON ISSUE 22

22 Did SPMC section 15, clause 7.1; NTC, Part 2, clauses 2.3 and 2.5 and/or any of the
implied terms contended for by the parties and found by the Court purport to confer a benefit
on Assistants for the purposes of section 1 of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act, and
if so which of these terms did so? [See GPOC, para. 74; Defence, para. 116; Reply, para. 92]

364. The answer to the question posed by this issue is ‘No’.

The clauses

365. Section 15, clause 7.1 of the SPMC?”’ provides as follows:

[Post Office] will:

7.1.1 provide the Subpostmaster with relevant training materials and processes to carry out
the required training of his Assistants on the Post Office ® Products and Services;

7.1.2 inform the Subpostmaster as soon as possible where new or revised training will be
necessary as a result of changes in either the law or Post Office ® Products and Services;
and

7.1.3 where appropriate... update the training materials (or processes) or provide new
training materials (or processes) to the Subpostmaster. However, it is the Subpostmaster’s

responsibility to ensure the proper deployment within his Post Office ® branch of any
materials and processed provided by [Post Office] and to ensure that his Assistants receive

220 [D2.1/4/32]

B11.2/11/103
POL00004106
POL00004106

all the training which is necessary in order to be able to properly provide the Post Office ®
Products and Services and to perform any other tasks required in connection with the
operation of the Post Office @ branch.” (emphasis added)

366. Part 2, paras 2.3 and 2.5 of the NTC”! provide as follows:

2.3 Where [Post Office] considers it necessary, it shall initially train the first Manager and
such number of Assistants as [it] shall determine, in the operation of the System at the
Branch.”

2.5 [Post Office] may require the Manager and/or the Assistants to undertake further training
at any reasonable location and time during the Term if [Post Office] (2.5.1) reasonably
considers such training to be essential; or (2.5.2) wishes to train them in new and improved
techniques which have been devised and which the Operator will be required to use in
operating the System. (emphases added)

367.Common Issue 22 also refers to implied terms, but it is unclear which, if any, of the implied
terms might be alleged to purport to confer a benefit on assistants for the purposes of the Act.
Neither the agreed implied terms, nor the implied terms alleged by Cs, identify assistants as

222

beneficiaries.*”’ Post Office reserves the right to respond to a proper articulation of Cs’ case

on this point if and when it is forthcoming.

The test under the Act
368.Section I of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 provides, in relevant part, as
follows:

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person who is not a party to a contract (a “third
party”) may in his own right enforce a term of the contract if —

(a) ...
(b) subject to subsection (2), the term purports to confer a benefit on him.

(2) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply if on a proper construction of the contract it appears
that the parties did not intend the term to be enforceable by the third party.

(3) The third party must be expressly identified in the contract by name, as a member of a
class or as answering a particular description but need not be in existence when the contract
is entered into.

(4) This section does not confer a right on a third party to enforce a term of a contract
otherwise than subject to and in accordance with any other relevant terms of the contract.

221 (D1.6/3/7]
?2? Tn RBS v McCarthy [2015] EWHC 3626 (QB), Picken J stated at paragraph 150 that reliance
on section 1(1)(b) of the Act “is all the harder when what is being considered is an implied term”.

104

B11.2/11/104
POL00004106
POL00004106

223

369.In Dolphin Maritime & Aviation v Sveriges Angartygs Assurans Forening,~* Christopher

Clarke J gave the following explanation as to the meaning of section 1(b):

A contract does not purport to confer a benefit on a third party simply because the position
of that third party will be improved if the contract is performed. The reference in the section
to the term purporting to “confer” a benefit seems to me to connote that the language used
by the parties shows that one of the purposes of their bargain (rather than one of its incidental
effects if performed) was to benefit the third party. (emphasis added)

370. In the Dolphin case:

(a) Party A was under an obligation to pay Party B. Dolphin was identified in the relevant

term as the agent of Party B to whom payment should be made.

(b) The Judge reasoned that Dolphin was not the “intended beneficiary of the promise” (at
para.75). He said that this would be the case even if Dolphin was entitled to a
commission on the payment, i.e. if Dolphin stood to obtain a permanent benefit. In either

case, benefiting Dolphin was not the purpose of the transaction.

371. If the test in section 1(1)(b) of the Act is met, it is then for the defendant to show that the
parties did not intend the term to be enforceable by the third party in order to rely on section
1(2): Nisshin Shipping Co v Cleaves & Co’™*. This is a “matter of construction having

regard to all relevant circumstances.” (para. 23).

Application of the test to the terms at issue

372. The relevant clauses do not contain any obligations falling within section I of the Act:

(a) As to the SPMC, Post Office does not in section 15, clause 7.1 promise to confer any
benefit on assistants; it merely promises to provide materials and processes to the SPM,
who is responsible for the provision of training. Any benefit which the assistant might
derive from being better trained is clearly incidental — the purpose of the transaction is
not to provide that benefit. The purpose of the term is to benefit the SPM, by enabling
him better to discharge his responsibilities as to training. The term makes this clear in
its final sentence. Accordingly, Post Office does not even make any fixed commitment
to provide a particular amount of training, but rather to provide the “re/evant” materials
and processes to support the SPM in providing the training he determines is “required”,

and to update these when “appropriate”. Post Office’s obligations, such as they are, are

5 [2009] EWHC 716 (Comm), at paragraph 74.
224 [2003] EWHC 2602 (Comm); Colman J.

B11.2/11/105
POL00004106
POL00004106

subordinated to the SPM’s judgment as to what is required; and that itself is directed
towards the competent operation of the branch. This is a very long way from a purpose

of conferring a benefit on the assistants.

(b) Similarly, as to paras 2.3 and 2.5 of the NTC, the training provided by Post Office is
not for the ultimate purpose of benefitting assistants. Post Office’s contribution to the
training of assistants and managers is intended to enable SPMs better to discharge their
duties in operating the branch. It is not the purpose of the bargain that assistants and
managers receive training from Post Office. The purpose of the training provision is to
ensure that the branch be run effectively, including through the use of competent
assistants. It was for Post Office, in its discretion, to decide whether and when it was
necessary to provide training, in the service of its own commercial goal. Any benefit
obtained by assistants and managers is “incidental”, in the sense in which that term is

used in Dolphin.

373. Further and in any event, both clauses fall within section 1(2) of the Act. Both clauses make it
entirely clear that it is for the SPM and/or Post Office to decide how much training to give
assistants — in order to serve the ends of Post Office and/or the SPM. That is not consistent
with assistants having the right to demand particular training. Moreover, it would be
commercially absurd for Post Office to be at risk of a claim from an assistant for a failure to
provide adequate training in circumstances where Post Office would frequently not be in a
position to know what, if any, training a particular assistant might require or had received from
the SPM (and/or could be provided without the benefit of materials or processes from Post
Office). Indeed, where the obligation to provide any required training has been specifically
imposed on the SPM, it would cut across the contractual scheme to generate a directly

enforceable right for an assistant against Post Office.

lL INCORPORATION AND VALIDITY

ren} INCORPORATI OF TERMS (COMMON ISSUES 5 AND 6)

(5) Were any or all of the express terms in the GPOC paragraphs listed below onerous and
unusual, so as to be unenforceable unless Post Office brought them fairly and reasonably to
the Subpostmasters’ attention?

para 51.1 and 51.3 (rules, instructions and standards);
para 52.1 and 52.3 (classes of business);

para 54.1 and 54.3 (accounts and liability for loss);
para 56.1.a. and 56.2.a (assistants);

106

B11.2/11/106
POL00004106
POL00004106

para 60.1 and 60.3 (suspension);
para 61.1 and 61.3 (termination).
para 62.1 and 62.3 (no compensation for loss of office)

(6) If so, what, if any, steps was Post Office required to take to draw such terms to the
attention of the Subpostmaster?

374. The question raised by these issues is whether, in order for Post Office to be entitled to rely on
the relevant clauses of the SPMC and NTC, it needed to draw those clauses and/or their effect

to the attention of prospective SPMs; and, if so, what precisely it needed to do to that end.

375.The relevant threshold is not close to being crossed. These are ordinary commercial clauses.
They did not need to be specifically drawn to Cs’ attention. And in any event, Cs had ample
opportunity to consider the clauses; if any special drawing of attention had been required, that

requirement would have been satisfied.
376. In summary, the clauses in question:

(a) Set out some of the core duties of the SPM, including to “maintain the highest standards
in all matters connected with the Branch and Branch Premises” (see clause quoted at
AGPOC, first part of para. 51.3(e)), ensure that accounts of Post Office stock and cash are
kept in the prescribed form (para. 54.1(a)), hold Post Office cash on trust, to be remitted
to Post Office, and not make any private use of said cash, on pain of the possibility of

prosecution (para.54.3(a)).

(b) Set out some of the core potential liabilities of the SPM, such as his liability for losses of
cash or stock during his tenure (including losses caused by the assistants he employs)

(paras 54.1(b) and (c), 54.3(b), (c), (d) and (e), 56.1(a) and 56.2(a)).

(c) Set out circumstances in which the agreement can be suspended or terminated (on notice,
or following breach), give Post Office the power to decide whether to withhold or forfeit
SPMs’ remuneration, and oblige SPMs to help Post Office retain access to customers

during any period of suspension (paras 51.1(b), 60.1, 60.3, 61.1, 61.3, 62.1 and 62.3).

(d) Make provision for further rules and instructions not contained in the main contract, by
identifying documents containing further terms with which the SPMs are obliged to
maintain familiarity, and giving Post Office the power to adjust operational instructions,
conditions of service, products and services to be offered (paras 51.1(a), 51.1(c), 51.1(d),
51.1(e), 51.3(a), 51.3(b), 51.3(c), 51.3(d), the latter part of 51.3(e), 52.1 and 52.3).

107

B11.2/11/107
POL00004106

POL00004106

The onerous and unusual test

377.

378.

379.

380.

381.

382.

383.

Cs contend that, in accordance with the principle discussed and applied in Interfoto Picture

225

Library v Stiletto Visual Programmes, each of the above terms was onerous and unusual

and so unenforceable unless brought fairly and reasonable to their attention.
That contention is plainly wrong.
The relevant principle is set out in Chitty, at 13-015:

Although the party receiving the document knows it contains conditions, if the particular
condition relied on is one which is a particularly onerous or unusual term or is one which
involves the abrogation of a right given by statute, the party tendering the document must
show that it has been brought fairly and reasonably to the other’s attention.

226

The questions of whether (1) a term is “onerous and unusual”*** and (2) it has been brought

“fairly and reasonably” to another party’s attention are necessarily fact-specific, but “the trend

has been to find that a disputed clause is not unusual or onerous”.

As Hale LJ said in O’Brien y MGN,”** at para. 23:

the words ‘onerous or unusual’ are not terms of art. They are simply one way of putting the
general proposition that reasonable steps must be taken to draw the particular term in
question to the notice of those who are to be bound by it and that more is required in relation
to certain terms than to others depending on their effect.

The bar is high. In Woodeson v Credit Suisse (UK) Ltd, the Court of Appeal characterised it
as requiring “a clause [which] is onerous in the Interfoto sense of almost being a penalty”?

Crucially, the clause at issue in this case arise in a commercial context. In Sumukan v

Commonwealth Secretariat,”*”

the Court of Appeal was faced with the submission that “it
would be an unusual and onerous term in a contract that an arbitration be conducted by a

panel wholly appointed by one side and under statutes capable of being changed at any time

225 T1989] Q.B. 433.

6 A term that is merely unusual is not sufficient to engage the rule: HTH Casualty and General
Insurance Ltd v New Hampshire Insurance Co [2001] EWCA Civ 735, per Rix LJ at [211].

»7 T awson, Exclusion Clauses and Unfair Contract Terms (12" Ed), at p.26.
28 [2001] EWCA Civ 1279.

»9 [2018] EWCA Civ 1103, per Longmore LJ at para. 42.

230 [2007] EWCA Civ 1148.

108

B11.2/11/108
384.

385.

386.

387.

388.

POL00004106

POL00004106

by that one side”, and that “such terms would not be of contractual affect if they were not drawn

to Sumukan's attention” (at para. 9). Waller LJ dismissed this argument in the following terms:

This was a commercial contract. True, Sumukan had no choice as to the terms of the contract
so far as arbitration was concerned but that is a common feature of and the reality of many
commercial contracts. Sumukan are not a consumer with the protection of consumer
legislation and are bound by the terms of the contract they made.

Similarly, in the Carewatch case,”*! Henderson J said as follows, at para. 84:

The relevant principle of law is that it may in certain circumstances be unfair or
unreasonable to hold a person bound by a written contractual term of an unusual and
stringent, or particularly onerous, nature, unless it has fairly been brought to that person's
attention: see Interfoto Picture Library Ltd v Stiletto Visual Programmes Ltd [1989] 1 QB
433 (CA) at 438F-439A per Dillon LJ and 439H-445C per Bingham LJ. Questions of this
nature typically arise in a consumer context, where the offending provision is hidden in the
small print and the consumer has no option but to contract on the proffered terms. The issue
may, however, arise in other types of contract, although it is always necessary to have full
regard to the context and the respective bargaining positions of the parties.

Against that background, the argument that these terms, or at least some of them, were too

onerous to be incorporated (or enforceable against the SPM) is hopeless.

More specifically, the core duties (as referred to in para. 376(a) above) are not only not onerous
or unusual. They are entirely normal and near-inevitable duties given the nature of the Post

Office-SPM relationship, a principal-agent, business-to-business relationship.

The SPM’s liabilities (as referred to in para. 376(b) above) are not unusual or onerous. It is
entirely unsurprising that the SPM, as agent to Post Office, should be responsible for losses,
including those caused by his employees. As Ms Van Den Bogerd explains: “Swhpostmasters
are solely responsible for their branch accounts. There is no transaction that enters their

99232,

accounts without their consent (or their consent by proxy through their assistants).

A SPM can be expected to retain a good degree of control over whom to employ in his branch.
Those employees have no contractual relationship with Post Office and Post Office will know
telatively little about them. Moreover, it is not unusual to make an agent or other fiduciary

liable in this way (for example, law firm partners’ liability for the actions of their associates),

231 2014] EWHC 2313 (Ch).
232 Para. 142.

109

B11.2/11/109
POL00004106
POL00004106

and a commercially conventional allocation of risk will not be onerous: see Do-Buy 925 v

National Westminster Bank,”* at para. 93 (Andrew Popplewell QC).

389. As to the suspension/ termination provisions (as referred to above), there is nothing surprising
about allowing a principal to terminate or suspend a contract with his agent (with or without
continuing to pay compensation). Where the principal is vulnerable to the actions of his agent,
such powers will follow almost as a matter of course, even if their operation could, in certain
circumstances, appear harsh to the agent. Indeed, wherever a principal (or even an employer),
needs to place a great deal of trust in his agent (or employee), it will not be unusual or onerous
to give the principal (or employer) broad powers to suspend and/or terminate.**4 In Lalji v Post
Office’**, the Court of Appeal referred without any adverse comment to Post Office’s right to

236

terminate on 3 months’ notice under the SPMC.**° The term did not jump out in the way that

an onerous and unusual term might be expected to.
390. In this case, as John Breeden of Post Office explains:

Post Office needs the suspension power in order to protect its assets and reputation... There

will be instances where Post Office needs to act quickly to manage its financial and

reputational risk. Suspension can also be important to prevent any further deterioration of

the position, or to enable an investigation of the suspected breach...Where we decide to
suspend we do so to protect Post Office's assets and reputation.°*7

391. As to the power to suspend remuneration, that too follows naturally. The SPM is not an

employee. His remuneration is tied to the provision of Post Office goods and services in branch.

If he is not providing those goods and services (during a period of suspension), there is nothing

to pay him for.”>* He can agree to receive payment from any temporary SPM appointed during

the period of suspension.” If the decision to suspend was incorrect, the SPM will be paid.”

233 [2010] EWHC 2862 (QB).

234 Tn Chan v Barts & The London NHS Trust [2007] EWHC 2914 (QB) (Burnton J) even a term
which stripped a doctor of his right to appeal against dismissal was not considered onerous.

235 [2003] EWCA (Civ) 1873.

286 See at paras 5 and 10 (Brooke LJ) and 25 (Sedley LJ).
257 Paras 37 to 40 [C2/3/11].

258 John Breeden WS, para. 51.2 [C2/3/13].

239 ibid, paras 51 and 52 [C2/3/13].

*4° ibid, para 55 [C2/3/14]. At most, a term that remuneration should not be withheld dishonestly,
arbitrarily, capriciously or irrationally might be implied to undergird this practice.

110

B11.2/11/110
POL00004106
POL00004106

392. Similarly, a power to terminate, either for breach or on notice, is obviously not onerous or
unusual. It is difficult to see how any commercial contract could be structured without these,

or equivalent, provisions.

393. As to the incorporation/ ongoing updating of further terms (as referred to in para. 376(d)
above), there is nothing surprising or onerous, in a commercial context, about requiring
compliance with a body of rules, or about updating those rules from time to time: see, e.g,
Stretford v Football Association,” at paras 16 to 17 (Sir Andrew Morrit). Nor is it surprising
or onerous that an agent should be required to familiarise himself, and keep himself up-to-date,
with such rules as govern the day-to-day operation of the branch and the business. That would

be the case, for example, for any franchisee of a large franchise.

394. Cs have not set out any pleading on why, they say, any of these terms are onerous and unusual.
At para. 66 of the AGPOC (the paragraph referred to in the text of the Common Issue), they
merely assert the same. The onus is on them to show that these terms are literally extraordinary
in their harshness. They have not even tried to do so. For the reasons given above, any such

attempt would be hopeless; these terms are entirely unexceptionable.

Adequate notice
395. Even if that was wrong, and some or all of these clauses were considered onerous or unusual,
that would not invalidate them. It would merely mean that Post Office would have been obliged

to bring those clauses to the SPMs’ attention at or before the time of contracting.”

396. Where the term at issue was contained in a contractual document that was signed by the SPM,
incorporation will follow almost inevitably: see Woodeson, at para. 46 (“when the contractual
documentation is signed, the Interfoto principle has no, or extremely limited, application”).
Signature shows that the relevant SPM was aware (or could easily have made himself aware)
of the relevant clauses, and made a commercial choice to sign the contract. In Amiri Flight

Authority vy BAE Systems,” Mance LJ said as follows, at para. 16:

Normally, in the absence of any misrepresentation, the signature of a contractual document
must operate as an incorporation and acceptance of all its terms. Here, we are concerned
with a written contract which Amiri had the opportunity to read and consider overnight

241 [2006] EWHC 479 (Ch). Approved in the Court of Appeal: [2007] Bus L.R. 1052 at para. 14.

> Post Office has set out, in its Defences to the IPOCs, how it says notice was given in each of the

individual Cs’ cases. The evidence as it emerges at trial will be commented on further, as
appropriate, in closing arguments.

243 [2003] EWCA Civ 1447.

1

B11.2/11/111
397.

398.

399.

400.

401.

POL00004106

POL00004106

before signing. In the absence of any suggestion that BAE in any way misrepresented the
nature or effect of clause A.10 of Appendix C, I find it difficult to see the relevance of the
principle in Interfoto in the present case.

Even in the absence of a signature, providing the relevant clauses, and giving the SPM good
time to read them, will generally be sufficient. In Stretford, Sir Andrew Morritt said, at
para.17, that it was sufficient to be “in possession of documentary material”, so that, “if he did

not know if its terms, he could and should have done.”

Indeed, the key point is not even possession of the relevant document. Cs would have known
that their contracts were likely to include, ifnot these terms, then similar ones. If the contracting

party is “in general terms aware” of a term, or knew that “it contains, or is likely to contain

terms, of the type complained of” that will be sufficient: Allen Fabrications, at paras 62 to 63.

It is worth stepping back to consider the purpose of the Interfoto requirement. It is to prevent
an unsuspecting party being ambushed by the inclusion of a term whose harshness is wholly
out of the norm (and accordingly wholly unexpected). We might expect such an objectionable
term to be, as Coulson LJ recently put it in Goodlife Foods Ltd v Hall Fire Protection Ltd’,
“buried away in the middle of a raft of small print” (para. 53). Cs do not seriously suggest that
that is what has happened here. These terms are not onerous or unusual, and nor have they been
sprung upon Cs as a surprise. They are precisely the sort of terms one would expect in the

context of this kind of contractual relationship, and they were not hidden away.

(2) UNFAIR CONTRACT TERMS ACT 1977 (COMMON ISSUE 7)

Were any or all of the terms [identified in Common Issue 5] unenforceable pursuant to the
Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977?

Cs contend that all the terms identified in Common Issue 5 are unenforceable except in so far
as they satisfy the requirement of reasonableness pursuant to ss. 3(2) and 17 UCTA. They

further contend that these terms do not satisfy that requirement.

Both contentions are utterly without any basis in reasonable argument.

The UCTA reasonableness test

402.

Section 3 of UCTA provides, in material part, as follows:

(1) This section applies as between contracting parties where one of them deals...on the
other's written standard terms of business.

(2) As against that party, the other cannot by reference to any contract term

24 12018] EWCA Civ 1371.

B11.2/11/112
POL00004106
POL00004106

(b) claim to be entitled—

(i) to render a contractual performance substantially different from that which was
reasonably expected of him, or

(ii) in respect of the whole or any part of his contractual obligation, to render no performance
at all,

except in so far as (in any of the cases mentioned above in this subsection) the contract term
satisfies the requirement of reasonableness.

403. Cs must satisfy two threshold requirements to subject these terms to the requirement of
reasonableness: they must establish (1) that they were dealing on Post Office’s written standard
terms of business and (2) the clauses complained of purport to entitle Post Office to render
either a contractual performance substantially different from that which was reasonably

expected of it, or no performance at all.
404. Cs fall at both of these hurdles.

(i) Cs did not contract on Post Office’s written standard terms of business
405. It is true that the contracts in question were produced, in a standard, non-negotiable form, by
Post Office.

406. However, this is not sufficient for the purposes of section 3 of UCTA. In Commerzbank AG
v Keen,”** the Court of Appeal was faced with a clause in a banker’s employment contract
which required recipients of a discretionary bonus scheme to be employed by the bank at the
time of distribution. It was submitted that this clause fell within section 3, on the basis that the
bank was “claiming to be entitled to render a contractual performance substantially
different from that which was reasonably expected of it”: per Mummery LJ, at para. 77.
Mummery LJ rejected that submission at para.104:

the relevant busin in this case, is the business of banking. The terms as to the payment
of discretionary bonuses were not the standard terms of the business of banking. They were

the terms of the remuneration of certain employees of the Bank, such as Mr Keen, who were
employed in part of the Bank's business.

407. Similarly, at para. 115 Moses LJ said:

I wish to lend emphasis to Mummery LJ’s reasons for rejecting the application of the 1977
Act to Mr. Keen's contract of employment. It is all too easy in analysing authority and
discussion of the application of the 1977 Act to contracts of employment to overlook the

245 [2006] EWCA Civ 1536.

B11.2/11/113
POL00004106
POL00004106

impact of the words “consumer” and “business” used in Sections 3 and 12 of the Act...A
bank's business is not entering into contracts of employment with its employees

408. Mummery LJ approved a similar holding of Morland J in Brigden v American Express Bank
(14 October, 1999). That case also concerned a bank employee’s contract. Morland J said that
he had difficulty in:

..accepting that the section applies as between the Claimant and the Defendants where the
Claimant deals on the Defendants’ written standard terms of business. The Defendants’
business was banking not that of an employment agency. Although the hiring and firing of
labour is almost inevitably an activity within any business it is not except in the case of an
employment agency its business. It should be noted that the statute does not say standard
form of contract or standard terms in a contract which would cover the Claimant's contract.
(emphasis added)

409. Post Office’s business is the provision of services to customers, not the engagement of SPMs.

The SPM, as agent to Post Office, is conducting transactions on its behalf and so enabling Post
Office to conduct its business with customers. The contract with the SPM facilitates Post

Office’s conduct of its business, rather than itself representing the conduct of that business.

(ii) No entitlement to render a substantially different contractual performance
410. Moreover, the terms identified in Common Issue 5 do not entitle Post Office either to render a
contractual performance substantially different from that which was reasonably expected of it,

or to render no performance. For this distinct, freestanding, reason Cs cannot rely on UCTA.

411. A number of these terms are not focused on Post Office at all. The contractual provisions in
question place obligations and liabilities on SPMs (see the terms listed above at para. 376(a)
and 376(b), and the obligation to help Post Office retain access to customers during any period

of suspension (listed above at para.376(c)).

412. A number of the terms listed above at para. 376(d) entitle Post Office to update and amend

tules and instructions applying to SPMs. That, too, is outwith the scope of section 3.

413. In Paragon Finance v Nash*° Dyson LJ considered whether UCTA section 3(2)(b)(i) applied
to a provision which gave a lender an entitlement to vary the rate of interest payable on a loan.

At paras 75 to 77, he said as follows:

...there is no relevant obligation on the claimant, and therefore nothing that can qualify as
‘contractual performance’ for the purposes of section 3(2)(b)(i). Even if that is wrong, by
fixing the rate of interest at a particular level the claimant is not altering the performance of

246 [2002] 1 W.L.R. 685.
114

B11.2/11/114
POL00004106
POL00004106

any obligation assumed by it under the contract. Rather, it is altering the performance
required of the appellants [defendants].

The contract term must be one which has an effect (indeed a substantial effect) on the
contractual performance reasonably expected of the party who relies on the term. The key
word is ‘performance’.
414. Exactly the same applies here. Updating the rules applicable to SPMs does not change Post
Office’s obligations; it changes the SPMs’ obligations.

415. The final set of relevant terms deal with Post Office’s ability to suspend and terminate
contractual relations with SPMs (as a consequence of which the SPMs may also receive less
remuneration). These are terms which delineate the duration of contractual obligations, rather

than stripping away or neutering Post Office’s obligations.
416. Chitty, at 15-086 of its current edition, comments as follows:

“it seems unlikely that a contract term entitling one party to terminate the contract in the
event of a material breach by the other (e.g. failure to pay by the due date) would fall within
paragraph (b), or, if it did so, would be adjudged not to satisfy the requirement of
reasonableness.”

417. This passage was approved by Dyson LJ in Paragon. Other case law also accords with this
view. In Timeload y British Telecommunications”” Sir Thomas Bingham MR expressed
uncertainty as to whether an unfettered right to terminate on notice would fall within section
3(2) of UCTA. In the more recent case of Hadley Design Associates v The Lord Mayor and
Citizens of the City of Westminster,“* HHJ Seymour QC noted that the “provisional view,
at any rate, of Sir Thomas [Bingham MR] seems to have been that the exercise of a right of
termination did not fall within the subsection [3(2)]”: at para. 76. He went on to say, at para.

85, that he was:

inclined to think that the doubts of Sir Thomas Bingham as to whether the terms of Unfair
Contract Terms Act 1977 s 3(2)(b)(i) could apply in any event to a determination of a
contract in accordance with a power contained in the contract were also well-founded, for it
is_very difficult to see how the issue of what was the duration of the performance of a
contractual obligation which could reasonably be expected could be determined other than
by reference to the terms of the contract as to duration. (emphasis added)

418. Similarly, in Brigden, Morland J said that:

24771995] EMLR 459.
>48 [2003] EWHC 1617.

B11.2/11/115
POL00004106
POL00004106

The clause “an employee may be dismissed by notice and/or payment in lieu of notice during
the first 2 years of employment, without implementation of the disciplinary procedure”,
although expressed in negative terms, is a clause setting out the Claimant's entitlement and
the limits of his rights. In my judgment it is not_a contract term excluding or restrictin;
liability of the Defendants in respect of breach of contract or entitling the Defendants to
render a contracted performance substantially different from that which was reasonably
expected of them or to render no performance in respect of any part of their contractual
obligation. (emphasis added)

419. Accordingly, these terms too cannot fall within section 3(2).

420. For all of those reasons, the analysis does not get to the stage of considering whether these

terms are reasonable. If, however, it were to get to that stage, they would pass the test.

(iii) The challenged terms are reasonable in any event
421. The test for reasonableness is set out in section 11(1) of UCTA:

the term shall have been a fair and reasonable one to be included having regard to the
circumstances which were or ought reasonably to have been, known to or in the
contemplation of the parties when the contract was made.

422. Given the fact-specific application of the test, it is dangerous to reason from previous decisions
on reasonableness (Chitty, 15-101). However, it is clearly relevant that this is a genuinely
commercial context. In Watford Electronics v Sanderson CFL,””? Chadwick LJ said, at para.
55:

Where experienced businessmen representing substantial companies of equal bargaining
power negotiated an agreement, they may be taken to have had regard to the matters known
to them. They should, in my view, be taken to be the best judges of the commercial fairness
of the agreement which they have made; including the fairness of each of the terms of that
agreement.

423. Post Office is much the larger business, but the SPMs were not consumers, or small suppliers,
pressurised into contracting on draconian terms. They were independent business owners. They
could have simply provided their customers with an independent retail offering. Instead, they
made the free decision to add a Post Office branch to whatever other retail business they wanted
to run. Their bargaining power might have been significant, if Post Office wanted, or was
legally required, to operate a branch in a given locality and there was a shortage of capable
applicants for the SPM position. Conversely, their bargaining power might have been weak, if
Post Office was ambivalent about locating a branch in a given area and/or if there were many

suitable applicants for the position. Either way, while the fact that the terms were (colloquially

* [2001] EWCA Civ 317.

116

B11.2/11/116
424.

POL00004106

POL00004106

speaking) largely in standard form was a function of Post Office’s greater size and commercial

heft, the decision as to whether to accept the content of the contracts was made by the SPMs

as independent-minded, informed businesspeople, with complete freedom of choice.

In that context, the key question is whether there was a cogent (and reasonable) commercial
reason for including the relevant terms: see Oval (717) v Aegon Insurance Co (UK)**’. For
all of the reasons given above, these terms were not onerous; for the same reasons, they were
not unfair or unreasonable. They served key commercial purposes, and they were reasonably
adapted to those purposes. The fact that, in retrospect, the SPMs wish they had not been
included, or had been formulated differently, does not make them unreasonable within the
meaning of UCTA.

DAVID CAVENDER QC
OWAIN DRAPER
GIDEON COHEN

One Essex Court, Temple

clerks¢

250 [1997] 85 BLR 97.

117

B11.2/11/117
