POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Document Title: Access Control Policy
Document Type: Policy Document
Abstract: This Access Control Policy (ACP) defines the policy
for controlling access to resources in the operational
Pathway system.
Tan Bowen Mik Peach
Distribution: Gerry Boyce Barry Procter
Alan D’Alvarez Martin Riddell
John Dicks Glenn Stephens
Peter Dreweatt Chris Sundt
Mark Fisk Chris Wannell
Peter Harrison Frank Womack
Dave Jones Horizon
Graham Lloyd Pathway Management
Tom Parker Pathway library
Document Status: Approved
Document Predecessor: -
Associated Documents: See section 0.2
Author: Belinda Fairthorne
Approval Authority: John Dicks
Comments To: Author, copy to John Dicks
Comments By: -
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 1 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
o.CONTENT
0.1 Document History
Versio Date Reason
n
0.1,0.2 28/10/96 _ Initial drafts for review by security team
0.3 7/1/96 Initial Draft for internal Pathway review
o.5 6/12/96 Response to comments; Addition of new information
including Pathway Corporate Services domain, Network
Management
0.6 4/3/97 Further clarifications in many areas including network,
Sequent access, Post Offices
1.0 16/4/97 Terminology changes.
Major updates to the Post Office section have been made.
Numerous minor changes have been made.
1.1/3 See separate note
2 23/2/98 Draft version of 1.3.
2.1,2.2  sep/oct See separate note Approval responsibility passed to John
98 Dicks
3.0 18/12/98 Minor updates, see separate note. For approval
0.2 Approval Authorities
Name Position Signature Date
John Dicks Customer
Requirements
Director
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 2 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0001
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
03 Associated Documents

Ref: Title Identifier Vers Date
SADD Service Architecture Design Document = _CR/FSP/004 5.1 23/7/98
TED Technical Environment Description TD/ARC/o00 4.2 13/10/98

1
SPOL ICL Pathway Security Policy RS/POL/o00 3.3 23/2/98

2
SFS Security Functional Specification RS/FSP/oo01 3.2 5/8/98
CHDM PAS/CMS Help Desk Call Enquiry Matrix CS/FSP/0003 2.5 13/10/97
AUDT Audit Trail Functional Specification CR/FSP/006 2.2 8/9/97
BS7799 A Code of Practice for Information BS7799 1 15/2/95

Security Management
DSPOLDSS IT Security Policy (Departmental IT DITSG/ITSS/ 6.2 3/96

Security Standards) 0001.04,
PPOL Post Office Counters Information System SRR
Security Policy Appendix 4-1
03 Abbreviations
ACP Access Control Policy
BA Benefits Agency
BES Benefit Encashment Service
BPS Benefit Payment Service
CAPS Customer Accounting and Payments System
CAW Certification Authority Workstation
CESG Communications-Electronic Security Group
CFM ICL Outsourcing (Client Services Ireland)
CLI Calling Line Identification
CMS Card Management Service
cs Pathway Customer Services
DBA Database Administrator
DSA Digital Signature Algorithm
DSS Department of Social Security
ECCO Electronic Cash Registers at Counters
EPOSS Electronic Point Of Sale Service
ESNS Electronic Stop Notice System
FCMS Fraud Case Management Service
FRM Fraud and Risk Management
FTMS File Transfer Management Service
HAPS Host Automated Payment Service
HFSO Horizon Field Support Officer
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
IT Information Technology
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 3 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0002
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
KEK Key Encryption Key
KMA Key Management Application
LAN Local Area Network
MIS Management Information Services
NAO National Audit Office
NMS Network Management Station
NSI National Sensitive Indicator
NT New Technology (Microsoft’s operating system)
OBCS Order Book Control Service
PAS Payment Authorisation Service
POCL Post Office Counters Ltd
PUN Pick Up Notice
RDMC Reference Data Management Centre
RPC Remote Procedure Call
SMC System Management Centre
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol
SQL Structured Query Language
SSC System Support Centre
TACACS+ Terminal Access Controller Access Control System +
TIP Transaction Information Processing
TME Tivoli Management Environment
TMS Transaction Management Service
TPS Transaction Processing Service
VME Virtual Machine Environment
VPN Virtual Private Network
0.4 Changes Forecast
In some areas of Pathway, design for future releases is not yet finalised or
changes or additions to the Pathway solution are being considered.
While this document normally states the policy in these areas, details are
subject to change as indicated in the relevant section. The main such
areas are listed below.
* Changes as the results of new services added or extensions to existing
ones
* Some aspects of network access controls
© Cryptography/key management design for later releases
© Some details of support from remote sites
© Some aspects of Pathway system auditing; archives and access to
them
* Some aspects of future software distribution and auto-configuration
* Telephone authentication procedures
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 4 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0003
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
{ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 5 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0004
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 6 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0005
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

05 Table Of Contents
[ TOC \O "1-3" \T "APPENDIX 1,1" I
1.
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 7 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0006
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

INTRODUCTION

tall Purpose

This Access Control Policy (ACP) defines the policy for controlling access
to resources in the ICL Pathway IT system.

Effective control depends on having a clear definition of the roles and
responsibilities of all personnel who need some form of access to the
system. This document defines the operational, management and
support roles required in the Pathway system, and the main functions
which people in those roles carry out. It then defines the policies for
controlling the access to the Pathway services - both by these people and
by other system users.

1.2 Context

This document fits into the structure of documents for Pathway security
as illustrated in figure 1-1 below.

Contract
& related >} Pathway Security Policy

documents
——1— seanne om \

Access Security Technical I

Control Functional Environment I

Policy Specification Description I

I I f

[ I l
Physical Security Operational procedures Detailed specifications

Personnel Security for people accessing including
Health and Safety Pathway services detailed configuration

Contingency Planning of components

Figure 1- 1 Pathway’s Security Documents

The Access Control Policy defines how access is controlled throughout
the Pathway system in compliance with the Pathway Security Policy.

The Security Functional Specification defines the security functionality
that will be incorporated into the ICL Pathway system.

The Technical Environment Description describes the architecture and
technical environment for the Pathway solution, including the security
architecture.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 8 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0007
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Other security processes define, for example, the physical security of
information and machines and personnel security including storage of
workstation keys and tokens. Personnel procedures include staff vetting.
There are also plans for business continuity after a major incident.

There are also procedures for people using Pathway services. For
example, there are procedures associated with entering a site, using the
system, safeguarding of manual records and handling security incidents.
These will be checked for compliance with the Pathway security policies
and specifications by the Pathway Security Manager. Section 3.8 outlines
the implications of the Access Control Policy on these procedures and
identifies the key ones.

There are also specifications defining how the various Pathway
components are configured to meet this policy. These will define, for
example, which functions in which applications are available to people in
particular roles and the database views available to each role.

13 Scope

This Access Control Policy defines how access to information system
resources is controlled in the operational Pathway system. It includes:

© General access control policies for Pathway

¢ The principles of how the access controls should be configured -
which roles should be set up with what responsibilities and what
categories of functions people in those roles should be permitted to
do

* How the security functionality defined in the [SFS] is used to achieve
that. For example, how people in different roles are authenticated,
how access to the permitted functions is achieved.

This covers functions performed in the information system as the
result of direct user action, and those cases where the user of the
system is carrying out a function on behalf of someone else, often as
the result of a telephone call requesting use of the system.

This document is concerned with what can be accessed by whom and
how within the Pathway information systems rather than the detailed
procedures for configuring and running these systems. Separate Pathway
documents as described in 1.2 above define these related standards and
procedures.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 9 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0008
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

This policy covers the Pathway operational and management systems at
the Pathway Data Centres plus closely associated systems. Separate
internal Pathway documents cover system development and test systems
and other activities prior to the handing over of the software for
operational use.

1.4 Access Control Policy Review

This document will be formally reviewed at least annually. It will also be
reviewed where relevant after a significant security incident, as part of a
more general security policy review, and updated whenever necessary.

Responsibilities for approval, review and issue of this document will
conform to the review procedure for Pathway policy and standards
defined in the Pathway Security Policy.

15 Document Structure

Section 2 of this document identifies the Security Domains of the
Pathway system and outlines the main functions in each. It also
identifies related internal Pathway systems and other sites which access
the Data Centres.

Section 3 specifies the Pathway wide access control policies. It defines
the generic roles which should be supported at most of the Pathway
systems and the general policies and controls which apply to them all.
Configuration of any Pathway platform should conform to this section as
well as to the more specific controls in the appropriate later section.

Sections 4 to 8 specify the access control policy for each Domain/sub-
domain in turn. For each, it defines the roles with access to services
there. Note that some roles are system wide (particularly system
management and Pathway corporate ones) so are referred to in each
domain where they require access (as the systems there must be
configured to support them) but the full definition of these roles is in
either the System Management or Corporate Services Domain.

In some cases, the same roles and controls apply to a number of
domains. For example, the same Sequent system supports both the
PAS/CMS services and other Pathway application hosts so most of the
management and support roles are in common for these. In these cases,
the roles and access controls are defined once and other sections refer to
this definition, though may also have extra roles specific to the particular
service or domain.

So the access controls for a particular system are:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 10 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0009
ICL Pathway

POL00400793
POL00400793

Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

The general controls in section 3 (which apply to all systems)

The generic controls for that type of system, where relevant (e.g.
specific controls associated with Sequent or NT at the Data Centres -
see section 4)

The controls for the particular service/system

Appendix A gives a summary of all the roles with references to the
sections where they are described.

Printed: [ DATE \l]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 11 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0010
POL00400793

POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

2.2

SECURITY DOMAINS

The Pathway system can be viewed as a number of “domains” which
together provide the Pathway solution.

Domain Definition

A “domain’ is a distinct part of the system characterised by the IT
services it provides and the components it uses to provide those services.
The services offered by several domains combine to provide the end-to-
end services, such as the Pathway Benefit Payment Service (BPS).

POCL and POCL Client Domain DSS Service Environment Domain
Pathway services at Pathway services at DSS sites
POCL and POCL Client sites interfacing to CAPS, ESNS

i, Fil De La Rue
\Card Services}
<->)

Pod Central Services Domain Domain

System ;
Management Operational services Pathway
Services at the Pathway Data Centres Corporate

Domain ; Services

Technical Domain
Management Pathway

and support Office Platform Service Domain sab iesetion

All services at the Post Offices and. business
support

Figure 2-1 Pathway Domains

Figure 2-1 illustrates the domains and the primary links between them,
except for links with the Pathway Corporate Services. Note that the
System Management Domain also has links with all other domains.

Specifying Access Control Policies

For each domain, or set of domains, the Access Control Policy includes:

« An introduction to the main services provided by the domain - both
automated and human initiated ones.

¢ An outline of the operational, management and support roles of
people with access to services in this domain. For each role, there is a
description of the main classes of functions performed and the access
controls in the information system.

¢ The access controls resulting from the way the system is configured,
for example, providing the base level of controls against general
unauthorised access and restricting traffic to that permitted.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 12 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0011
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

zy

2.31

2.3.2

Services involved in Business Operations

The main operational flows of the Benefit Payments Service and other
Post Office operations involve the domains illustrated in figure 2-2.
These domains are described in the following sub-sections.

POCL and POCL Client Domain DSS Service Environment Domain

[Automated POCL De La Rue

payment TIP& DSS benefit systam Card Services Domain
systems iefdata with Pathway Partition

card

Central Services Domain ea production
aps I tes I Re I opcs I pasicms
Hosts Data
T i

. <1 — hents =
Distribution Payment Card Helpline

a TT ie & Business support
Correspondence Servers I (part of corporate domain)

Transaction
WAN Management
Service
I

Post Office I Counter infrastructure _ I
Counter
aps I eposs I acs I Bes

Office Platform Service Domain

Figure 2 - 2 Domains directly involved in business operations e.g. benefit payments
The DSS Service Environment Domain

The DSS Customer Accounting and Payments System (CAPS) handles
benefit payment authorisations. The DSS Electronic Stop Notice System
(ESNS) handles Order books for benefits.

Pathway’s responsibility in this domain is to accept Benefit related data
generated by CAPS (or ESNS) and return data to CAPS (or ESNS) via
Pathway software in a partition of the VME system and routers.

The POCL and POCL Clients Domain

The POCL TIP system receives records of transactions at Post Offices.
Another POCL system provides reference data for applications such as
EPOSS.

The POCL Automated Payments system (or later, POCL Client Systems)
process Automated Payments on behalf of POCL Clients.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 13 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0012

POL00400793
POL00400793
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

The Pathway Access Control Policy is concerned only with that part of
the interface to these systems which is the responsibility of Pathway.

233 The Central Services Domain

The Central Services Domain provides the Pathway application hosts at
the central Pathway sites to support all the Post Office applications (APS,
EPOSS, OBCS). All these run on Sequent machines and use Oracle.

For benefit payments, information is transferred to/from the DSS
Services to the Pathway Payment Authorisation Service(PAS) and Card
Management Service (CMS). PAS/CMS process the payment
authorisations and customer information for forward transmission to the
Post Office or Card or Temporary Token Producer as required, and
return information on transactions to CAPS.

TMS Agents assemble information from these hosts for distribution to
the Post Offices. The Correspondence Servers are the central part of the
Riposte Transaction Management Service and distribute information
to/from the Riposte journals at the Post Offices. The Correspondence
Servers and their associated agents, run on Windows NT platforms.

This domain also includes related services such as the Key Management
Service used to generate and distribute keys within the Central Services
Domain and to Post Offices.

The Central Service Domain spans two sites (Bootle and Wigan) which
are often referred to as the Pathway Data Centres.

2.3.4 The Office Platform Service Domain

The Office Platform Service Domain encompasses all Post Office sites as
illustrated in the fourth box in figure 2-2. All services run on Windows
NT workstations. The main services supported are:

e The Electronic Point of Sale Service (EPOSS),
e The Benefit Encashment Service (BES),

e The Automated Payment Service (APS), and
e The Order Book Control Service (OBCS).

2.3.5 De La Rue Card Services Domain

The De La Rue Card Services Domain encompasses the facilities used for
the production of cards, Pick UP Notices (PUNs) and temporary tokens.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 14 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0013
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
2.4 Other Domains and Related Services

There are two other domains which are concerned with the management
of Pathway. Both interact with the services in the operational domains.

© The Pathway Corporate Services domain includes Pathway’s own
management and business support processes including security ones.

* The System Management and Support Services domain manages the
hardware and software systems which make up Pathway.

Some internal ICL systems are also used in support of Pathway
operations.

2.4.1 Pathway Corporate Services Domain

The Pathway Corporate Services domain supports Pathway’s own

management processes such as reporting, accounting, monitoring

service levels and Pathway’s fraud risk management and auditing

processes. It also contains business support processes:

e The Payment Card Helpline, which responds to DSS, POCL and
general public queries about benefit cards and payments.

« Pathway Business Support which handles financial reconciliations, for
example, of benefit payments after a Post Office problem

This domain includes a Data Warehouse which gathers information
from the operational system and a Financials System.

2.4.2 System Management Services Domain

The System Management Services Domain contains the services required
to manage and support the Pathway services in the other domains - both
during operational running and roll-out of new Post Offices.

System Management facilities include Software Distribution, Event
Management, Resource management, Inventory Management and
Network Management.

The Tivoli Management Environment (TME) provides the Central
System Management co-ordinating input from other management
software such as Patrol, which is used to provide event and resource
management of the Pathway Sequent systems, and HP Open View (with
Cisco Works) which is used for management of the routers.

Roll-out of new Post Offices is controlled by a Roll-out database and
associated facilities for auto-configuration of the Post Offices.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 15 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0014
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Support facilities include technical support of applications and
hardware.

The Horizon System Help Desk provides technical assistance on
hardware, software and network problems, calling on others when
needed. The Roll-out Support Desk supports the roll-out process.

2.4.3 Internal Pathway Services

A number of internal Pathway services interact with Pathway operational

and management services at the Pathway Data Centres. These include:

e The Powerhelp and PinICL systems which record and maintain
information about calls to the technical Help Desks and their
progress. Associated systems are used in support of lost keys and
passwords at Post Offices.

* The Dispatch-1 system which holds hardware inventory information
2.5 Pathway Sites and Responsibilities

The main Pathway services run at the secure Pathway Data Centres at
Wigan and Bootle. This includes:

© The operational systems of the Central Services Domain including
application hosts, agents and Correspondence servers

* The Management Information Services of the Pathway Corporate
Services Domain

¢ The System and Network Management services and services
supporting the implementation of the Post Offices.

The main operational and management services can be run at either site,
if needed, though there is a prime site for each. Figure 2-3 shows the
sites with electronic links to the Pathway Data Centres.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 16 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0015
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

CAPS, ESNS, TIP ete
at DSS, POCL and POCL Client sites

De La Rue sites \ I / Girobank sites

Card & token (7 IPayment Card Helpline!
production Pathway Data’ ’¥—>
—e Centres — TTS
(—CEMIND sites) a Pathway Management
Operational and Support Sites
Operational applications
Management Pathway Management
———) Management
CEM(DSD) sites Information Application support
Systems
system Implementation
Management Implementation ——————’
Horizon System services k—>[implementation supplier
Help Desk —T. and other support sites
Post Offices

Figure 2-3 Sites with links to the Pathway Data Centres

ICL Pathway has overall responsibility for the design, development, test,
implementation and operation of the Pathway services. Specific activities
are subcontracted to appropriate organisations as identified below.

© De La Rue/Thomas De La Rue manufacture cards, Pick up Notices
(PUNs) and temporary tokens, which are subsequently distributed by
Royal Mail. De La Rue are located on De La Rue sites (e.g.
Tewkesbury).

« ICL Outsourcing (Client Services Ireland) is responsible for the
operational management of the Sequent and other systems at the
Pathway Data Centres. They are also responsible for application
support of some applications on Sequent and VME. They are located
mainly at Belfast.

They are also responsible for Network Management, which is done at
the Data Centres, though it manages routers on other sites also.

« ICL Outsourcing (Distributed Services Division) is responsible for
the overall System Management of the Pathway information systems,
including software distribution, event and resource monitoring. They
are located at Stevenage, Lytham St Annes and one other site.

The Horizon System Help Desks and associated call handling system
and hardware inventory systems are also at ICL Outsourcing sites.

¢ Girobank run the Payment Card Helpline. These are at the Wigan

and Bootle sites, but in separate areas from the Pathway Data Centres.
Help Desk advisors have interactive access to the PAS/CMS database.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 17 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0016
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

© The ICL Pathway project runs Corporate Services including
Management, Auditing and Fraud and Risk Management. It also
manages implementation of the Horizon system at the Post Offices
supported by Implementation suppliers from other organisations
such as Peritas for training, Workplace Technologies for site
preparation and Exel for shipping and installation.

Pathway project users are mainly at Feltham, though there are also
secure sites at Bracknell and Kidsgrove. The Pathway Implementation
unit also has Regional offices. Implementation suppliers access
authorised implementation systems from their own sites.

e The Pathway System Support Centre - SSC, provides 3rd line support
for most applications and packages including Riposte. They are
located at a secure Pathway site (Bracknell).

¢ Onsite hardware support at the Data Centre is provided the
appropriate organisations. For example, Sorbus support the NT
systems and Sun the Solaris systems. These roles generally do not
require on-line access.

© Under exceptional circumstances, ICL Outsourcing or SSC need 3" or
4° line support from other organisations for software in the Pathway
system. For the following support organisations, controlled on-line
access from their own sites is being considered:

¢ Sequent supports the Dynix operating system.

¢ Oracle provides 3rd line support for Oracle databases and
applications.
¢ Cisco supports the routers.
¢ EMC supports the Symmetrix discs.
¢ General Signals provides support for the Symmetrix/Energis link.
No other organisations will have on-line access to the system. For

example, there is no on-line access by Microsoft for NT support or by
Escher for Riposte support.

¢ Sorbus/Exel will provide Engineers for Post Office roll-out.

¢ EDS runs the DSS CAPS system and the firewall between it and the
Pathway systems

¢ Girobank also perform Fraud Risk management functions.
This is at Bootle, but in a separate area from the Pathway Data Centre.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 18 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0017
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

The Pathway Access Control Policy covers control of access to resources
in the Pathway operational systems by all these organisations. It also
covers access to Pathway services by other organisations - particularly
Post Office staff accessing the Post Office systems. Other external access
includes, for example, by POCL auditors and the DSS Fraud
Investigation Team.

Later sections define the permitted accesses between these sites.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 19 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0018
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

31

PATHWAY WIDE ACCESS CONTROL POLICY

This identifies the overall policy and associated procedures and controls
which apply across the whole of the operational Pathway system.

Sections 4 to 8 deal with the procedures and controls in different
Pathway domains.

Objectives

The Pathway Security Policy specifies the following IT security objectives
for Pathway. This Access Control Policy defines how controls of access to
resources are used in achieving the following objectives.

1, Security measures in Pathway’s IT systems will ensure appropriate
confidentiality, integrity and availability of data, whether in storage or
in transit. Maintaining the integrity of the services and software
components is also essential.

2. Physical and logical access to the system will be controlled, with
access granted selectively and permitted only where there is a specific
need. Access will be limited to persons with appropriate
authorisation and a “need to know” requirement.

3. Authentication, whereby a user’s claimed identity is verified, is
essential before any access is granted to the system. Authentication
mechanisms are also required to ensure that trust relationships can be
established between communicating components within, and external
to, the system.

4. All users of Pathway’s services will be individually accountable for
their actions. Accountability for information assets will be maintained
by assigning owners, who will be responsible for defining who is
authorised to access the information. If responsibilities are delegated
then accountability will remain with the nominated owner of the
asset.

The Pathway Security Policy also specifies objectives for auditing, alarms
and monitoring of the system. These are only of concern to this Access
Control Policy in as much as they are part of the functionality of the
system for which access must be controlled.

Pathway Roles
Responsibility for performing functions within the Pathway system is

allocated on the basis of roles. This document identifies the following
types of human roles:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 20 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0019

POL00400793
POL00400793
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ Operational roles of the users of the system during normal running.
These include, for example, the Payment Card Helpline Advisors and
the Post Office Counter Clerks.

« System and Security Management roles. These are the people who
are responsible for maintaining and monitoring the system, including
adding new software and users.

* Support roles such as engineers and application support

People in specified roles are permitted to carry out defined functions,
normally by controls within the Pathway information systems. In a few
cases, manual procedures are used to supplement these.

Pathway controls which people can carry out which roles, and therefore
perform which functions. However, users are individually identified so
that they can be made accountable for their actions.

Roles are defined to support the functions in each of the Pathway
domains defined above. Where practical, the same or similar roles are
defined for several domains to reduce complexity and make it easier to
check compliance with the overall security policy. The following
subsections identify roles and major functions used in most Pathway
domains. In some domains, several of these functions are available in
one role to simplify administration where separation of these duties is
not required. This is defined in the more detailed sections of this
document about the individual domains. Several domains have specific
requirements which require use of particular roles.

A limited number of roles are “pathway wide” and so recognised in most
Pathway domains. These are the Pathway management roles which allow
auditing and investigation of all Pathway systems.

The Access Control Policy includes all roles for users who have direct
access to the Pathway operational systems and the related systems at the
Data Centres. In addition, this document includes a limited number of
roles of users who cause others to use the system on their behalf, for
example in response to a phone call.

Note that as many of Pathway’s operations are automated, access by
systems entities, for example, particular applications, must be controlled
as for human access to the system. This Access Control Policy covers
access by such system entities, but does not define roles for them.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 21 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0020
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
3-201 Operational Functions

It is Pathway policy to automate the operation of Pathway applications
where practical, thus reducing the need for human intervention and
associated access controls. Operational applications are automated at

the DSS/BA, POCL and Pathway Data Centres, as are transfers of data
to/from them and the Post Offices. Processes are initiated as the result of
some event such as the receipt of data. In these central domains, no
human intervention is required unless some exception condition occurs
or a query is received at the Help Desk. Control of access to resources for
automated processes results from the way the system is installed and
configured.

The operational roles are different in each domain. For example, there
are Pathway management functions at the Corporate services domain. At
the Post Office, operational roles are the Post Office Manager,
Supervisor and Counter Clerk, These should be taken as also referring to
the equivalent staff in franchises and Sub Post Offices including Sub
Postmasters and their staff.

3.2.2 Common System Management Functions

Functions to manage and administer systems are required in all
domains. Note that many such system management functions are done
remotely from the systems being managed.

The main management functions for a system in any of the domains (for
example, a Sequent machine supporting the PAS/CMS Services or a Post
Office set of counters and LAN etc) are as follows:

« System set-up and installation: setting up the base and application
software on the system and configuring it for live running. On
installation of some systems, cryptographic keys will also need to be
installed- see security management roles.

* Software Update: updating the software and reconfiguring it. Most
updates to software are done automatically by system management.
However, some base software updates need to be done manually on
site.

« System Management: monitoring events and resources in the

operational system and taking appropriate action to rectify problems.
Also, distributing software (complete new packages or patches).

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 22 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0021
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ Operational Management (sometimes called System
Administration): keeping the system running - responding to
incidents, keeping it correctly configured (where this is not done by
system management). This is mainly concerned with operating system
management, but may also involve some database administration.

¢ Computer operator: in most domains, this is a minimal role
involving switching on the machine, loading media and similar
operations. (Most management of the system is done as part of other
management roles.)

« Package Administration: Pathway uses a number of packages to
handle resources. The key packages and functions associated with
them are:

¢ Oracle Database Administration. This includes
administering the database structure set up and maintenance.

Access to databases is often controlled by packages such as
Discoverer and Business Objects which also require
administration.

¢ Riposte Administration. Management of Riposte message
stores and groups is largely done automatically.

¢ Tivoli Administration. This is used to configure what Tivoli
manages and set thresholds etc. (Specifying the Tivoli roles
and regions etc is also a security management function). See
section 8 for more about Tivoli.

« Application Management: Managing the running of the
applications themselves where human intervention is needed.

Note that some of these functions are carried out in the System

Management Domain. Further management functions there are:

« Network Management: managing the network, including routers
and firewalls, which connects machines and domains together.

¢ Implementation management: managing the roll out of the
Pathway solution to Post Offices.

3.2.3 Common Security Management Functions

There are a number of management functions particularly concerned
with security. In practice, these will often be performed by people in
other management roles, but in that case, are defined as part of the
responsibilities for that role. Security management functions are:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 23 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0022
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ User administration: administering user security information such
as their authentication information, the roles they can perform and
the groups they belong to. It may involve operating systems (e.g.
Dynix, NT) and packages (Oracle, Riposte, Tivoli) etc. It may be split
into:
© initial set up of roles/groups and key users
¢ individual user management, including removing the rights of
users who have changed jobs or left the organisation
© periodic checks for, and removal of, redundant users
« Resource access control: administering who can access which
resources in the operating system, database or applications. Unless
otherwise stated, human user access to resources is based on role
rather than individual user identity. This is generally done as part of
the management or administration of the particular system, package
or application.

In addition, there are Pathway wide roles for Security Event Auditing
and Cryptographic Key Management (see 3.2.5). There may be local
auditing functions in some areas as well as the Pathway wide function.

3.2.4 Common Support Functions

Support functions are primarily concerned with:

¢ Keeping applications operational
Application support, including diagnosing application problems at the
Post office, is mainly done remotely.

¢ Training staff to carry out their defined roles.
On-line training is provided at Post Offices and Payment Card
Helpline.

* Keeping all equipment operational. This includes:

¢ Running diagnostic applications to check for equipment faults (at
the Post Office, done by the Post Office Manager, as well as
engineers,

¢ Installing new Post Offices; done by Installation Engineers

¢ Replacing and reconfiguring hardware; done by Support
Engineers. This includes network boxes as well as NT and UNIX
systems.

¢ Technical Help Desks for reporting, and getting advice on,
problems

3.2.5 Pathway Wide Roles

People in the following roles have access to several of the domains:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 24 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0023
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

« Pathway Business Support. This role supports the business
operations. For example, it handles financial reconciliation of
payments.

« Pathway Fraud and Risk Manager (FRM). Concerned with
identifying, monitoring and managing fraud, particularly in benefit
payments.

While much of this is done using MIS systems, FRM staff also access
operational Pathway systems such as the TMS journals and PAS/CMS
data.

« Pathway Security Manager: Responsible for managing security
tokens for all Pathway users authenticating using tokens, and also
other functions.

« Pathway Cryptographic Key Manager: Responsible for generating
and distributing keys all cryptographic keys used in Pathway to
protect communications links, digitally sign information and encrypt
filestore.

The Key Manager will delegate some responsibility for installing and
updating keys to Pathway Cryptographic Key Custodians and
Cryptographic Key Handlers.

e Pathway Security Event Auditor: Responsible for auditing all use of
the Pathway systems, so requiring access to most of the Pathway
systems. (Access to the Post Offices is not required, as TMS provides
sufficient records of Post Office activity at the Pathway central site.)

« Pathway Business Function Auditor: Responsible for general
auditing of the Pathway system focusing on business, rather than
security, auditing. Note that the Pathway Security Event Auditor and
the Pathway Business Function Auditor access much of the same
information (though look at it differently). Therefore the term
Auditor (meaning both these auditors) is used where both have the
same access to systems.

These Pathway Management roles are described further in section 7 on
the Pathway Corporate Services Domain.

3.2.6 External Roles

In addition to the Pathway roles defined above, POCL customers use the
system indirectly at the Post Office (see section 5).

Some people in POCL, DSS/BA and others also access the system. These
are:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 25 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0024
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ POCL Auditors, Investigators and Emergency Managers who can
access services at Post Offices as described in chapter 5. They also
have access to audit information at the Data Centres via Pathway
Auditors - see 7.6.

* DSS and NAO Auditors have similar access to central audit
information.

¢ Benefit Agency staff use the on-line CAPS interface, for example, to
make emergency payments or stop cards or payments.

* DSS Help Desk staff are expected to use the on-line CAPS interface
for queries e.g. on authorised payments.

¢ DSS Fraud Investigation Team access the FRM database and a
limited amount of information in the Data Warehouse - see chapter 7.

POCL, DSS and NAO Auditors also have access to audit information at
the Data Centres. Initially this will be provided via Pathway Auditors,
rather than by these auditors having direct access to the Pathway
systems. Note that in this document, POCL, DSS and NAO Auditors are
often referred to collectively as External Auditors and are shown as being
subject to the same access controls, However, there are some differences
in data available to different External Auditors in line with [AUDT]. For
example, DSS staff cannot access POCL specific data.

3.3 Types of Information and its Use

The Pathway Access Control policy protects information in all Pathway
systems. For example, benefits information is protected from its receipt
from DSS/BA through its processing in Pathway and at the Post offices to
the return of transaction information to BA/POCL. This includes
protection of information during fault investigations and correction and
information retained for auditing and fraud investigation.

Information in the Pathway system includes:

« The business data such as the payment authorisation data to support
the PAS system, the reference data to support EPOSS and the
transaction data resulting from Post Office counter activities. This is
stored at the main operation systems and also in archives. Some data
is also available for management services at the Data Warehouse.

© Training information - special business style data used in training
sessions

© On-line documentation e.g. Payment Card Helpline procedures, Post
Office procedures

© Operational systems data such as the software, configuration
information, Tivoli scripts, system management event logs etc.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 26 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0025
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

© Security information about users, keys, security audit logs etc

Most processing of the business information, except at the Post Office, is
automated and therefore not subject to human access. Most processing
of system data is also automated.

All information is protected in conformance to the Security Functional
Specification and Pathway Security Policy.

3.341 DSS and related business data is classified as RESTRICTED according to
the UK government classifications and must be protected accordingly.
Access to data with a National Sensitivity Indicator is further limited to
authorised staff.

3.3.1.2 Where human access to this information is needed, for example by Help
Desks and for system management, the information should only be
accessible to those with a need to see it according to their role.

3.31.3 Information in transit between systems should be encrypted for
confidentiality and/or integrity according to the needs of the particular
link as defined in the Security Functional Specification [SFS].

3.3.1.4 Digital signatures should be used for integrity of business information
between the Post Offices and other services where required. For
example, payment authorisations sent from Pathway are signed;
Automated Payments are signed at the Post Office prior to transmission
via Pathway to POCL or POCL Clients.

3.315 System data should also be integrity protected when required. Digital
signatures are used for integrity protection of software and scripts
distributed to the Post Offices and elsewhere. Appropriate key
distribution protocols as defined in [SFS] are used to protect all
cryptographic keys.

3.3.1.6 Business information in filestore at the Post Office PCs should be
encrypted.
3.31.7 Information in relational databases should be accessible only via

authorised client “applications” (such as Oracle Forms, Discoverer,
Business Objects, Tivoli database interfaces) except where there is a
proven need for lower level access. Lower level access will only be
granted for agreed operational management and support functions.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 27 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0026
POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

3.3.1.8 System Management actions by Tivoli should be activated using pre-
defined Tivoli tasks, authorised for use by SMC and the Pathway
configuration management and software distribution process. This
includes collection of diagnostic information from the Post Office for
application support.

3.3.19 RESTRICTED data on discs and other media (including printed output)
should not be accessible for unauthorised use. For example, archives
should be stored securely; information on faulty discs removed from
service should be inaccessible.

3.31.10 Information should be appropriately separated in filestore, database
tables etc. Each data set should be accessible only to those with a need
for that access.

3-4 Information System Controls
3-4-1 Implementing Role Based Access Controls

Human user access to the functions of the system is controlled according
to the user’s role. Authentication procedures prove the user’s identity.
Authorisation procedures check the user’s right to carry out the role.
Access controls functions associated with resources will check that the
user with this role is permitted to access the resource.

The way roles and the associated access controls are implemented in the
information systems depends on the products used. For example, Oracle
and Tivoli support roles, so can use roles directly in access control lists
(rather than identity). Other products such as Riposte, UNIX and
Windows NT support groups which can be used to represent roles.

Implementing role based access control involves:

« Administering information about users including role/group (as well
as identity), authentication information (such as passwords) and
other security relevant information associated with users in this role
such as operating system privileges, database views.

« Authenticating users via the appropriate method for someone in that
role at that location. At some locations, such as the Post offices,
permitted roles/groups are automatically associated with a user when
the user logs on. At other locations, the users are given limited
privileges on log-on and have to ask for others, though will still be
restricted to authorised privileges. (This particularly applies to some
management functions. For example, no user is allowed to log onto
UNIX with root access, though may be permitted a controlled change
to root access later - see 3.4.2.15.)

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 28 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0027
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ Administering access control information associated with resources
e.g. which users in which roles with which privileges can access which
resources (files, data and other objects) in which ways.

Roles will normally be associated with major functions. Defining
separate roles allows different functions to be allocated to different
individuals. However, the actual allocation of roles to individuals is done
by administrative action. Some users can be permitted to carry out more
than one major function, so are permitted to take more than one “role”,
but this will not be done where it might undermine security.

The way individuals are allocated to roles depends on the products used
in the different Pathway domains and is defined further in the later
sections of this document. Some general principles apply:

3.4.11 The principle of “least privilege” should apply to restrict the access rights
of users.
3.4.1.2 Duties of different users should be separated to minimise the damage

that any one user can do to the system or the information in it.

3.4.1.3 Ifa role at a particular location is allocated to a single person, there
should generally be at least one other person who can deputise for that
person. (At small Post Offices where no deputy is available, if the Post
Office Manager is unavailable, the Post Office will not open until
emergency procedures have been invoked.)

3-4.2 Access Controls at Pathway Platforms

Much of the operational Pathway system is automated and does not
require human intervention except at the Post Office. The main human
users of the central systems are the system management and support
users, The Pathway systems are configured to reduce the risks of human
users interfering with the automated applications and of these
applications interfering with each other.

This section gives the policy for how access controls at all Pathway
platforms are configured. It gives the standard policy which applies to all
domains and identifies where variants are permitted. In these cases, the
variant is defined for the domain in which it is allowed in sections 4 to 8
below. No other variants are permitted.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 29 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0028
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
3.4.24 Workstations from which operational systems can be updated should

have floppy drives disabled. Servers should have floppy drives disabled at
boot time. Booting from CDROM should also be disabled once a system
has been configured. In all cases, exceptions to this rule must be agreed
with Pathway Security Management and Horizon and be documented.

3.4.2.2 Workstations at the Post Office display sensitive business data (e.g.
about payments) as part of normal operation. All other workstations
which can display sensitive information should be in physically secure
areas.

3.4.2.3 All systems should have the required roles, groups and other privileges
set up on installation. It should rarely be necessary to update these.
“Guest” users must not be enabled in the installed systems, and where
possible, should not be included. Other generic users should not be
accessible for user logon except in exceptional circumstances explicitly
defined in the appropriate section below.

3.4.2.4 After a workstation is booted up, a log-in screen should be displayed
which cannot be by-passed.

3.4.2.5 People accessing Pathway systems are required to identify themselves
using hand held tokens if:

e They are at sites remote from the Data Centre and can update
operational or MIS systems (for example, to perform systems
management actions)

* They can access BA and/or POCL business data (except at Post
Offices).

* They are authorised to update system data which can affect the
running of the Pathway systems. This includes people who have UNIX
root privilege, NT users belonging to the administrators group and
database administrators.

3.4.2.6 Where such tokens are used for authentication, the associated PIN must
be at least 6 characters long.

3-4.2.7 If a user who authenticates with a token to one system/domain needs to
perform an additional authentication to another system, the second
authentication should also be a token based one, using the same token.
Agreed exceptions to this must be documented.

3.4.2.8 Each user will have an individually allocated token except in
emergencies, for example, when a token is lost. In such cases, specific
authentication will be agreed.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 30 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0029
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

3.4.2.9 Where passwords are used for authentication, the user is forced to

change the initial password before any other access to the system is

permitted.
3-4.2.10 Passwords will expire in 30 days unless otherwise stated (in the section

on the appropriate domain).
3.4.2.1 Re-use of the same password is not permitted for either a specified time

or until at least 3 other passwords have been used.
3.4.2.2 The minimum password length is 6 characters.

3.4.2.3 After 3 consecutive unsuccessful attempts to log-on, the user is locked
out unless otherwise stated.

3.4.2.4 People are identified to the Pathway system as individuals. Users with
direct access to the system are registered as follows.

« Ifaccessing the system via a package such as Oracle or Tivoli, they are
registered with that package.

* Users who require direct access to the operating system are registered
with that operating system

e Users requiring token authentication are also registered with the
appropriate authentication service.

(The only exceptions allowed to this are the specific cases identified in
later sections of this document. In these limited exceptional cases, the
user, for example, an engineer, is identified as an individual using
manual means prior to using the system in a way specially set up for this,
and where the use of the system is suitably monitored.)

3.4.2.15 Users are authenticated with their individual usernames on first
accessing the system. A change to use another username, will only be
permitted to certain authorised management roles in exceptional
circumstances as specified in the appropriate later section (for example,
for Sequent systems in 4.2.2). Any change to use another username is
controlled (as specified in that section) and audited in a way which will
always be recorded.

3-4.2.16 The filestore is structured to prevent interference between users and
between applications.

3.4.2.17 Access to shared resources such as filestore is controlled by:
* Access to that filestore being restricted to a specific product which is
available only to authorised users. (Most access is controlled this way
as most use of the system is automated), or

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 31 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0030
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ Access to those resources being restricted to users in specified roles.
(Group ids may be used to represent roles. Access control lists using
these will ensure that only authorised people can access the resource).

3.4.2.18 Access to Tivoli and Oracle resources will use role based access controls.

3-4.2.19 Security audit logs are protected from everyone except those permitted
to take specified Security Event Auditor roles. Unless otherwise specified
for a particular domain (such as the Post offices) , the security auditing
role is separate from other roles at that domain.

3.4.2.20 Passwords are stored in encrypted form separately from application data
and executable code, except for the specific cases listed in 3.4.3.1.

3-4.2.21 Interference between applications is prevented. For example, at any
system, different applications run in their own user names or that of the
user calling them (or at the Post Office, in the Riposte username
impersonating the user).

3.4.2.22 Packages (such as Oracle and Tivoli) and applications above the
operating system must also conform to the Access Control Policy. For
example, Oracle should restrict Payment Card Helpline users to the
authorised tables and views.

3-4.2.23 Audit records are generated at the server for client-server applications
(such as Oracle Forms applications using PAS/CMS) so audit logs do not
rely on input from workstations.

3.4.2.24 Where a product is delivered with pre-defined usernames for human
users, these should be deleted (or if this is not possible, disabled) once
the initial individual usernames for administering the system have been
set-up. Usernames should be disabled by changing to a password which
is extremely difficult to guess, then storing this password in a safe.

3-4.3 Non Human Users

As much of the operational Pathway system is automated, some users
are system, not human users, so there are usernames and passwords for
both types of users. In general, system users should be subject to the
controls specified above (e.g. for password protection), as such
usernames generally cannot be confined to human users only, so human
users can potentially access usernames intended for system users.
However, some differences are permitted.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 32 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0031
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
3.4.34 The username and password used to automate the log-in may be held in

clear if it is only accessible to authorised operational management staff
for that system and the potential damage from mis-use of that username
is minimised.

34.932 The password may expire less frequently than the 30 days for human
users where suitably obscure passwords are used, and the risk of external
access to such accounts is very low.

3-464 Engineering Access

Where possible, engineering access to the machines, for example, for
hardware diagnosis and repair, is subject to the controls specified above.
However, in some limited circumstances, for example, when the
operating system cannot be booted, special access is needed, by-passing
the normal controls. In such cases, any visiting engineer must be subject
to the “authentication of visitors” procedures (see 3.5.3) and two people
must be present during such access.

3-445 Workstation Related Access Controls

The Access Control Policy covers the security of the workstations used
by humans to access the Pathway services where this affects the security
of the system. The security required depends on the type of access the
user has to the system and the security of the route to the system
accessed. The following policies are in addition to those in 3.4.2 above.

3.4.5.1 Users with interactive access to Pathway systems should use controlled,
NT workstations where the workstation set-up, including services
available at that workstation, is controlled by Pathway.

3.4.5.2 Use of other workstations are only permitted when access is constrained
to a single system (via network controls), this system does not store
sensitive BA or POCL business data and access is limited to agreed types.
All such exceptions to the “controlled NT” workstation policy must be
authorised and documented in the ACP.

3.4.5.3 Workstations which have access to sensitive data should be on separate
networks linked only into the Pathway secure network. Any exceptions
to this must be documented in this Access Control Policy.
Documentation on exceptions must explain how the sensitive data is
protected from other networks accessible from the workstation,
including use of routers and firewalls and how these are configured to
prevent undesirable traffic.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 33 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0032
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
3.4.5.4 Where workstations and servers require access to both the Pathway Data

Centres and other systems, an authorised combination of routers and
firewalls should be configured to restrict the traffic to that permitted. All
such cases must be documented in this Access Control Policy and are
confined to the Pathway Corporate Services sites.

3.4.6 Controlling Traffic between Systems

Pathway controls should restrict who can access what services so there is
no unnecessary access to services. This covers all traffic in and out of, as
well as within, the Pathway campus. Controls are enforced using a
combination of access lists at routers, platform controls on use of ports
and other application gateway/firewall controls where needed.

General policies in addition to the workstation related ones in 3.4.5 are
given below. More specific policies are in 8.10.

3.4.6.1 All accesses in and out of the Pathway Data Centres should be restricted
to the required traffic from/to authorised sources using routers and
firewalls. Such traffic should be routed only to the ports at systems
which require that traffic.

3.4.6.2 Traffic originating within the Pathway Data Centres is generally initiated
by controlled applications. These applications (and the way they are
configured in the system) should restrict traffic between systems to that
needed.

3.4.6.3 Where there are specific systems subject to higher risks or vulnerabilities
in the Data Centre network, additional network controls should be used.
All such special cases should be documented in the ACP.

3.4.6.4 Accesses to/from the Pathway Data Centres such as CAPS, TIP and SMC
will have well defined, controlled links with cryptographic protection
where needed as specified in the [SFS].

3.4.6.5 External support users of Pathway systems should be permitted access to
the Pathway Data Centres only from approved remote sites, only when
authorised to carry out a specific support activity and only via controlled
routes as specified in this Access Control Policy.

3.4.6.6 No other accesses in and out of Pathway should be permitted.
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 34 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0033
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
35 Other Access Controls

In some cases, the information system cannot provide all the access
controls required. For example, telephone contacts cannot use normal IT
authentication procedures. In these cases, some other form of
authentication is required.

3.5.1 Customer Authentication

Customers authenticate themselves at Post offices using PUN, card and
responses to questions - see [SADD] and section 5.

Customers may also need to provide some proof of identity to the
Payment Card Helpline, depending on the type of call - see 5.3.5.

3.5.2 Other Telephone Authentication to Help Desks

Apart from customers, Help Desks may receive calls from at least Post
Offices, POCL offices, DSS offices and Pathway sites. Many of these calls
come from offices and sites known to the Help Desks. In many cases, the
request will not be actioned unless the source of the call has been
authenticated.

Both the Payment Card Helpline and the Horizon System Help Desk will
maintain information on the Post Office and other relevant sites and
offices. The caller is asked for information to authenticate the location,
and if required, the individual which the Help Desk can verify. The
information known about such offices and sites includes the office code,
possibly the telephone number, the address and for some sites, the
name of the contact.

For certain cases, different (normally extended) authentication is
required supported by further information. The methods used for
authentication in these cases are included in the definition of the
appropriate domain.

3.53 Authentication of Visitors

Some visitors to both Pathway and Post Office sites need access to the IT
system. Such visitors will have a company identity card which includes
their photograph, signature and pass number. Unless otherwise stated,
for all such visits, the pass number of the visitor must be notified in
advance to the relevant manager; access will not be permitted if this has
not been done. However, Auditors will visit Post Offices and other sites
without prior notice to the Post Office Manager.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 35 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0034
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Pathway visitors to Post Offices are subject to Pathway vetting
procedures and approval by Horizon. Visitors to Pathway sites are
subject to Pathway vetting procedures.

At the Post Office, visitors such as engineers and auditors are not known
individually to the system. However, they are known to the Horizon
System Help Desk, and authentication includes use of a one-time
password which requires calling the Help Desk. In these cases, the
telephone authentication procedure described in 3.6.2 is used to identify
the site, and is supplemented by verification of the particular visitor,
generally including their pass number.

3.6 Key Management

Cryptography is used widely in Pathway as described in the Security

Functional Specification [SFS]. For example, it is used for:

¢ Protecting information on links for confidentiality, integrity and
origin authentication in line with the requirements for that link.

¢ Digitally signing information such as benefit authorisations,
automated payments and software in transit across systems.

¢ Filestore encryption at the Post Office.

This Access Control Policy defines how the required cryptographic keys
are protected when in the information systems. As different keys are
protected in different ways, general policies are given here, with specific
controls defined with the other controls at the appropriate system where

needed.

3.6.1.1 CESG approved keys must be protected in line with CESG requirements.

3.6.1.2 Key material (symmetric keys, DSA private keys and DSA entropy)
should be held in clear only when in physically secure environments.

3.6.1.3 Public keys (except for the CA’s public key) should be held in certificates
signed by the Certification Authority.

3.6.1.4 Symmetric keys should only be stored where necessary, and be held
securely.

3.6.1.5 Keys (or part keys) held in filestore must be in separate filestore

accessible only to authorised key custodians via authorised applications.

3.6.1.6 Keys used for protecting data should not be resident in filestore in clear.
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 36 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0035
POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

3.6.1.7 Keys should be changed periodically according to CESG policy. Different
periods may apply to Symmetric Keys used for encrypting data, Key
Encryption Keys (KEKs) used to encrypt other keys and Certification
Authority keys.

3.6.1.8 New KEKs should not be distributed solely under the protection of
existing KEKs.

3.6.1.9 Key material in transit electronically must be encrypted (except for
CHAP keys between the routers within the Pathway Data Centre LAN).

3-6.1.10 Cryptographic keys and Key Encryption Keys are either installed locally
at the machine where they are to be used, or are distributed
electronically using an approved protocol which protects these keys in
transit.

3.6.1.1 Where a key is delivered in two parts (e.g. a red key and a black key), the
parts should be delivered by different routes.

3.6.1.12 The key (or part key) to be handled manually must be held in a locked
safe when not in use. Access to this must be authorised and recorded in
conformance with Pathway procedures.

37 Effect on other Pathway Standards and Procedures

This Access Control Policy defines the policy for controlling access to
resources in the operational Pathway system. As explained in section 1.2,
there are other documents covering detailed configuration of Pathway
systems, physical security standards and procedures used when
operating the system. The effect of the Access Control Policy on these
other documents is:

3-711 The detailed configurations documents covering the different Pathway
systems define how this Access Control Policy is achieved. For example,
they should say how the roles defined here are set up to restrict access as
required.

3.74.2 The roles defined in this document should be used in other security
standards and procedures, not just information system controls. For
example,
© procedures for controlling access to secure areas must take into
account the roles of people and the organisations to which they
belong

e where a role requires access to sensitive data, this should be reflected
in the level of vetting required for staff in that role.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 37 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0036
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

© users in these roles must be controlled through a formal registration
process. Each user must be authorised to take that role by the
appropriate authority before being added to the IT system. Records of
all persons registered to use the system must be kept, though the way
this is done may be role or service dependent.

3-713 This Access Control Policy depends on Pathway procedures in some
places. The key ones are:

« Pathway (and associated) staff visiting other sites must have a identity
pass with photograph and signature. This must be from a relevant
organisation which gives such passes to suitably vetted staff only.

© Post Office procedures which must include how to add users to
Riposte, how to physically protect tokens and passwords, procedures
for telephone authentication to Help Desks etc

© Girobank procedures associated with the Payment Card Helpline.
These include procedures for telephone authentication and action to
be taken on different types of calls. It also includes Girobank
procedures need to cover user and system administration in line with
this policy.

* Operational management and application support procedures
(particularly CFM and SSC). These must detail, for example, how
remote access is properly authorised and the lines configured to allow
this when needed (see sections 4 and 8).

« System management procedures to authorise, for example,
distribution of software.

© Technical Help Desk procedures to ensure all relevant calls are logged
with the help desk systems system and properly monitored.

© General procedures for all users of the system. This will include, for
example, procedures on password use and incident reporting. For
users authenticating using security tokens it will also cover
precautions for protecting the tokens and associated PINs.

¢ Internal Pathway procedures, for example, for authorising software
for inclusion in the live system.

The Pathway Security Manager will satisfy himself that the procedures at
the various sites are in compliance with the Pathway security policies
and specifications.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 38 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0037
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
CENTRAL SERVICES DOMAIN
41 Introduction
The Central Services Domain is illustrated in figure 4-1.
POCL HAPS/ POCL POCL DSS DSS
POCL Clients TIP refdata ESNS = CAPS
Sdquent
Hosts card
[aes] [ TPs] kDMc] [oBcs] [pasicms} prod’n
Management m™
& Support. [NiSend Data
users —t arehouse
TMy Agents Related feeds

TIP Ref Data IOBCS] I BES services

[Harvester] I Agent I IAgentsI IAgents e.g.
T

T T T :
t t t t security,

time

/

Correspondence Servers (Riposte)

[

Post Offices

Figure 4-1 Interactions in the Central Services Domain

The hosts at the Central Services Domain are on Sequent machines
running Oracle applications. (New hosts, and host ancillary systems may
be added.)

The TMS agents interface between the application hosts and the
Transaction Management Service (TMS), extracting data from the host
and formatting it for transmission to the Post Offices as Riposte
messages and vice versa. The agents use SQL*Net to access specific
Oracle tables set up for such transfer at the hosts, either to retrieve
information to send to the Post office or to update tables as the result of
messages received from the Post office. TIP Harvester Agents extract all
transactions from the correspondence servers (via the Riposte API) for
forward transmission to TIP and elsewhere.

Riposte at the Correspondence servers and Post Offices provide the
Transaction Management Service which records all transactions at the
Post Office Counters and archives them.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 39 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0038
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

The main operational flows though the hosts, TMS Agents and TMS are
automated (as is most System Management).

Sequent Systems with Oracle Databases

All the host systems in this domain run on the Dynix operating system
on Sequent and use Oracle databases, though the Access Services, which
feed information to and from the applications, in some cases hold data
in flat files. Interactions with Sequent systems are illustrated in figure 4-
2,

Data feeds to/from
DSS,POCL & Clients

Application specific __I Seared apr I__ System Management
roles I

A uditors Access Services Operational Management
security & I] to other systems I [-~Sequent/Dynix, Oracle db,
other auditors via PCs for,other links) job scheduling
Security Manager
user ete admin

ate Base Installation
Applications
Support users and sbaee ane
application & = —I Databases -— ESE ae

hardware diagnosis/repair
system support T y

Automatic feeds _ card/tokenfeeds
to/from TMS — (CMS/De La Rue)

‘Data Warehouse feeds

Figure 4-2 Interactions with Sequent systems

Processing on the Sequent systems is normally initiated automatically as
the result of files being received or at a particular time. So the main
processing is controlled purely as the result of the way the system is set
up, not by controlling human access to the system. Similarly, where
practical, system management is done automatically (see section 8). As
the results of monitoring the system, the need to take some remedial
action may be recognised. Only where this action cannot be taken
automatically is human intervention required.

Direct users of the Sequent system are defined in 4.2.1. The main users
are:

¢ Security managers who manage security information about users and
their privileges, groups etc.

¢ Operational Managers/System Administrators managing the Dynix
operating system and Oracle databases. The normal role here is

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 40 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0039

POL00400793
POL00400793
ICL Pathway

Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

4.2.1

monitoring the system. More active use of the system occurs as the

result of incidents.

« Application support people diagnosing software faults and engineers
diagnosing and clearing hardware faults

© Security and other Auditors

e Application specific roles as detailed in 4.3 below.

Roles

People in the following roles have direct access to the Sequent machines.

Role

Main classes of functions

Computer Operator

Physical operations e.g. media handling, and the ability to
run pre-defined jobs, such as back-ups.

System Monitoring

Monitoring the operational system using Patrol.

Database monitor

Monitoring Oracle databases

Operational
management/
System Administrator

Management of Dynix including any action needed
concerned with replication between campuses and local
archiving.

Operational monitoring/management using Patrol
workstations.

Job scheduling (Sequent & NT) using Maestro workstation.
Code updates when required quickly (prior to update via
configuration management) and authorised

Operational manag’t/
Database
administrator

Oracle database administrator for database structure -
setting up views, space allocation etc.

Secure menu
administrator

Configuration of the secure menu system, including
addition of new functions

Security Management

‘Administering UNIX user information, including group
membership for all users of the Sequent system.
Administering Oracle database administrator (DBA) users
and associated roles and privileges.

Administering users rights in the Secure menu system
Security monitoring

Dynix 3rd line support

Operational management of Dynix by Sequent staff when
CFM cannot cure problem.

Database 3rd line
support

Operational management of Oracle when CFM cannot cure
problem. This may sometimes require updating the
database.

Application support
user

Supporting applications on Sequent - both Oracle
applications and Access services.

Application support
manager

Supporting applications as above, plus correcting data
when required and authorised.

Application support -

Using Sonnet on Sequent to access the Pathway partition

VME applications on DSS VME systems for application support
Application 3rd line _ I Supporting Oracle applications

support

Engineer Hardware diagnostics and repair

Base Installation and

Initial installation and configuration the base system -

Printed: [ DATE \I]
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

Page 41 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0040

POL00400793
POL00400793
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Role Main classes of functions
configuration Sequent and Oracle databases. Later updates to these.
(Business Function Access to audit trails, when these are not available
and Security Event) I elsewhere
Auditor

The Sequent operational system uses symmetrix discs. These are linked
across Data Centres via the Energis network. The roles and associated
access controls for supporting the symmetrix disc controller and the
network box which connects these discs to the Energis network are
covered in 8.8 below.

4.2.2 System Access Controls for Human Roles

As for all domains, system access controls conform to the policies in
section 3.

Users access the system at the operating system and/or Oracle level -
many of the roles above require both levels of use.

Note that users of specific host applications only (see 4.3) should be
Oracle users, not operating system users.

4.2.21 System Level Access Controls

System level access controls at the Sequent system are enforced using
Dynix facilities with some additions. All users requiring UNIX level
access to the system will access it using a Secure Menu System. This
constrains the functions called depending on the user’s role and audits
all functions performed by that user. Most management activities should
be done using specific functions on the menu. Where the function
requires a change of username, that will be done automatically by the
menu system and audited. Changes to username will also cause a Patrol
event. For emergency use, the menu will include an item which provides
root access and use of UNIX commands.

Engineering access when the operating system cannot be fully booted, is
via “single user mode” under controlled conditions (see 3.4.4). Single
user mode should only be used when more controlled methods are not
possible.

4.2.2.2 Oracle Application Access Controls

Oracle users can access Oracle applications and databases in several
ways:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 42 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0041
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

© Oracle applications or other tools on the user’s workstation, accessing
the database via SQL*Net.

e SQL*Plus and other facilities on the Sequent system, called via the
secure menu system above. (SQL*Plus should not be used in client-
server mode.)

« System management tools using system management protocols

Database administration functions should use:

¢ Patrol for monitoring the database

e Pre-defined Discover queries to examine the state of the database.
(Discoverer should be configured to restrict access to the tables and
views needed for the task and audit actions.)

e Pre-defined, authorised SQL*Plus for database updates (which should
include auditing)

Application support should use:

e Discover queries to examine the data

* Pre-defined forms for correcting standard types of data problem

« Pre-authorised SQL*Plus scripts for correcting other data problems

Pre-defined forms and pre-authorised scripts should audit the correction
made.

Note that application support users also need system level access, for
example, for access to code.

Human users of an Oracle database or application, are registered with
the particular Oracle database server as users of specific Oracle roles.
The following Oracle roles should be defined for all Oracle applications.
(This section includes only those roles which are supported for all Oracle
databases - specific roles for specific applications are defined in 5 for
PAS/CMS and 4.3 for other applications). Note that in some cases,
people with different human roles may have the same access to the same
Oracle role.

Oracle role Functions, and roles
MONITOR Read only access to application data in this database
- used by Auditors, FRM, application support etc
AUDITOR As MONITOR plus access to audit information
- used by auditors
CFM_DBA Full dba privileges
ssc As for MONITOR, plus limited updates, implemented by
pre-defined, authorised forms

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 43 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0042
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Note that there are also roles for non-human users such as system
management tools and TMS agents.

Table of Access Controls by Role

The following table specifies for each role how users access the system
(workstation type and location), how they are authenticated and where
defined and what resources are available to people with this role. Note
that some of the operational and system management users have access
to a number of systems and are described more fully in section 8.
Information in this section is limited to their use of the Sequent system.

Role Workstation type I Authentication Resources
and Location method & where user available
defined
Computer I console UNIX/secure menu with I Predefined jobs in
Operator token secure menu system
only
System X terminal (or token authentication Resources as
Monitoring I emulator) at Data available via Patrol
Centre and CFM
site
Database NT workstation at UNIX/secure menu with I Read only use of
monitor secure CFM site token SQL*Plus, svrmgr
Operational I NT Workstation (X I UNIX/secure menu plus I Functions as on
Managemen I terminals or token authentication (see I menu. This can allow
t/ emulators for Patrol I note 3). use of root and UNIX
System & Maestro) commands and
administrato I CFM secure site Oracle dba
r functions.
Database NT workstation at UNIX/secure menu using I Functions as on
administrato I secure CFM site token authentication; menu - this can
r Oracle user registered allow Oracle dba
with associated role for functions for
dba functions specified
applications

(CFM_DBA role)
Secure menu I NT workstation at I UNIX/secure menu using I Defined functions for

administrato I secure CFM site token authentication; menu admin

r

Security NT workstation on I UNIX/secure menu and I User information in

Managemen I secure LAN token (see note 3). UNIX, secure menu

t CFM site Oracle user registered as_I system and Oracle

above

Dynix 3rd NT workstation. UNIX/secure menu plus I UNIX, which can

line support I Secure site (see token include root access
notes 6 and 7) (see notes 5 and 6)

Oracle db NT workstation. UNIX/secure menu plus__I Read only access;

3rd line Secure site (see token Oracle dba, & limited

support note 6) (see notes 5 and 6) UNIX functions.

Application I NT workstation at I UNIX/secure menu plus I Read only access to
Support user_I secure Pathway site_I token; Registered Oracle_I event logs and other

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 44 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0043
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Workstation type I Authentication Resources
and Location method & where user available
defined
user relevant files and
databases; Oracle
MONITOR role
Application I NT workstation at UNIX/secure menu plus I As above, plus
support secure Pathway site I token; Registered Oracle I controlled write
manager user access to application
data - Oracle SSC
role (see note 9)
VME NT workstation at UNIX/secure menu at Sonnet, for VME
application I secure site Sequent (also VME user) I access
support
Application I NT workstation at _ I UNIX/secure Read only access to
3" line secure site (note 6) I menu/Oracle application I application; Oracle
support plus token MONITOR role
Engineer computer console. I UNIX with engineer ‘Access to diagnostics
Data Centre password (see notes 5 & _I and, if needed, data
2D on suspect hardware
Base computer console UNIX most
Installation _I Data Centre
Auditor NT w/s on secure UNIX/secure Audit logs -
LAN; Pathway site I menu/Oracle and token _I platform, secure
(Feltham) authentication menu, database,
application;
includes Oracle
AUDITOR role
Notes:

1. Wherever possible, responses to events are automated, to prevent the
need for human interaction.

2. Wherever possible, responses to events which require human
interactions are performed using pre-defined functions, rather than
command line access to the system.

3. Operational management staff always authenticate under their own
names to UNIX and perform functions wherever possible without
superuser/root privileges (see 3.4.2.15). If root is needed, the
appropriate menu item on the secure menu system will be used to
switch users. This will be audited and an alert sent to Patrol so a
record remains available even if the audit log at the UNIX machine is
subsequently corrupted.

4. Emergency operational management is currently expected to be from
the CFM secure site at Belfast.

5. All visiting staff are subject to manual procedures on entering the
secure Pathway site to authenticate who they are and authorise their
access to the computer room - see 3.5.3.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 45 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0044
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

6. Where Sequent and Oracle staff provide 3rd line support, this may be
from Sequent and Oracle sites. In this case, access is from a secure
area using a secure NT workstation on a secure LAN via encrypted
links to the Data Centre - see 8.2.1 and 8.10. Call in procedures are as
in 8.2.2.

7. As Sequent require root access, an independent monitoring system
will be used where all key strokes on the Sequent workstation are
captured and echoed on a CFM workstation.

8. Visiting engineers are subject to manual procedures as in note 5
above.

g. Application support managers can correct application data subject to
authorisation procedures - see 8.7. For Oracle applications, this
should, where-ever possible, be via functions available to Oracle SSC
role. In exceptional circumstances, use of SQL*Plus scripts will be
authorised after checking. For Access and other services, this may
involve updates to flat files. In all cases, corrections to the data are
audited.

4.2.3 Dynix and Oracle Access Controls

The Dynix operating system should be set-up according to the access
control policy in 3 above. For example, Security Audit Logs (both Dynix
and Oracle ones) should only be accessible to Security Event Auditors,
for Oracle, where there is more than one database on the same machine
(e.g. OBCS, APS, PAS/CMS), these will run under separate user names.

All loading/unloading of data to/from Oracle databases should be done
by automated processes. Separate interface tables should be used to
restrict the damage possible due to failures during automated processes.

The set-up of the system should be regularly monitored, for example, to
check for dormant accounts and to review any changes made to
important system files.

4.2.4 Control of Connections to the System

Links to the Sequent systems are controlled by routers and by

configuration of applications and the use of Sequent ports. These restrict

access to the Sequent system from other services at the Pathway Data

Centres and elsewhere. These should permit the traffic required to

support the roles above and the Pathway application traffic, for example:

© Telnet, X-terminal and token authentication traffic for operational
management, 3rd line support, job scheduling and Security Event
Auditors

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 46 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0045
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

© OSI traffic to VME (FTF and MAC) to support file transfer to DSS
systems and management

© SQL*Net access to Oracle databases from Girobank Help Desks and
agents extracting data from the databases for transfer to the Post
offices, to the Data Warehouse, to archives and exceptionally for
Fraud Risk Management

e File transfer of business data to PCs en route to/from POCL and De La
Rue

43 Access Controls for Specific Host Applications

All host application are Sequent/Oracle ones, and are therefore subject
to the controls defined in 4.2 above. Each has some differences in the
automated feeds into/out of the application. For example, PAS/CMS has
feeds about payment authorisations with CAPS and about cards with the
De La Rue services. OBCS communicates with the DSS ESNS e.g. to find
what Order books have been stopped. The RDMC service accepts feeds
of reference data from POCL (and potentially elsewhere). The TPS feeds
Post Office transaction information to the POCL TIP system. Access
controls for all applications conform to the general policies in 3.

All these applications support the standard Oracle roles (CFM_DBA,
AUDITOR, SSC and MONITOR) for database administration, auditors,
application support managers and people with only read access to the
database (application support users, system monitoring) - see 4.2 above.

In addition, there is a BSU role (for Business Support) for some
applications, including PAS/CMS - see below.

The MONITOR role is also used by the other human roles for read only
access - both Pathway and Girobank Fraud Risk Managers have this role
in PAS/CMS, APS, OBCS and TPS.

In addition, PAS/CMS and RDMC have further application specific roles.
4-31 PAS and CMS

Information comes from the CAPS system, is processed by PAS/CMS and
sent either to the TMS for forwarding to the Post Offices or to the Card
or Temporary Token Producer to generate cards and PUNs. Information
is returned from both these sources, processed and returned to the CAPS
system. The main processing is done automatically without human
intervention. Track and Trace information is also received from the
Royal Mail.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 47 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0046
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Specific PAS/CMS roles are:

« Payment Card Helpline Advisors using Oracle Forms applications to
access PAS/CMS and Helpline Security Managers maintaining user
information about them at the PAS/CMS database. See also 7.4 for
Helpline roles.

¢ DSS/BA benefit staff doing on-line transactions via CAPS e.g.
emergency payments and DSS Help Desk staff enquiring on PAS/CMS
data, also via the CAPS on-line interface.

« Business Support users accessing PAS/CMS when required for
financial reconciliation (see 7.5)

« Fraud Risk Management staff accessing PAS/CMS data when required
information is not available via the Data Warehouse or archives.

¢ The Cryptographic Key Custodian installing/updating the encryption
key needed for the CAPS to PAS/CMS link.

Note that the operational management role includes generating
contingency payment authorisations when CAPS is down according to
agreed procedures.

The following table shows the system access controls associated with the
PAS/CMS roles (apart from the Cryptographic Key roles which are as
defined in 7.7.1). All users in the table access PAS/CMS information via
Oracle tools.

Role Workstation IHow authenticated IResources available
type and to PAS/CMS (&
location where user defined)

Helpline NT Help Desk [Oracle username, __I Particular PAS & CMS tables as

Advisor workstation I password required for the authorised Oracle
in Girobank — I (Oracle user Forms (with sufficient write access
area at associated with to allow cards to be stopped,
campus Oracle role) update call logging tables and

change password.)

Helpline as above as above ‘As above, plus can handle data

Advisor (NSI) with a Nationally Sensitive

Indicator.

Helpline as above as above As a Help Desk Advisor, plus the

Supervisor ability to handle NSI data and

other more restricted dialogues.

Helpline as above Oracle username, Oracle user and role tables via

Security password (Oracle authorised Oracle Forms; access as

Manager user associated with _IHelpline Advisors plus privilege to

Oracle role) create users and assign/re-assign
them to Helpline roles.

DSS/BA staff I DSS/BA Authenticated to DSS I Particular PAS tables as required
terminal and Isystem, identified to I for the authorised transactions
site P’way by transaction I from the Oracle client applications

id. on VME. (The Oracle POLI system
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 48 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0047
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Workstation I How authenticated IResources available
type and to PAS/CMS (&
location where user defined)
username.)
Business NT at secure INT user with token [Read only access via pre-defined
Support Pathway site and Oracle user (BSU I forms to PAS/CMS for
role) reconciliation
Fraud Risk NT secure NT user with token __IRead only access main database in
Manager sites G’bank, }and Oracle, UNIX? __Iexceptional circumstances
P'way user

There is a separate username for the Cryptographic Key Custodian.
Filestore accessible only to that user holds the cryptographic key.

4-3-2 Reference Data Management Centre

Reference data can be associated with particular applications (e.g. the
price of stamps in EPOSS) or be more generic (e.g. Post office details). It
may come from POCL, POCL Clients and Pathway. Data fed into the
RDMC is classified according to whether it should be used to update the
RDMC and Post Office counters automatically (class 1) or whether some
human intervention is needed. For the main feed from POCL, new
reference data and its class is agreed in advance of the data being fed to
the RDMC.

All reference data fed to RDMC is validated. If validation fails, the data is
returned automatically to POCL without human intervention. Reference
data for counter applications is distributed via the associated RDDS and
the TMS system to the Post Offices. Reference data is also fed to the
Data Warehouse.

For reference data of class 2 and above, the data is held at the RDDS
until the dependencies for its use have been satisfied. For example, the
software needed to process it must be available and shown to work with
it. Some reference data comes from the Pathway project and supplied to
RDMC via Configuration Management as for other software updates -
see 8.6.2.

Application roles supported at the RDMC are:

Role Main Functions
Reference Data Kick off the transfer of validated reference data of
Change Manager classes 2 to 5 to TMS when all required

dependencies have been met. (Oracle role:
user_change_control)

RDMC Loader Manually initiated load of reference data files to
RDMC (Oracle role: user_loader)
RDMC user Query and report on reference data, so read only
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 49 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0048
POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Main Functions
access (Oracle role: user_reports)
RDMC access Sets up users and assigns them their roles (Oracle
administrator role: user_administrator)

4-4

All these users access the RDMC from a controlled NT workstation on a
secure LAN from a secure Pathway site via encrypted links.
Authentication to NT uses a token allocated to the individual, they also
authenticate to the Oracle application. Oracles roles control this access.
There are no human roles at the RDDS.

Note that the security management role in 4.2 includes user
management of the core users of the system, including the RDMC users.
Application support in 4.2 includes support of the RDMC.

Windows NT Systems

There are several different types of NT systems in this domain. For
example, the TMS Agents are generally on separate NT servers from
those used for the Correspondence Servers and there are also NT servers
supporting security services, the time service, the PCs providing the
interfaces to transfer files to De La Rue, POCL etc.

All of these NT servers have common management and support users
and may have specific operational users as illustrated in figure 4-3.

Operational Data feeds

System Management
- software distribution
Operational roles [yp I__- - resource management
(application specific) - event monitoring

— I Applications I System Administration
and
Security Event Auditor —— I Infrastructure I [—

Security Management
Base Installation
and Configuration

Application Support Engineers

Figure 4-3 Users of NT systems

As for the Sequent systems, most of the use of the NT systems is
automated so human intervention is an exception - mainly for system
management and support. Different NT servers support different
applications, so there are some differences in the access controls
required at different servers. However, management of all NT servers in
this domain is done in the same way.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 50 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0049
POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ The NT servers are managed using Tivoli and NT administration.
Events and resources are monitored via Tivoli (see section 8) and
appropriate remedial action is generally taken automatically. Security
management (e.g. administering users) is done using NT utilities.

© Software and configuration information is distributed to these
systems via Tivoli (see section 8).

¢ NT servers also have local consoles for use by engineers when
diagnosing and repairing faults and for any other management action
required locally.

The common roles for all NT servers are described in [I REF
_Ref401984526 \n \* MERGEFORMAT J. Specific roles for particular NT
servers are included in section 4.5.

4-41 Roles
People in the following roles have access to all NT systems in this
domain.
Role Main functions
Computer Operator _ I Physical operations e.g. media handling, but no on-line use
of the system. This includes the Legato tapes used for
archiving
Operational Any residual management of NT (not done by SMC e.g. via
management Tivoli
Security Manager ‘Administering NT user information, including group
membership.
Security Event Use of audit logs in monitoring security and tracing
Auditor incidents
Application support Supporting applications on NT platforms.
user
Application support _ I As above, but also able to correct some data
manager
Engineer Hardware diagnostics and repair
Base Installation and _I Initial installation and configuration the base system - NT
configuration etc Later updates to this.
Note that relational databases are not supported at most NT systems, so
NT database administrator roles are defined only at relevant NT systems
(e.g. the roll-out/auto-configuration system - see 8.6.)
4.4.2 System Access Controls for Human Roles
Access controls associated with these roles are defined in the followed
table.
Role Workstation Authentication Resources
type and method & where Available
location user defined
Computer no w/s; on site at__I none, as no access Media only
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 51 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0050
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Workstation Authentication Resources
type and method & where Available
location user defined
Operator Data Centre
Operational NT w/sat secure I NT with token Administrator
Management Pathway site (defined at appropriate I rights
domain)
Security Manager I NT workstation at I NT with token User
secure Pathway (defined at appropriate I administration,
site domain) security policy
administration etc
Security Event NT workstation at I NT with token Read only access to
Auditor secure P’way site I (defined at appropriate I audit logs only
domain)
Application NT workstation at I NT with token Read only access to
Support user secure P'way site I (defined at appropriate I event logs, registry
domain) and relevant files.
Application NT workstation at I NT with token As above plus some
Support Manager I secure P’way site I (defined at appropriate I data correction
domain)
Engineer Pathway campus; I NT with controlled Administration
no remote access _I password/token
Base Installation _I Pathway campus _I NT with password Administration

Notes:

1. Engineers have controlled access c.f. Sequent. They are accompanied
by CFM staff when using the system

2. There is a specific variant of the administration role for
administration of the Primary Domain Controller of an NT domain.

3. Application support managers correcting data are subject to the same
controls as on Sequent and elsewhere (see 8.7) - all updates must be
pre-authorised, and the update method used must audit the
correction.

4. Apart from event logs etc which are relevant to all NT systems,
application support users should access application databases via
relevant tools, rather than just operating system facilities.

4-43 System Set Up
System access controls must conform to the policies in 3.

All NT servers are set up with a group and template user for each of the
roles above (plus any other defined for the particular NT system). These
templates are used when a user is assigned to a role to set up that user
with the required user profile providing access to only those tools
needed to carry out the role.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 52 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0051
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

NT systems belong to domains with a primary domain controller and
backup domain controllers so users only need to be administered at one
place for access to all systems at that domain. Users in most roles can
logon once to all NT Pathway domains with trust relationships
constraining resources available between domains. However, some roles
(Engineer and Key Custodian) will always be defined as requiring the
user to be local at the machine. Policies for the structure of NT domains
are in 8.u.

4-4-4 Control of Connections

The following traffic is generally permitted to NT systems at the Data
Centre:

¢ Telnet and token authentication traffic for NT management, security
auditor access etc

« NT domain traffic

© Maestro job scheduling (at Agents)

© Tivoli traffic for event management, software distribution etc
¢ File transfer traffic using FTMS

¢ Client access to applications. Different types of access are used for
different applications

However, the NT server supporting the KMA has more restricted access
(for example, no Maestro scheduling). Also, many of the NT systems
have application specific traffic such as SQL*Net access to access Oracle
database tables, Riposte RPC traffic to link to Correspondence Servers.

45 Specific NT Servers (except security ones)

NT servers are used to support many of the Data Centre business
services used during normal operation. These include:

« The Correspondence Servers where Riposte, together with the
Riposte infrastructure at the Post Office, form the Transaction
Management Service which handles all the operational traffic to and
from the Post Offices. (Note that there is other traffic between the
Pathway Data Centres and the Post Offices for System Management
traffic and Key Distribution.)

© The Agents which transfer data between the hosts and the
Correspondence servers. There are different agents which handle
traffic for different links.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 53 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0052
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ The PCs which handle file transfers between the Pathway Data
Centres and POCL, De La Rue, and potentially other POCL clients
sites in future. (The PCs at the POCL and De la Rue sites are
controlled as described in sections 5 and 8)

¢ Related supporting services such as the Time Service, Archive
Service, Host Ancillary services.

¢ Security services such as the Entropy Servers used in signing benefit
payments, the Key Management Service used to generate and
distribute keys and the Authentication Service used for token
authentication.

All these NT servers are subject to the controls described in [I REF
_Ref401738027 \n \* MERGEFORMAT I above. In addition, there are
also service specific access controls on some of these systems. This
section describes these controls for all these NT servers except the
Security Services ones which are described in the next section.

There are also a number of NT systems used for system management,
software distribution and Post Office implementation. These are covered
in section 8.

4.51 Roles
Operational use of these services is automated, so does not normally
require any human intervention apart from the management and
support roles defined in [I REF _Ref401738027 \n \* MERGEFORMAT ]
above. There are the following specific roles at these NT servers.

Role Main Functions NT Servers
where
applicable

Riposte Residual Riposte management which is_I Correspondence

Management not automated e.g. setting Riposte servers

neighbours. (Setting up
Correspondence servers as members of
Riposte groups when new Post Offices
are added is done by the auto-
configuration application.)

Business Access to TMS when needed to support I Correspondence

Support reconciliation servers

Pathway FRM Access to TMS journals in exceptional Correspondence

circumstances, when needed to support I servers (and
investigations. their archives)

Auditors Access to TMS journals when needed to I Correspondence

when investigating security incidents servers (and
their archives)
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 54 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0053
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Main Functions NT Servers
where
applicable
Legato Managing the audit archives Archive server
Adminstration
Crypto Key Installation and update of keys and re-_ I BES Agents, PC
Custodian & installation when needed e.g. on for De La Rue
Key Handler machine reboot. (These roles are link
defined in 7.7.1)
Notes:

1. The BES Agent requires installation of a DSA private key for
protecting payment authorisations. (and associated public key
certificates etc).

2. The De La Rue link PC requires installation of a Red Pike key.

Access controls for these roles are as defined in the following table.

Role Workstation type I Authentication I Resources
and location method available
Riposte NT at secure site (see I NT domain user I Appropriate
management_I 8.2) with token Riposte utilities
Business NT at secure NT domain user I Controlled read
Support Pathway site with token only TMS access
Pathway FRM I NT at Pathway NT domain user I Limited read
secure area with token only TMS access
(see note)
Security Event I NT at Pathway NT domain user Audit logs and
Auditor secure area with token limited read
only TMS access
Legato NT at Pathway NT domain user I Legato archivies
Administratio I secure area with token via Legato client
n
Notes:

1. Business Support, FRM and Auditor access to the operational
Correspondence servers is allowed in exceptional circumstances for
limited amounts of data (as otherwise, the performance of the system
could be impaired). In all cases, access is controlled, and limited to
use of a specific Riposte Query tool.

2. Access controls associated with cryptographic keys are covered in 7.7.1

Printed: [ DATE \l]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Page 55 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0054
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
4.5.2 Other Access Controls

The network and platform set up should restrict the traffic to that
required to operate and manage the system. At all platforms, the
required system management traffic is permitted. In addition, the traffic
needed to support the operational and MIS process must be permitted.
For example:

¢ At Correspondence servers: data transfers to/from Agents using
Riposte RPC and to/from Post Offices using TMS via specific routers

« At Agents in general: SQL*Net links to the appropriate host
application on Sequent (PAS/CMS, OBCS, APS, TPS or RDMC) and
links via the Riposte API using RPC for distribution to/from TMS.
Note that the TIP harvester acts as the Agent for both APS and TPS
and also supplies the TMS journal information to the Data
Warehouse.

« At BES Agents: links to an Entropy Server on a separate NT server to
obtain the entropy needed for signing payment authorisations using
DSA and to the KMA for distribution of some key material using key
distribution protocols which protect keys in transit

4.6 Security Services

Pathway uses cryptography for integrity and sometimes confidentiality
protection of all or selected data on certain links and sometimes
filestore. To support this, Pathway has the following security services:

« A Key Management Application (KMA) which (generates and)
distributes cryptographic keys to Pathway services and the Post
Offices. An associated Certification Authority (CA) generates public
key certificates and Entropy servers which generate DSA entropy for
digital signatures.

© The VPN servers used for protection of the traffic to Post Offices

« An Authentication Service to support token authentication.

* The cryptographic boxes used for link level encryption of some
links.

(This is in addition to the software security services to protect data in
transit on particular links. For example, encryption on the CAPS and De
la Rue links, digital signatures for payment authorisations send to the
Post Office. Also, there are signing servers to sign software and auto-
configuration information sent to the Post office - see 8.6.)

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 56 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0055
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
4.6.1 Key Management and Associated Services

Interactions with the Key Management Application (KMA) and
Certification Authority Workstation (CAW) are illustrated in figure 4-9.

Cryptographic NT Security Services Management,
Key Manager __I Key . Certification] I___Support,
and other anagement [-] E"™°PYI I Authority II Engineering
Key Handlers Application Servers orkstationI etc
y y
Crypta Servers BES
Agents

Post Offices ete

Figure 4-4 Interactions with the Key Management Service

The Key Management Application (KMA) is used to (generate and)
store cryptographic keys and is also used when distributing initial and
updated keys to the Post Offices, routers etc. Keys handled include the
CHAP keys for Post Office authentication and Post office filestore
encryption key. The KMA also uses the Entropy Servers to provides the
entropy needed for DSA signatures.

An off-line Certification Authority - the Certification Authority
Workstation (CAW) is used to generate public key certificates used
when verifying digital signatures.

People in the following roles have access to these services (in addition to
the NT operational management and support roles defined in 4.4).

Role Main functions (system accessed)
Cryptographic Key Manager Generating keys and initiating distribution
of these; viewing current situation re keys
(KMA)

Generating certificates to certify keys
(CAW)

KMA Data Manager Maintain validity of data within KMA
database e.g. specify new client where key
to be sent (but no key management roles)
Cryptographic Key Custodian Installing, updating and re-installing keys.
and Handlers - see 7.7.1

PO key recoverer Initiating recovery of a Post Office key for a
(part of SMC Team Leader Post Office Manager who has lost his card
role) or PIN after authentication of the PO caller

to the Help Desk - see 8.3, 8.9.

Notes:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 57 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0056
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

1. Access controls for the Key Custodians and Handlers are defined in
7-74

2. Access controls for the PO key recover are defined in 8.3.

3. The Key Manager and KMA Data Manager roles are Oracle users, so
log-on to Oracle (after NT workstation, token logon). This gives
access to specific functions only

4. There are also Database administrator and security manager roles for
the underlying database c.f. Oracle roles for host applications.

4.6.2 Authentication Service for Authentication using Tokens

Authentication using tokens will be supported by an Authentication
Service at each Data Centre. The Authentication Server at one Data
Centre will be the master, generally used for all authentication, with the
other acting as a slave to provide resilience.

The Authentication Service holds information about:

* Tokens, and when, and to whom, they are assigned; also the PINs
associated with these tokens

© Users of these tokens

* Clients who initiate authentication when users access the system.
These may be on NT and UNIX systems and on routers.

¢ Audit logs of authentication and administrative activities

* Configuration options such as the type and size of PINs permitted,
Client retry interval, master/slave information

The main roles at this system are:

¢ Installation and configuration of the Authentication Service - part of
the operational management role of the Solaris system on which the
service is installed - see 4.7.

« Administration of tokens and users for all Pathway users who require
authentication via tokens - see 7.7.2.

¢ Auditors - the Authentication Service has real time monitoring tools
for this (as well as providing audit trails to the Audit Service).

All these users access the system from controlled NT workstations on a
secure LAN ina secure area linked to the Data Centre over an encrypted
link. After initial installation of the service, they authenticate using
tokens.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 58 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0057
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
4.6.3 Cryptographic Boxes

Zergo boxes are used to provide link level encryption on a number of
links. These are government approved point-to-point encryption devices
using Rambutan and access controls are as specified by the

manufacturer.

47 Solaris Systems

Solaris systems are used for a number of services at the Data Centres

including:

« A Solaris system supporting the PAS/CMS training database. This is
used by the Payment Card Helpline for staff training and supports the
same Oracle Forms applications as used for the operational system,
but with training (and therefore not sensitive) data.

« The Network Management Station at each Data Centre- see 8.5

¢ The Solaris system at each Data Centre supporting Security token
management (see 4.6 above) and the Firewall Enterprise Centre (see

85)

All of these Solaris servers have common management roles as follows:

Role (and organisation)

Main functions

Computer Operator (CFM)

Physical operations

Operational management

c.f. Sequent operational management

Security Management (CFM)

Administering user information

Security Event

Auditor (Pathway)

Access to audit logs

Engineer

Hardware diagnostic and repair

Access controls associated with these roles are defined in the following

table:
Role Workstation type I Authentication Resources
and location method available
Computer no w/s; on site at none, as no access_I media only
Operator Data Centre
Operational ? (is this NT, UNIX with token UNIX
management _I Belfast) administration
Security see above UNIX with token I user/security
management administration
Security Event I NT workstation; UNIX with token read only access
Auditor Feltham to logs, relevant
files
Engineer Pathway campus, I UNIX with required UNIX
no direct access controlled facilities
password/token
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Page 59 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0058

POL00400793
POL00400793

POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
[Note: this section is not yet complete, as roles have still to be discussed and agreed. ]

5-
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 60 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0059
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
OFFICE PLATFORM SERVICE DOMAIN
5. Introduction
The Office Platform Service Domain is illustrated in figure 5-1.
Correspondence servers
at Pathway central sites Remote
System
t Management
ar I
Counter I Auditors and
—__ Infrastructure Emergency Manager
Customer I (Riposte
journals etc) _II— Support Engineer
Payment Card Post l
Helpline Office Applications Installation
ti salt APSEPOSS I}— Engineer
OBCS, BES
Horizon On-line I Horizon Field
System Yon documeritation Support Officer
Help desk

Figure 5 - 1 Interactions in the Office Platform Service Domain

Information about BA payments and cards and also about APS, EPOSS
and OBCS is distributed using the Riposte Transaction Management
System which includes the Riposte journals at the Post Office.

Customers pick up Benefits cards and use these to prove their identity
when receive payments or use the existing style of Order Books and
Girocheques to get payments. They may also use other Post Office
services such as Automated Payments and purchase many types of items.

Counter clerks handle these transactions using the applications at the
counter. In exceptional circumstances, they may ring up the Payment
Card Helpline, for example, to confirm whether a payment should be
made or the Horizon System Help Desk for advice on other applications.
Post Office Managers act as local system manager and report faults via
the Horizon System Help Desk.

Engineers install the Pathway service to Post Offices, provide updates
and handle faults in the system by replacing components of it. The
Horizon System Field Officers (HFSOs) handle migration of existing Post
Office data.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 61 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0060
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Post Office Systems are monitored and managed via System
Management Services using Tivoli. These are used to distribute software
and scripts to initiate management actions to Post Offices. Software
distribution can include updates to the Tivoli Agent and to Riposte and
NT as well as applications. Tivoli tasks are also used to extract diagnostic
information from the Post Office counter systems for use in application
support - see 8.3 and 8.7.

5.2 Roles
All direct users of the NT Workstations at the Post Office are local.

Although there are potentially several separate functions which ina
larger organisation would be allocated to separate people, only the
following roles are identified for Post Office staff:

© The Post Office Manager who is responsible for all the management
of the Post Office system including setting up workstations,
introducing users, doing accounts.
“Manager” is a generic term here - meaning the person in charge of
the Post Office. The person taking the role may be a sub-postmaster
or agent.
Post Office Managers may allow other staff to deputise for them, and
so take this role.

* Counter clerks who run the APS, EPOSS, OBCS and BES
applications.

e Supervisors who can perform all Counter Clerk functions and may
also do other functions such as view stocks.

The Post Office Manager acts as the Security Manager at the Post Office
(rather than this being a separate role as in other domains); in many Post
Offices, there are insufficient people to justify a separation role for this.

Customers are also recognised at the Post Office, though they do not
access the system directly, so do not have a role in the system.

POCL Auditors have access to Post Office services. The normal POCL
Auditor will have read only access to the system. One of the Auditors
may take the role of an Emergency Manager who may take over from the
Manager after suspected fraud or when a Post Office is closed down or
transferred to a different Manager. POCL Investigators have the same
access rights as normal POCL Auditors and are not distinguished from
them in the IT system.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 62 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0061
ICL Pathway Ref:

Access Control Policy Version:

Date:

POL00400793

POL00400793
RS/POL/0003
3.0
18/12/98

Horizon Field Support Officers (HFSOs) handle the migration of Post
Office data to Horizon - either manual records on from ECCO equipped
Post Offices. Other Pathway staff such as Security Event Auditors do not

have access to the Post Office system.

The following table shows the main classes of functions of people in the
identified roles. (There is also a Support group used in emergencies - see

-4)
Role Main classes of functions
Manager Key (and memory card) custodian - installing, changing

and recovering keys.

Post Office accounts.

functioning correctly.
All counter clerk functions.

User management (of local post office staff).
Stock unit management (including allocation to clerks)
Specific management applications, for example, balancing

Run diagnostics to check system and peripherals are

Stock unit balancing etc.

Counter Clerk I System boot-up using the memory card. (At some Post
offices, this may be restricted to more senior staff.)
Run applications BES, EPOSS, APS, OBCS.

Contact the Payment Card Helpline when required.

Supervisor As Counter Clerk plus viewing stock, users.

so does not need a customer present)

Clerk using As Counter clerk functions with special training data
training mode (counter clerk also uses special training benefits/APS cards

Installation Roll-out of new Post Offices including setting up Post
engineer Office personality.
HFSO Migration of data, particularly stock units from existing
Post Office systems onto Horizon
Support Replacing peripherals etc and running diagnostics to check
engineer functioning correctly.
Adding new workstations, peripherals.
Auditor Production of reports as done by Post Office manager and
viewing and/or printing selected log of events.
Emergency As normal auditor plus all Post office Manager functions
Manager including user administration.
53 Control of Connections to the Systems
A multi-counter Post Office has a network of NT workstations, one of
which is the gateway with a link to the Pathway Data Centres as
illustrated in figure 5-2.
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Page 63 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0062
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
ISDN (or other) Link
_ II a
/ of
—N i au

NT workstations

Figure 5-2 Post Office Configuration

In some cases, the ISDN link is replaced by a different form of link, but
this does not affect the Access Control Policy.

Ina single counter Post Office, the link is to the only workstation, which
may be at the Post Office site or may be portable. In a multi-counter
Post Office, not all workstations need have all the same peripherals, so
some transactions can only be done at certain counters.

The link to the Pathway campus is protected using VPN as defined in
[SFS].

The following table shows which services are permitted on this link.

POL00400793
POL00400793

Service Type of access

Auto-configuration on Post _I Transfer of auto-configuration information
Office roll-out e.g. from Boot server - see 8.6.

Key distribution from KMS Key management protocols protect keys in
transit as defined in [SFS]

Transfer of business
information to/from
correspondence servers

Automated using Riposte TMS features

Distribution of help
documentation and training
mode data

Via Riposte TMS

System management via
Tivoli including software
distribution

Automatic using Tivoli. Scripts and software
are signed for integrity protection.

Gathering diagnostic data for
application support

Read access only to required data (NT event
logs) via Tivoli.

5-4

System Delivery

As the result of Factory installation, Post Office workstations have NT,
Riposte, applications and file encryption software installed. There is also
a “failsafe” version of NT included in the installation which will not be
updated by changes distributed via Tivoli. However, there is no specific
information or code for a particular Post office. Personalisation
information is added during installation.

Printed: [ DATE \I]
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
Page 64 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0063
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

At this stage, the filestore is not encrypted, though the directories are set
up correctly for standard running.

The Riposte user groups are set up. The Manager, Supervisor, Clerk,
Engineer and Auditor groups are used by people in those roles. The
AuditorE group is used by Emergency Managers. The Support group is
used for emergency procedures such as the Manager forgetting his
password. The Engineer, Auditor, AuditorE and Support groups are set
up to require one-time password authentication.

Usernames are set up in Riposte and NT for an Engineer, an Emergency
Manager, a Support user and for a number of Auditors (enough to allow
an auditor at each counter of the largest Post Office). There will also be a
special Set-up Manager user used during Post Office installation - see
5.6. These users are associated with the relevant Riposte groups. (The
Post Office Manager will introduce further users later.)

Some standard keys are included in this installation as defined in [SFS].

When leaving the factory, the only application which can be run is the
Auto-configuration one (see 8.6). It is not possible to log-on to NT or
Riposte.

55 System Installation/Reconfiguration

The Auto-configuration application at the counter is run by the
installation engineer on the gateway workstation when the counters are
first installed and after major configuration changes. It (together with
the auto-configuration facilities at the Data Centre - see 8.6) sets up the
link with the Pathway Central Services and installs the Post Office
personality, and registers this Post Office with the Central Services.

When this has been done, the workstation is rebooted and the Post
Office Manager takes charge.

5.6 Booting the System

When the system is rebooted after installation, the Manager puts a blank
Memory Card in the reader and a PIN is generated for it (and printed
unless there is a fault) and key material put on the card. The security
initialisation process establishes the keys to protect the link and encrypt
the filestore. The Manager then starts up each workstation for normal
running.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 65 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0064
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

From this point on, whenever any Post Office workstation is rebooted,
the Memory Card is used for starting up the workstations securely as
described in [SFS]. The start up process completes in the display of the
Riposte log-on screen. No direct access to NT or Windows is possible at
any time, even for engineers.

On first installation of the Post Office, the Manager logs in under the
Set-up Manager username to create his individual username as a
Manager for future use. On first installation, existing stock units need to
be migrated to the Pathway system. This is done one of two ways:

* For Post Offices with manual records, the HFSO uses the MiMAN
(Riposte) application under the PO Manager control. The PO
Manager checks the bona fides of the HFSO and creates a migration
user, including the HFSO’s name in it, and with the role MIGRATION
which only has access to the MiMAN application. The HFSO will
logon (using a shared HFSO password) and input the required stock
unit information. After migration, the Post Office Manager and HFSO
check the name details are correct and the Post office manager deletes
the migration account.

¢ For Post Offices migrating from ECCO equipment, the HFSO uses a
laptop to read ECCO disks, and create Riposte attribute grammar
records from them. These are then fed to the Correspondence server
records for the Post Office via the Post office gateway and the
Migration server at the Data Centre - see 8.6. As for manual
migration, this is under Post Office Manager control. After migration,
the ECCO disk is invalidated, so it can no longer be used and the
Migration server will not accept another attempt at migration from
this Post office.

If there is a failure on booting the counter systems after installation of a
new package, the Manager, supported by the Horizon System Help Desk,
reverts to the Failsafe version of NT.

5-7 System Access Controls associated with Human Roles

As for all domains, system access controls conform to the policies in
section 3. The following specialisations of the general policies apply at
this domain.

« A password cannot be re-used for 18 months.
e The password is checked to conform to quality standards as follows:
* passwords cannot contain spaces

¢ there cannot be more than two consecutive identical
characters

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 66 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0065
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ the password cannot be the same as the username

e the password cannot be one of an agreed “excluded passwords”
list.

« The PIN used for the Post Office Manager’s memory card is a 15
character alphanumeric value

« After a period of inactivity at a Post Office counter, the session will
time out, but can be resumed on entry of the password. After a longer
period of inactivity, the user is forcibly logged out.

The following table shows how access controls associated with human
roles are enforced at the Post Office counters after installation and
migration.

In NT and Riposte, there is no direct support for roles, so these are
represented by user groups - see 5.4. Users are maintained using Riposte,
which causes equivalent users to be maintained in NT.

Role Function Where Authentication I Resource access
users needed controls
defined

Installatio I Start up Post I Not in Manual Auto-configurer

n Engineer I Office system procedures (see _I application only

note 1)
Post Office I Post Office Not in Manual Memory Card and
Manager installation system. procedures set up application
only (see notes 2-
4)
Normal Riposte user; I Riposte username I Relevant Riposte
functions and I in Manager I and password applications only
key changes _I group (see note 5)
Emergency I Riposte user I Riposte username I All Riposte
procedures in Support and one-time Manager
(see note 5) __I group password functions

Counter I All functions I Riposte user I Riposte username I Relevant Riposte

clerks and inrelevant _ I and password applications only

Supervisor group

s

training Not no separate log- Relevant Riposte
mode separately I on from live applications with
defined application use training data

All Workstation I Not in Memory Card and I Workstation start

permitted I start up system. PIN (see notes 2- I up only

PO roles 4)

Support I running Riposte user I generic Engineer I Relevant Riposte

Engineer I diagnostics Riposte username I diagnostic

& one shot application only.
installing new password (see Auto-configurer
hardware note 6) application

Auditors I All functions I Riposte user I generic Riposte I Relevant Riposte

Auditor username I applications only.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 67 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0066
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Function Where Authentication I Resource access
users needed controls
defined
with one time
password (note 6)
Emergenc I Workstation I not in Memory card and I Start up
y Manager I start up system. PIN (see note 7) application only
other Riposte One time Riposte
functions generic user_I password applications only
Notes:

1. The installation engineer will have an Id card with a photograph and
signature and the Post Office will have been informed of his visit.

2. Memory Card use on installation and workstation startup is further
defined in [SFS]. More information about Roll-out is included in
section 8.6.

3. The Post Office Manager is expected to secure the Memory Card and
PIN for it in separate places.

4. If the Manager looses his card or PIN, procedures require the
Manager to get an emergency recovery key from the Horizon System
Help Desk.

5. If the Manager loses his password, he logs in under a Support
username, using a one-time password (see note 6), to reset his
password on his normal user name. In the Manager's absence, this
function may also be performed by an authorised deputy.

6. For authentication by one-time password, the Post Office System
generates a value. The user then phones the Horizon System Help
Desk with this, which provides a check value (after authenticating the
user’s identity). The check value is typed in to provide access to this
username. For Engineers and Auditors, the pass number will also be
typed in, so individual users can be identified in the log.

7. Ifthe POCL Emergency Manager takes over a Post Office when the
Manager is unavailable or unco-operative, he may need to use the
Manager emergency recovery procedure to boot up the Post Office
PCs - see note 4.

8. If the Post Office counter fails to boot, the Manager needs to revert to
the failsafe version of NT. This is controlled by a one-time password,
with the Horizon System Help Desk providing the check value as for
Auditor authentication (see note 6).

After a user has logged on using Riposte, the Riposte desk top allows
access to only those items available to people in the user’s role. The user
cannot call any other applications or NT or Windows functions.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 68 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0067
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

5.8

The application called from the desk top runs in the Riposte user name
but has limited privileges. It accesses filestore and other resources by
calling the Riposte API to the privileged Riposte Service - it cannot
access the files itself. The Riposte Service “impersonates” the user to
access any user related resources. [Some access to print spoolers do not
use Riposte, but are available to relevant applications.] The Riposte
account (used for the desktop and message service) does not have
administrator privilege.

All Riposte transactions, including user administration, are logged in the
Riposte journals. On adding a new user, a full name must be supplied.

Other Access Controls

The Customer is an indirect user of the system who needs to be
authenticated as defined in [SADD] for example:

e The customer brings a Pick-up Notice (PUN) with a bar-code as
identification when collecting a Benefits card (or brings an existing
card due to expire to collect a new card)

* The customer brings the benefit card as identification when picking
up a payment. Extended verification is used on transactions
particularly at risk of fraud such as foreign encashments.

Post Office staff may contact Pathway Help Desks and will need to
authenticate to them as defined in the section 5.3.5 (for the Payment
Card Helpline) and in 8.9 (for the Horizon System Help Desk).

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 69 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0068
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
INTERFACE DOMAINS

The ICL Pathway project interfaces to systems run by other organisations

at their sites as part of normal operation. These are:

© The DSS Service Environment Domain, where Pathway components
at DSS sites interface to the DSS CAPS Service for payment
authorisations and to the DSS ESNS Service for stopping order books.

e The POCL and POCL Clients Domain, where Pathway components at
POCL sites interface to POCL services for handling reference data
feeds to Pathway, Post Office transaction data to POCL and to
support Automated Payments (which in future, could interface
directly to POCL Clients).

© The De la Rue Card Services Domain, where Pathway components at
De La Rue sites interface to the De La Rue services for card, temporary
token and PUN production.

In all cases, the Pathway components are concerned with providing the
interface between the Pathway Central Services and the other
organisation’s services. They do not provide significant independent
application functionality.

In all cases, routers are managed by Pathway Network Management (see
8.5) and interface PCs are managed using Pathway System Management
(see 8.3).

6.1. DSS Service Environment Domain

The DSS Service Environment Domain is illustrated in figure 6-1.

Pathway

Bounds

- EDS‘ Pathway
ICL Series 39 I System

VME I Managemen

DSS Partition *\ Pathway Partition I Boundary
DSS applications I Pathway Access !
CAPSor ESNS I _Service Firewall I
i
— [To Pathway
Is y
Local LANS I IRoutersH4>Data Centres
i

DSS/BA site

Figure 6 -1 DSS Service Environment Domain

The DSS Service Environment Domain provides the interface between
Pathway and the Benefit Agency’s CAPS and ESNS systems at DSS sites.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 70 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0069
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

In both cases, applications in the Pathway partition of the VME
machines (the VME part of the CAPS and OBCS Access Services) handle:

© The transfer of information to/from the DSS partitions. An exchange
of information about the files transferred (or on-line transaction)
across the interface is used to check that the data sent is what is
received.

© The transfer of information between the Pathway Services on VME
and the Service at the Sequent operational system at the Pathway
Data Centres.

* On-line transactions from DSS/BA staff to PAS.

These interactions are automated, so do not require human intervention
in the Pathway partition of the VME machine. For on-line transactions
from CAPS, the CAPS transaction is passed to an Oracle client in the
Pathway partition which in turns calls PAS/CMS on Sequent in the
Pathway Data Centre.

As well as the Pathway partition of the VME platform, this domain
includes the Pathway routers used to route traffic to/from the Pathway
Data Centres. These are managed by Pathway Network Management as
described in [ REF _Ref401824719 \n \* MERGEFORMAT ].

6.11 Roles

The DSS VME systems are run by EDS, so EDS are responsible for the
main systems administration of them (including their split into
partitions and resources allocated to these partitions) and the engineers
analysing/repairing hardware or base software errors including those
which involve the Pathway partition. This is not a Pathway
responsibility, so is not covered by this Access Control Policy.

DSS BA and DSS Help Desk staff are indirect users of the Pathway VME
partition. The CAPS on-line transactions pass through to PAS/CMS,
though have no access to facilities at the Pathway VME partition. These
users are authenticated to the DSS systems; Pathway accepts and carries
out these transactions without further authentication of these users.
(Pathway trusts any on-line transaction from DSS via the agreed
interface. The DSS system will have performed the required access
controls for these users, for example, to ensure DSS Help Desk staff are
restricted to enquiry only access.) At the interface, the DSS/BA member
of staff is identified by a transaction id which is used for Pathway
auditing.

Pathway roles at the VME partition are:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 71 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0070
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

© Operational management and application support roles for the VME
partition, including monitoring. This is carried out from a secure
Pathway site using interactive (MAC) access via Sonnet on Sequent.
The users will have been authenticated individually to others systems
- see section 8.

¢ The Key Custodian who installs and updates the Red Pike
cryptographic keys used to protect the transfers of information from
CAPS to the Pathway Data Centres (at least the trailer record giving
the file totals and the checksum). This role is done by EDS at the local
DSS site.

All users of the VME Pathway partitions will individually identified and
authenticated using the VME Enhanced Security Option.

6.1.2 System Access Controls

The Pathway VME partition has its own filestore separate from other
partitions. This filestore is set up to separate data with different access
requirements and profiles are also used to restrict access as needed to
conform to the policies in section 3. Transfer of data between the
Pathway partition and CAPS/ESNS is restricted to transferring files
to/from the special transfer usernames using the XPERT product.

6.13 Control of Traffic between VME and the Data Centres

All traffic between VME and the Pathway routers is OSI based so the
routers handle bridged OSI traffic. The router LAN interface should be
configured with Access Lists at two levels. The first should provide a
MAC filter, so that only the Ethernet address of the EDS firewall router
and the other router are allowed as source addresses. The second should
provide an IP filter, so only the IP address of the other router is allowed
as a source (for network management traffic).

Permitted connections between Pathway Data Centres and the DSS site

are:

¢ File transfer between the relevant VME service and PAS/CMS and
OBCS on Sequent.

© SQL*Net traffic supporting the CAPS on-line service

¢ Interactive (MAC) access for management, support and auditing

« Network management traffic to the routers.

6.2 POCL and POCL Clients Domain

Pathway has links to POCL and POCL Client systems. These are:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 72 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0071
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

« The POCL TIP system to which records of transactions at Post Offices
are sent. This link is also used for Royal Mail traffic

© The associated POCL system which provides reference data about
Post Offices and for EPOSS applications and shares the TIP link.

* The POCL Host Automated Payments Service (HAPS) which
processes Automated payments on behalf of POCL Clients. This will
be replaced in future by:

e Links to POCL Client systems for automated payments.

At each site, there are Pathway PCs and routers connected to the POCL
or POCL Client systems there as shown in the following diagram.

POCLor I Pathway
POCL Client I boundary

i I Host system
POCL or 1 \ t
IPOCL Client H I ‘Router (&} __¥___
systems ' I Pathway I 'sometimes)_Interface I
1 fi : \ PC I
Ge) PCs 7 firewall) [I PC I
i I Pathway Data Centre

POCL or POCL Client site

other Data Centre

Figure6-2 Pathway components at POCL Sites

The Pathway PCs at the POCL and POCL Client sites handle file transfer

to and from the Pathway Data Centres. Differences between these sites

are:

¢ The TIP/Reference data link is via the Energis network

e the HAPS link is a leased line with protection provided by encryption
boxes

* The POCL Client links are expected to be ISDN ones with an ISDN
card in the Pathway interface PC, rather than a separate router.

Cryptographic protection of the links is outlined in 8.10 and defined in
[SFS].

6.2.1 Roles
Once configured, the PCs and routers at these sites will not normally
have any human access as applications are automated and the PCs are
managed remotely using Tivoli. Pathway roles supported are:
Role Main function
Key Custodian Installing new keys and changing keys (for systems
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 73 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0072

POL00400793
POL00400793

POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Main function
(Pathway) where file transfers are encrypted)

Key Handling (POCL or I Re-installing keys on re-booting PCs (for systems

POCL Client) where file transfers are encrypted)
Operational Limited, local system administration functions
management

Engineer Installing or replacing PC. The PC will not be

repaired when configured into the operational
system.

Control of Connections to the Pathway Data Centres

Traffic is permitted between the Data Centres and these sites is:

¢ The file transfers between Pathway hosts (TPS, Reference Data and
APS) and the POCL/POCL Client systems

« System Management traffic to manage the PCs using Tivoli

« Network management traffic for router management

In all cases, traffic is controlled by routers (and firewalls for ISDN links)
at entry to the Data Centre which will restrict the traffic to that
permitted. The Pathway router at the POCL sites accepts only this

Control of Connections to POCL Systems

Access from the POCL systems is by file transfer. Controls at the PC will
ensure separation of incoming and out going files so that all files
supplied by Pathway are read only for POCL access. In addition, files for
different systems (e.g. TIP, Royal Mail and Reference Data) are

6.2.2

traffic.
6.2.3,

separated.
6.3

De La Rue Card Services Domain

The De La Rue Card Services Domain is illustrated in figure 6-3.

De LaRue , Pathway
boundary T

1

ae

Router &'! Interface I I

De La Rue (
\

i

I firewall —~ PC
systems

Pathway
interface PCs
at Wa SDN lin Pathway Data Centre

other Data Centre

Zip media
De La Rue site

Printed: [ DATE \I]
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

Page 74 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0073
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Figure 6-3 De La Rue Card Services Domain

Files of data for card, PUN and temporary token production are
transferred from CMS on the Sequent machine at the Pathway campus
to a PC at the campus. They are then encrypted and transferred via ISDN
to the Pathway PC at the De La Rue sites where they are decrypted as
described in [SFS]. Information is transferred between the Pathway PCs
and De La Rue systems by being written to/read from Zip drives to
provide a secure air gap between the systems.

De La Rue operations take place using secure systems in a secure site.
De La Rue information system controls and procedures protect the
information there.

6.3.1 Roles and System Access Controls
Roles supported on the Pathway PCs are as in 6.2.1 above (plus the
operator who physically moves the tapes). De la Rue perform the Key
Handler role.
Control of traffic between the De La Rue site and the Data Centre is as in
6.2.2 above.

7.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 75 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0074
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

PATHWAY CORPORATE SERVICE DOMAIN

71 Introduction

This domain contains Pathway’s own processes for managing and
supporting the business. These include:

« Fraud Risk management (FRM) - both Pathway and DSS

e The Payment Card Helpline which supports users, POCL, DSS and
customers, by handling calls about cards and payments

* The Business Support services which handle financial reconcilations
¢ Business Function and Security Event Auditors
© Security Management

* Other management processes such as accounting, monitoring service
level agreements and asset management.

Management Information Systems support many of these management
processes. However, some of these Pathway Corporate users also require
access to other systems. This section covers, therefore both the Pathway
Corporate users (and their access controls) and the Management
systems which support them (and how they are controlled).

73, Workstation Controls

Most business management and support users are located at a Pathway
management site (such as Feltham), except for some FRM staff, the
Payment Card Helpline and key custodians and handlers. Workstation
controls at management sites are shown in the following diagram.

Pathway Management site limited management users

gq 4 4 ICL Corporate
workstatations wifh access Networkiete

to other services

Security, Audit and FRM users +
management & business support users

4 4 4 firewall
secure LAN
outer and
ecure serversI

crypto box

Data Centre system(s)

Figure 7-1 Management user workstation controls

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 76 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0075
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
7.241 All users who have access to sensitive data at the Data Centre or update

any information there (e.g. Management support users updating
Business Object Universes) must access the system from the secure LAN
which is in a physically secure area restricted to permitted users.

7.21.2 All such users should authenticate using a token.

7.2413 All workstations on the secure LAN at the Pathway management site are
controlled NT workstations set up to Pathway standards. These restrict
access to permitted functions for that user and have floppy/CD drives
disabled for booting, except where exceptions are agreed.

The current agreed exceptions for management and support users is that
some of these users have write access to CDs to allow information to be
put on CD for transfer to DSS and/or POCL. This is permitted for the
Management support role (see 7.8) for providing agreed warehouse data,
for the FRM supervisor (for providing information to DSS FIT) and for
the Business Function Auditor (for providing information to external
auditors)? [In future, some transfers of data, e.g. to DSS FIT, may be via
an encrypted link, not CD.]

7.21.4 Limited (read only) access by some management users is permitted from
the main Pathway network at the management site to management
services, such as the Service Level Agreement Monitoring system
(SLAM), at the Data Centre. This is subject to controls at the Feltham
network (see 8.x) and is restricted to where the services at the Data
Centre are not on the main operational or warehouse machines and the
firewalls and routers restrict this access to the required services on the
particular management machine.

7.245 Where users (particularly the Payment Card Helpline and Girobank
FRM) are located at the Pathway Data Centre sites, the links to the Data
Centres do not need to be encrypted, as the users are not remote.

7.2.1.6 DSS FIT staff may access the FRMS service from their own site. Remote
access should be from a secure DSS area, using controlled NT
workstations, via an encrypted link.

7.21.7 Servers at the management site which require strong security, such as
the CM signing server and reconciliation database, should be on the
secure LAN

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 77 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0076
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Sections 7.3 to 7.8 outline the access controls for Pathway Corporate
roles which involve systems other than MIS ones. Note, however, that
controls for a user at a particular service or system are defined in the
section for that service. Section 7.9 below gives the access controls
associated with the Management Information Systems.

73 Fraud Risk Management

Fraud Risk Management is concerned with identification, monitoring

and management of fraud associated with/relevant to the ICL Pathway

system. Both the Girobank Fraud Risk Management (FRM) staff at

Bootle and the ICL Pathway FRM staff at Feltham use the same services

1.e,

¢ Regular reports on aspects of the system which are relevant for fraud
e.g. weekly trend analyses and daily exception reports and ad hoc
selective reports according to agreement.

* Access to the Fraud Case Management System (FCMS), both to create
and maintain cases originated by Pathway and to read case data about
cases originated by DSS Fraud Investigation Team (DSS FIT)

Most FRM access to Pathway is to the Data Warehouse and the FCMS

applications. In exceptional circumstances, FRM staff may require access

to other Pathway systems in order to investigate a potential fraud. These

are currently expected to be:

© The PAS and CMS data. This is expected to be mainly to the archives,
not the operational system, except in exceptional circumstances.

e The TMS journal of Post Office activity

« Data transfer logs
DSS FIT staff can create and maintain their own cases in the Fraud case
database and have read access to cases originated by Pathway FRM staff.

Any other information they require is obtained by the Pathway FRM staff
- both regular reports and specifically requested information.

The following table lists the FRM Roles.

Role Functions
Pathway FRM Investigating fraud cases using FCMS, Data
Manager Warehouse information, and where needed,

operational systems including TMS and PAS/CMS.
Supervisor of FCMS and also FRM Business Object
universes, so create/expire users in FCMS

Setting flags for transactions in FCMS (code user).

FRM Analyst Investigating fraud cases as FRM manager (including
(an ICL Pathway access to Data Warehouse, TMS etc)

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 78 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0077
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Role Functions
role) FRM supervisor functions as FRM manager
FRM users Handling fraud case information in FCMS.
(ICL and Girobank Read only access to Data Warehouse information in
FRM staff) support of investigations.
DSS Fraud Read and update access to cases initiated by DSS FIT;
Investigation Team __I Read only access to cases initiated by Pathway FRM
(DSS FIT) staff.

Access to extracts of Data Warehouse information

(extracted by Pathway FRM staff.); no direct DW

access

Access controls at the various data centre systems are in the appropriate
section - 7.9 below, and also parts of section 4, when they have access to
central services. All these users access the system from controlled
workstations on protected links - see 7.2. In some cases, FRM Manager
and Analyst may use facilities similar to the Business Function Auditor.

Fraud investigations will also include collection of evidence. Some
evidence will be collected by requesting information from other users,
rather than direct FRM staff access.

7.4 Payment Card Helpline

The Payment Card Helpline is run by Girobank at the central Pathway

sites. It handles the following types of calls:

* Calls from Post Office counter clerks about payment authorisations
and cards. Some of these can initiate changes to the PAS/CMS
database, for example, to stop a card, encash a payment (under the
responsibility of the Post Office clerk)

© Calls from customers about card problems (some of which could
result in stopping cards), and more general queries

© Calls from DSS/BA, some of which can result in stopped payments,
stopped cards

© General calls from the public, for example, reporting finding a card

Helpline Advisors use the PAS/CMS database when responding to
telephone calls. (They also have access to local on-line documentation,
such as the procedures they must follow, from local Helpline NT
servers.)

74.1 Roles and Associated Controls

People in the following roles have access to PAS/CMS:
¢ Helpline Advisors using authorised transactions in response to calls

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 79 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0078
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

e Helpline Advisors (NSI) who can handle data with a National
Sensitivity Indicator

¢ Helpline Supervisors who can act as advisors, but also perform extra
transactions (and have extra local functions)

¢ Helpline Manager who can perform the same role, but has further
local functions

¢ Helpline Security Manager who maintains information about the
Helpline users both at PAS/CMS and at the local system

In all cases, Helpline users with access to PAS/CMS use controlled NT
workstations with floppies disabled. They log onto the local Helpline
controlled NT domain with an individual username and password and
local profiles control what local functions they can do according to role.
This controls which Helpline staff can use which Oracle Forms
applications for accessing PAS/CMS. These workstations also provide
access to some local functions (e.g. viewing on-line documentation), but
not to external services.

Access to PAS/CMS is also controlled by the PAS/CMS servers (see 4.3.1)
which require the users to log-on to Oracle and then restrict what tables
Helpdesk users can access. Note, however, that as Helpline users have
update access to some PAS/CMS data, the controls on the Oracle Forms
applications at the workstations are needed to prevent update access to
other data in those tables.

A set of dedicated workstations are used for training activities accessing
the training database at the Data Centre.

74.2 Other Access Controls

The Helpline system is a controlled network with routers controlling all
access in and out. This is limited to:

« the Pathway Data Centres - for PAS/CMS access and information
about telephone calls to the Data Warehouse

¢ between Helpline sites and

e to the Rockwell ACD and associated servers. (Information is fed from
the Rockwell ACD to a specific PC on the helpline network so that
telephone traffic may be monitored.).

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 80 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0079
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
7-43 Authentication of Callers

Contact is made with the Helpline Advisors from Counter clerks, the
Benefit Agency and customers by phone as detailed in the call matrix in
[CHDM]. There will generally be a need for the caller to provide some
level of authentication that they are who they claim to be.

cases.

Note: the procedures for handling telephone authentication are not yet finalised in all

Contacts with these people are shown in the following table.

Contact _I Function

How authenticated

Customers I Queries and reports
about cards, PUNSs. e.g.
card lost or damaged.

Response to a number of verification
questions asked by the Helpline
Operator as specified in [SADD].

Members I Reports such as found
of the card
public

No caller individual authentication
normally (as the caller may not be
known to the system). However, the
caller may be asked further
verification questions depending on
the type of call.

Staff at Get payment details and

for foreign encashment.
Reporting on failures &
anomalies

Post Office I extended verification e.g.

Correct responses to questions based
on information held at the Helpline
about Post Offices - see section 3.5.2.

PO staff on I Queries and reports

As above for verification of Post

payments. Request to
stop cards, payments etc

behalf of I about cards etc Office staff plus customer
customer verification information.
DSS/BA Enquiries on cards, Correct responses to questions based

on information held at the Helpline
about DSS sites/people.

BA for As customer queries and
customers reports

See above for verification of BA staff,
plus customer verification
information

Business Support

Pathway Business Support staff handle financial reconciliation when
there is a Pathway problem, for example a service breakdown. There are

two types:

Printed: [ DATE \I]

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

Page 81 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0080

POL00400793
POL00400793

POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ Reconciliation incidents for DSS benefit payments.
This role requires access to information about customer payment
authorisations and Post Office transactions at operational services.
(Where larger volumes are concerned, relevant data may need to be
downloaded at the request of Business Support to the SSC reference
system (see 8.7) and a flat file of transaction adjustments generated
there for forward transmission to the Data Centre and back to CAPS
by SSC.)

¢ Reconciliation incidents for in the Automated Payments Service for
other POCL clients.

The same BSU staff handle both sorts of reconciliation incidents. Roles

are:

Role Functions and resources accessed

Business Support Investigating incidents, and inserting or adjusting

Analyst payment records (but not finally authorising them.)
Analysts therefore have access to PAS/CMS, TPS etc
and also to the reconciliation (RED) database - a
secure server at the management site.

Business Support Inserting or adjusting payments and authorising them,

Manager subject to agreed procedures.
The BSU Manager has access to all the systems
available to the Analyst

Notes:

1. BSU staff are located at a Pathway management site and access the
Data Centre systems via secure workstations using tokens - see 7.2. All
update access is via specific Oracle forms applications.

2. These same controlled workstations should also be used for access to
the RED database, as this holds DSS Restricted data

3. Services accessed for DSS payment reconciliation include PAS/CMS
and OBCS, and TMS
4. Services accessed for APS reconciliation are APS and TPS

7.6 Auditing

Pathway activities are audited to ensure they are functioning correctly,

for example, that the controls in the system are working effectively.

Within the Pathway project, two types of Auditors are distinguished:

* the Pathway Business Function Auditor responsible for overall
auditing of the system

e the Pathway Security Event Auditor

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 82 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0081
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

The external (POCL, DSS and NAO) Auditors are mainly concerned with
auditing the business transaction of the system such as the processing of
payment authorisations and customer information and the transactions
at the Post Office. The Pathway Business Function Auditor provides the
interface to external auditors for access to Pathway Data Centre systems,
accessing these systems on their behalf to provide the information they
need.

7.6.1 Overview of Audit Information Accessed

Auditors requires access to information in the audit tracks defined in
[AUDT]. Security Event Auditing is concerned with auditing all access to
the Pathway systems, including that by Pathway operations and
management staff. The main activity is monitoring, though on occasions,
more active investigations are expected. Business Function Auditors also
have access to audit logs, though they will be looking at different
information in them.

Audit logs include:

© Operational and management logs of business transactions such as
the Riposte journal which records events at Post Offices and the PAS
and CMS logs (including records of Payment Card Helpline
transactions)

© Logs recording system level activity at Pathway Data Centre systems
such as user logon and administration and other security relevant
events including system, network and firewall management.

© Logs at relevant Pathway internal systems.

* Archives of these at the archive server retrieved from the Legato tapes
there

* Manual records associated with IT access.

Many events are collected centrally using Tivoli (via Patrol and
Openview where needed). The technician monitoring the systems
management workstation will alert the Security Event Auditor of
specified types of significant events. However, some event records will
remain in local audit logs.

The Security Event Auditor will need to be able to access/extract audit
data from all these - see the following diagram.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 83 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0082
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Pathway System

extracted uo
data
Business Function
Auditor

Ppa {archive

! service J—I~ audit

v \ chives

local audit
trails

Tivoli Event Service

Selected audit data ia

Security
Event Auditor

Manual records

] ,
i Gg alert not

System Management technician
monitoring events

Figure 7-2 Auditor access to audit information

The Business Function Auditor mainly uses information to the archive
server and to information extracted from other systems, though has
limited access to other systems.

7.6.2 System Access Controls

Auditors can access the logs at Pathway systems described above by

tools/clients at the audit workstation. The auditors are registered at each

system/domain accessed and can access only the audit logs there as

included in the relevant sections. Note that Auditors will not have direct

IT access to:

¢ Post Office systems: however, all Post Office transactions (including
user authentication) are recorded in the TMS journal and other
relevant system events are picked up by the Tivoli Event system or

e The Payment Card Helpline systems: all interactions of the Help Desk
users with the Pathway systems are recorded in the Oracle logs on
Sequent.

¢ The interface PCs at POCL and De La Rue sites: management of these
will be recorded in the Tivoli logs

Both Business Function Auditors and Security Event Auditors access the
Data Centre systems via controlled workstations on the secure LAN in
Feltham (see 7.2 above) or a similar workstation at the Data Centre.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 84 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0083
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
VLA Security Management

Pathway Security Management are responsible for Security Event
Auditing of Pathway (see 7.5 above) and also:

«© Management of the cryptographic keys used in Pathway
* Management of the Security tokens used for authentication of some
users (see 3.4.2.5)

and other security matters.
vy Ay Cryptographic Key Management

Several of the Pathway systems require a cryptographic key to be
installed and periodically changed. These keys are used to
encrypt/decrypt or sign/verify data in transit between sites. Some keys
are generated by the Pathway Key Management Service (see 4.6). Others
are obtained from CESG.

Keys may be distributed electronically (for example, to Post Offices).
However, at some systems, the cryptographic key (or part of it) must be
installed manually. This is the case, for example, on the following
systems:

© The BES agents. These have the private key for signing payment
authorisation for transmission to the Post Offices.

« Systems using Red Pike encryption of data on links e.g. the Sequent
system for the link to CAPs and the PCs handling the links to De La
Rue.

« The Zergo boxes used to encrypt certain links such as the Data
Centres to Pathway sites such as Feltham and Stevenage.

All keys are managed in accordance with the policies in 3.6.

The cryptographic key management roles are as follows:

Role Main functions

Cryptographic Key Generating or obtaining cryptographic
Manager keys and organising their distribution.
Cryptographic Key Initial installation of cryptographic keys
Custodian where this needs to be done manually.

Periodic update of these keys.
Cryptographic Key Handler I Handling part of a split cryptographic key
when this needs to be re-installed e.g.
when a system is rebooted.

PO key recoverer Initiating recovery of a Post Office key
from the Help Desk after it has been lost.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 85 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0084
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

The Cryptographic Key Manager and PO key recoverer roles access the
IT system at the central security services only, so their access controls
are described in 8.3.

All Cryptographic Key Custodians and Key Handlers access the systems
ina similar way as defined in the following table.

Role Workstation Authenticatio I Resources available
type & location I n method
Key console at the NT (or UNIX) Functions to install and
Custodian I platform with with token change key
key
Key None None Media containing key
Handler during re-installation of
key.
7.72 Management of Security Tokens

There is a single role here - the Pathway Security Manager (PSM) who
maintains the records of tokens, PINs and users.

The PSM uses a controlled NT workstation on the secure LAN at the
Pathway management site (see 7.2) and has access to the Token
Authentication Service at the Data Centre (see 4.6.2). Functions available
to the PSM are:

* maintaining information about tokens and their associated PINs, and
whether, and to whom, they have been allocated

* maintaining information about users who have tokens

The PSM is also responsible for the procedures to handle tokens which
have been lost, stolen or withdrawn from use, and procedures for the
security of handling PINs, so these do not allow unauthorised access to
the system.

7.8 Other Management Users

The following Pathway general management users have access to MIS
systems (see 7.9), and no other, Data Centre systems. Their access
controls at those systems are therefore included in that section. (Their
workstation controls are in 7.2 above).

Role Main Functions
Pathway Management I Managing the set-up of the management
support information services (e.g. setting up Business Object

Universes and associated controls).
Providing information to other Pathway
Management users on request

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 86 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0085
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Main Functions

Also, providing the POCL and the DSS/BA interfaces
for management information - including provision
of management data regularly and on request.

Pathway Financial

Use of finanical management information in the

Management Common Charging System (CCS) and elsewhere
Pathway Contract Use of contract management information in the
Management Contract Management system (CON)

Pathway Reference
Data Management

Use of reference data in the Data Warehouse

Pathway Customer
Support (CS)

Access to the SLAM cache on NT

Managers
Pathway Business Use of selected Data Warehouse information in
Development development of the business

All users except CS managers use controlled NT workstations on the
secure LAN at the Pathway management site - see 7.2. Pathway
Management Support users have writable CDs for generating
information for POCL and DSS.
7.9 The Management Information Systems (MIS)
There are two Sequent platforms at the Data Centre supporting
Management Information Services; one is the Data Warehouse - the
main information repository for Pathway corporate services. There is
also an associated NT server. These MIS and Fraud Risk Management
services are illustrated in figure 7-3.

TMS PAS/CMS Reference Call info from etc

journal Data data help desks
Qe ta Ireeuf

MIS Services (Sequent and NT)

Pathway
Management Query/Reporting Services Security
(several roles) via Business Objects Management

Accounting, Asset management

Pathway
Mgt Support

System and

Pathway
Business Support

Fraud Risk
Management

Pathway
Auditors

Fraud Case Management System
Contract management (CON)

SLAM cache (on NT)
Financials (not at Centre)

Operational
Management
& Engineers

Application
Support

Printed: [ DATE \I]
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

Page 87 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0086
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Figure 7-3 MIS Systems

The Pathway Management Services include generating invoices for the
Contracting Authorities (using information derived from the operational
system), monitoring Service Level Agreements on the performance of
the Pathway solution, business development applications (providing
aggregates and summaries to identify sales trends and customer habits)
and Accounting and Asset management.

Data is fed automatically from other Pathway systems to the Data
Warehouse including:

* Data from TMS journals about Post Office transactions (see 4.8).
« Data from the Reference Data Management System (see 4.7)
« PAS/CMS data (see 5.2)

¢ Information on calls to the Payment Card Helpline. This consists of
Rockwell ACD data (see 5.3) and Mercury data.

¢ Information on calls to the Horizon System Help Desk. This consists
of Mitel ACD and BT data.

Much of the output of this system is by using the particular services.
These provide the management information required by Pathway and
the outputs required by DSS and POCL. There are automatic feeds from
Data Warehouse Services to the EIS/Financial service and to the Service
Level Agreement Monitoring service (SLAM cache) which is on an NT
system at Wigan.

7-91 System Access Controls

Both Sequent MIS systems are managed in the same way as the other
Sequent systems at the Data Centres, though there is some differences in
support due to the different applications run on the MIS systems. So the
roles defined in 4.2. above (operational management, database support,
application support, auditors etc) are also used here, except for the VME
related roles in 4.2. Note that some of these include application/database
roles, for example, for Auditors.

The NT server is managed as other NT servers at the Data Centre (so
supports the roles defined in 4.4) except for management specific roles
and data flows.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 88 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0087
ICL Pathway

Access Control Policy

Ref: RS/POL/0003
Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Database roles with appropriate database views/tables are used to
separate what data is available for what use. Information available to
people doing ad-hoc queries is further constrained using the Business
Object “universes” to provide restricted views of the Data Warehouse
and other MIS Oracle applications.

The following table shows the application specific roles for the MIS
systems. In all cases, users have authenticated to their local NT systems
rior to access to the MIS system.

Role (and section Authentication I Resources available

where defined) method at MIS

FRM Manager (7.3) I Oracle/Busines I Access to all FCMS case information;

s Objects create/expire users (FCMS

supervisor), setting FCMS codes
(FCMS code user).
Access to Data Warehouse
information, both predefined and ad-
hoc queries. Administration of FRM
Business Object universes (see 7.3)

FRM Analyst (7.3) I As above Full access to FCMS except code user.
Access to Data Warehouse
information as for FRM Manager

FRM User (7.3) As above Access to FCMS case information;
Read only access to Data Warehouse
information

DSS FIT (7.3) As above Access to case information (but not
Pathway specific information)
Access to extracts of Data Warehouse
information (extracted by Pathway
FRM staff, and made available to DSS.
FIT) - no direct Data Warehouse
access.

Pathway Token plus Business Object Universes (including

Management application supervisor functions);

Support (7.8) authentication I Read and update access to agreed MIS
data including CON, SLAM, BPS;
Data required for download to
workstations for reports (pathway,
POCL, BA)

Pathway Financial I As above Access to Common Charging System

Management (7.8) (CCS) and other financial information

Pathway Contract I As above Access to CON service

Management (7.8)

Pathway Ref. Data I As above Access to DW reference data

Management (7.8)

Pathway CS Read only access to SLAM cache on

Managers (7.8) NT only

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Page 89 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0088

POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway

POL00400793

POL00400793
Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role (and section I Authentication I Resources available
where defined) method at MIS
Business As above DW: read only access to Post Office
Development (7.8) information

7.9.2

Control of Connections

All access to the MIS systems at Wigan from outside the campuses is by

encrypted links.

Access to the system is constrained to the agreed data feeds,
management and audit use and output to the EIS/financials system.

Printed: [ DATE \I]
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

Page 90 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0089
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

SYSTEM MANAGEMENT SERVICES DOMAIN

8.4 Introduction

This Domain includes services for:

* Management of the systems in all Pathway domains. There are two
main types of system management:

¢ Managing the Post Office systems and related Data Centre NT
systems (mainly using Tivoli products)

¢ Managing the Sequent Data Centre systems (and the Pathway
VME partition). While this mainly uses Patrol and other tools,
events can still be reported into the Tivoli management
system.

« Network Management - managing the routers and firewalls which
control traffic into, out of and within the Pathway network. Routers
are managed using Open View at the Network Management Station
and firewalls managed by the Enterprise Centre.

© Software and Configuration information distribution, both for roll-out
and auto-configuration of new Post Offices and release of software
updates from the Pathway Configuration Management system to all
systems including Post office and Data Centre ones.

¢ Application support for services in all domains (though access
controls for particular services and systems are given with the controls
for that system).

« Support of specific hardware not covered by other sections such as
symmetrix discs.

e The Technical Help desks which support this - the Horizon System
Help Desk which is the main technical Help Desk and the Roll-out
Support Desk supporting the Implementation process.

Access controls associated with each of these are covered in the
following subsections. The last subsection describes the network access
controls which the system/network management achieves. It outlines
the network and the positioning of controls in it, and then the access
control policies for it.

8.2 Outline of System and Network Management

The following diagram illustrates the main components of system
management during operational use of the system. (Roll-out is covered
in section [ REF _Ref4o1847521 \n \* MERGEFORMAT ]).

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 91 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0090
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
PO ee 7 ;
aM -& ¢ Engineers
ete
Horizon system System Management Centre
Help Desk - most software & operational problems
i SMC— SC ete
Tivoli (mainly NT)
Software Distribution
Software Inventory
Event Management
Resouree Management epee
Config’n Management susemgensent
system/
operational iy E 2g
management E
R s
Maestro Ss R UP OPENviewI [Enterprise
job scheduling Ciseo Works} I Centre
on Solaris _I on Solaris
‘Sequent Machin NF Systems NT I I
running ICorrespondence I I Post Office a iemciih
PAS/CMS, MIS ete Servers ete counters

Figure 8 - 1 System Management Service Domain

In the figure,

« E- shows event management - Tivoli manages events either directly
(as with the Correspondence servers and Post Office counters) or
indirectly (via Patrol at the Sequent systems)

« R-shows resource management such as performance and capacity
monitoring (for Sequent, inventory management)

e S-shows software distribution from the Tivoli server. (Distribution of
software from the Pathway Configuration Management system is in
8.6.)

The Tivoli Management Environment (TME) provides Event
Management, Resource Management and Software Distribution. In some
cases, this is done directly by Tivoli at the Pathway Operational systems.
This is the case for the Correspondence servers, for all Tivoli servers
(some of which are on UNIX systems) and other NT boxes at the
Pathway Data Centres. However, for the Sequent machines (both
operational and management ones), most management is done using
Patrol with events selectively being passed onto the Tivoli Event
Management System. Similarly, Open View and Cisco works are used to
monitor and manage the routers, but send events selectively to Tivoli.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 92 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0091
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

8.2.1

Management actions may be initiated automatically by System
Management software detecting threshold conditions and automatically
taking remedial actions. System management staff initiate actions as
follows:

¢ For planned activities such as distribution of a new software version.
« Where monitoring the events in the system shows action is needed.

* Whena Technical Help Desks receives a call from external people
(e.g. Post Office staff) or Pathway staff (e.g. CFM operational
management staff) requiring action

System Management Workstation Controls

System management technicians have access to the Pathway Data Centre
systems in order to manage them. In doing this, some will have the
capability to update the systems (and potentially disrupt the Pathway
services). Some technicians will also have access to DSS data where this
is needed to investigate a problem.

Many of these technicians also need to use the call recording and
management systems used to record to process of technical incidents
from initial call to the Help Desk, through calling in the required experts
to investigate the problem to the final completion of any remedial action
to rectify the problem. The key tools used here are the Powerhelp and
PinICL systems.

Thus these users normally need access to both the Data Centres and
internal ICL systems. In this case, their access to the systems is as shown
in the following diagram:

System Management (or support) secure site
ICL Corporate

'
\

£7] 4 4 4 to “Network etc
wa secure LAN 1
i
i
i

outer and

crypto box

Pathway Data Centre

outer and
crypto box!

Data Centre system(s)

Figure 8-2 system management workstation/network controls

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 93 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0092
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

The technician often has two workstations connected to separate
networks:

¢ an NT workstation configured to Pathway standards and connected to
a separate secure LAN. Apart from other management workstations
for other technicians, this LAN is connected only to the Data Centres
via routers and cryptography boxes. All traffic between the secure
LAN and the Data Centres is encrypted. The NT workstations have
floppy drives disabled.

* if needed, a workstation connected to other systems such as the
Powerhelp and PinICL systems used for tracking technical incidents.

Where the incident tracking systems use networks outside the
Pathway controlled area, for example, the ICL corporate network,
information recorded on it associated with an incident may refer to a
particular record of DSS customer data, but will not include such DSS
data, unless adequately protected, for example, by encryption.

System management and support technicians work in physically secure
areas.

In the rest of this section, only the controls associated with the NT
workstations which can access the Data centres are included.

All system management users managing Data Centre systems
authenticate using a token.

8.2.2 Procedures for getting in Support Staff

A number of problems can lead to staff being required to support the
system. This could be CFM or SSC staff coming in to support the system
from their normal support sites. However, it could also require support
staff from other organisations such as Oracle or Cisco. CFM is generally
responsible for the call out procedures.

8.2.21 All requests for technical support should be made to the Horizon System
Help Desk. The identity of the caller requesting support (if by telephone)
should be verified to ensure the call comes from an appropriate source,
so should be acted on. The Help Desk will pass on the call to the
appropriate unit in line with Help Desk Procedures using the call
handling system.

8.2.2.2 All support calls should be recorded in the call handling system and
their progress reported there, including who was called out and the
actions taken.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 94 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0093
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
8.2.2.3 Routers will by default be configured to prevent access from support

organisations other than the standard ICL Outsourcing sites supporting
Pathway. When support is required from another authorised site (e.g.
Oracle or Cisco), a router should be configured to allow this access, and
then re-configured to disallow it after use.

83 System Management of NT Systems

System Management of NT systems is done using Tivoli. This includes
managing the Post Office counters, NT servers at the Data Centres and
interface PCs in interface domains. Support is also provided for special
Post Office cases such as lost passwords. Other Pathway people such as
auditors and application support also access Tivoli for information. The
main interactions of the people involved are illustrated in figure 8-2.

Counter clerks Horizon System

DSS Ao Help Desk System Admin
CFM ete & NT Workstations — ae

4 Tivoli client

I Iystem management}

NT Systems

SMC Technician pers Serviess
(incl SMC Help Desk) Tivoli for PO suppor
exchanges
Tivoli System Management Servers. I— Auditors
f at Pathway Data Centres
sotiare For af Application
distribution NT TMR servers SunINT servers ]}— Support

Software distribution] I Event management
Tivoli users admin I Hardware & software
inventory

auto-config _ I
information

I_ Operational
Management

Engineers

Managed Systems

c.g. Post Offices, correspondence servers ;
Figure

8-3 Interactions for Tivoli System Management
SMC technicians perform system management activities because:
« System management actions have been planned, for example, the
distribution of software or the implementation of Post Offices.
© Monitoring of the system identifies some action is needed.
© The Horizon System Help Desk passes on a call about a technical
problem which requires resolution.

Software is sent to Tivoli from the Configuration Management system;
Post Office configuration data comes from the Auto-configuration
database (see 8.6). In both cases, SMC technicians control onward
distribution of the data.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 95 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0094
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

SMC technicians have two workstations - one with access to the call
handling systems including Powerhelp and a second which provides
access to Pathway system management services.

SMC Team Leaders also handle calls from the Horizon System Help
Desk to authenticate users at the Post Office using one-shot passwords
and to assist in key recovery as described in 5.7.

8.3.1 SMC and Roles at Tivoli Servers
The SMC system management roles with access to the IT systems are:
Role Main Functions
SMC Monitoring the system - software distribution, the auto-
technician or configuration process and other system management
technical events.
specialist For software distribution, select targets for distribution

from those authorised and report of progress.

Run pre-defined, pre-allocated tasks.

Raise alarms on pre-defined conditions

SMC technical I For software distribution, authorise targets for distribution,
team leader change priorities or cancel distribution and report on
progress.

Other system management tasks as SMC technician.
Authenticating users at the Post Office using one-shot
passwords as described in 5.7.

Assisting in Post Office key recovery - see 5.7 and 4.6.

SMC MSS Handle receipt of software and auto-configuration
technical information.
support Configure Tivoli event management - configure the view of

events by others and task event relationships and add new
Sentry monitors.

Create Tivoli tasks and allocate to SMC technicians.
System administration of the SMC workstations and Tivoli
servers (NT and UNIX systems) including backup/recovery.
Security User administration - adding SMC and other users to the
Manager SMC domain and to Tivoli. Allocating users’ rights e.g.
roles, groups.

Pre-defined Tivoli tasks can be used for a variety of system management
tasks including Riposte administration at the Correspondence servers.

There are associated manual processes to authorise some of the actions
above and to liaise with other Pathway units involved in software
distribution and auto-configuration. For example:

e Team Leaders and SMC Managers can authorise software distribution.
* Only SMC Managers Can authorise creation of new Tivoli tasks.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 96 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0095
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

¢ All changes distributed via Tivoli first go through the standard
Configuration Management system with its associated processes for
change control, testing and authorises release

In addition to the SMC technicians listed above (and operational
management and engineer roles), other users have access to the Tivoli
servers as follows:

Role Functions

Pathway Auditor Monitoring the Pathway systems; Security Event
Auditors tracing security incidents in Tivoli or reported
via the Tivoli event system using the Tivoli event archive

database.
Pathway Support of Post offices counter applications using events
application collected via Tivoli.
support (SSC)
8.3.2 System Access Controls

The SMC workstations with Data Centre connections are in a secure area
ona secure LAN with floppy and CDROM drives disabled - see 8.2.1. All
SMC staff using these workstations are authenticated to the SMC NT
domain and use a token. Authentication results in display of a desktop
which contains only those applications available to this user. SMC
technicians using Tivoli also authenticate to Tivoli (though this results in
use of NT authentication).

Other users of Tivoli servers such as Auditors and SSC application
support staff use workstations in different NT domains.

All users of Tivoli are registered at the Tivoli server and associated with
the appropriate roles, groups (and regions) to restrict their access to
facilities which they are permitted to access.

The operational management and engineering roles are as for other
servers at the Data Centre (see section 4), so is not included in the

following table.
Role Workst’n I Where user Resources available
& Location I defined;
Authentic’n
needed
SMC NT-SMC_ I NT and Tivoli user; I Tivoli/Oracle facilities
technician, secure area I NT authentication I for authorised
tech specialist, with token functions. (No
and team NT/UNIX tools)
leader
SMC team as above NT with token at PO recovery
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 97 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0096
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Workst’n I Where user Resources available
& Location I defined;
Authentic’n
needed
leader: PO key SMC; also user of application at KMS
recovery KMA
SMC team Specific NT user at specific I Specific application
leader: one- security system. only
shot password I system
auth.
SMC MSS as above as SMC technician I Tivoli/Oracle facilities
technical above for authorised
support functions. Authorised
NT/ UNIX tools.
SMC Security I as above as SMC technician I Tivoli and OS user and
management above role administration
Pathway NT at NT and Tivoli user; I Read access to audit
Auditor- see Pathway NT authentication I information via web
7.6 corporate I with token interface- platform
site audit logs, Tivoli
notices, Tivoli events
collected for auditing
SSC application I NT at NT and Tivoli user; I Pre-authorised Tivoli
support - see P’way NT authentication _I tasks to extract
8.7 secure site I with token diagnostic information
(Bracknell) from the Post Office.
8.3.3 Controls on Connections

The NT workstations and networks which are used by SMC technicians
for managing the operational Pathway system are controlled as in 8.2.1.
(Tivoli integrity features will also be used to protect Tivoli traffic on the
link).

All software, Tivoli scripts, configuration files etc sent by Tivoli to the
Post Offices are signed for integrity.

8.4 Sequent and Oracle Management

The components involved in the management of the Sequent systems at
the Pathway Central sites are illustrated in figure 8-3.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 98 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0097
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Tivoli

Event Management etc

UNIX and

Oracle Events Job
Management & scheduling

Seqyfent Machines

Patrol with Tivol Maestro initiating
Security Management Event Adapter I Ijob scheduling jobs at
Engineers —_ Agents
Ce PAS, CMS, MIS ete

on Oracle databases

Figure 8-4 Sequent, Oracle and VME management

Patrol is used for system management of both Dynix and Oracle. Most
management is automated and so does not require human intervention.

More “hands-on” operational management of the Sequent machines
(including direct UNIX and Oracle access) as introduced in 4.2 above is
used only when the automated management and Patrol cannot cope.

Maestro schedules jobs on both the Sequent machines and the TMS
Agents (when these are not scheduled as the result of data received). The
associated Maestro workstation is used for monitoring this and taking
action if needed. Most job scheduling is automated and so does not
require human intervention.

Roles and System Access Controls

System management related functions are system monitoring and
management using Patrol, Sequent system/operational management and
job scheduling and monitoring via Maestro. All these roles, and
associated access controls, are defined in 4.2 as they affect management
of the Sequent systems.

People carrying out these management functions from a remote site use
secure NT or Sun workstations via encrypted links, tokens etc as defined
in 8.2.1.

Access for staff on call is according to the procedures in 8.2.2 above.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 99 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0098
POL00400793

POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
8.5 Network Management
8.5.1 Introduction
The Pathway network routers are managed using HP Open View with
Cisco Works as illustrated in figure 8-4 below.
Data feeds e.g. rr
PO addresses & Events to Tivoli Dan owe
keys on rollout ] ‘e 8
Network Manager Sun, UNIX’ t——— __ Security Manager
HP Open View
Network Technician System Administration
Cisco Works
Network Management TACACS Engineer
Configurer

ny hed ROM

ISDN Cisco Access WAN Routers
Routers Servers routers at DSS ete

! I
ISDN Adapter} PSTN connected — Girobank DSS, POCL
at Post Office Post Offices areas & De La Rue

etc systems

Figure 8-5 Network Management

All routers illustrated are managed using HP Open View. The solid lines
show the managed routers, rather than physical connections (dotted
lines show how routers outside the Data Centre are connected to it).

Some events are automatically passed on to Tivoli so that the SMC
system management knows about the current state of the network.
However, this is for monitoring - Tivoli is not used to cause management
actions at the routers.

Audit logs are generated during normal running and provided to the
audit service.

On new Post Office roll-out, the (ISDN) addresses of the Post Office to
be rolled out soon are fed to the routers.

The main roles are:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 100 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0099
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

© Network Manager responsible for configuration and management of
the routers

¢ Network Technician monitoring the routers

« Network Management Configurer responsible for the configuration of
the Network Management Station itself, such as Open View
configuration. This role is carried out by the Network Management
team before live running.
The configuration will be validated by more than one CFM technician
and signed off by a senior CFM person before use.

* Cisco router support.

There are no on-line application support roles. Support of Open View,
Cisco Works etc is done off-line.

There is a single Network Management Station (NMS) at each Pathway
Data Centre.

In exceptional circumstances, network staff can use router facilities
directly via telnet, not going through Open View, and therefore not
subject to its controls. In this case, the user is authenticated using
TACACS on the NMS and auditing will still be carried out on the NMS -
see 8.5.4 below.

Engineers may also require direct access to routers - see 8.5.5.
There are also firewall management staff - see 8.5.6 below.

Zergo encryption boxes for protecting data on links are covered in 4.6.
Hardware and other support of the General Signals system to connect
the Symmetrix discs to the Energis network is given in section 8.8.

8.5.2 Roles at the Open View System

The following table lists the roles of people with direct access to the
Network Management Station.

Role (Organisation) I Functions
Network Technician I Monitoring the network
(CFM)
Network Manager _I Monitoring the network.
(CFM) Updating router configuration information e.g.
- Post Office information e.g. ISDN address
- Access Lists of permitted addresses, protocols, ports.
Updating information about routers available when
needed (including confirming bringing a mended one
back on line - see 8.5.5 below)
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 101 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0100
ICL Pathway

POL00400793

POL00400793
Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

8.5.3

Role (Organisation)

Functions

Network
Management
Configurer (CFM)

Configuring Open View e.g.

- what to display to whom.

- actions to be taken on certain events
Configuring Tivoli Event Adapter

Security Manager
(CFM)

Maintain user information for those users permitted to
use this system - both UNIX users and Open View
users.

Local auditing of network management activities at this
system

System.
Administration
(CFM)

Any administration/configuration which cannot be
done using the Open View, or Cisco Works

This is expected to include operating system set up,
changes; software updates.

Engineers

Diagnosing, repairing hardware faults

Note: Pathway auditors access audit information from the NMS via audit
records sent through to Tivoli and extracted audit logs.

Access Controls associated with Human roles

People in all these roles use the console at the machine for all access to
the Network Management Station. The following table shows how the
users defined above access the system and what is available to them.

Role Workstation I Authenticat’n Resources available
type/location I method & where
user defined
Network console at OpenView userlogon I Specified Open
Technician NMS View and Cisco
Works functions
only
Network as above UNIX & Open View I Open View and
Manager as individual user Cisco Works
network
management
functions (no direct
UNIX access)
Network as above as above Open View
Manag’t configurer
Configurer functions
Security as above as above User information
Manager and resource access
controls
System NT at Belfast I UNIX after NMS All UNIX facilities
Administration configured to stop
managing the
network
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Page 102 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0101
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Workstation I Authenticat’n Resources available

type/location I method & where
user defined
Engineer console at UNIX via special No UNIX/Cisco
NMS password c.f. works access
Sequent systems

Notes:

1. The Network Management workstations run 24 hours a day. However,
at the end of the shift, the existing user logs out and the new user logs
on to give individual accountability. Other users of the system must
also authenticate themselves e.g. prior to doing configurer or security
management functions.

2. All users (except possibly engineers) are individually identified to the
system and logon under individual user names.

3. Engineers identify themselves at the secure site and have supervised
accessed to the system - see 3.6.3.

8.5.4 Telnet Access to Routers

Pathway routers are normally controlled from the Network Management
Station as described above. There are exceptional cases where more
direct access to the routers is permitted using telnet. The only cases
permitted are:

* CFM senior network management staff accessing the routers in
exceptional circumstances (for example, for fault resolution requiring
use of the debug facility, in times of excessive network workload or
during fault conditions)

* CISCO staff supporting the routers from a remote CISCO site

No Telnet access to routers is permitted without authorisation by a
member of the Telnet authorisation list. Manual records are kept of this
authorisation each time Telnet access is used.

All users of Telnet access to routers authenticate using TACACS+. All
Telnet access is audited at the NMS. The audit trail contains the
TACACS+ authentication entries and configuration etc changes resulting
from the Telnet access.

Authorised CFM Network Managers use Telnet access to routers from a
specific dedicated NT system on the Operational Bridge area of the
Network Centres.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 103 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0102
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Cisco staff access the router needing support via a separate gateway
router dedicated for Cisco use. This gateway router will be configured to
permit Cisco access only when Cisco support is needed - see 8.2.2. A
different TACACS username and password will be used on each occasion
and these will only be valid for the particular session. The standard Cisco
engineers will have read only access to the routers. Named and
authorised senior CISCO staff (NSA Engineers) may have “enable” mode,
as that is needed for reviewing configuration files and debugging. CISCO
are not permitted to make changes to the routers (a manual, not IT
control).

8.5.5 Direct Access to Routers

The only direct access permitted to routers is for engineers investigating
hardware problems. In this case, access will always be done locally at the
router using a console.

In normal running, the routers will not have consoles attached, though
console access is enabled. Any attempt to use console access will be
flagged at the NMS.

Ifa router has a fault, it will be configured out of the network and then a
console physically taken to the router and plugged in. The router
engineer can then log onto the router to diagnose and repair the fault.
The router is then connected back into the system. The configuration of
the router is checked and the Network Manager asked to confirm
acceptance before the router is configured for normal use as part of the
operational system.

The password used for direct console access is changed via the NMS
every 28 days and also immediately when an engineer requires access.
(There is a two level password system for console access.) Engineers are
not individually known to all routers and need to ask the Network
Manager for today’s password. (The engineers will have identified
themselves manually on entry to the secure site.)

Further details of these procedures will be in the CFM Pathway
procedures manual.

8.5.6 Firewall Management

Pathway firewalls are managed using Firewall Enterprise Centres, one at
each Data Centre. These reside on Solaris systems (shared with Security
token management), which conform to the set-up, operating system
roles and access described in 4.7.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 104 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0103
ICL Pathway

Ref:

Access Control Policy Version:

Date:

POL00400793

POL00400793
RS/POL/0003
3.0
18/12/98

Firewall Manager —_ I Sun, UNIX

Firewall Monitor

Events to Tivoli

i

wi

I

Enterprise Centre

Other Services

Engineer
Firewalls

Figure 8-6 Firewall Management

t— Standard Solaris roles

All access to the firewalls is via the Enterprise Centre, except for
hardware maintenance. As for routers, in normal running, firewalls do
not have consoles attached - they are only attached for hardware
maintenance after the firewalls has been configured out of the system.
Firewall audit logs are sent to the Enterprise Centre.

All configuration changes are made via the Enterprise Centre and logged
via Tivoli. There are no on-line application support roles.

People with the following roles have access to the Enterprise Centre:

Role Main Functions
Firewall Maintains the firewall configuration and policy data
Manager
Firewall Monitor I Read access to alerts, logs and the rule base
Access controls associated with these roles are defined in the following
table:
Role Workstation type I Authentication method & Resource
and location where user defined s
available
Firewall I Either: Controlled Defined as UNIX & Enterprise I See above
Manager I NT workstation at _I centre user; Authenticated with
secure site, or token (to NT, and/or UNIX,
Local UNIX console _I depending on workstation)
Firewall I As above As above See above
Monitor
8.5.7 Access controls configured in Routers and Firewalls

Access Lists in the routers define the traffic to be permitted or denied by
that router specifying IP addresses and associated IP protocols (ip, udp,
tcp, icmp) and port numbers. Only traffic associated with IP addresses
that are explicitly defined in Access Lists will be permitted.

Printed: [ DATE \I]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Page 105 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0104
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

8.6

8.6.1

Firewalls control the use of other application protocols also, though
controls are different for different firewalls, depending on traffic
permitted - see policies in 8.10 below.

Software/Configuration Distribution and
Implementation

Pathway releases software and/or configuration information in two
cases:

« Implementation of new Post Offices, including migration of in-office
data. The Post Office counters are delivered with a standard
configuration which needs to be personalised and updated when
installed. This process is mainly automated and involves initial set up
of IP addresses, routers and cryptographic keys. This implementation
process may also be used for certain types of major changes to Post
Offices.

* Release software and other configuration updates to existing Post
Offices (and related systems). This covers software release to the Post
Offices and to systems in other domains.

In both cases, the process includes authorising the release, digitally
signing the information, distributing it, and, at the receiving system,
using the digital signature to check the information is correct and from
the right place.

Post Office Implementation

This Access Control Policy is concerned only with those parts of the
implementation mechanisms which affect the operational system. These
are illustrated in figure 8-6.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 106 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0105
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Pathway staff
Pathway Implementation managing implementation
Supplier
Pathway Data Cent
POCL and Rollout database OE SS
ther inf "
omer ine Ruto-Configuration
database
I Signing Server I—
server
Generic depot/Tivoli serverI _ Other systems
PO including KMS
Software Boot server! f
PC with PO con iz info & [ss exchanges
software installed _I S°UWAt4 UPcatss
Tee =] rosippice I F
'
hg I I I Auto-confi Ls
— eee Installation Engincer
onizon. Bield Support Post Office Manager
(migration) .
Figur

e 8-7 Interactions on Post Office Implementation

The information about implementation of Post Offices is managed in the
Roll-out database which takes input from POCL and other sources.

Pathway suppliers can also access this database (via bulk transfers) -
both to view and update information.

Information about Post Offices to be installed soon is transferred to the
Pathway Auto-configuration database. The Auto-configuration initiates
the Auto-configuration process which sends information to the Central
Pathway services as required to handle the new Post Offices.
Configuration information for each Post Office/counter is also
generated. This is digitally signed by the Signing Server and sent to
Tivoli to distribute.

The PCs are delivered from the factory with software, including an Auto-
configurer application, installed. The installation engineer uses this to
configure the PCs. During this process, changes needed to the delivered
software and configuration are sent to the Post Office. For ECCO
equipped Post Offices, a Horizon Field Support Officer (HFSO) handles
migration of data from ECCO to the Horizon system using a laptop at
the Post Office linked to a migration server at the centre. (Manual
migration is also handled by HFSOs, but at the Post office only.)

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 107 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0106
ICL Pathway

Access Control Policy

Ref: RS/POL/0003
Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

When the Post Office Manager takes over and first boots up the Post

office, the keys for standard ru
8.6.1.1 Implementation Roles

Application roles are:

nning are delivered from the KMS.

Role

Functions

Roll-out/RODB users

Implementation staff viewing information in
the roll-out database (RODB)

RODB data administrators

Implementation staff as above, but also able
to update RODB data, for example, change
the date for a Post office installation.

Roll-out support/help desk
advisors

Handle calls from Pathway suppliers and Post
Offices - forwarded from Horizon system help
desk. Queries and limited updates to RODB
depending on call

Auto-configuration user

Implementation staff managing the data
going through the auto-configuration
database (ACDB). This includes some update
access.

ACDB data administrator

Administering the central services site
information in the ACDB

Horizon Field Support

Handling migration - two roles for manual

Officer and ECCO migration
Application support manager I Supporting applications
and user

In addition, there are:

e The standard NT roles defined in 4.4. These include the standard

operational management ro!

les, and auditor roles. It also includes a

dba role for each application

e Key custodian and key handler roles at the signing server - see 7.7.1

System access controls for people in these roles are:

Role Workstation Authentication Resource available
type/ method
location
RODB user NT workstation I Token Read only access to
at Pathway site authentication to RODB
or regional office I firewall, then
(see note 1) password to SQL
server
RODB data NT workstation I As above Query and update
administratio I at Pathway site access permitted by
n RODB/client
Roll-out NT workstation _I As above Query and update
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Page 108 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0107

POL00400793
POL00400793

POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Workstation Authentication Resource available
type/ method
location
advisors at Pathway site access as allowed
by RODB client
Auto-config I Controlled NT Token to NT Query access plus
user workstation at workstation, and via_I update as allowed
Pathway site domain trust, to by ACDB/client
Data Centre
ACDBdata I NT workstation I As above Query access plus
administratio I at Pathway site update as allowed
n by ACDB/client
HSFO - Laptop linked to I NT log at lap top; Job to transfer
ECCO Post Office then NT logon to ECCO data to TMS
migration system migration server journal
domain, both using
password
Application I Secure NT Token Access to required
support support authentication at NT I files, databases
workstation - see I workstation
8.7

Notes:

1. RODB users at regional offices dial-in, with routers at the office
connecting to the Data Centre firewalls

2. ACDB users have controlled workstations, not on the Pathway LAN,
and linked by ISDN to the Data Centres

3. Once initial roll-out is complete, management of implementation of
new Post Offices will switch to CFM, so workstation types and
authentication methods for those roles will change to the standard
CFM ones - see 8.2.1

4. The NT logon to the migration server for ECCO migration is to
establish the laptop access to this server. The HSFO uses applications
at the laptop only, so is not a direct interactive user of the migration
server

5. Manual migration is a Post Office only role, so covered in 5
8.6.1.2 Other Access Controls

The RODB takes traffic from external locations, which do not conform to
the standard secure controlled systems used for most Data Centre
access. The NT server supporting the RODB is therefore firewalled from
such external access, with controls at the firewall restricting traffic i.e.:

¢ Implementation staff in regional centres connecting to the RODB via
modems will be restricted to read only SQL access to the RODB.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 109 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0108
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

« Implementation suppliers will be restricted to (FTMS controlled) file
transfers between a Pathway PC at the suppliers site at the RODB.

« ECCO migration laptops can only connent to the migration server at
the Data Centre

The RODB server is also separated by firewalls from the main Data
Centre systems.

8.6.2 Software Updates

This Access Control Policy is concerned with software updates (new
software and fixes) after the software is available in the Configuration
Management system and has been authorised for release by the CS
Release Manager. This is illustrated in figure 8-7.

Pathway Management & Support Centres software &

Configuration rane changes;
librarians Configuration Pathway ref. data

Management
Software j<———_ test rigs
Distributer ¢ il Signing Server 8

Pathway Data Centres

ldepot/ Tivoli server! —> Other systems

Tivoli exchanges

Post Office
Tivoli

Figure 8-8 Software Release

When authorised by the Release Manager, the CM Software Distributer
initiates signing and distribution of the software. It is first made available
for testing, for example, at the test rigs in SSC (see 8.7). Once testing is
complete, and all other checks made, the Release Manager authorises
distribution of the software. The Software Distributer then initiates
transfer of the software to the depot in the Data Centre for distribution
to the operational system.

From the depot, the software is distributed via the appropriate route to
the target system e.g. Tivoli distributes software to the Post Office.

Software distribution to the Data Centre is done by the Pathway
Configuration Management unit (CM). Onward distribution from the
depot/Tivoli is controlled by CFM - see other sub-sections above.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 110 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0109
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

In exceptional circumstances, where this is not fast enough, authorised
code fixes may be done directly by CFM.

All human users of the configuration management system log into it as
NT users with passwords.

The usual key custodian and key handler roles are supported at the
signing server. As this is part of the secure Feltham LAN, any
authentication at that system is token based.

8.7 Application Support

8.7.1 Introduction
The main interactions of people involved in application support are
illustrated in figure 8-8. Note: this does not cover support of network

boxes such as routers (see 8.5) or the symmetrix discs (see 8.8) or
support of Dynix (see 8.4)

Pathway SSC secure site I ICL Corporate
Network
SSC technician 7 A444
___ secure LAN Nother support
sources e.g.
Microsoft

— 1
routers and test rigs&_] I I
crypto boxe: reference sysP I

I

r
I Other secure sit “FM, Oracle) I
\

authorised secure LAN I
I support staff oe!

Pathway Data Centre L——= cal 7]

rypto boxe:

5 CAPSIE NS site

f
Pathway VME partition] I

with CAS, OAS i

software }

Figure 8-9 SSC and other support sites

Data Centre systems
with applications,
middleware

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 111 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0110
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

SSC is the main application and package support unit supporting
applications and packages on Sequent and NT systems at the Data
Centre, and applications at the Post Offices. This support requires access
to the relevant Data Centre systems to diagnose the problem. SSC also
use test rigs to re-create problems and try out updates, before updates
are included in the operational systems via the standard Configuration
Management system (see 8.6).

CFM provide first line support for most systems and application support
for some Sequent and all VME applications. Other units provide 3rd
and/or 4th line support for particular applications and packages, though
this is often off-line from the operational systems.

All application support staff with access to the Data Centre systems do so
from secure sites using NT workstations on secure LANs separate from
any other systems use (see also 8.2.1). All secure sites conform to
Pathway requirements for physical, network and staff security.

Limited data may be downloaded from the Data Centres to the SSC test
rigs for testing new software and to assist in diagnosing application
problems.

SSC also assist Pathway Business Support when doing financial
reconciliations - see 7.5. SSC, on request from Business Support. This
also may sometimes require download to the reference system, with files
of transaction adjustments sent back to the Data Centre for forwarding
to CAPS.

A firewall restricts traffic between the test rigs/reference systems and the
secure LAN. Permitted traffic is the file transfers described above and
access from the SSC and Oracle secure LANs as required for supporting
the applications.

The SSC site is connected via encrypted links to the Pathway Data
Centres (indirectly via another secure site - see section I REF
_Ref4go2000900 \n \* MERGEFORMAT J).

8.7.2 Roles

Application support roles are included in the relevant sections of the

ACP. There are two main application support roles (for SSC and CFM):

« Application support users diagnose problems and have read only
access to the main Pathway systems

¢ Application support managers can also correct data under controlled
conditions - see 8.7.3

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 112 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0111
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

3" line application support roles (by other units) are always read only.

In addition, there are users of the test rigs. These do not have access to
the Data Centre systems and so their system access is not covered
further in the Access Control Policy. Note that as they have some access
to DSS data, the test rigs, and access to them, are ina secure area ona
secure LAN and staff are vetted to Pathway standards.

8.7.3 System Access Controls for these Roles

All application support users access Data Centre systems via secure NT
workstations as described above. Some may need to see DSS data.
Therefore all these support users should authenticate using tokens.

Much application support requires read only access to the relevant Data
Centre and VME systems/package. (VME access is via Sonnet on the
Sequent systems at the Data Centre). However, in some cases, update
access is required.

Where update access is to code, and time permits, correction of errors is
by re-issue of a new version of the software via the Configuration
management system. When faster fixing is required, software updates
may be made by CFM (operational management role) directly after a
request by SSC, subject to agreed Pathway authorisation procedures.

In certain agreed circumstances, there is a need to correct data which
has been corrupted by faulty code. Such corrections are made only by
the application support manager, and are subject to agreed authorisation
procedures. Where the data to be corrected is DSS data which is UK
RESTRICTED, authorisation procedures include the Pathway Business
Support Unit and DSS.

In all cases, updates to code or data by application support staff require

two staff to be present when the change is made and all such changes to
be audited, identifying what has been changed (before and after values)

and the individual who made the change.

No application support users have access to Post Office counter systems
- errors here are diagnosed using logs of events extracted via Tivoli.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 113 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0112
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
8.8 Specific Hardware Support

Earlier sections of the ACP cover support of the main Pathway platforms
- the NT and various UNIX systems and the routers. In addition to these,
there are a number of other hardware boxes at the Data Centre. While
most support will be on-site, remote support for some hardware is being
considered.

Information about access controls for permitted support cases will be added in a later
version of the ACP.

8.9 Horizon System Help Desks

There are two technical Help Desks:

e The Horizon system Help Desk described in this section. This is the
main technical help desk. It is run by CFM and handles technical
queries during normal running of the operational system. It forwards
relevant queries to:

¢ The Roll-out Support Desk which deals with the specific issues of

installing Post Offices. This is described in I REF _Ref401847521 \n \*
MERGEFORMAT ].

8.9.1 Introduction

The Horizon System Help Desk handles technical queries from Post
Offices, the Payment Card Helpline and from DSS and POCL as well as
Pathway queries.

The main interactions of Help Desk staff using the IT systems is
illustrated in figure 8-7

Counter clerks Workstations for Powerhelp, Dispatch-1 ete
Dss yA

CFM ete ae p> ICL Corporate network

Horizon System 4 NT workstation with Pathway applications

Help Desk (Help Desk versions)
l 1 1 l

Figure 8-10 Horizon System help Desk

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 114 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0113
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

These Help Desk staff answer calls from a variety of sources and are
responsible for registering calls, responding to them in some cases and
passing other calls onto the appropriate unit. One workstation gives
access to call handling systems such as Powerhelp, Dispatch-1 and
Remote-1. Additionally, reference machines are available to Help Desk
staff with a special version of Pathway applications (without live data)
for use when responding to Counter Clerk queries. Note that calls from
Post Office Managers about key recovery are forwarded to SMC to
handle - see 8.3.

Horizon System Help Desk users do not have direct access to Pathway
Operational or Management Information Systems, so details of Help
Desk roles and associated access controls are not included in this ACP.

8.9.2 System Set-up

Horizon system Help Desk technicians are in a secure SMC area as for
other SMC system management staff - see [ REF _Ref401994263 \n \*
MERGEFORMAT J and [ REF _Ref401994289 \n \* MERGEFORMAT ]
above.

8.9.3 Other Access Controls

The Horizon System Help Desk receives calls on technical issues from:
© Post Office staff with a technical problem

¢ DSS via the ITSA Service Help Desk

* POCL offices

¢ Other Pathway sites

In many cases, some form of authentication is needed, as described in
section 3.5.2 above.

[Details of telephone authentication will be added in a future version of this document. ]

8.10 Network Access Controls
8.10.1 Introduction

Pathway’s main systems are at the Data Centres, but there are several
other sites linking into these and providing supporting services as
outlined in 2.5. This section looks at the network access control policies
within and between these sites, depending on the security requirements
for each type of link.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 115 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0114
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

The following diagram shows the network in outline.

Later sections look at particular parts of the network, and the specific
controls needed there.

Pathway Data Centre Pathway
[J Icorporate
Mgt site(s
POCL sites Et site(s)
(TIP, ref. data, AP) Sequent NT
operational I I operational Pathway
systems systems support
secure site
Corporate
Payment Card] I [ManagementI I Sc¥nty
bi services Pathway
Helpline systems I_I
system mgt
; 7] sites
KGirobank FRMI I [ystem & Rollon
Inetwork mgt t
apatenas systems II] [Other support
De La Rue sites e.g. Sequent
card production a
ters, firewalls, crypto boxes
routers, firewalls, crypto boxes PH other Data Centre

Post Offices

Figure 8-u The Pathway network.
All links to the Data Centres are controlled by routers/firewalls.
8.10.2 Protecting Data in Transit

Business data is protected in transit in accordance with [SFS]. In

summary:

¢ Business data in transit from CAPS has integrity protection and data
origin authentication. On-line transactions are also encrypted. (Other
traffic on this link is not protected)

¢ Data in transit on the POCL TIP/reference data link is integrity
protected (using digital signatures).

« Data on the POCL HAPS link has confidentiality protection and also
the data will be signed.

« The Payment Card Helplines and Girobank FRM systems are in Wigan
and Bootle, so data in transit to them does not need encrypting.

© Details of customers for card production on route to the De La Rue
card production system are integrity and confidentiality protected.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 116 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0115
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Traffic to the Post Offices is protected using a VPN to provide
authentication and encryption. Payment authorisations and also
software and configuration updates distributed via Tivoli are digitally
signed.

Other general policies for protection of links are:

8.10.21 All Pathway Corporate management, system management and support
sites with access to the main operational systems have fixed links to the
Data Centres

8.10.2.2 External sites with access to the main operational Pathway systems also
have fixed links to the Pathway Data Centres.

8.10.2.3 All such fixed links are protected using Zergo encryption devices using
Rambutan.

8.10.2.4 All ISDN links use VPN protection or CHAP authentication and CLI.

8.10.2.5 The Feltham site also acts as a gateway for some other sites accessing

Pathway services. Where these are fixed links (as for the SSC site) the
link between these sites will also be encrypted. (Note the SSC site also
has a further encrypted link allowing an alternative connection to the
Data Centres in the case of a failure at the Feltham site).

8.10.2.6 Where external support users, implementation suppliers etc access
Pathway systems, Pathway firewalls control that access. Any exceptions
to this must be agreed by the Pathway Security Manager and
documented in the ACP.

8.10.3 The Data Centre Network Access Policy

The following diagram is a simplification of the network at a Pathway
Data Centre showing the links into and out of it.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 117 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0116
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Pathway Data Centre DSS sites
NT Sequent ny 4 POCL TIP etc
operational] I operational WAN ff other
systems systems Routers ie Data Centre
LAN ; Corporate I Girobank
AL security I I\¢ “
switches} services anagement Helpline
systems
router Cisco
firewall I [system &
network mgt
Rollout systems nwa. p POCL HAPS
systems outers & I FW External support
firewall rypto boxe: e.g. Sequent
[ i
i i
ISDN & other I ISDN Routers I Routers & CFM
Routers for POs [for other links rypto boxes

[> smc
Pathway mgt ete

Post Offices DeLaRue Implement’n Pathway
sites suppliers regional centres

Figure 8-12 The Pathway Data Centre Network

Note that the above diagram does not show:

© The actual network within the Data Centres or the firewalls which
protect specific links and systems. Rather this document gives the
access policies which the network should achieve.

¢ The actual network outside the Data Centres such as the Energis
backbone, or the ISDN network as these do not affect the access
control policy.

* Some users where more information is needed e.g. DSS FIT

Traffic into and out of the Pathway Data Centres is mainly controlled by
the routers and firewalls. These are also used within the network, and
there are also controls on the use of ports at particular systems.

The links into the Pathway Data Centre should be configured to achieve
the following.

8.10.31 Routers and firewalls on the links should be configured to restrict traffic
as required by this policy - see 3.4.3. They should restrict traffic to the
agreed external sources.

8.10.3.2 DSS and the POCL TIP/Reference Data link use a secure environment
provided by the Energis ATM network. The closed user group restricts
access to Pathway only.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 118 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0117
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
8.10.3.3 Firewalls should protect the Data Centre systems from links to other

services such as POCL HAPS, De La Rue and Implementation Suppliers.

8.10.3.4 Access to the Data Centre by external organisations for support or other
access should also be firewalled. Any exception to this must be agreed
with the Pathway Security Manager and documented in the ACP.

8.10.3.5 Roll-out systems which can be accessed from outside sites not
conforming to the Pathway standards for a secure site should be
firewalled from other Data Centre systems.

8.10.3.6 Traffic to/from DSS systems should be restricted to the authorised
business traffic to/from the Sequent operational system (apart from
network management traffic between the routers and the NMS).

8.10.3.7 Traffic to/from the POCL, POCL Client and De La Rue systems should
be restricted to the authorised business traffic to the PCs handling that
link (apart from network management traffic between the routers and
NMS and system management traffic between the PCs and Tivoli
Management Centre.

8.10.3.8 The Girobank Help Desk users should be restricted to only Oracle Forms
access to Sequent (see 4.3.1 above). The Help Desk workstations should
be set up to use only this access to the Data Centres and the Sequent
systems to accept only this.

8.10.3.9 A set of routers should handle all traffic to/from operational Post Offices
and accept traffic from outside the Data Centres only from Post Offices.
No operational Post Office traffic should be accepted via other routes.
These routers should also restrict where traffic can be routed to/from
within the Data Centre. Permitted addresses are just for those services
listed in 5.3 i.e. the Correspondence Servers, Tivoli management servers
and KMS.

8.10.3.10 When implementing a new, or significantly changed, Post Office,
connection will initially be to the boot server which is separated by
firewalls from both external access and the main Pathway Data Centre
LAN.

8.10.3. The routers handling POCL and De La Rue ISDN links are separate from
those used for the Post Offices. Traffic permitted to and from them are
file transfer, network and Tivoli management (see section 6). The
routers/firewalls should restrict file transfer traffic to the PCs allocated
to handle this traffic from this site and restrict Tivoli traffic to the Tivoli
server.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 119 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0118
POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

8.10.3.12 Routers should be configured to deny access to external users (e.g.
CISCO support) until this access has been agreed - see 8.2.2. When
permitted, the appropriate router should be configured to restrict access
to the Data Centre to the particular system(s) needing support.

8.10.3.13 The routers used for internal Pathway site access only permit traffic
from/to these locations.

8.10.3.14. The combination of routers and firewalls at Feltham should restrict
traffic from there (and linked sites) to what is permitted. For example,
e SSC application support users are restricted to the systems they
support

* Management users are restricted to the Data Warehouse and MIS
systems at Wigan

© Configuration management traffic is only permitted to the
appropriate software depot/Tivoli server.

8.10.3.15 Controls in the Data Centre should reduce the possibility of interference
between systems by separating independent parts of the system,
particularly where these which have different security requirements.
(This may be by a combination of network set-up, router controls,
controls at ports of specific systems and NT domain structure.) For
example,
e Systems concerned with roll-out of Post Offices should be separate

from those used for operational running.

* Security services, such as the Key Management one, should be well
protected from unauthorised access from other systems.

8.10.4 Pathway Project Sites

System management sites remote from the Data Centres which are run
by ICL Outsourcing are covered in sections 8.3, 8.4 and 8.8 above. The
SSC application support site is covered in 8.7 above.

Other sites are used by Pathway management and the Pathway
Implementation Unit. These include:

« The main Pathway management sites at Feltham and Bracknell
¢ The Implementation unit main site at Kidsgrove
¢ Regional offices used by the Pathway Implementation Unit.

The Pathway Corporate Management site at Feltham has a permanent
direct link into the Data Centres. Users of Data Centre systems from this
site are:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 120 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0119
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

« Pathway management users accessing the Data Warehouse, MIS and
SLAM systems - see section 7

« Pathway Business Support users - see 7.5

« Pathway Customer Services using the RDMC - see section 4.3.2
e Pathway Security, Audit and FRM users - see section 7

e Software distribution (see 8.6)

« Implementation/roll-out users - see 8.6

The Feltham site also provides links for other Pathway project sites such
as SSC (see 8.7) which require Data Centre access as shown in the
following diagram.

Pathway Feltham site

ICL Corporate Feltham Network
Network and Router with management users
other links \Qand other users
- CM sign &
Security ete users I Firewall I distribute
I I Pathway
secure LANs secure site
Routerand e.g. ssc
crypto box
Router and Other
crypto box support
secure site
V e.g. Oracle

To crypto box at Data Centre
Figure 8-13 Feltham Pathway Network

The Kidsgrove site and Regional centres have simpler networks with
routers and ISDN connections to the Data Centre. In the case of regional
offices, access to the Data Centre is via a laptop dialling in (via local
routers and then Data Centre routers and firewalls).

8.10.4.1 Workstations on a secure LAN, or individual secure workstations must
be used for access to the following Data Centre services:

© Operational systems at the Data Centre, including related services
such as the time server.

¢ Services with access to sensitive data (on MIS or other systems) or
with update access to them

* Secure services on a Pathway project site such as the signing service

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 121 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0120
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Note: this includes Security Management, Auditing and FRM users and
some management users - see section 7.

8.10.4.2 Signing and distribution of software should also be from a secure LAN.

8.10.4.3 All traffic in and out of the Feltham Pathway Network should go through
one of the routers/firewalls identified in diagram 8-12 i.e.

* be encrypted traffic to/from the Data Centres
* be encrypted traffic to/from another authorised secure site, or

* go through the routers/firewalls protecting the pathway network from
the ICL Corporate network and external links

No access to the Feltham network by-passing these controls is
permitted.

8.10.4.4 Traffic between the Pathway Feltham network and other networks (apart
from the encrypted links) should be restricted to permitted traffic by the
routers/firewalls at the boundary to the Pathway network. The main
types of permitted traffic are:
¢ Links to services required by Pathway developers, managers and
related staff. This includes email, Powerhelp and the financial system.

e Supply of software from other units, where this is done electronically.
¢ Access required by Implementation suppliers to the roll-out database.

8.10.4.5 All access to the Data Centres from the main Feltham network (rather
than secure LANS), is restricted to the required application protocols to
the permitted particular Data Centre services for this user. This applies
to users with workstations on that network and external users such as
implementation suppliers (see above). This is controlled by the
configuration of the firewall between the network and the Data Centre
link and associated routers.

8.11 NT Domains

Windows NT domains are used in Pathway to control which NT servers
can share NT resources and which users have access to those resources.
They are also used to simplify user authentication - a user need only
logon once to a domain, or once to a set of domains which have an
established trust relationship which includes trust in the users of the
domains.

NT domains should conform to the following policies:

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 122 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0121
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
8.044 NT domains should generally have at least one Backup Domain

Controller. This should be on a separate site from the Primary Domain
Controller. Exceptions to this must be agreed and are expected to be
small domains with few users.

8.1.1.2 Where a set of related NT systems is run by a different authority from
other NT systems, this should be set up as a separate domain.

8.1.1.3 Where such a domain does not share users or resources with other
domains, it should be a separate domain with no trust relationship with
other domains. For example, the Payment Card Helpline systems are
such a domain.

8.1.1.4 NT domains should be set up to conform to the policies in this ACP
including the general ones in section 3, the NT specific ones in 4.4 (for
Data Centre NT servers) and the need to reduce interference between
systems in 8.10.

8.0.1.5 Domains may span sites where all NT workstations and servers in the
domain are run by the same authority and are subject to the same
physical and network security. (For example, the SMC system
management domain spans the SMC workstations attached to a secure
LAN on the secure SMC sites and the Tivoli NT servers at the Data
Centre).

8.0.1.6 A domain must be confined within an area of the network which is
subject to the same security policies and controls. For example, it must
not include NT systems on different sides of a firewall.

8.1.1.7 Where sharing of resources, but not users, is required between domains,
then the trust between domains should be restricted to sharing the
agreed resources/files across the domain boundary. The resource sharing
must be restricted to the minimum required for the agreed functions.

8.1.1.8 Where sharing of files is required between domains on different sides of
a firewall, this should be subject to special authorisation procedures as
well as the policy in 8.11.1.7.

8.1.1.9 A domain should not establish trust in users registered in a domain ina
less trusted part of the network.

8.11.1.10 Users should only have access to the NT systems to which they are
permitted access. The domain set up should prevent them accessing any
other NT systems.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 123 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0122
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
8.4.1 Users should not be registered as NT users at domains where their only

access is at the application level, for example, via a remote client via an
application protocol to a particular application which has its own logon.

8.1.1.12 Set up of NT domains should assist separation of systems to reduce
interference between them.

O11
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 124 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0123
ICL Pathway

Access Control Policy

Ref:

Version:

Date:

RS/POL/0003

3.0
18/12/98

APPENDIX A: SUMMARY OF ROLES

The following table is a summary of the roles in this document. Services accessed are listed under:
¢ Sequent (operational) for the main Sequent systems which support the application hosts

POL00400793
POL00400793

« NT (operational) for the main NT systems which support the main business applications on NT such as TMS
and its agents and the PCs linking the Data Centres to other business sites (DSS, POCL, De la Rue etc)

* The Management systems including Data Warehouse and other MIS systems, including SLAM, FRMS. Note
that this includes Sequent and NT systems

* Other systems - mainly those concerned with Post Office implementation, system and network management
and security management. Note that this includes different system types including NT and Solaris ones

Role Services/Systems Accessed ACP
sections
Post office I Sequent NT MIS Others
(operational) (operational)

POCL steady state Post Office Roles

Post Office Manager Post Office 5
counters

Post Office Supervisor I PO 5
counters

Post Office Clerk PO 5
counters

Emergency Manager PO 5
counters

POCL Auditor notesia2 I PO 5 (7.5)
counters

Benefit Payment Support Roles

DSS/BA clerks I [ PAS/CMS via CAPS __I [6.1 (4.3.4)

Printed: [ DATE \1] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Page 125 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0124
POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003,
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98

Role Services/Systems Accessed ACP

sections

Post office I Sequent NT MIS Others
(operational) (operational)

DSS Help Desk PAS/CMS via CAPS 6.1 (4.3.1)
Payment Card PAS/CMS 7-4 (4.3.1)
Helpline Advisor
Payment Card PAS/CMS 7-4 (4.3.1)
Helpline Advisor (NSI)
Payment Card PAS/CMS 7-4 (4.3.1)
Helpline Supervisor
Other Support roles used by customers
Horizon System Help local only 8.9
Desk Technician
SMC Team Leader local including one- I 8.3
acting as SMC Help shot password
Desk Technician system; KMA
Roll-out Support Desk RODB (NT) 8.6
advisor
Business Operational Roles - Pathway staff
Reference Data Change RDMC 4.3.2
Manager
RDMC Loader RDMC 4.3.2
RDMC User RDMC 4.3.2
RDMC access RDMC 4.3.2
administrator
Business Support PAS/CMS, TPS, APS, I TMS? reconciliation db 7.5 (+7.9,
Manager OBCS (NT) 4-5) 4.3.)
Business Support as above as above as above 7.5 etc as
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 126 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0125
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003,
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Services/Systems Accessed ACP
sections
Post office I Sequent NT MIS Others
(operational) (operational)
Analyst above
Fraud Risk Management, Audit and Security Roles
FRM Manager PAS/CMS TMS FCMS, DW For evidence 7.3 (+ 7.9,
(Sequent) gathering, others as 4-3-1, 4.5)
Business Function
Auditor
FRM Analyst as above as above as above as above as above
FRM User FCMS, DW 7:3 (7.9)
DSS FIT FCMS 7.3.(7.9)
Pathway Business Main host systems Main operational I DW and others Auditor workstation I 7.6 (+ lots)
Function Auditor systems
Pathway Security All systems All systems All systems Most systems, 7.6 (+ lots)
Event Auditor including Tivoli
events
Pathway security Token Authentication I 7.7 (4.6)
management Service (Solaris)
Cryptographic Key KMA, CAW 7.7 (4.6)
Manager
Cryptographic Key key mgt application I key mgt on VME, Signing service I 7.7 (+
Custodian Agents, CMS link (NT) several)
PCs
Cryptographic Key as above as above as above 7.7 (+
Handler several)
PO key recovery KMA 8.3 (4.6, 7.7)
(subset of SMC Team
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 127 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0126
POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003,
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Services/Systems Accessed ACP
sections
Post office I Sequent NT MIS Others
(operational) (operational)
leader role)
Other Pathway Management roles
Pathway Management DW (Sequent) - 7.8 (+7.9)
Support Business Objects
and several apps,
SLAM (NT)
Pathway Financial mgt CCS application 7.8 (+7-9)
Pathway Contract mgt CON application 7.8 (+7.9)
P’way Ref. Data mgt DW. 7.8 (+7.9)
Pathway CS Managers SLAM on NT 7.8 (+7.9)
Pathway Business Dev. DW 7.8 (+7.9)
Implementation and Software/Configuration Distribution Roles (apart from help desks above)
Auto-configuration ACDB 8.6
user
ACDB data ACDB 8.6
adminstrator
Roll-out/RODB user RODB 8.6
RODB data RODB 8.6
administrator
HFSO - ECCO laptop at Migration server 5, 8.6
migration PO
HFSO - manual PO counter 5
migration
Software Distributer CM signing service 8.6
Pathway operational management/ administration
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 128 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0127
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003,
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Services/Systems Accessed ACP
sections
Post office I Sequent NT MIS Others
(operational) (operational)

Computer operator (on UNIX/secure menu I NT All systems All systems 4.2, 4.4, 4.7
Sequent systems) (+ others)
Senior operator UNIX/secure menu UNIX/secure 4.2

menu
System Monitoring Patrol Patrol on 4.2

Sequent; NT
Database monitoring UNIX/secure menu UNIX/secure 4.2

menu
Operational mgt/ UNIX/secure menu I NT UNIX/secure All systems (NT, 4.2, 4.4, 4.7
system administration menu Solaris etc) (+ others)
Operational mgt/ UNIX/secure menu; UNIX/secure RODB, ACDB (SQL 4.2, 8.6
database Oracle applications menu server)
administration
Secure menu UNIX/secure menu UNIX/secure 4.2
administrator menu
Security Management UNIX/secure menu I NT UNIX/secure All systems 4.2, 4.4, 4.7

menu (+ others)
Legato Administration Archive server 4.541
Payment Card PAS/CMS 7.4
Helpline Security
Manager
Base Installation and UNIX NT UNIX All systems 4.2
configuration
Riposte Management Correspondence 45

servers

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Page 129 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0128
POL00400793

POL00400793
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003,
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Services/Systems Accessed ACP
sections
Post office I Sequent NT MIS Others
(operational) (operational)
KMA Data Manager KMA 4.6
Pathway systems management, administration for CFM (DS) systems
SMC technician Tivoli/Oracle system I 8.3
management services
SMC technical Team Tivoli/Oracle system I 8.3
Leader management services
SMC MSS technical Tivoli/Oracle SMS 83
support plus SMS OS etc
SMC security manager Tivoli/Oracle SMS 83
plus SMS OS etc
Pathway Network and Firewall Management and management of Network systems
Network technician OpenView on NMS 8.5
Network manager OpenView and NMS_ I 8.5
(+ telnet to routers)
Network management NMS 85
configurer
NMS security manager NMS 8.5
NMS system NMS 8.5
administrator
Firewall Manager Enterprise Centre 8.5.6
Firewall Monitor Enterpise Centre 8.5.6
Support roles
Engineers UNIX NT UNIX, NT NT, Solaris 4.2, 444, 457
PO Installation PO 5
Engineer counters
Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 130 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0129
POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003,
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/98
Role Services/Systems Accessed ACP
sections
Post office I Sequent NT MIS Others
(operational) (operational)
PO support engineer PO 5
counters
Dynix 3rd line support UNIX/secure menu UNIX/secure 4.2
menu
Oracle db 3rd line UNIX/secure menu UNIX/secure 4.2
support menu
Oracle application 3rd UNIX/secure menu; 4.2
line support Oracle application
Application support UNIX/secure menu; I NT UNIX, NT many 8.7 (+4.2,
manger applications 4edene
Application support UNIX/secure menu; I NT UNIX, NT many 8.7 (+4.2,
user applications 4eduree
VME application UNIX/secure menu + 4.2, 6.1
support VME
Support Roles - non Pathway staff
Oracle application and UNIX/secure menu + UNIX/secure 4.2, 8.7
db support Oracle menu + Oracle
Sequent support UNIX/secure menu UNIX/secure 4.2
menu
Cisco router support routers 8.5.4
Notes:

¢ External Auditors only have direct on-line access to the Post offices. They have indirect access to other Audit
information via Pathway Auditors - see 7.6. The table above only covers direct users of the system, so indirect
access from DSS, POCL and NAO auditors is not shown.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 131 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0130
POL00400793
POL00400793

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.0
Date: 18/12/08

* POCL Investigators have the same rights as POCL Auditors, so are not distinguished from Auditors for access
controls.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 132 of 117

POL-BSFF-0227463_0131
