POL00248057
POL00248057

From: Parsons, Andrew. ic
Sent: Tue 28/03/2017 12:50:15 PM (UTC)
To: Jane MacLeod}. Mark

Underwood1{°
Cc: Melanie Corfield[? Rodric
Subject: RE: JFSA statement & media enquiry [BD-4A.F1D26940628]

I'm happy with the comms too.

Plus let's not forget that Alan Bates has a somewhat loose relationship with the truth...

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

2 )) oe Best enon

OVERALL BEST
LEGAL ADVISER

From: Jane MacLeod [mailt
Sent: 28 March 2017 13:36
To: Mark Underwood1

Cc: Melanie Corfield; Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew
Subject: Re: JFSA statement & media enquiry

I think the key words are underlined below - they haven't joined yet!
we have had over 1,000-plus candidates come forward so far. Subpostmasters now

have until 26 July to join the action before the cut-off, which prevents new claimants
joining the claim thereafter.

Otherwise, I'm happy with the proposed comms.
Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Sent from my iPad
On 28 Mar 2017, at 13:26, Mark Underwood1 oa

POL00248057
POL00248057

Hi Jane — Just for info at the moment:
JFSA have issued a statement that has been picked up by Nick Wallis and Computer Weekly. The
statement is include in Mel’s below note. I don’t think there is anything ‘new’ included within it, save for

the claim that “Over 1,000 subpostmasters from across the UK have now applied to join the action”

Though concerning, they have chosen to use the word “applied” rather than just “joined” or similar.

Mark
Mark Underwood

Head of Portfolio: Legal, Risk & Governance

From: Melanie Corfield

Sent: 28 March 2017 12:22

To: Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Mark Underwood]; Patrick Bourke
Subject: JFSA statement & media enquiry

Hi both,

We’ve been alerted by a trade mag to a statement issued by the JFSA. I can’t see anything new on their
website and we’ve had no other enquiries either. I’ll keep a check and see if anything more emerges.
Their statement is below. I think our response should be: The Post Office welcomes the Group Litigation
Order as offering the best opportunity for the matters in dispute to be heard and resolved. We welcome
the progress that has been made but will not otherwise comment on litigation whilst it is ongoing. We
continue to have confidence in and defend the robustness of the Horizon system which has around
78,000 users across 11,600 branches nationwide to process six million transactions a day.

Grateful if you could confirm this response. It would be good to add in that the GLO was made last
month to indicate ‘old news’ but is this the case — not sure of the technical process?

As you know, we have reactive internal communications lines prepared.
Thanks
Mel

JFSA statement

The Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance (JFSA) announced today that the Group Litigation Order
(GLO) against Post Office Ltd has now been approved by the President of the Queen’s Bench
Division of the High Court, which means that the case will continue through the court as a group
action. Post Office Ltd is defending the claim.

Over 1,000 subpostmasters from across the UK have now applied to join the action.

While the grounds of the case may be subject to revision as the matter proceeds, the claim
focuses on a number of areas — particularly the true nature of the contract between the
subpostmasters and Post Office Ltd in terms of the Horizon operating system, and the way in
which Post Office has dealt with alleged shortfalls.
POL00248057
POL00248057

The claim covers training and support, the proper recording of transactions, liability for
claimants to pay alleged shortfalls of cash or stock and the processes for identifying,
investigating and recovering shortfalls. The claim will also look at Post Office Ltd’s rights to
terminate subpostmaster contracts and will examine issues of “good faith, fair dealing,
transparency, co-operation and trust and confidence.”

Alan Bates of the JFSA said: “The case is now up and running and we have had over 1,000-plus
candidates come forward so far. Subpostmasters now have until 26 July to join the action
before the cut-off, which prevents new claimants joining the claim thereafter.

“Subpostmasters have brought the claim to force Post Office Ltd to accept responsibility for the
flaws in its Horizon operating system, for its refusal properly to investigate accounting shortfalls
and for its shoddy and careless treatment of postmasters who have lost their liberty, livelihood
or savings because Post Office Ltd wrongly accused many of them of theft or fraud. As well as a
court finding of responsibility, the claimant group will be seeking appropriate financial
compensation in respect of loss and damage suffered.”

The claim also seeks to establish whether subpostmasters were placed under duress by Post
Office Ltd when they signed off incorrect accounts or when they resigned.

Bates added: “We are looking to establish that Post Office Ltd acted ‘unconscionably’, in other
words harshly, oppressively or beyond what would be considered normal commercial
bargaining. If that was the case, we’ll seek to establish whether this has a bearing on either the
signing of the accounts or forced resignations. We are also concerned that individuals may have
been unlawfully harassed and also whether Post Office can be held liable for damages in terms
of the stigma created around the affected subpostmasters, for their loss of reputation and the
stress caused as a result of these serious breaches of legal obligations.”

Any subpostmaster who was in post since 1999 and experienced issues with Post Office Limited
and its Horizon system including alleged shortfalls or discrepancies or other issues from using
join the case.Either go to the website, www.poclaims.co.uk,

Mel Corfield
Communications Team

2H 28 2B FRR 2 2K 2 FAR F221 oR 0K 2 2 KR 02 2 KR ED oR aR a aa a

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

HEE 2 2 F228 24 2K 2 FAR A 2K 2 FARR 0 2 FR 02 KR Eo oe Ro a a aa
POL00248057
POL00248057

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

‘The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and.
access this e-mail and any attachments, If you are not rodrie. williams.
copies. Unauthorised

ivileged and protected by law i

please notify andrew parsons GRO

. dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prOHiBiTST ani

mnly is authorised to
Yas soon as possible and delete any
¢ unlawful,

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office is 4 More
London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP. or an employee or

consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority,
