POL00046235
POL00046235

Memo Royal Mail

11 October 2011 Legal Services
Maureen Moors 3" Floor
National Security Team 6a Eccleston Street
gra Floor Clippers House oN

rd Floor Cli
Clippers Quay SWIW 9LT
SALFORD.M50 3NW arent

cc: Stephen Bradshaw ‘Redacted

“Wwww.royalmailcom

POST OFFICE LTD -v- KHAYYAM ISHAQ
CASE POLTD/1011/0186

Thank you for your minute of 5 October 2011 submitting the papers in this case. My
understanding of the evidence is that an audit discovered a shortage on 8 February 2011 of
£21,168.64. Following the audit, the Defendant consented to being interviewed. The first set
of interviews took place on 7 April 2011. During the course of the interviews the Defendant
denied any dishonesty including theft, false accounting or fraud. Following which the assistant
who worked at the sub post office was spoken to and has provided a witness statement which
refutes a number of suggestions put by the sub postmaster in the course of the interview. In
essence Mr Liaquat confirms that he worked between 9.00 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. He maintains
that when he changed his password on the computer he notified the sub postmaster of the
change but was unaware of the sub postmaster’s log-on code.

The witness was also shown a number of branch trading statements and stated that he was
unaware of discrepancies that were raised in the statements. He also confirmed that the sub
postmaster counted both the cash deliveries and stock in the office.

Mr Liaquat stated that he had never been informed of any discrepancies and never been told
that he had forgotten to count any cash.

The sub postmaster was further interviewed on 27 September 2011. During the course of
the interview the sub postmaster maintained that Mr Liaquat’s recollection and version of
events was inaccurate and that he was mistaken and that in fact he had been forgetful whilst
working at the office. He continued to deny that he knew Mr Liaquat’s password. Whilst he
now accepts that he checked the cash every week he denies checking any stock levels.

267013M02-M Moors-Ishaq-RGW
© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 1 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group Limited. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 100 Victoria Embankment, LONDON, EC4Y OHQ
POL00046235
POL00046235

Memo

Cont...

I note in the audit report there is reference to a conversation which took place during the
course of the audit between an auditor, Kath Smith and an employee at the P&BA
Chesterfield. In essence, I understand that there were a number of sales reversals of stamps.
I understand the reversals involved large numbers of sheets of stamps and they took place
under the suspect sub postmaster’s user name. During the course of the audit he was asked
about the reversals but stated that he was not responsible for their inputs as they took place
when the “relief” was working. I understand when he is referring to “relief” that he may be
referring to annual leave that he has taken where he has paid a substitute to work at the
office. Alternatively, he could mean the sub office assistant. I will be grateful if Horizon data
could be obtained in relation to the reversals as it appears that this may well be the piece of
evidence which can prove that the sub postmaster is the person who was acting dishonestly in
this case. If we are talking about a “relief” in relation to annual leave, can records be checked
that the period can be and cross-referenced with any reversals that took place? If the
evidence shows that the sub postmaster is the person who was reversing the sales for stamps
then clearly this points towards the guilty knowledge that there was a deficiency in this stock
which should lead to a prosecution in relation to fraud and/or theft or false accounting.

If thexa.ate>anw.difficultias..niease do not hesitate to contact this Office.

Head of Criminal Law
Criminal Law Division

_GRO_

CRM/267013/RGW/dmt

‘© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 2 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group Limited. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 100 Victoria Embankment, LONDON, EC4Y 0HQ
