POL00293169
POL00293169

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce:

Underwood*”
Subject: FW: Scheme workshop - record of decisions [HS-London_11.F1D2085233]
Attachment: 2020.02.03 - PO Historic Shortfall Scheme - Record of key decisions. AVDB comments.docx

Rod

Last Monday at your GLO Activity Planning meeting you mentioned to Kate that you wanted to see less HSF people in
the room for meetings as you were conscious of the associated cost. At the Thursday’s workshop several days later
there were at least 7 HSF representatives in the room, three of which were I believe charged with compiling the
notes/minutes/actions. Given the agreed deadline of cop today I specifically asked for those notes to be shared cop
last Thursday. We received them today at 1416hrs despite my chaser to Kate at 653hrs this morning.

So the point of this note is twofold. The first is that I believe there are too many HSF fingers in the pie and this is
delaying the process rather than speeding it up. The second is that I feel we are paying unnecessarily for HSF people
being in the room.

You'll also note reference to 7" Feb workshop. This is news to me — you'll see from my note below that I’ve proposed
that we hold this workshop on Thursday 6" instead. Assuming we are able to do this, I won’t require Kath, Shirley,
Sharron to be in the room as by Thursday we will have finalised our work and Ill be able to walk everyone through the
processes and our rationale for their shape. It would in my view make for a more efficient workshop if we scaled back
the number of HSF people in the room also.

Happy to take any counter view from you and indeed Patrick and Mark cc’d but if we are to be stood up and ready to
go live on 2” March, less is more in my view.

. Angela Van Den Bogerd
Business Improvement Director

Angela

1* Floor,Ty Brwydran,
Atlantic Close,Llansamlet

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
POL00293169
POL00293169

Sent: 03 February 21
To: 'Heitlinger, Sam

Alexander!

Patrick Bourke

ent, Alison

_j Lord, Willia' Cruz,

Subject: RE: Scheme workshop - record of decisions [HS-London_11.FID2085233]
Importance: High

All,

I have tracked my comments into the attached document to provide a status update on the actions I took away from
the workshop last Thursday.

I note reference to workshop on 7" Feb however I have nothing in my diary. I’m unable to be in London on Friday and
would prefer to walk through the process maps via a face to face so I suggest extending our already scheduled 1 hour
meeting on Thursday 6" Feb to accommodate.

Further to a meeting with Kath, Shirley and Sharron today the process maps for Claims received (box 2); Triage (box 3)
and Case Investigations (box 4) are in pretty good shape and subject to applying timelines to each of these boxes and
for Case Investigations the type of claim (ie deep dive, middle road and light touch) specific timelines, I will be ina
position to share at the workshop on Thursday. I will also by then have worked up the resource required for boxes 1-3
depending on total number of applications received and the different type of application, Also any outstanding
actions on my part.

Any queries please let me know.

. Angela Van Den Bogerd
Business Improvement Director
RK 1* Floor,Ty Brwydran,
POST Atlantic Close,Llansamlet

Swansea SA7 9FJ

Angela

GRO

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Heitlinger, Sam
Sent: 03 February 2020 14:16
POL00293169
POL00293169

y es
Melanie Corfield
Mark Underwood

Gent, Alison
Cruz,

Subject: Scheme workshop - record of decisions [HS-London_11.FID2085233]
All

Further to our workshop last Thursday, please find attached a table of the key decisions made during the meeting,
together with a high-level summary of our discussions.

The table also records decisions which are yet to be made — these are highlighted yellc

This document is now saved on our HighQ data room.

Post Office 'to do' list and escalation points

Separately, please find below this email:

e The Post Office section of the 'to do' list of actions arising out of the workshop; and
¢ — Arecord of the various decisions which need to be escalated to the Board.

Do be in touch if it would be helpful to discuss.

Kind regards
Sam

Sam Heitlinger
Associate, Dispute Resolution
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP

www.herbertsmithfreehills.com

http://hsfnotes.com/litigation/

x

Post Office 'to do' list:

- Rod Williams to confirm if there is sufficient resource for paralegals at Finsbury Dials to scan in and send
documents to Chesterfield.

- Resourcing particular stages — helpline, particularly at the launch of the scheme.
- Angela Van Den Bogerd (and team) to (a) produce various supplementary flowcharts; and (b) devise options

for information-gathering of varying degrees of thoroughness (ie. deep dive, 'middle of the road' and light
touch), including information as to costs and the number of documents that would be provided.
POL00293169
POL00293169

- Shirley Hailstones and Kath Alexander to produce a list of the types of document that would generally assist
in assessing shortfalls.

- Post Office to share general feedback on the ‘Assessment of claims' and ‘Dispute resolution’ sections of the
flowchart.
Points to be escalated to the Board:
- Eligibility criteria to be approved.
- Limitation point — recommendation that a discount should be applied.
- Appointing a mental health/well-being advisor.

-  HNG-A or date-based limits of the Scheme.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and its subsidiaries and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are separate member firms of the
international legal practice known as Herbert Smith Freehills.

This message is confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. If you are not the intended recipient you must not disclose or
use the information contained in it. If you have received this email in error please notify us immediately by return email or by calling our main
switchboard on jand delete the email.

Further information is available from www.herbertsmithfreehills.com, including our Privacy Policy which describes how we handle personal
information.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C310989. It is
authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority of England and Wales (https://www.sra.org.uk), authorisation number
419682. A list of the members and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at the registered office, Exchange House, Primrose
Street, London EC2A 2EG. We use the word partner of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP to refer to a member of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, or an
employee or consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications. Herbert Smith Freehills LLP's registration number for Value Added Tax in
the United Kingdom is GB 927 1996 83.
