POL00060594

POL00060594

POL Helpline Adequate

1 I Day 3 page 9 paragraph
G

We have a dedicated customer helpline for the sub
postmasters so that if they get into difficulties they can
telephone our helpline.

The helpline provides assistance on call for the sub postmasters. There are
around 200 operators available to answer the queries. Therefore someone
should be available to answer the query.

2 I Day 3 page 37
paragraph F

The helpline would take your details and depending on
the severity of the particular issue would deal with it in
whatever our service level agreement is with regard to
the particular problem.

The helpline assesses the severity of the issue and routes the problem to the
relevant department. It is not like a call centre where anyone assists you; you
are put through to the relevant department and an individual with the expertise
to assist you.

3 I Day 5 page 5 paragraph
Cc

The sub postmaster informed the helpline of the
situation which is occurring within the post office. The
employees have been trained to a high standard.

The new sub postmaster indicates that the helpline can be used not only to gain
help and advice but also to ensure that the post office is kept in the loop of any
updates or any disagreements as and when they occur. Further the new sub
postmaster Mr Vasarmy believes that his staff have been trained to a high
standard, therefore indicating that the training he received has been adequate.

4 I Day 6 page 58
Paragraphs A and E

Somebody was sent in from the network to help the
situation and set up separate tills for each employee.
Each till therefore had its own pouches for which they
were responsible.

Example of assistance provided by helpline: The sub postmaster identified that
she was having some losses, she informed the helpline of this and the helpline
then provided her with somebody from the network department to provide
different pouches and different tills for each employee. Therefore providing the
sub postmaster with a manner in which she could monitor each of the tills. She
could then identify who was responsible for any losses which occurred. This
highlights the helpline's ability to assist the sub postmaster.

5 I Day 6 page 104
paragraphs A and E

The offer was done over the telephone (helpline) that if
it is okay you are suspended and do you want a
temporary sub postmaster to come in the post office or
pay rent for this.

Example of assistance provided by helpline: The post office helpline attempted
to assist the sub postmaster and provided her with a viable option which suited
both her and her business. POL stated that they will put in a temporary sub
postmaster and pay the sub postmaster rent for use of the post office premises.
Therefore indicating that the helpline attempts to assist the sub postmaster
wherever possible.

6 I Day 6 page 123
paragraph E

Helpline only has one number to call which is then
divided into the separate sections.

This indicates that the helpline is a system which is easily accessible to all sub
postmasters. There are not a series of numbers which the sub postmaster has
to attempt to remember. All of their queries can be dealt with by dialling one
central number which is then divided off into the separate sections.

7 I Day 7 page 25
Paragraphs A and B

In calendar square the operator saw that something was
wrong and called the helpline. This type of error would

If errors had been occurring in respect of matters that had been reported to the
helpline they would be chased up at some point. However in this matter there

“aR 4867274 4

7
POL00060594
POL00060594

POL Helpline Adequate

be recorded because the symptoms would be obvious.

was no report to the helpline.

8 I Day 7 page 53
Paragraph F

Ms Misra stated that she did not tell anyone in the post
office about any of the errors which had occurred
because she was afraid of the consequences.

This indicates that post office helpline did not have an adequate chance to
assist her with her query. The helpline cannot be expected to help people if
they do not tell them of the problems they are facing.

9 I Day 7 page 71
paragraph G

There were around 110 calls to the helpline during the
period of two and a half years. A large number of them
were to do with printer problems.

Had there been significant errors with the helpline, if the helpline had been
inadequate the sub postmaster would not have made such a significant number
of calls to the helpline. The number of calls made to the helpline indicates that
the sub postmaster did think that the helpline was a good port of call otherwise
it just simply wouldn't have been used so much.

4A_4867274_1
