POL00423613
POL00423613

GROUP POLICIES
Whistleblowing Policy

Version - V3.1

Chief Executive’s Endorsement

The Post Office Group is committed to doing things correctly. Our Values
and Behaviours represent the conduct we expect. This Policy supports these
to help us ensure that colleagues know how to report concerns regarding
wrongdoing or dangerous practices and that they can do so without fear of
recrimination.

Internal Page 1 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238428
POL00423613
POL00423613

:

Internal Page 2 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238428 0001
POL00423613
POL00423613

1 « Overview

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner

The General Counsel has overall accountability to the Board of Directors for the
implementation of controls ensuring Post Office meets it Whistleblowing obligations.
Whistleblowing is an agenda item for the Audit and Risk Committee and the Post Office
board is updated as required.

1.2. Purpose

This Policy has been established to set the minimum operating standards relating to the
management of Whistleblowing throughout the Group’. [It is one of a set of policies which
provide a clear risk and governance framework and an effective system of internal control \._I What about P2BP? What about any further group
for the management of risk across the Group. Compliance with these policies supports the companies following LEO?

Group in meeting its business objectives and to balance the needs of shareholders, SS on

Commented [LO1]: Why should “Group” be so limited?

employeesstaff® and other stakeholders. footnote 1

1.3. Core Principles

Whistleblowing” refers to the act of exposing potential or actual wrongdoing and/or
dangerous practices by reporting it either internally within an organisation, or to an
external party. A whistleblower is a person who raises a genuine concern in relation to
any wrongdoing, this includes criminal activity, regulatory breaches, miscarriages of
justice, damage to the environment, financial impropriety, reputational damage, any
breach of legal or professional obligations, dangers to health and safety and the deliberate
attempt to conceal it. Wh c he u a

In order to encourage Whistleblowing and provide appropriate protections to
whistleblowers, the governance arrangements described in this Policy are based upon the
following core principles:

+ To encourage the reporting of any concerns as soon as possible in the knowledge that
Post Office will take all concerns will-be-takenraised seriously and investigate fullyd,
and that the confidentiality of all individuals will be respected;

* To provide guidance as to how to raise those concerns;

+ To provide whistleblowers reassurance that all genuine concerns are raised without
fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken;

+ Post Office is committed to and oversees the implementation of the Policy in line with
the Group's risk appetite. The Policy and associated procedures (set out or referred to
in this document) are proportionate to the risks and complexity of the Group;

+ in this Policy “Post Office” and "Group" mean Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited.

2 In this Policy “employeestaf™ means POL or Group's permanent, temporary and fixed term staffemployees, workers including
temporary workers, inckiding agency staffworkers (where the te’ms on which they are engaged are not substantial
determined by them), contractors, consultants and anyone else
working under a contract with

itn for ot on behalf of Post Office, inal cases having regard to 8.25043) and. 43K ERA 1996,  +———{ Formatted: indent: Left: Ocm, Hanging: 0.25em I

Internal Page 3 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238428 0002
+ Post Office undertakes a training and awareness program to ensure employees are
aware of the Whistleblowing policy and procedure.

1.4. Application

This Policy is applicable to all empleyees-staff within the Group and outlines the manner

in which Post Office will encourage, receive and investigate incidents of whistleblowing
and the protections provided for whistleblowers by law.

{In order to encourage reporting of wrongdoing, Post Office will, where appropriate and to
the extent possible, follow -extend-equivalent principles to encourage, receive and

investigate incidents of whistleblowing by protection-to-Postmasters, Agent Assistants,
and members of the public

1.5. Legislation

The Group seeks to comply with all relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements
including (but not limited to) the following legislation as amended or supplemented from
time to time:

+ Employment Rights Act 1996
* Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998

1.6. Protecting the Whistleblower (Your Legal Rights

Post Office fi ill support any

individuatperson who raises genuine concerns under this Policy in an appropriate

manner, even if they turn out to be mistaken. In respect of a certain class of person

(broadly “staff” as defined under this policy) Post Office has a statutory obligation not to
ubject such ns to detriment or to dismiss them for whistleblowing.

terms of the settlement agreement itself and staff should receive independent advice in
relation to those terms when entering into a settlement agreement.

y-of alt

4 /ea [SS5]: Added for ciariy from Internal Audit
4

POL00423613
POL00423613

‘Commented [LO3}: Sally, as discussed, applying a
whistleblowing policy to agents and agents assistants,
‘might be argued to amount to a sign that we treat them
as equaivalent to workers or employees. However, itis
just one factor which initset, in my view, says very litle
about whether they could succeed in showing they were
‘workers or employees. Together with a myriad of other
indicia, however, itis unhelpful. Also, consider what
could extending “equivalent protection” to members of
the public mean? We can't dismiss members of the
public, Ata stretch I suppose we could put them to
detriment, say for example by banning them from a
store, Would either agents/agents assistant/members of
the public ever see this policy in any event?

Commented [SS4R3]: I have incorporated the amends
= we only publish the policies on our Intranet, and I
think we have a ‘corporate’ statement on this (will
check), but we still seem to get non-employees.
contacting us through the external line!

Formatted: Font: Verdana, Font color: Custom
Color(RGB(68,89,91))

recommendation

~ (Formatted: Font color: Auto
(Formatted: Font color: Auto

Commented [SS6]: Added for clarity from Internal Audit
recommendation

Post Office will, at all times, respect the confidentiality and
latlat lower’ 7 a

*__It may be necessary in the course of an investigation to share this information with a
relevant stakeholder (e.g. an investigator).

+ There is no requirement for a whistleblower to provide personal contact information,
but not providing this information may reduce Post Office’s ability to undertake a
horough invé ion into the concerns rai

ffice-settl

th i I
Post Office will take all reasonable steps to ensure that whistleblowers do not suffer any
detrimental treatment as a result of raising a genuine concern in an appr mann
Detrimental treatment includes disciplinary action, dismissal, threats or other
unfavourable treatment connected with raising a concern. Serious action, typically

Internal Page 4 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

raising a genuine

I ‘Commented [LO7]: Consider
II concern in an appropriate mant

‘[ Commented [LO8R7]: I say this because if an

II employee keeps raising vexatious (non genuine) issues,
Iwe might want to discipline. Also, we might want to
discipline where the concem is raised in an
inappropriate way, e.g. insubordinately, rudely,
aggressively. The law recognises that there is a
distinction to be made between the concern itself and
the manner in which a concem is raised. I's a difficult
and fine line to tread however and putting working like
that here could be said to deter reports, so it's
debatable whether you would want to.

‘Commented [SS9R7]:I think the wording is OK and
have incorporated

POL-BSFF-0238428 0003
POL00423613
POL00423613

isciplinary action, -willis likel be-taken against any individual who threatens or
retaliates against whistleblowers in any way.

Ifa whistleblower n-individual believes that they have suffered any such treatment, they

should inform the Whistleblowing Officer immediately. The Whistleblowing Officer should

take steps to address any victimisation, which may include working with the HR team to

put appropriate measures in place. If the matter is not addressed the whistleblower

(where they are staff) should raise it formally using Post Office's Grievance brosedurd, _—/ Commented [LO10}: What if they are not staff? Who ]
SS

should they write to?
Ce [SS11R10}: I guess in reality they will

confidence. raise via a CEO/Chairman's complaint — that's what
‘seems to happen in practice if non-employees feel their
P ; : issue is not being dealt with correctly not sure I want to
1.7 The Whistleblowing Officer quote that here though

Post Office has appointed the General Counsel as the Whistleblowing Officer who can be
contacted on g fs

The role of the Whistleblowing Officer is to receive all internal reports raised, regardless
of the channel used, review any concerns raised and determine the best course of
action, if any. They may ask for further information in order to make this decision.

The Whistleblowing Officer is also responsible for ensuring that reports are investigated
dr to i ly manner. They are responsible for determini

appropriate parties to investigate allegations raised, taking into account the sensitivities

and seriousness of the report and the need to protect the whistleblower.

‘The Whistleblowing Officer is also responsible for identifying key trends or issues, and
providing assurance to the Board that the policy is complied with.

1.8 How to Report Whistleblowing

Post Office supports and promotes a number of ways to provide reporting mechanisms:
+ Direct to the Whistleblowing Officer ([ HYPERLINK
“mailto:whistleblowing, GRO fy
+ Via a complaint to a front line team, 6:g. customer complaints, NBSC and Grapevine.
‘These may be verbal or written communications.
* Contacting the “Speak Up” line, a confidential reporting service which is run by an

dent compan link Euré
ni k Up lin
af
+ [HYPERLINK "https: //wrs.expolink.co.uk/postoffice"_] which is a secure on-line web

portal
What should be Reported?

Highlight J

he following lists some examples (this is a non-exhaustive list) of

situations where an individual may raise a concern:
+ Where Post Office or the Group is in breach of any legal obligation to which it is

subject (usually a statutory rather than a contractual legal obligation)

2 assieta

sooty ll coached sau palt.of Bost Ofica J
‘Stalulory protections offered under the Publi Disclosure Act 1998 only apply Bost
Limited wil ing these protections 10 other individuals where they have acted in good fai i raising
Internal Page 5 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238428 0004
POL00423613
POL00423613

+_Financial Crime including Fraud, Money Laundering and financing of terrorism,
= Giving, offering or taking of bribes,

Financial mismanagement, Tax evasion and Misreporting

+ Racial, sexual, disability or other discrimination (Improper Behaviour:

* Practices that could put individuals or the environment at risk,

* Breach of Post Office internal policies and procedures

* Concerns about slavery or human trafficking’, and

+ Any conduct likely to damage Post Office’s reputation

This policy should not be used by staff wishing to raise complaints relating to their own
personal circumstances, such as the way they have been treated at work. Grievances and
Matters such as bullying and harassment are-addressed-under Pest Office's HR policies
and—concerns—inrelation—to—sueh—matters—should be raised in accordance with the

procedures I HR policy.

1 the appropi
If an individual is uncertain about whether something is within the scope of this Policy they

should seek advice from the Whistleblowing Officer, whose contact details are set out in
this Policy.

1.9 Responding to Whistleblowing Reports

In all instances any whistleblowing reports, regardless of reporting method, will be
sponded to within 5 working days and passed onto histleblowing Officer.

All reports will be fully reviewed and investigated and any information, including emails,
or records of telephone calls, letters, or any other form of communication stored

securely and konfidentially! So Commented [SS12]: Added for clarity from Internal

‘Audit recommendation
The time frame for investigating the reports raised is dependent on the nature of the
report and the investigation required, however, the whistleblower will be given feedback

porting nel the’ e use have given the Whistle ff
permission to use (Speak Up line, e-mail or phone call) during the investigation and once
it has been concluded.

The whistleblower may be kept informed of any action taken, however, this information
may be limited if it is required to keep the confidence of other people.

here ar ved is anonymous, whistleblowers will not ordinaril !
fe in i P ffi
limited
4.6, 1.10 External Disclosures + (Formatted: No bullets or numbering )

The aim of this Policy is to provide an internal mechanism for reporting, investigating
and remedying any wrongdoing in the workplace. In most cases individuals should not
find it necessary to alert anyone externally.

However, the law recognises that in some circumstances it may be appropriate for
individuals to report their concerns to an external body such as a regulator. It will rarely
if ever be appropriate to alert the media at least without informing Post Office or an

external agency first and usually in that order.

4 More information in relation to Modern Slavery can be found here - [ HYPERLINK
“hitos/eorporate postoffice.co.ul/slaverystatement” I

Internal Page 6 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238428 0005
POL00423613
POL00423613

We strongly encourage individuals to seek advice before reporting a concern to anyone
external, The independent Whistleblowing charity, Protect (formerly Public Concern at
Work) have a list of prescribed regulators for reporting certain types of concerns. Their
contact details are as follows:

Helpline:
E-mait:-[ HYPERLINK “mailto: whistle, ya
Website: -[ HYPERLINK "http://www.pcaw.org.uk/advice" ]-line/eo-tue

Public Concerr-at- WerkProtect operates free, confidential advice to people concerned
about crime, danger or wrongdoing in the workplace. Pest-Office stronely- encourages
Wabnac SEES int Haare
concern-to-an-externat-party-All Protect advisors are legally trained and supervised by
qualified lawyers and their advice is fully confidential and subject to legal privilege. All
information, including emails, or records of telephone calls, letters, or any other form of
communication with Protect advisors is stored in a fully encrypted format,

‘Commented [SS13]: Updated contact details )

Commented [SS14}: Updated information from Protect
website

Post Office Money Services (POMS) is directly regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA), Post Office Limited is an appointed representative of Bank of Ireland
(UK) Limited. As such individuals may decide to whistleblow directly to the FCA, and can
do so by using one of the following channels.

Helpline: }
E-mail: [ HYPERLINK *Tiailto:whistlef 7
Website: [ HYPERLINK “http://www fca.org.uk/site-info/contact/whistleblowing" ]

Adress: Intalllancs Dapsttinent (Ret PICA, iaicial Gonckict AuthorRy: 12 endesvout
Square, London, E20 1JNinteli 7 ‘i;
preg rere na er evel

7 _—(Commented [S$15]: Updated contact details )

Whistleblowing concerns usually relate to the conduct of our staff, but they may sometimes
relate to the actions of a third party, such as a customer, supplier, agent, Postmaster or
service provider. In some circumstances the law will protect individuals if they raise the
matter with the third party directly. However, we encourage individuals to report such
concerns internally in the first instance.

Internal Page 7 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238428 0006
2. Risk Appetite and Minimum — Control
Standards

2.1.

k Appetite

Risk Appetite is the extent to which the Group will accept that a risk might happen in
pursuit of day to day businesses transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of
activity and levels of exposure that the Group are willing and able to tolerate.

The Group takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and consequently has®:

+ Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited circumstances
where there are significant conflicting imperatives between conformance and
commercial practicality

+ Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to high profile cases/issues

+ Averse risk appetite for ligation in relation to Financial Services matters

+ Averse risk appetite for not complying with law and regulations or deviation from
business’ conduct standards for financial crime to occur within any part of the
organisation

+ Averse Risk Appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by our staff.

The Group acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls
have been implemented an action may still sit outside the agreed Risk Appetite.

2.2. Policy Framework

Post Office has established a suite of policies and procedures, on a risk sensitive approach
which are subject to an annual review. The policy suite is designed to comply with
applicable legislation and regulation. The Whistleblowing Policy should be considered and
read in conjunction with other policies where relevant. These may include the Financial
Crime Policy, the Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy, Health & Safety Policies and HR Policies
where relevant.

2.3. Who Must Comply?

All third parties who do business with the Group, including consultants, suppliers and
business and franchise partners, will be required to agree contractually to this policy or
have their own equivalent policy.

Any investigations will be carried out in accordance with the Investigations Policy which is
available on the Post Office Intranet

5 The Risk appetite was agreed by the Groups Board January 2015

Internal Page 8 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL00423613
POL00423613

POL-BSFF-0238428_ 0007
2.4. Minimum Control Standards

A minimum control standard is an activity which must be in place in order to manage the risks so they remain within the defined Risk
Appetite statements. There must be mechanisms in place within each impacted business unit to demonstrate compliance. The minimum
control standards can cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks
are managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required minimum control standards in consideration of the stated
risk appetite. The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk Area

Receipt and
investigation of
whistleblowing reports

Description of Risk
Failure to meet legal and
regulatory requirements

Minimum Control Standards
Directive Control:

Post Office must nominate a
Whistleblowing Officer to receive
reports, ensure that all reports
are fully investigated and that
any appropriate corrective
action is undertaken.

The Wwhistleblowing eOfficer
must provide a whistleblowing
report to the R&CC and ARC at
least annually.

Any serious whistleblowing
concerns must be promptly
escalated to the Chairman of the
Post Office Audit and Risk
Committee.

Preventative Control:
All employees are trained and
the policy is available to them

Who is responsible

Post Office CEO and Board

Whistleblowing Officer

Whistleblowing Officer

Whistleblowing Officer

When

Ongoing

Annually

Ongoing

Training must
be provided at
least annually

Internal

Page 9 of 18

[FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

7

POL00423613
POL00423613

Commented [L016]: As we are saying the policy
applies to all “staff” would we also want to extend
training and any awareness campaigns beyond
employees?

Commented [SS17R16]: We are reviewing this at the
moment — not sure I want to incorporate into the policy
this year

POL-BSFF-0238428_0008
POL00423613
POL00423613

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards Who is responsible When
The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer ‘Ongoing
ensure that appropriate
arrangements are in place to
ensure that whistleblowing
reports are addressed promptly
including during absences

Communications and awareness Head of Financial Crime Annually
provided to all employees and [Commented [L018]: See my note above J
Policy document published on
the Intranet.

Breach of Failure to ensure Preventative Control:
confidentiality confidentiality for the Whistleblowing Policy Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
whistleblower

Confidential Speak Up line Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
reports are shared only with the
Whistleblowing Officer and
nominated deputies

Whistleblowing email inbox with I Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
access restricted to the
Whistleblowing Officer and
nominated deputies

Whistleblowing Officer must put I Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
arrangement in place to protect
the confidentiality of the
whistleblower during
investigations

Corrective Control: Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
All incidents of breaches are
escalated to the Whistleblowing
Officer to review and take
Necessary actions.

Internal Page 10 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238428_0009
Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
Incorrect handling of __ An individual may raise a Preventative Control:
whistleblowing report I whistleblowing report with _I Training provided to contact Whistleblowing Officer Annually
other individuals in the teams to identify potential
Group. Details may then be I whistleblowing reports and
shared with various ensure these are correctly
stakeholders before being handled, e.g.:
passed onto the * Grapevine,
Whistleblowing Officer * NBSC,
* Customer Support, and
* Executive Complaints.
Communications and awareness I Head of Financial Crime Annually
provided to all employees and
Policy document published on
the Intranet.
Corrective Control: Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
All incidents of breaches are
escalated to the Whistleblowing
Officer to investigate and take
appropriate actions.
Insufficient Failure to capture/report Directive Control:
Information sufficient information about I Employees are encouraged to _I Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
the issue may mean that report issues and provide full
the underlying issue cannot I information and their contact
be properly investigated and I details, where they feel able to
resolved do so
Corrective Control:
All reports, including those Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
where insufficient information
has been provided and no
further action was taken are
recorded on the Whistleblowing
Internal Page 11 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423613
POL00423613

Commented [L019]: Again, as we say it applies to all

“staff" shoul we limit this to employees?

I

Commented [SS20R19]: I have amended to

‘individuals’ so that it incorporates non-employees

POL-BSFF-0238428_0010
Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
database, which is reviewed for
trends and issues.
The ‘Speak Up’ Service I Failure to effectively record I Preventative Control:
whistleblowing reports and I The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer Annually
pass onto the review the effectiveness of the
Whistleblowing Officer, due _I service provided by Expolink
to factors such as resource Europe Ltd (formerly known as
or IT failure. InTouch MCS Ltd) at least
annually
The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer Annually
review the effectiveness of the
processes operated by each of
Grapevine, NBSC, Customer
Support, and The Executive
Complaints Team at least
annually to ensure that
whistleblowing reports are
identified and communicated
promptly.
Treatment of Breach of whistleblowing Preventative Control
Whistleblowers guidelines such that a Training must be provided to all_I Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing
whistleblower suffers people managers as part of their I HR Training Manager
prejudice-detriment or induction process as a manager
dismissal as a result of and on appointment to Post
making a whistle blowing Office
report
Annual training must be Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing

Internal

provided to all Post Office staff
to remind them of the
protections available to
whistleblowers and the

Page 12 of 18

HR Training Manager

[FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423613

POL00423613

POL-BSFF-0238428_0011
POL00423613
POL00423613

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
importance of identifying and
reporting wrongdoing

The Code of Business Standards I Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing
must refer to the whistleblowing I HR Training Manager
policy and must be provided to
all new joiners as part of their
induction programme.

Internal Page 13 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238428_0012
3 s Definitions

3.1. Definitions

Grapevine

24/7 Security Support Centre provided by Kings Ltd. Grapevine provide security advice
and record all security incidents across the business, this includes burglaries, robberies
and the reporting of suspicious activity.

Telephone Number:{”
E-mail: [ HYPERLINK “mail

fapevine.admin{

NBSC
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) is a helpline and the first port of call for Post
Office branches if they have any operational query or require assistance.

Telephone Number:
E-mail: [ HYPERLINK

Customer Support Team
Complaints handling team based in Chesterfield. The team address complaints reported
into Post Office via various channels, including post and telephone.

E-mail: [ HYPERLINK "mailto:customercare,

Executive Complaints Team
This team handles all complaints addressed directly to the Group Executives. The team
liaise with various stakeholders within the business in order to resolve complaints.

E-mail: [ HYPERLINK "mailto:flagcaseadvisor “F)

Internal Page 14 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL00423613
POL00423613

POL-BSFF-0238428 0013
4.

Where to go for help

4

Additional Policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found at:

“https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/thehub/SitePages/Key%20policies.aspx?web=1" ]

HYPERLINK

4.2, How to raise a concern

Any Post Office employee who suspects that there is a breach of this Policy should report
this without any undue delay. Whistleblowing can be reported via the following channels:

Their line manager,
A senior member of the HR Team, or

If either or both are not available, staff can contact the Post Office’s Whistleblowing
Officer, who can be contacted by email at: [HYPERLINK
“mailto:whistleblowingt ] or by telephone o1
Alternatively staff can Use the Speak Up service available on}, Jor via
the secure on-line web portal: [ HYPERLINK “https:/wrs.expolink.co.uk/postoftice” ]

In some instances it may be appropriate for the individual to report in the form of a
complaint to Grapevine, the Customer Support Team or the Executive Complaints Team.

4.3. Who to contact for more information

If you
this Pol

Internal

need further information about this Policy or wish to report an issue in relation to
licy, please contact the Policy sponsor or Policy owner.

Page 15 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL00423613
POL00423613

POL-BSFF-0238428_ 0014
POL00423613
POL00423613

5 a Governance

5.1. Governance Responsibilities

As at the date of approval of this Policy, the General Counsel is both the Policy Sponsor
and Policy Owner, responsible for oversight of the Policy.

The Audit and Risk Committee are responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing
compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s risk appetite.

Internal Page 16 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL-BSFF-0238428_ 0015
6. Control

6.1. Policy Version

Date Version I Updated by Change De!

April 2016 14 Jane MacLeod Sponsors review and sing-off
‘August 2017 15 Vitor Camara Annual Review and update.
September 2017 16 Thomas Richmond I POL R&CC approval
September 2017 2 Thomas Richmond I Final version approved
June 2018 24 Vitor Camara Annual review and update.
July 2018 2s Sally Smith POL R&C approval

July 2018 23 Sally Smith POL ARC approval
September 2018 24 Sally Smith POMS ARC approval
September 2018 3 Vitor Camara Final Version approved
July 2019 34 Sally Smith Annual review and update

6.2. Policy Approval

Group Oversight Committee:

Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit and Risk Committee

Committee I Date v. 3.0 Approved
POL R&CC 10 July 2018

POL ARC 31 July 2018

POMS ARC 20% September 2018
POL R&CC

POL ARC

POMS ARC

Policy Sponsor:
Policy Owner:
Policy Author:

Next review:

Company Details

Group Director of Legal, Risk-Compliance & Governance
Whistleblowing Officer
Head of Financial Crime

July 2020

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers
2154540 and 08459719 respectively, Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Internal

Page 17 of 18

[FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423613
POL00423613

POL-BSFF-0238428 0016
POL00423613
POL00423613

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its
Information Commissioners Office registration number is ZA090585

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is 24866081.

Internal Page 18 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL-BSFF-0238428 0017
