POL00088628
POL00088628

Closure Process when Horizon is not operational

From time to time, for a variety of reasons, fire, technical or power failure etc. a
branch defund audit is required when Horizon is not operational.

The following process should be adopted when this situation arises:
1. Prior to Audit

1.1. The pre audit procedure is as outlined in the closure chapter and any
outstanding debt should be noted.

1.2 IThe remaining procedure for a branch defund with operational Horizon
should be adopted, e.g. contact to branch, planning etc.
« However please ensure you have sufficient quantities of the defund
pouch contents form (see below) to complete the defund audit.
« If the branch is a shared service branch please contact your Training &
Audit Manager for advice as the sealed RMSD envelopes may need to be
posted at another branch.

1.3. Print Tier 2 Cash/ Stock & Currency papers to record the cash/ currency &
stock on - make sure you have enough paperwork to cover all the stocks
within the branch - for each stock you will need to take:

e Print 3 copies of TIER2 Cash Sheets
¢ Print 3 copies of TIER2 Stock Sheets
e Print 2 copies of Currency Sheet

1.4 — Print 3 copies of the defund pouch contents

NB: With the exception of coin when one defund pouch contents form can be used
for all coin returned, a defund pouch contents form is required for each pouch used
although the entire amount sent can be listed on a single form on the copy
made for retention purposes.

2. On Site Activity

2.1. Any outstanding debt should be raised with the Postmaster on the day of the
audit as normal.

However,

« Any amounts made good by cash should be recorded on the P242 and
the defund pouch contents form (see below).

« Any amounts made good in the form of a cheque, should be sent direct
to FSC Former Agent Team,
Post Office Ltd

Reverse of Cheque to be annotated “Outstanding Debt” and Branch Code.

« If the agent wishes settlement to be made by credi'
will need to be made to FSC: for “current agents” :
“former Agents”

rd, a call
& for

« Areceipt should be issued for any amount accepted.

V3.2 Dec 2018
2.2

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

POL00088628
POL00088628

All cash, currency and stock on hand should be physically examined and
confirmation obtained from the Postmaster or their representative that all Post
Office assets have been produced.
« Remember to ask for any cash held awaiting transaction
acknowledgements.
« If possible the usual ATM, Paystation and lottery print outs should be
obtained.

Cash (notes and coins) use a TIER2 Cash sheet to record all cash & coin;
this should be agreed with the Postmaster or their representative, then listed
as a total on the defund pouch contents form (see below) the Tier2 Cash
Sheet & the defund pouch contents should be signed by both parties (TAA and
Postmaster or representative). Prepare three copies of the Tier 2 Cash sheet
& defund pouch contents form (more if additional pouches are used see
highlighted comment below).

The cash (notes) and one copy of the Tier 2 Cash sheet & defund pouch
contents form should be placed in the appropriate pouch(s) (grey) and sealed
(normal cash limits apply).

NB: Any amounts accepted for an outstanding debt must be clearly annotated
on the form.
« Coins should be placed in plastic coin bags and the second copy of the
Tier 2 cash sheet & defund pouch contents form should be stapled to
one of the coin bags.

e« The third copy of the TIER2 Cash sheet & defund pouch contents form
should be retained for 60 days as per standard procedure.

Currency should be agreed with the Postmaster or their representative, listed
on a Currency Sheet & a defund pouch contents form (see below) and signed
by both parties (TAA and Postmaster or representative).

Two copies of the Currency Sheet & defund pouch contents form are required
(more if additional pouches are used see highlighted comment below).

The currency and one copy of the Currency Sheet & defund pouch contents
form should be placed in the appropriate pouch(s) (purple) and sealed
(normal cash limits apply).

The second copy of Currency Sheet & defund pouch contents form should be
retained for 60 days as per standard procedure.

Stock should be agreed with the Postmaster or their representative, listed on
a Tier 2 Stock Sheet & defund pouch contents form (see below) and signed by
both parties (TAA and Postmaster or representative).

Two copies of the Tier 2 Stock Sheet & defund pouch contents form are
required (more if additional pouches are used, see comment below).

The stock and one copy of the Tier 2 Stock Sheet & defund pouch contents
form should be placed in the appropriate pouch(s) (green) and sealed.

The second copy of Tier 2 Stock Sheet & defund pouch contents form should
be retained for 60 days as per standard procedure.

If the pouches are not to be collected in the presence of the TAA the normal
‘Non TAA Rem Despatch Agreement’ form should be completed. The
Postmaster or their representative should be advised that CViT will provide a
print out of the pouches accepted and this should be returned to the TAA in
the envelope provided by the TAA.

NB: There will be no facility to process any postage items, e.g. archive boxes
to Box-It, these items should be removed from the branch and posted
elsewhere. Postage costs should be claimed by TAA via T&S.

V3.2 Dec 2018
POL00088628
POL00088628

3. Post Audit Activity

3.1. An electronic version (photograph or scan) of the Tier2 Cash Sheet / Currency
Sheet / Tier 2 Stock Sheet & defund pouch contents form should be prepared
(for this purpose all cash, and currency can be listed together on one form,
likewise the contents of all the stock pouches despatched can be listed on one
Tier 2 stock form and the pouch numbers recorded in the space provided on
the form.).

The form detailing the notes, currency and coin should be emailed to and

Julie Farenden, jill.southern@ {telephone numbers should they
be required are ~

The form detailing the stock should be emailed t
chantelle.hird@: GRO (telephone number
Thompson jill.thompson@. (telephon'

The text of the email should indicate why Horizon was not 6peratronar:

and Jill

3.2 A copy of the electronic versions of the defund pouch contents forms should
be embedded in the BCF for the branch for future reference.
If the branch does not have a BCF please ask your TAM to contact NSAT who
will create one.

3.3 If any outstanding debt held at FSC (Chesterfield) is made good in cash on
the day of the audit, details of the amount should be emailed to

former.agent.accounts¢
Michelle Stevens i

3.4 Aclosure ART (Audit Reporting Tool) is required.

3.5 The ART must be named:
[branch code] [ddmmyy] [branch name] CLOSUREART
(e.g. 123456 101018 Any Town CLOSUREART)

If you are in any doubt as to how to proceed please contact your TAM.

i}

Defund Pouch
Contents July 2018

V3.2 Dec 2018
