Message

POL00029561
POL00029561

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

ron.warmingto:
11/02/2013 22
Susan Crichton {_
Fwd: Bracknell sit

Susan: FYI. Ron.

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: irh { °

Subject: Re: Bracknell site address

Thanks Ron

Reads well

lan

Sent from my iPad

On 11 Feb 2013, at 21:53, "Ron Warmington"

wrote:

I spoke at length with Mr Rudkin this morning. First of all, he has
confirmed that the building he visited is, he's pretty sure, the Fujitsu
one (RG12 8SN). He also emailed Shoosmiths asking whether they
have any objection to him sending us a copy of his sworn affidavit.
He/we are awaiting their response.

In the meantime, I have probed Mr Rudkin's memory further about his
19*h August 2012 visit to what he is now pretty sure was the Fujitsu
building in Bracknell. I typed the following from the notes that I took
during my conversation with him this morning and subsequently he has
approved my write-up. Note that I have not as yet seen his sworn
affidavit so, if it turns out that there are any conflicts between that
and the following write-up we will need to sort that out with him.

Here's what he said to me about his 19** August 2012 visit to the
Fujitsu Building:

“I parked my car and went into the building's Ground Floor
Security/Reception area. There was a small lounge-type area to the
right of the Reception Desk.

POL-0026043
The person who I had arranged to meet came down to reception to
collect me and took me up two flights of stairs into a room that looked
a bit like an old-fashioned science laboratory.

The person that I was meeting, whose name I do not at the moment
recall (but he was about 5'11" tall, of slim build and in his thirties), then
took me ona circuitous route through several keypad-access doors
and across, as I recall, the front of the building (I recall being able to
see the car park where my car was parked). We emerged, after a long
walk, into another stairwell (fire exit type) and descended three
flights (passing through ground level and down to the basement). That
area was not anything like an office at all, being full of heating and air-
conditioning pipes and ducting.

In that basement area, we came upon three people with two Horizon
terminals. On entering the area, two of those individuals gave me the
impression that they were unhappy about me being there and they
muttered what seemed to me to be their objections to the
manager/supervisor who had brought me down there. Two of these
men then left so there were now just three of us in the area (myself,
the manager/supervisor and the chap who had not left). That chap
seemed aware on my interest in the ‘Bureau de Change Automation
Project" that had been discussed in meetings at 148 Old Street on
Wednesday 13" to Friday 15'* August 2012 (see Note 1 below). The
manager/supervisor then sat down at one of the Horizon terminals and
showed me how he could, in real time, alter any branch's Foreign
Currency Cash holdings. Indeed he altered one while I was standing
next to him. I was shocked, and told both of these people that the
Federation had always been assured (by POL) that this sort of thing
was impossible. At this point, the manager/supervisor, making (to my
mind offensively) light of the matter, said: “I'd better alter that back
or he'll have a shortage tonight" At this point, both Fujitsu employees
(as I now believe them to be) seemed to be even more uncomfortable
with my presence in the area so I was taken back upstairs by the
manager/supervisor.

On the following morning (on Wednesday 20" August 2012 at
08:30hrs) I was shocked to be suspended by POL.

Note 1: Those meetings had been held in Rooms 302 and 401 at Old
Street. Unfortunately, I have no copies of the Agenda or Minutes
from those meetings but of course both the NFSP and POL should
have those. They ought to give an indication of who was there, from

POL00029561
POL00029561

POL-0026043
POL, NFSP and perhaps Fujitsu; what was agreed; who I was to meet
in Bracknell; and why.”

Hope that helps. I think we should wait until Susan has had a chance
to digest this before anyone approaches Fujitsu.

Best regards, Ron

From: Simon Baker I
Sent: 10 February 2013 22:18~
To: Rod Ismay; 'ron.warmington¢
‘irht GRO

Subject: Re: Fwd: Bracknell site address

All

Just heard back from head of property on the other address, this is his response:

"This is the Royal Mail Delivery Office for Bracknell. There is a separate Post Office in
Bracknell (High St) and therefore there should not have been any Post Office activity at

the delivery Office."

i don't know where that leaves us, the fujitsu address might make more sense as there
could be access to horizon there - at least a test environment.

Ron any chance you can call this person and find out more details to help us pin down
the location?

Regards, simon

From: Rod Ismay
Sent: Sunday, February 10, 2013 09:40 PM

' GRO Simon Baker;

Subject: Re: Fwd: Bracknell site address

Hi. Simply because your enquiry was of an unspecified address in Bracknell and the only
time Bracknell town crosses my radar is in respect of Fujitsu having an office there

i don't recall this other address being mentioned on any call with me

i was just offering an address and you were going to check it against what the expected
affidavit says

Happy to discuss

POL00029561
POL00029561

POL-0026043
POL00029561
POL00029561

Thanks Rod

: ron.warmington€

Sent: Sunday, February 10, 2013
To: Simon Baker; Ian Henderson!”
Subject: Fwd: Bracknell site addre:

Rod Ismay

Chaps: FYI. Ron

Rod: could you please share with us all why you are focussing now on a Fujitsu, rather
than a Royal Mail/ POL facility?

Best regards. Ron

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Rod Ismay
Date: 8 February 2013 16:30:39 GMT

‘lan Henderson’

Dave Posnett

Subject: RE: Bracknell site address
Thanks for your quick reply Ren.

I was planning to speak with Simon early next week regarding contacts
into Fujitsu. Can 1, therefore, suggest that we do that in first instance.
As you suggest a senior referral may be appropriate here.

I have now copied Dave on this email myself. My error maybe in trying
to minimise inbox overload. It may, however, be worth a little chat on
one of the next calls about comms protocols just to be clear on whether
the whole audience should get all emails or whether we can streamline
to actionees only where appropriate just to make inboxes

manageable. We can obviously brief each other at checkpoints on all
activity.

As for the building, I've not googled it myself yet but we do (he said
diplomatically) embrace a range of architectures for all seasons! You
could do a history of 17-21% century architecture across our whole
network and supplier base.

Thanks again for our discussion this morning and look forward to
catching up next week and beginning to get into some spot reviews
soon.

Many thanks and hope you have a good weekend

Rod

POL-0026043
Rod Ismay I Head of Finance Service Centre

image00 1 png

No. Future Walk, West B
GR

[mailto, GRO a
Sent: 08 February 2013 16:18

To: Rod Ismay

Cc: Simon Baker; 'Ian Henderson’

Subject: RE: Bracknell site address

Thanks Rod. That's the one I found on Google
Maps. Bloody ugly building isn't it?

Do you think you or I should seek info directly from
Fujitsu as to the who what when where why and how of
that basement office? I laid out the questions in my
earlier emails. Something tells me that a request like
that ought to come from POL's CEO.

Thanks, Ron.

p.s. are you going to and do you want me to routinely copy
Dave Posnett on these sort of emails?

From: Rod Ismay [mailto
Sent: 08 February 2013 1)
To: ron.warmington€
Cc: Simon Baker

Subject: Bracknell site address

Hello Ron,
Thank you for our call this morning.
Here is the address that I promised to send on:

Fujitsu Services Ltd, Lovelace Road, BRACKNELL, RG12 8SN

POL00029561
POL00029561

POL-0026043
POL00029561
POL00029561

As discussed, if this is indeed the location that is presented in the
expected affidavit then we are happy to clarify the scope of operations
provided to Post Office there.

Thanks, Rod
Rod Ismay I Head of Finance Service Centre

<image001.png>
No. 1 Future Walk, West Bars, erfield, S49 1PF

@postofficenews

<image002.png>

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no
2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no
2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

SoHE IORI O HEI OIG IOI SOIR II III ODI AISI AI ODI AIS

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If
you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered
Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0026043
