POL00004607
POL00004607

== y ‘ee ' ae
- eee es eee Ee Dae: I =) : pe = c. syuinte a

Ce oo : / . ) rs 1
ee St oe 2 < ~~ _

_ ey :

=...

3 by Bost Office Ce

caters N

cof the Retail Developae

al Tralnig & Developme:

10, Swindon,

yn and aniseork by Communications Services Design Str

POL-0002494
POL-0002494

Contents

lntroduction

The Post Office

Objectives

mage
Putting the Customer first
How we are organised

if Post Offices
Products and S
Automation

vices

What you will be doing
Your Remuneration
Your Contract

Training

Pre- Transfer
‘Transfer Day
On-Site Training
Ongoing Training
Other Training Issues

Support

Training

Retail Network Manager Newwork
Customer/Subpostmaser Helpline

Communications
Counter News
Brief Encounter
Regional Newsletters
Courier
Talking Shop
Cascade System

‘The National

Conclusion

federation of Subpo

Subpostmasters Induction Booklet

POL00004607
POL00004607
Introduction

wi and congratulations on joining
Post Office Counters Ltd, (POCL), dhe

largest retailer in Europe, As a newly appointed

subpostmaster, it is important that you quickly

feel part of Post Office Counters

‘The purpose of this booklet is to

give you an overview of the Post Office Group, and Post Office

Counters’ part within it

help you familiarise yourself with POCL, our structure, the

products and services we offer, our mission and objectives,

how we work and what we expect from you;

provide information on the support you can expect;

pive you general information on the training you will receive

We appreciate you may’find the early days of your appointment
challenging, but have no doubt you will find ic interesting and
fun. As Post Office Counters’ success depends on your success,

please do not hesitate to make use of the support and expertise

on offer.

2 Subpostmasters Induction Booklet

POL-0002494

POL00004607

POL00004607

The Post Office

the Post Office was formed in 1635 when
King Cl

ies opened his Royal Mail service
to the public. Postage was originally paid by the
person receiving the letter, We have been
around for over 350 years, therefore that makes
us one of the longest established busine:
the UK.

‘sin

Now the Post Office is owned by the Government and is
responsible for providing postal and counter services throughout
the country: Up to the 1970s, it received a subsidy from the
Government, but over the last 20 years the Post Office has been
rani as a commercial business, and currently makes an annual

profit of well over £500 million,

The Post Office Group consists of four businesses:
+ Post Office Counters Lid.

* Royal Mail

* Parcelforce

+ Subscription Services Ltd.

Subpostmasters Induction Booklet

Post Office Counters Ltd

Post Office Counters Lid, (POCL) operates a network of over
19,000 post offices nation-wide, making it the largest retail
chain in Europe. Itis bigger than the four major banks and main
building societies put together, and is the largest handler of cash
in the UK.

Every week around 28 million customers visit our network of
offices, which offer over 170 products and services on behalf of

both Post Office businesses and external clients.

Post Office Counters has 14,000. employees and over 18,000
subpostmasters and franchisees. It handles over £140 billion in
coins and notes each year, and has a turnover of around £1.2

billion a year.

Royal Mail

Royal Mail collects, sorts and delivers mail and packets within
the UK and overseas, and delivers around 67 million letters every
working day to 25 million addresses. In addition to fixst and
second class letter services, it offers a range of priority, insured

and specialist business services.

Royal Mail is recognised as providing one of the best postal

services in Europe, Over 90% of all first class letters reach their

destination the next working day afier posting

Royal Mail employs about 160,000 people, including 80,000

postmen and women, and has a fleet of 30,000 vehicles.

Subpostmasters induction Booklet

POL-0002494

POL00004607
POL00004607

Parcelforce

Parcelforce is the UK's leading carrier of time-critical packages,
parcels and small freight. It offers a wide range of services for
business and private customers, As well as delivering to every
single address in the UK, Parcelforce provides a world-wide

distribution service.

Heavy investment in technology allows Parcelforce to track
around 140 million parcels every year, so that it can provide

customers with complete delivery information

Parcelforce has some 100 delivery depots, 13,000 employees and
a fleet of 9,300 vehicles.

Subscription Services Led.

Subscription Services manages television licences on behalf of
the BBC. This represents around 90% of Subscription Services’
turnover. Over recent years, it has set up a number of new
ventures, such as its celebusiness centre. This handles around

100,000 customer calls every week in response to advertising

from businesses such as home-shopping companies, gas supply

companies, charities and the Department of Social Security.

Subscription Services employs some 1,600 people and manages

over 21 million television licences.

Subpostmasters induction Booklet

6

and Objectives

11 businesses need to have a clear focus
LA and direction. Post Office Counters has a

mission statement, which was launched in 1995,

to ensure that staff and subpostmasters have a

sure direction.

clear understanding of our

Our mission statement is:

We are dedicated to making our service a
growing success commercially and one for
everyone to be proud of.

We aim to offer all our customers outstanding
personal service in every one of our thousands of

post offices throughout the United Kingdom.

We care for all our employees, subpostmasters
and other agents and we cherish our place in
every community.

Every year we set top objectives to help us all focus on those
things that will enable us to achieve our mission and longer-term
goals, From the top business objectives the regions and business
units develop their own objectives, which help support both the

mission and the top business objectives

Subpostmasters Induction Booklet

POL-0002494

POL00004607
POL00004607

Image

Pp” Office Counters Limited requires
subpostmasters and their staff to set and
aniain high standards. You must at all times

consider the image you project. For example,

+ ‘Those serving on the counter to wear a name

badge, or display one in a prominent

position

You to display the corporate sign outside your office.

Your office to be clean and bright.

Space allotted to the Post Office part of your premises to be

adequate ~ especially on the customer side.

‘What Makes a Good Post Office

Research by POCL has identified that good quality premises
create more business and greater customer loyalty. itis therefore
in your own interest to ensure that you offer the highest
standards of accommodation and advice. Here is a list of

important attributes for any post office outlet

+ Good uncluttered and regularly cleaned premises (both,

interior and exterior).

Subpostmasters Induction Booklet

POL00004607

Good access for people with disabilities (level entry or ramp

and wide doorway)

Customer first

A substantial retail offer which can capitalise on post office

footfall (by ensuring cu offer on their
way to the Post Office counter). C ustomers are vital to the survival of the

business. We need to ensure customers are

mers pass the ret

Good visibility (prominent fascia and lozenge) to maximise

given outstanding personal service. That is why

passing trade, Post Office Counters has developed a business

philosophy called “Putting the Customer First’

Maximum opening hours so that your post office is a centre

of convenience for the local houscholders.

Putting The Customer First ensures we

continually focus on the ever-changing needs of
We are also able to offer you access to:
our customers,

+ Post Office equipment sourced! from. our equipment cata

As a new appointee you will be required to attend Putting the

+ Post Office career wear for staff serving Customers, Customer First training, which is a series of training sessions
normally delivered face-to-face by your Retail Network Manager.

If you are considering a refurbishment of your premises, ‘This is generally carried out once you have settled into your job,

please bear in mind the following: at agreed times and dates, however, it could also be covered as a

- art of your Induction training.
+ Any alteration to the accommodation necils the approval of Part of yo! “ 8

your Retail Network Manager before commencement,

All accommodation must ensiire sufficient security for all Post

Office monies, you and your staff: Your Retail Network
Manager can arrange a review of your arrangements with the

regional security teams,

‘That your premises allows you to fully comply with the relevant
Health and Safety legislation. Your Retail Network Manager can

advise you on the key areas that need consideration,

Subpostmasters Induction Booklet Subpostmasters Induction Booklet

POL-0002494

organised

Structure

POCL is organised into 7 geographical regions,
each with its own Regional General Manager,
and a team of support staff to enable the region

to deliver its overall business plan. The region:

are:

Midlands based in Binminghurn

North East based in Leeds

North Thames & East Anglia base! in Si Albans

North Wales & North West posal in Manchester

Scotland & Northern Ireland hie! in Gliegow

South East based in Tunbridge Wells

South Wales & South West based in Bristol

‘There are also central business units located in London and

Chesterfield, which provide various fimetions such as the
strategic direction for the business and policy development. They
also provide support in marketing and new product development
to help all outlet staff sell ‘financial’ products and services, such

as personal and corporate banking, benefits distribution, savings

10 Subpostmasters induction Booklet

POL-0002494

POL00004607
POL00004607

and investments and bill payments for our external clients, and
‘branded’ products such as stamps for Royal Mail, lottery

products and foreign currency

The Retail Team in our Head Office, whom you may have already

been in contact with, ensures that all post offices present a

consistent image, and helps subpostmasters to improve the

private retail side of their business.

In Chesterfield, Transaction Processing handle ail transaction

information for the network of post offices, and is responsible

for settling with clients for the work Post Office Counters carries

‘out on behalf of their clients.

‘Types of Post Offices

We run a network of over 19,000 post offices, and these can be

broadly divided into owo main type

Branch offices directly managed by Post Office Counters and
run by our own staff ~ of which there are around 600. They

are usually large and situated in busy shopping centres.

Independent offices operated on our behalf by business men

and women like yourself, or large retail chains stich as

Safeways and AS

Products and Services

Post Office Counters offer a huge range of products and services

on behalf of more than 30 clients, including the Benefits Agency,

Subpostmasters Induction Booklet

the Department of National Savings, British Telecom, Girobank

and Royal Mail

With 28 million customers a week, we deal with a wide variety
of customers, who all require different services and products. For
example, parents with their children cashing their child benefit,

and customers paying gas and electricity bills and cashing

personal cheques. Holiday makers who require passport forms
P az assy

can also purchase their travellers cheques, currency, uavel
insurance and continental motor insurance. Businesses can send

parce

s and letters by guaranteed services, as well as stocking up

on stationery.

Automation

Post Office Counters is embarking on a £100 million

programme to automate ail of our offices. This will involve

installing new computer equipment at every one of our 40,000

serving positions. This new computer network will be one of the

largest in the world,

You will receive more information on awlomation as the

programme is implemented.

Subpostmasters induction Booklet

POL-0002494

POL00004607

will be doing

§ a subpostmaster these are some of the

things you can expect to be doing:

Handling letters, packets and parcels for
delivery by Royal Mail and Parcelforce.

Selling postage stamps, postal orders and

philatelic items.

Paying pensions and allowances,

Accepting payment of public utility bills like gas and

electricity.

Issuing television, fishing and game licences and, at certain

offices, motor vehicle licences.

Selling foreign currency, travellers cheques and travel

insurance.

Selling Littlewoods lottery scratcheards and, at selected offices,

national lottery scratchcards and tickets

Subpostmasters induction Booklet 13

ae
POL00004607
POL00004607

The level of these payments are fixed, and you are notified on

appointment what the level of these payments are for your office.

Remuneration

;nimum Payment Offices receive a fixed amount or

remuneration, inchiding a special cash allowance
T remuneration that you receive, and the

way in which that remuneration is Your Retail Network Manager and Agency Remuneration Manager
calculated, depends on the type of office that will be able to help with more details about these payments,

you run.

Smaller offices which have Annual Product

Payment Calewlations have remuneration ba

on:

Assigned Office Payments, a stable sum not affected by traffic

variations.

Product Payments, which are tralfic related and are assessed

annually, using {2-months data.

Larger offices which have Monthly Product Payment calculations

‘have remuneration based on :

Assigned Office Payments, a stable sum not affected by traffic

variations.

Product Payments, which are traffic related and are assessed

monthly, using one-month’s data.

Community Office and Restricted Hours Office payments consist

a

of a core payment, annual hourly rate and special cash allowance.

i4 Subpostmasters Induction Booklet

‘ Subpostmasters Induction Booklet 15

POL-0002494
Contract

sa new subpostmaster, you have entered
Ave a contract with POCL which states
what We as business expect from you, but

also what you can expect in return,

You will have received the full contract (on
your day of appointment at the latest), which is
a very ‘live’ working document for both you
and Post Office Counters Lid. You should read and understand it

in its entirety,

16 Subpostmasters Induction Booklet +

POL-0002494

POL00004607
POL00004607

Training

T raining for new subpostmasters is usually
delivered by an agency trainer: The duration
and content of the training varies from office to

office to

sneet your particular needs. However, as a

basic guide, the training available is outlined below.

‘Transfer Day

On the d.

Subpostmaster will be transferred to you. Re

of transfer, the cash and stock from the outgoing

nal personnel

(usually

auditor) will be on hand (o assist in the completion of

forms/records associated with the transfe

On-Site Training

On-site training takes place at your office and is undertaken with

an agency trainer. It covers a full range of transactions,

pro

ounting

edures, security and customer-care issues

‘The duration of the taining varies from office to office, and is

tailored to individual requirements.

Ongoing Training

Further training is provided at timely mtervals as necessary. This

will be assessed by your Retail Neework Manager.

Subpostmasters Induction Booklet 17

POL00004607
POL00004607

The training programme for new agents after the on-site training is Other Training Issues

generally as follows (chis may vary according to your own Regions
In addition to transaction processing your training will fully
requirements):
cover:

When ‘What

pay, contract and terms of appointment;

3-6 months afier initial on-site training Quality of

managing cash and stock;
performance

managing staff;

3-6 months after initial on-site training Overnight cash

holdings all work; I

3 7 whe wai security;
3-9 months after initial on-site training Putting the ¥

Customer First

dealing with problems.
programme

3-9 months after initial on-site maining Security training

9-12 months after initial on-site training Transactional

knowledge events

All training is complemented by workbooks which are designed
to let you learn at your own speed and in your own office. You
should receive the basic transactional books during your first few

days of appointment.

If you feel you need further training, please do not hesitate to

contact your Retail Network Manger in the first instance.

18 Subpostmasters Induction Booklet Subpostmasters Induction Booklet 19

POL-0002494
POL00004607
POL00004607

The Helpline is open between the hours of!

08.15 to 18.00 hrs Monday to Friday

Support

I n order to help you make your business a

08.30 to 16.00 hrs Saturday

The number is paid at local call rave, so wherever you are in the

success, a wealth of support is available for , 1
country you only pay a local rate call charge

subpostmasters

The number to call is I GRO
Retail Network Manager Network.
When contacting the Helpline you should give your name, office

Each office is assigned one of the 350 Retail

and the nature of your enguiry. On most occasions they will be

Network Managers to support and help make able to answer your enquiry immediately, but if they are unable

improvements to both the post office and retail side of the to do so they will be able to connect you to the relevant

business. Your Retail Network Manager will visit you on a more :
) department, or forward

nquiry on your behalf.
formal basis and carry out an outlet review, which will identify

any areas where you need to make improvements, All calls to regional departments or your Retail Network Manager
should be made via the Helpline.

Customer /Subpostmaster Helpline

A Helpline exists to enable Post Office Counters to provide an

excellent service at all outlets by

Providing speedy, accurate information and support to staff,
agents, clients and the public on all Post Office Counters

enquiries and services.

Handling complaints ia an efficient and unbiased manner.

20 Subpostmasters Induction Booklet Subpostmasters Induction Booklet 21

POL-0002494
Communications

s a new subpostmaster you have
Anes into a contract with POCL,
which states what we as a business expect
from you, but also what you can expect in
return, Like many large organisations we
have many ways of communicating with

staff and subpostmasters

The communications you will receive are

Counter News

This is a national weekly bulletin containing all transactional and
accounting procedural changes. On occasions, supplements are

issued which may cover a new business transaction.

Brief Encounter

This document is issued every two months to train you and your
staff on new transactions, or to improve your knowledge and

awareness of current transactions within the business.

Regional Newsletters

These are issued weekly, and cover regional and local

requirements in addition to the national Counter News.

Subpostmasters Induction Booldet

POL-0002494

POL00004607
POL00004607

Courier

staff and

Courier is a national monthly newspaper
subpostmasters. It is designed to keep you abreast of ‘what is

going on’ in the business, regionally and nationally

Talking Shop

Talking Shop is a monthly publication distributed to sub post,

offices, and covers regional and national issues,

Cascade System.

‘The cascade system is used to relay messages of urgency
throughout the network of outlets. You will be given full

instructions on the system during your initial training.

The National Federation of Subpostmasters

The National Federation of Subpostmasters is a registered trade
union and represents subpostmasters, negotiating remuneration,

etc. with Post Office Counters.

National Federation of

Further information on the

Subpostmasters can be obtained from their headquarters

The
National Federation of Subpostmasters
Evelyn House

22 Windlesham Gardens

Shoreham by Sea

West Sussex

BN435AZ_ Telephone:

Subpostmasters Induction Booldet 23

I
POL00004607
POL00004607

Conclusion

e hope this induction guide has
VV been helpful in your
understanding of Post Office Counters Ltd.
However, we cannot hope to cover

everything, therefore if there are any

further queries you may have please do

not hesitate to call our Helpline.

24 Subpastmasters Induction Booklet

POL-0002494
