POL00448635
POL00448635

Engagement Survey
2022

POL00448635
POL00448635

Methodology

Total responses

1,229

Total invited

<a?) 3,369

Response rate

3 6”

Responses by Grade

Responses by function

™~

The margin of error forthe ot wot fot hot Reponse Margin
overall results is 2.2% = oo ee sae ee sf
PO! Admin 231 19" I Retall- Postmaster excl, OMB 307 25% s7* “
Explaining this report Middle Management® 491 40" Retail-OMBs 196 15° 18% o
Ratan ETNA i Band 3A 182 15° 1H Retail Supply Chain 135 rr 7% e
+ Most questions asked colleagues to express ss aa Soper id x
scstimsat ed apipbunge cy Mo) 1 Band 4 431 a I Legal, Compliance and G 128 10% 7
disagree’) to 5 (strongly agree). Reported sp 43 3 Finance 107 * 6s 6
percentages represent the proportion lm Remo 3 <1 = Commercial 99 e ss* m
responding positively (strongly agree’or ‘agree’) No grade data avaiable 148 12 I Technology 72 o am oo
+ Comparisons are made where available tothe People 56 s* ea o
2021 Post Office Culture Survey. Questions in * Middle Management includes grades 2A, 2B and 3B. pear eiwar oo Ol Ch oe
this survey used a 6-point scale (Strongly Agree E E Strategy and Transformation 32 * 7a oo
~ Agree ~ Slightly Agree ~ Slightly Disagree ~ Using this report I Enterprise Cloud and Transformation 23 Ea 36% 16%
pecan hep etic bens shes pote bee Corporate Affairs and Communications 23 Es ez o*
made to those who responded Strongly Agree or + In October 2022, Post Office undertook colleague survey to assess its Se eis ean talon 2 z = =
Agree. db Because ofthe different scoring scale, areas of strengths and identify areas where improvement was required. 0
comparisons should be treated with caution. 1 Chief Executive Office 1 om 33" nla

All comparisons are calculated using
unrounded data, meaning figures may differ
by +-Ipt to unrounded comparisons.

Proportions of Positive, Neutral and Negative
‘may not sum to 100, also due to rounding,

‘* This report highlights the key insights and trends emerging
from this data at an overall Post Office level.

‘+ To provide further context, the report includes comparisons ~ where available
against a UK average. This benchmark provides clarity on how other
organisations (from all sectors but operating in the UK market) are performing,
Ithelps to define which trends are being felt in the wider workforce.

Due to high margins of error and / or low response counts, Chief Executive Office, Post
Office Management Service, Enterprise Cloud and Transformation and RemCo have
been excluded from any function and grade breakout reporting in this report.

POL00448635
POL00448635

Executive summary

1

2

3

4

Focus on building trust in
senior leadership

* There is widespread lack of confidence
in senior leaders at Post Office (39%)
and how well they have communicated
an inspiring vision for 2025 (44%).

* Confidence in leadership is the second
strongest driver of engagement at
Post Office and is also associated with
feeling a strong sense of belonging.

* Senior leaders are much more likely to
have a negative cultural experience,
defined by words such as hierarchical,
political and risk averse.

Key fact

51%

What you should consider

Strategy & Leadership
Index positivity

* Senior leaders can build colleague
confidence by focusing on key behaviours
including leading by example and holding
others to account, plus role-modelling
the organisation's Ways of Working.

Support people managers to
host quality — not just frequent —
performance conversations

‘* Feeling able to achieve one's career objectives
is the strongest driver of engagement, yet
only 47% are positive on this metric.

‘* Managers play a key role in driving positivity
by hosting frequent, high-quality performance
conversations, although fewer than half of
colleagues are having this experience.

* Colleagues are +29pts more positive
about career progression when managers
support them through change and help
them access learning opportunities.

© Key fact

Colleagues are their career objectives if

their manager supports
ABQPES  theic career development

more positive on achieving

Psychological safety essential for
ensuring the right behaviours
practised and decisions made

‘+ Most colleagues experience high levels of
psychological safety. Positivity on speaking
up without fearing negative consequences
leads the UK benchmark at 74%.

+ However, experiences vary ~ the SLP and
Retail populations do not share the same
high levels of psychological safety.

‘* Findings show that colleagues experiencing
high levels of psychological safety tend to make
decisions based on what they believe to be
right rather than what will draw least attention.

Key fact
Psychological
74% SS

Operational and behavioural barriers
driving down engagement and fuelling
feelings of strain
* Half of colleagues have felt under

constant strain in the last few months,

rising to seven in ten among the SLP.

* Just two in five colleagues feel that major
barriers at work are effectively managed. Difficult
workplace environments and poor communication
have the strongest negative impact.

* Colleagues who agree a working pattern
with their manager (58%) that suits both
‘them and their role are much more likely to
feel they have a suitable work-life balance.

© key tact
42”

of colleagues have
not agreed a working
pattern that suits them

What you should consider

‘+ How can managers be supported to find
a better balance of wellbeing, change
and learning-focused performance
conversations to ensure important
development needs are being met?

What you should consider

‘+ Immediate focus is needed on populations
with low psychological safety due to the
implications of poor decision-making based
‘on ‘staying under the radar’ rather than

g innovation or improvements.

What you should consider

‘* What can be done to address the feeling that,
for some, navigating complex and bureaucratic
processes in a difficult working environment
may have become a default setting?
POL00448635

POL00448635

While colleagues feel highly motivated to contribute,

just three in five feel a strong sense of belonging

Key fact

3in5

feel a strong sense of
belonging to Post Office

What you should know

‘+ At 68%, engagement is relatively strong,
though 3pts below the UK Norm. However,
this does not align with the overall eNPS
of -14, a disconnect which is more
pronounced in some functions than others.

‘= The engagement / eNPS ‘gap’ widens
further by Grade, with colleagues at
the PO/Admin and SLP levels recording
notably lower engagement.

Looking at individual Index metrics,
although colleagues are motivated to
do their best for Post Office, many do
not feel a strong sense of belonging,
and one in five are neutral/unsure.

What you should consider

‘* Analysis shows that to build belonging,
senior leaders must consistently role-model
the Ways of Working - what additional
support do they need to achieve this?

+ Belonging is also driven by feeling able
to develop at Post Office, a metric which
currently has low positivity. Is a genuine
lack of opportunities to blame, or is the
visibility of opportunities a barrier?

Engagement Index

eNPS

68”

vs. UK Norm

Key: Above average ® Below average

Negative NPS but ahead of POL Average

-14

By Function Engagement _eNPS
Finance 7s 417
Legal, Compliance and Governance 74s 18
Retail - Network 73” -22
Strategy and Transformation 69-19
Retail - DMB 67-8
Commercial 7-22
Technology 67-17
Retail - Postmaster excl. DMBs 67-18
People 6s -16
Corporate Affairs and Communications 63-43,
Retail~ Supply Chain em -18
By Grade

PO/Admin eae

Middle Management _ae

Band 3A Cal

Band 4 72

sLP so"

Motivation and pride to work for Post Office sit ahead of advocacy

and sense of belonging

I am motivated to do the
best job I can at Post Office

I feel proud to work
for Post Office

I would recommend
Post Office as a great
place to work

I feel a strong sense of
belonging to Post Office

UK Norm

2021

@24

@10'

N/A

N/A

What factors are related to a higher sense of belonging? - Top correlators

Ihave
confidenc

in the Senior

Leadership of
Post Office

I see the
Ways of
Working being
demonstrated
every day

\ feel a

strong sense
of belonging to

Post Office

Where I work,
people are
treated fairly

* Compared tothe 2021 wording ‘Post Office inspires me todo my best work every day
‘Compared tothe 2021 wording fee! proud to work fortis organisation

feel able to
achieve my

objective:

at Post Office

leaders lead
by example and
ehave in line

with our Ways
of Working

POL00448635
POL00448635

Just one key engagement driver
scores above 70% positivity

Confidence in Senior Leaders and feeling able to achieve career

Key fact objectives are high priority areas
5 Lower priority focus areas Pt Qh ers with ah impact bt low postity
Moderate impact, high positivity High impact, high positivity Focus on these for the biggest gains on engagement
key drivers score 50% or less
fank Score _va.UK Norm Lowest in Highest in
Retall-Postmasters
What you should know @ eishetoerive my career gym ay Babi Fnwee gy
‘* Of the seven drivers with the most objectives at Post Office Retail- Supply People
influence on colleague engagement San
only one ("Where I work, people are
treated fay’) scores above 70%. °e eats eee,
ave confidence in the Senior Bes Cental
pre ini rman © tessetesnnesr ae eso ETRE Gog

39% and 64% positivity, revealing
wide scope for improvement.

focus. ‘I feel able to achieve my career nd Commanes
Leadership of Post Office’ sits at 39%. ° (<) I see the Ways of Working 50” NA Mitre and Retail - DMB
These scores lag the benchmark by being demonstrated everyday i = tasty

Lipts and 33pts respectively. ae

(s) At Post Office, how we

= corpo
do things is as important 64% N/A Aico ard etal - Network

What you should consider (7)

** Retail and Corporate Affairs and
‘Communications have the lowest

as what we do

positivity across at least three of the Senior leaders lead by Lagat Comptance
hay cetvers What unique challenges ° @ example and behave in tine 30" srulGoverrnce
are in play in these functions? with our Ways of Working Finance

«+ The two lowest-scoring drivers relate
to leadership perceptions. What plans Thence Corporate

here is good teamwork Legal, Compliance

are in place to address this? Do senior [7] aid co-operation betwen 44% @16 Afar’ ng and Governance
leaders have the support they need departments at Post Office Technology People

to communicate effectively and follow
through on their commitments?

Medium priority focus areas High priority focus areas
Moderate impact, low positivity High impact, low positivity

Positivity

Impact on engagement
POL00448635
POL00448635

Three in ten colleagues have a low understanding of how
their role contributes and connects to Post Office strategy

Key fact Strategy & Leadership Index

-1 9 pts The index consists of an average of the following three questions: Se aa
Score vs UKNorm we 2021

Strategy & Leadership Index lags Index shove araraga a

behind external benchmark Corporate Affas and Communications 67™
The Senior Leadership have communicated a vision for 2025 6

% and strategic priorities for Post Office that motivates me aa" 016 ©. “Strategy and Transformation os
Retal- Network eae
What you should know ~19 Lunderstand how my role contributes to Post > CP 03 Lesa Conplance and Governance 6o*
ve UK Nom Office's overall strategy as an organisation Band 3A 60*
+ Overall Strategy & Leadership positivity a

is relatively low (5196) despite Band 4 59
colleagues’ strong understanding of {have confidence in the Senior Leadership of Post Office 39” @33 Commercial so
how their ole contributes to Post SP so"

Office's overall strategy (70%).

Additionally, levels of strategic
understanding and motivation do not
always align. 28% of colleagues are 87% of colleagues who understand and are invested in the strategy are engaged
not motivated by the strategy despite

hhaving a good understanding of it.

asain seeacai Get helatore maraiat
suboeniing nook venphalenentorn se coromenes % Eocelonni faa

rises to 87% - 19pts higher than average. People

© Below average in: Band 3A

Retail Network
© Bolow average in:

What you should consider Retall- Supply Chain

Retall-DMBe
* Colleagues in Retail - Supply Chain POvAdmin
and Retail ~ DMB are more likely to waned
experience low understanding and low Reta = Supply
investment. Are communications not Retail - DMB mgadenane Bystander Deep dive
reaching these populations, or are the © selon everson Wi Bystanders are characterised by their lower confidence in
messages not meaningful for them? Sateg and Tastormaton 2 how the organisation behaves. Such as: 14pts less likely to
«Is there a way to hamess ‘ambassadors’ welcaertt ioe thames have confidence in Senior Leadership, 12pts less positive
insewtgyandrenormaton, faa rennet Lon damanaiglaate, I inhow hase Sec Lenders led by example or whether
Corporate Affairs and Communication Lega, Compliance Post Office's actions match its words. Further qualitative
afl Poop to phy stray rad ‘and Govemance ‘The Senior Leadership have communicated a vision for 2025 and strategic priorles fr Post Office that etal eriicheg ite tarasivetes aye Dstn tiated
future vision communications? oo sang! that the organisation does not make strategic decisions
that reflects their daily experience ~ which heightens
* Due toa very small base size (1-26) forthe Enthusiast population no function breakouts have been provided their feelings of being unheard or undervalued.
POL00448635
POL00448635

Colleague confidence in leadership is essential
for driving higher levels of engagement

Senior Leaders must be seen to lead by example to inspire confidence
Key fact Key: Arrow thickness indicates strength of impact on this metric

O) m 5 Thicker line = stronger driver

In Senior leaders lead by I believe my views are

have confidence in the Senior Leadership ‘example and behave in line genuinely listened to when
with our Ways of Working 3 9 % I share my opinion

What you should know

I have confidence
* Two in five colleagues have confidence in the Senior

in senior leadership. This figure rises The way Post Office Leadership

People are held to account

does business is always of Post Office fast Sele pecrormencs en

to one in two in Finance and Legal,
Compliance and Governance but A e
drops to just one in three in Reta consistent with our purpose,
strategy and values

Overall Retail sentiment remains low,
but there is some variation, Retail
Network positivity sits at 439%, compared

to 25% within Retail ~ DMBs. Only one in three colleagues in Retail have confidence in senior leadership — this falls to one in four in DMBs
+ By Grade, colleagues in Band 3A have
he highsaveshicienss Wi sanlot lbclers Ihave confidence in the Senior Leadership of Post Office - by function I have confidence in the Senior Leadership of Post Office - by grade
followed by those in Middle Management. 7 eae %
Surprisingly, colleagues in SLP and PO/ pee eae ce
‘Admin are closely aligned, with only Finance 51%
cone in three feeling confident aa 9% 47”
Technology 46" “ed a2"
What you should consider Corporate Affairs and Communications 43"
Positively role-meodalleg the Ways SS 3a" dA 35*
of Working actively listening ae 32
atctdianenitratagy tegen People 36"
accountability all serve to drive greater Reta 32]  ¢
confidence in senior leaders I =
Post Office for colleagues to be able to Retail ~ Network 43" 5
rake onto jageant copes rgaaae es - ae
Retail colleagues, who show some of the PO/Admin Middle Band 3A Band 4 stp
lowest levels of confidence in leadership? Retail ~ Postmaster excl. DMBs 33% Management
25" zon os e3 o14

POL00448635
POL00448635

Seeing Ways of Working in action is associated with
enablement and confidence in Post Office's future

Key fact

1in2

do not see the Ways of Working
being demonstrated every day

What you should know

* Questions relating to Ways of Working
score between 39-50% positivity, and
all feature large neutral populations,

Colleagues are particularly negative around
co-operation, with three in ten saying

they do not see good teamwork and
co-operation between departments. This
question scores 16pts below the UK norm,

‘When all three of the aspects of Ways
of Working are experienced positively,
colleagues are around +30pts more likely
to feel positively about organisational
strategy and barriers to effectiveness,

What you should consider

‘+ How can the large neutral population be
positively influenced? Is communication/
sign-posting an issue?

‘+ What is preventing Ways of Working from
being implemented evenly and effectively?
Consider sharing more tangible, real world
‘examples of behaviours so colleagues can
build their understanding of how Ways
of Working translate to their every day.

Seeing the Ways of Working embedded consistently
across all work contexts is key to unlocking their
benefits for the colleague experience
Key: © The Senior Leadership have communicated a vision for 2025

and strategic priorities for Post Office that motivates me

‘© Any major barriers at work are effectively managed
in order to allow me to do my job well

No factors
present
Isee the Ways of
Working being
demonstrated
every day

The way Post Office Semen
does business is mgt oro
always consistent with fecainpie and behave
our purpose, strategy witout May

and v

Three in ten colleagues do not see good teamwork
across Post Office

I see the Ways of Working being demonstrated every day UKNorm

Senior leaders lead by example and behave
in line with our Ways of Working

The way Post Office does business is always
consistent with our purpose, strategy and values

There is good teamwork and co-operation
between departments at Post Office

* Compared to the 2021 wording see Post Office's Ways of Working being demonstrated everyday’

2021

eo

N/A

N/A
POL00448635

POL00448635

Focusing on supporting career development
is key to building engagement

Key fact

47”

feel able to achieve their career
objectives at Post Office

What you should know

‘+ While positivity on feeling able to progress
at Post Office has increased (47%, +15pts*
vs. 2021), itis 11pts behind the benchmark,
and one in three colleagues are unsure.

By Grade, positivity is lowest among those in
PO/Admin and SLP roles, though both have
improved since last year. By age, positivity
is lowest among those aged 35-44 years.

Correlation analysis shows that when
colleagues have access to development
and feel supported through change, they
are almost twice as likely to say they can
achieve their career objectives than if they
were only positive on one of these metrics.

What you should consider

‘+ Are colleagues able to see and hear from
‘others who have progressed within the
business, and are all opportunities to
progress communicated, such as lateral
‘moves, secondments and job shadowing?

‘* What resources are available to managers to
support their teams through organisational
change? Are people managers fully aware
of their critical role in change management?

I feel able to achieve my career objectives at Post Office

047”
Positive
33%
Neutral e11
= UKNorm
@20” @15°
Negative vs.2021
@e18 o11
52" _ 52
eed 47
POIAdmin Middle Management Band 3A Band 4 su
By age
59%
Fe a9”
oe =
ae 47
i ae
16-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 6S andover

*+ Compared to the 2021 wording believe there are good career opportunities for me a this company
1 Compared tothe 2021 wording have access tothe leaning and development that I need to do my jo wel

Access to resources and support are key for
feeling able to progress
UK Nom vs. 202
I have access to the training, learning and
development that I need to do my job well

1am given the support I need during
times of organisational change

@ I am given the support
need during times of
organisational change

N/A

© Ihave access to the training,
learning and development
that I need to do my job well

‘When neither factor is present:
13% feel able to achieve their
career objectives at Post Office
POL00448635
POL00448635

Check-ins and wellbeing concerns may take manager
focus from development and collaboration

Key fact

3in4

say their manager cares
about their wellbeing

What you should know

‘= Findings show that colleagues feel well
supported by their managers in having
regular check-ins which cover wellbeing,

‘+ However, 28% of colleagues would like
their manager to offer additional support on
their career development, and 31% would
like help with empowering collaboration
between teams and across the business.

‘The impact of manager support on these
two metrics is profound - colleagues

are 39pts more positive on feeling able
to achieve their career objectives and
29pts more positive on teamwork and
co-operation between departments.

What you should consider

‘* Consider how recent external events
‘may have led managers to deprioritise
development conversations. What more
‘support do they need to make time for them?

Colleagues need more manager support with
‘empowering and encouraging collaboration,
Consider how this has been impacted by

the current hybrid working model and
whether any adjustments need to be made.

‘How can your line manager help you be your best in the current situa’

Key: m My manager already does this well » My manager could do this a little more ™ My manager could do this a lot more = Not applicable / Prefer not to say

e Help support my career
development

[2] Help me prioritise my work

Help me / my team to collaborate
with teams across the business

Listen and act on my feedback

Ask team members for their opinions

Have regular check-ins with me

Care about my wellbeing /
‘empathise with concerns

54 15% fi

When a manager helps support
career development, colleagues are

3gpts

more likely to feel able to achieve their
career objectives at Post Office

(25% positive vs. 63% positive)

When a manager helps prioritise
work, colleagues are

37ets

more likely to say they are given
the support they need
of organisational change

(31% positive vs. 68% positive)

When a manager helps colleagues and
their teams to collaborate with teams
across the business, colleagues are

29Pts

more likely to say that there is good
‘teamwork and co-operation between
departments at Post Office

(26% positive vs. 55% positive)

10
POL00448635
POL00448635

While frequent conversations are important, so is quality
— only one in two are enjoying the benefits of both

How often do you discuss performance with your line manager?
y fect Key: m Weekly or less m Between every 2-4 weeks » Quarterly = Between every 6-12 months I Annually » Less often than annually / do not have regular check-ins with my manager

2in3 SS

monthly or more frequently

Ina performance check-in, my people manager (% Always or Frequently):

What you should know

Gives me clarity on Provides clarity on how Provides clarity on
‘* The majority of colleagues (65%) are having Cares for me and my goals, objectives Connects my role with to effectively deal with how business-wide Challenges me to
Eetrantrianca sotreaeasnona ior ny Oy iork my wellbeing and performance the business's strategy barriers in my role changes impact me develop my skills

often, though these tend to focus on a few

topics, such as wellbeing and performance. 75% 67% 61% 59% 58% 54%

‘+ Fewer managers provide clarity on
how to deal with barriers that occur in
an individual's role, on how changes
impact colleagues, or challenge them
to develop their skills - a key topic
given the link between development
conversations and overall engagement.

One in two are having both frequent and high-quality performance check-ins

«© Colleagues who benefit from both frequent m Infrequent, high quality Frequent, high quality Frequent, high-
and high-quality conversations are much 59 1 Q% % quality performance
‘more engaged and feel more positive of colleagues have high- 47 conversations
about achieving their career goals. quality performance More common in:
conversations Engagement Reta - DMs
Atlas ofthe 6 above Band 3A

I feel able to achieve my career
What you should consider oles wpebe erm objectives at Post Office

Wide Management
frequently or always) 2

71% Performance Rating

‘+ Do managers need support in expanding 56” Exceeds Expectations

their behavioural toolkits to cover all
elements of the colleague experience

Less common in:

s? feel able to nf Yo Yo I feel able to achieve my career Corporate Affairs and Communications
petekgeenwan ote ante eae 49 59 ao
‘¢ The SLP population are less likely to Tr eslaitice 22 30% ‘Strategy and Transformation

eee ies nn 23” io =

improvement or development - why is this? (Monthly oF more often) Erfomence Rating:

Infrequent, low quality Frequent, low quality Drvsoaaatiomed

11
POL00448635

POL00448635

Four in five colleagues plan to stay with the
business for the next three years or longer

Key fact

4in5

colleagues plan to stay for
at least three years

What you should know

‘* Engagement is higher among
colleagues who plan to stay at Post
Office for at least three years, rising
significantly among the proportion
planning to stay for over five years.

‘+ Among those planning to leave within two
years, three distinct groupings emerge:
disenfranchised colleagues (grey), those
influenced by personal factors (pink) and
those that score less positively on factors
that Post Office can influence (blue)

Within this group, reasons for leaving
include lack of career progression,
negative perceptions of reward and
barriers to effective working

What you should consider

‘* How can you be more purposeful in
intervening at (or before) important
milestones in the colleague lifecycle?

‘* Consider how the reasons for leaving align
with other consistent themes within the
report. Would further, in-depth research
into these themes, perhaps involving focus
‘groups, help inform future action plans?

How long do you plan to stay at Post Office?
Key: mUndera year = 1-2 years » 3-5 years m5+ years

Ache

@ 28” @ 47* 69% @77*
Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement
What are the main reasons you would consider leaving Post Office? ne264
Key: 44 Much more commonly chosen in these functions / grades / groups
{want to rete eaty
ich performers want to get ferent
Retail Network experiences elwfere
Fundamentally negative I am not paid enough / Cia
reasons, low engagement ‘rewarded well compared ‘Slow and
tosinar roles extemally complex
mat @
mmateit
Lega ey Reta - Postmaster
a omplance and ‘do my job 0 re OMDs Commerc am
Lack of career incareer
Progression opportunities
Personal reason:
ome higher engagement
a re
Post r culture
@ Hard to get
Management /
leadership behaviours ee
I dont fee confident
in Post Offs future Lackot
B Reta -DMBs =
don fet recognised / People
dont feat
‘motivated at work Isolated negative reasons,
moderate engagement
o 1s 25 Ea ae Ey os
Engagement Score

12
POL00448635
POL00448635

Post Office has a respectful, friendly and supportive culture,
with pockets of bureaucracy, fragmentation and inefficiency

3 Please select up to 10 words that you think best describe the day-to-day culture at Post Office
Key fact

3in5 ve ees

‘words chosen by the SLP were negative ‘Positive question emt = Much more common in SLP i i
(¢ Negative question Less common More common Much ess common in SLP seas coal
7 © Burewcrtic © Long hure
@ Fragmented © Suoportve
Minst you'shaisa know We work in Partnership We are one team Come SIREN, Aversa
+ Three in five of the words chosen ‘tre and tolmprove
# Respect 2  Frien sy © lonore o-
to describe the day-to-day culture ¥ = ve is = Communists Hierarchics © Clet focused
cohameilas cineca oceans ¥ © Heath workite balance 24* © Supportive 26" © Emsowering o ——
However, this drops to one in two in © Diverse an (Fragmented 22> © iteorty ts © felance’® © Lona hours
Band 4 and two in five among the SLP. ¥ © Caring 2 © Collaboration 20" © Hypocrisy /Hypocritical «= * © Supportive © Demoralised
‘¢ There is broad positivity around ‘We e59% © Long hours 18 © Hierarchical 20" © Controting ™ Leeming
Leama Demoratsed
work in Partnership’ and ‘We are one Positive words ¥ © clent focused 16 © celebrating sucess = -20™ A @ Fear ™ e
team: However, ‘We deliver records Freedom to
© Recognition 1 © Pots © Blame taboraion
lower positivity, with coleagues e41% a I fo boa © Cotaborton © ate detions
btis/ eeyapin als hapa sn tee © Fevcutiom 14> _¥ © Sharingidens 1° © suppressing mists SIS wesw
and indecisive behaviours, © Empathetc o (© Tstworthy 16 © Dishonest aD ves Hebwunce

+ SLP colleagues experience fewer © Unesrng Oa 1 Freedom to make decisions, 43% © Aggressive * co tearing trom Dherse
positive cultural elements than average © biased o © nformed a2 © Unhesthiycompettive 2 oS eee
{and are more likely to choose words © secretive 10" © Seiten 2 I Retall-DMOs
lke hierarchical, politcal, overly risk Sharing ideas @ Fragmented
averse, convoluted and fearful Positive words SEG « reeunen

bysrade Ss Wedeliver Retal-Network I Overy risk g Celebrating

What you should consider Povadimin 63" 1¥ © Aways king toimprove 26% west! 1s Resource ™ ee

© Bureaucratic 25> © Taking responsiity 14" (© Nerow minded ex Reta

+ Innovation and agile are among the least Middle Postmaster raleed Healthy work
frequently selected words. Consider how Me nent 8" A © Hoetficint 2m © Proud 1a © complacency ©~ exc MBs Demoraiced —@ [jenny
to address this given the importance © indecisive 18> © Conouned 42 © Avrogence I lau-tusy SEIN © Siecxwe
of agility in successfully navigating Bond 3A 57 'v Seni ieTemees es  Rakeware ey © crane » oan Co
challenging external conditions 7 clenienanamecras (© Toxing eccountbity 440% (© Making tings cory - = =]

+ 10% of colleagues chose ‘secretive’ pean 4s" a Sonaaaaaas! am ‘Soa oe pS paca a= Stitegyand — @ decive «Sea
an aspect ofthe culture specifically © Bina folowing processes 47% © Sohitore foo 4 © Decehe  Meneformation § poatcal © Trustworthy
identified by the Enquiry. This indicates ali alanicmgansls Selatan peal <
that itis sil a feature ofthe lived culture, sip 38" (© Demeratsed 18° © Enthusiasm 10" © tnovton a © Conouted © Supportive
particularly in Supply Chain (1894). © Acie am Teetnnooy — inettlent ——_o L¢aring tom

13
POL00448635

POL00448635

Technology and complexity key barriers, though

communication impacts engagement more

Any major barriers at work are effectively managed in order to allow me to do my job well

o7
‘tii

Key fact

42” 42" 30%

say major barriers are managed
effectively to enable effective
working (+7pts vs. 2021)

What barriers exist that stop you from performing at your best?
Engagement for those who selected this barrier
What you should know 55” 53” 53” as" so" 51" as” a3"

‘+ Only two in five colleagues feel that

‘major barriers are effectively managed
The teemnotgy I There's too much Prowieswe I Thwrewent I Mywonioad I ieatiut, I \dothavet I Thwelrt

to enable them to do their job well,
and a large proportion are unsure.
What you should consider ‘and Taystem® I complexty and. ‘conficting toohigh I toworkand I resources! need

‘Commonly experienced barriers are tech
IT systems (mentioned by 59%), too
much complexity / bureaucracy (51%)
and conflicting priorities (50%).

However, these barriers do not
have a strong negative impact on
‘engagement. Of the barriers that do, lack
of sufficient communication emerged

{a5 a prominent theme, alongside a
difficult working environment.

rent good’ I “Burewctacy” I change repalary I coleogues Colaborate commutation
‘+ Consider how communications are ‘enough across teams

Higher i

currently shared and why they are seen
as inefficient. Have colleagues been
asked how they would like to receive their
‘communications (via which channels)
‘and what information they need?

Lower in

Low levels of enablement and

ecapovariert an aly fo relay cx
france Saat,
feelings of casatistection cauved by other ies I ae eeapers . onitin
factors erving engogernent further down as Ss aw supsvGhon oo freon
comet

*+ Compared tothe 2021 wording ‘Most ofthe systems and processes here support us getting our work done effectively

ne713

Most frequent
topics mentioned:

1. Lack of diecton
from leadership

2. Inefficient processes
decision making

3. Lack of prioritisation

sks and processes

L-- Theres tap much] Idonthave I Mymanager

discule wording I °“zpesiyi"™ I'eommunieaion I access tothe, "ib

traning need I support me

st Pos Office

POL00448635

POL00448635

High levels of psychological safety promote
decision-making based on ‘doing the right thing’

Key fact

3in4

say people can share their
views without fear of negative
‘consequences (+4pts vs. UK Norm)

What you should know

‘+ Findings point to a psychologically
safe environment within Post Office.
Most colleagues feel able to share their
‘opinions, ideas and feedback, and a
similar proportion feel fairly treated

‘+ However, the overall view masks
variance across the wider business.
‘The SLP population, as well as Retail,
are not experiencing the levels of
psychological safety seen elsewhere.

Psychological safety and autonomous
decision-making are closely linked. Colleagues
who feel free to make decisions in their job
are 42pts more positive on psychological
safety than those who are less certain.

What you should consider

‘* High psychological safety enables
colleagues to make decisions based on
doing what is right rather than what
draws the least attention — of critical
importance following the Enquiry.

‘+ Do leaders need more support in role-
‘modelling the right behaviours, such
{as encouraging team members to give
honest feedback, listening to concerns
without judgement and building
trust by delivering on promises?

Psychological Safety Index

71%

By function
Technology 77
Strategy and Transformation 76"

Corporate Affairs and Communications 75%
Key: = Above average » Below average

‘Commercial 7a"
By grade Retail - Network 73
Band 3A 79% Retail -OMBs 72
Middle Management 74™ Finance 72"
Band 4 73* People ™
uP 63* —_ Retail -Supply Chain

PO/Admin 61" Retail - Postmaster excl DMBs

The index consists of an average of the following four questions:
Score vs.UK —vs.2021
Norm

Where I work, people can share their opinions, ideas, feedback <a

Psychological safety is highly correlated
with the freedom to make decisions:

I am provided with the freedom to make appropriate decisions in my job UK Norm

Psychological Safety Ind aw

Psychologically safe* colleagues are far more likely to make
decisions based on doing the right thing

What influences decision-making in your part of Post Office?
Key: @ Doing what is believed to be right

ci
&

19%

Wiese I yreste paocle are eae fon 73” @1 @27 Low psychological safety) Moderate psychological safety High psychological safety
believe my views are genuinely listened va Postortce overt Y saiekomeoves 7
to when I share my opinion 70" N/A NIA © Favourtism +24 @ Friendly -25  @ Favourtism —=10 @ Supportive #18,
© lonored +18 © Supportive 24 @ Demoraised © = @ Friendly +13
Where I work, when mistakes happen they are treated as an 5 Scekal 3) Sao aS SHasdiat= <0! scum
‘opportunity to learn rather than an opportunity to blame 6a” N/A” N/A ™ 12 Spo 18 ‘Success. “J
* Loves of psychological safety were assigned based on how many ofthe Psychological Safety Index questions they answered positively to. Those who answered positively to al & are considered to have high peychologicalsaety
Those who answered positively to 2 or 3 are considered to have moderate psychological safety. Those who answered positively to 1 or O are considered to have low psychological safety. 15

1 Compared tothe 2021 wording Everyone's treated fairy at Post Otic’
POL00448635

POL00448635

Half of all colleagues have felt under constant
strain recently — rising to seven in ten of the SLP

Key fact

5 2%

of colleagues have felt under constant
strain at work in the past few months

What you should know

«Just one in four colleagues have not felt
under constant strain in the past six
‘months, and one in four are unsure,

‘© Those under strain are much more likely
to report higher workload pressure, lack

of support (both in terms of resources and

headcount) and conflicting priorities.

Analysis highlights the importance
of frequent, high-quality manager
conversations in mitigating strain.
Individuals feel far more empowered to
find balance in their work-life, and less.
under strain, when they have agreed a
working pattern with their manager.

What you should consider

‘+ The immediate impacts of constant
strain are concerning, but so is its long-
term impact on colleagues’ resilience
and their ability to bounce back when
faced with adverse events at work.

What more can be done to support
‘managers and their teams to make
time for discussing and agreeing a
‘mutually suitable working pattem for
those that have not already done so?

In the past few months, I've felt under constant
strain at work

Strain is above average in:

Retail s7*
5 2% Commercial 53%
suP 70"
Agree

Band 4 63"
Middle Management 53*

Neutral Disagree

24 24%

What barriers exist that stop you from performing
at your best?

Key: m Not under strain m Under strain

+39pt gap >

My workload is too high

There aren't enough
colleagues

I don't have the
resources I need

Priorities are conflicting
J change regularly

Having conversations about working patterns is key to good work-life
balance — but only when these conversations lead to mutual agreement

In the current environment, I feel able to balance my work and my personal life
ina way that works for me ee
Key: Positive » Neutral m Negative UK Norm

Ihave agreed with my manager a working pattern that is suitable for both my role and me
Key: m Yes

= No~I haven't spoken about this with my manager

m= No~we have discussed but couldn't agree a working pattern

to workloads, tr

Feel under nights away are ex

strain

nplete. It seems PO doe

Feel able to

balance their
thing

work and ities,
life in a way (--] priority at the moment
that works = any different achiew
for them ba

16
POL00448635
POL00448635

Improved pay / benefits and internal communication are

top asks to make Post Office a better place to work

Finally, what one thing would you improve to make Post Office a better place to work?

Key fact

1in5

would improve pay and benefits

What you should know

‘* Colleagues most want to see improved pay /
benefits and internal communication in order
to make Post Office a better place to work.

‘+ 11% of comments related to the
theme of streamlining processes
and reducing bureaucracy, while
10% highlighted improving training

11%

Streamline processes and
reduce bureaucracy

8%

and progression opportunities. esos oan
‘¢ Further down the list, colleagues would do more to retain collaboration /
like to see increased headcount, more current talent reduce silos

/ better recognition and collaboration
and better technology / IT.

n=895

7 Other themes included:
What you should consider
More empowerment / accountability / ownership 6*
+ Are there opportunities to commit to an
‘ongoing dialogue on pay and benefits, Treat al colleagues fairly and equally 6*
with transparency around what is We need to become more agile and efficient 6”
possible and not and the reasons why?
Tel ube ke Tackle overworking and improve work-life balance s*
+ Taking action post-survey will be key in
heiog Wales Fuck Ccriacton blake ts 6” Improve colleague morale / motivation a”
address daily challenges, such as technolo al SrA Gy Cl emia wr 6
or processes be shared with progress I woul ike more Mar enBy o c goal or weedy 1
ipclatne lie ary lites Cstvectesnes oo support from Reassess where company finances are distributed a*
colleagues feel they are being heard? var ‘Allow more home working / flexible working options ad
More focus on diversity and inclusion 3*
Ido not need any additional support/ am happy here 2
Tackle blame / bullying culture 1”

lA
