POL00099022
POL00099022

The Post Office is today publishing an interim report into alleged problems with the
Horizon computer system used to record transactions in the post office branch
network.

The review is being conducted by an external firm, Second Sight. The interim report,
based on a review of four of 47 cases being considered, is available on the Post
Office website.

The report confirms that no systemic problems have been found in relation to the
Horizon system, but suggests that the Post Office should improve its support and
training processes for subpostmasters.

Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells said:

"We commissioned this independent review to address concems that have been
raised with us about the Horizon system and we welcome its publication.

"The Post Office is committed to supporting its people and improving the way we do
so. While this interim review makes clear that the Horizon computer system functions
effectively across our network, it has raised questions about the training and support
we offer subpostmasters.

“it is important to stress, as the review itself does, that the Horizon system has
around 68,000 users in more than 11,500 branches successfully processing more
than six million transactions every day. The review underlines our cause for
confidence in the system.

The people who work in the post office network in communities across the country
are the lifeblood of our business and we take our responsibilities to them very
seriously. We regret any concerns we may have caused to any subpostmaster who
has felt that our standards of support or training have not met their needs.

We are committed to further improvement in this area and to taking better account of
individual requirements and circumstances going forward. I am determined to act on
this and will not be waiting for the full report in doing so -- indeed we have already
taken significant steps in some areas.’

“I have therefore decided to create a new Branch User Forum to provide a way for
subpostmasters and others to raise their concerns around business processes,
training and support at the highest level. It will be chaired by a member of our
Executive Committee and report to that committee.
POL00099022

POL00099022

“We will be inviting interested parties such as the Justice for Subpostmasters
Alliance (JFSA) to take part in this forum. Representative groups such as the NFSP
and our trade unions will also be invited on to the forum.

"A key task for this forum will be to review our support processes and training to
ensure they meet the standards expected of us. We have made many changes over
the last few years but are not at alf complacent and again hope that the JFSA and
others will take part to consider how we can make further improvements. [We will
also look to establish new arrangements for an independent third party that sub-
postmasters can approach for help with Horizon issues which they do not feel can be
resolved through the normal Post Office processes.’]

"We hope further to work collaboratively with the JFSA and MPs to conclude the
ongoing review and will of course act on any further recommendations.

“We are determined to learn from the review and hope the action we are already
taking in response will demonstrate our commitment to continually improving the way
we support all those who work in our unrivalled branch network.”

The Post Office has assessed the interim report and will work with relevant external
parties to build on steps already taken to improve processes:

- investigative support to subpostmasters
~ collation of data and approach in relation to disputed cases
- provision of information to subpostmasters

~ training and support provision
