@

Process
Former Agent Debt

Name: Michelle Stevens
Job Title: Former Agent Debt and
E-mail address: michelle.stevens;

eam Leader

POL00087471
POL00087471

Finance Governance - Process Document Template

Page 1
POL00087471
POL00087471

1. Contents

1. Contents.

2. Document Version.

3. Purpose.

4. Process

MAD... eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeeserensenssnesnsneeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeened 4
5. Level 4 process Map and

Narrative...... 2.2... cece eee eeee eee eeeteeeeeeetteeeetertaeeeeeeead 6

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 2
POL00087471

POL00087471
2. Document Version
Version Control Table
Version Change Change Made Change Made (summary) of Review Date
Made By: changes:
(date):
1.0 04/12/14 I Michelle Stevens I Creation of Document N/A
3. Purpose

The purpose of this document is to provide a clear and concise description of the Finance
Service Centre (FSC) Former Agent Debt process.

4. Process Documentation Set

The process documentation is comprised of:
1. Process Template.
2. Level 4 process Map.

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 3
POL00087471
POL00087471

5. Process template

: Alison Bolsover

Process Owner Michelle Stevens

Process Expert : Ann Bailey

Process Deliverer : FSC( Financial Service Centre) Chesterfield

Process Sponsor

1.0 Process Objectives and Aim: To recover missing funds owed to POL relating to cash
and stock held at the post office by contacting Former Agents when a debt is either,
discovered following an audit and the agent is suspended/dismissed,

outstanding on the customer account when the agent leaves the business,

accounting discrepancies come to light after the last day of service.

2.0 Process Details: The process starts when an agent leaves the business with an
outstanding debt or when discrepancies come to light after the last day of service following
checks concluded between Horizon and client / customer data.

All relevant information and evidence relating to the debt is gathered from network contract
managers, field support officers & auditors, PO Security & Investigations (If the case has
not been progressed via the criminal route but legal statements have been made).
Information is also gathered from HR relating to the agents start date, home address,
phone numbers, email address, date of birth, national insurance number and the Network
relating to training given, calls to the helpline by the agent.

Credence data may be used to back up TP6’s, branch discrepancies, balancing issues etc.

If the value of the debt is not cost effective to recover it is written off, in some
circumstances the customer account is in credit is proper to be repaid via HR.

If the customer account is in debit and is feasible and cost effective to recover the agent is
contacted by 1°, 2" 3rd letters and provided with a statement of debt including details and
evidence relating to all elements that make up the outanding debt, payment of the debt is
requested. Consideration is given to reasonable repayment proposals made if the agent is
unable to pay the debt in full. A tracing agent may be engaged by POL to ascertain or
confirm address details.

The agent is notified immediately should the debt change due to any further credit or debit
error’s coming to light between Horizon and client / customer data, (unless specifically
notified not to do so by POL Security & Investigations or the Network — possible fraud /
contractual issues). Had the agent remained in post errors discrepancy errors are sent
from the error resolution teams to the postmaster via the Horizon system but when the
agent has left the business any further errors are sent from the error resolution team to the
Former Agent Team via a TP6 form with evidence.

If no response is received from the agent the case is referred to an external legal firm for
recovery action to commence via the civil route, initially requesting they contact the agent
direct or employ a tracing agent to ascertain or confirm address details if felt necessary.
Consideration is given to reasonable repayment proposals made if the agent is unable to
pay the debt in full.

If the agent is unable or unwilling to repay the debt POL can instruct the legal firm to apply
for a County Court Judgement followed, in some instances by securing the debt by way of

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 4
POL00087471

POL00087471

applying a Charging Order on any properties owned by the agent. The Charging Order
would remain in place until such time as the debt is repaid or the property is sold. POL may
also proceed with bankruptcy or employing High Court Enforcement Officers if necessary in
very rare cases.

3.0 Systems Utilised: Core Finance / Credence / Cloud City / POL SAP for processing
TP6’s.

4.0 Process Critical Success Factors (CSFs) and KPIs:

CFS - The Former Agent Team are legally obliged to pursue and recover debt by means of
a recognised Dunning process, we also engage with litigation lawyers and can pursue the
debt via civil litigation to obtain CCJ’s and Charging Orders or proceed with bankruptcy and
HCEO’s.

CFS - Core Finance System.

Global Iris — process card payments.

CFS - Monthly Provisions are prepared for POL

CFS - Monthly Measures are prepared for POL, (new debt, recoveries, write off's)

KPI's - Dunning process, to measure the success of recovery / write off.

5.0 Process Stats (as and where appropriate):

« Timescale — limitation period from the last day of service is 6 years to recover the
debt. If a CCJ, (County Court Judgement) is obtained then the limitation period is 6
years from the date of Judgement.

« Flexibility - available in terms of process management and completion contingency
cover ( Ann Bailey) trained and available to support the manager and the duties if
the new case volumes increase.

« Resource Required — 1 Team Leader, 4 FTE’s, 2 FTE’s

 Throughput/Output as appropriate - Duties action approx. 450 cases per month, 110
of these offices repaying debts via standing order.

« Value-add the Process is giving to business (recovery 2014/2015 P01-P07 approx.
£370k plus 61 cases with CCU’s inc costs of £2,6 mill, and 35 cases £1.2 mill
secured by Charging Order at a cost of £87.5K admin and £6K legal costs to the
business)

6.0 Controls: {Document controls built into the process}

Provisions and Measure completed monthly.

A probity statement is completed each month to ensure all losses written off are evidenced.
All outstanding debts are cleared or are being investigated.

County Court Judgements and Charging Order details retained in Sharepoint.

Legal costs measured against recoveries made.

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 5
-13.0 Related Links to Poli

POL00087471

POL00087471

7.0 Training Material: Duty Instructions are available on the team share point site (control
and click on below)
https://portal.royalmailgroup.com/sites/A1014/FormerAgentDebtMissingCheques/default.as
px

8.0 Skills Requirements: The generic FSC skill set e.g. POL SAP , Credence , excel , basic
accounting and an understanding of the Horizon transaction process

9.0 Change Control:

Collection Manager Work List — Michelle Stevens.

Finace Service Requestor — Ann Bailey

Change on the process —N/A

10.0 Internal Risks: Loss of systems/ building.

41.0 External Risks and Contingency: Horizon failure / Non payment of unsecured debt

12.0 Other Stakeholders not included above:
POL Account Manager, NBSC, FSC (Rod Ismay)

and Other Guidance Documents on this Proce:

IRRELEVANT

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 6
POL00087471
POL00087471

6. Level 4 Process Map and Narrative

Supply or produce a process map in any format which is available, Visio would be
preferable, but not all staff have Visio on their PCs.

Governance will convert to Visio if not supplied in Visio to ensure all documents are
consistent in their structure and using the same symbols.

Finance Governance - Process Document Template Page 7
