POL00423150
POL00423150

Message

From: Mark R Horne [CN=Mark R Horne/OU=e/O=POSTOFFICE]
Sent: 24/10/2006 15:13:35

To: Post Office Ltd (all)

Subject: Focus online - issue 32/06 : 24/10/2006

juo

Issue 32/06 24.10.06

The Golden Ticket Scheme rewards branch
managers, subpostmasters and Network Managers
for excellent Focus product sales in their branches.

Congratulations to our quarter two winners who
have been sent a golden ticket inviting them to a
luxury weekend break at Stapleford Park Country
House Hotel in November.

The winners are:

Burnside Pendlebury
West Monkseaton Unsworth
Well Street Holyport
Forest Gate Brixington
Abbey Road Vicarage Lane
Boldmere Meads
Cold Bath Road Portstewart
Westgate Ballee
Charlton Church York Road
Magor Holywell
Northolt

Waterlooville

Sudbury
POL00423150
POL00423150

Wood Green
Liskeard

North Walsham
Staines
Halstead
Beverley

Diss

Mike Elliot
Steve Gibbs
Martin Rouse
Dessie Brown
Katharine Sulley
Michael Farr
Peter Barnard
Graham Brown

Contact
Email: communications.team(_

The Employee Disclosure policy and guidelines have been reviewed and updated following a
recent audit of Royal Mail Group policies and procedures. This policy is an important part of
making the company a good place to work and helps to protect its reputation in the community
and marketplace.

The employee disclosure (often called "Whistleblowing") policy enables employees to raise
concerns about inappropriate behaviour (e.g. behaviour linked to criminal activity, fraud, conflicts
of interest or health and safety breaches). In most instances colleagues should be able to raise
these issues through their line manager or other routes such as the Security and CSR helplines.
The employee disclosure policy concerns those occasional situations where a colleague feels
these routes cannot be used, or the matter is so serious that it needs escalating to a senior level
of management.

As long as a disclosure is made in 'good faith’, the policy protects and allows colleagues to make
disclosures in a confidential manner. In return Royal Mail Group is responsible for investigating a
complaint and, where appropriate, taking effective remedial action.

Details of the updated policy and guidelines and who to contact to raise a concern have been
posted on Royal Mail Group's Intranet site.

Contact:
Peter Tansley - Head of Internal Audit
Telephone (” i

To reflect the changes made under the Organisational Design Review, the email address for
‘Training Delivery Team’ has been changed to ‘Outlet Field Support’.

Several of our forms still have the old address, but please be assured that updated versions will
POL00423150
POL00423150

be issued soon.

If you have any queries please email them to our new address or contact the team on the number
below.

Contact:

