POL00423972

POL00423972

Post Office Advisory Council
Inaugural Meeting, 18" and 19"* March 2014

Tuesday 18" March: POAC Members’ Dinner
7.30pm for 8pm: The Modern Pantry, 47-48 St John’s Square, London

Wednesday 19" March: POAC Inaugural Meeting
Post Office Headquarters, 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ

8.30am — 9.00am: Arrival, Registration and Breakfast (Ground floor café area)
Paula, Tim and ExCo directors to meet and greet

9.00am: Welcome from Paula Vennells, Chief Executive, Post Office Limited
9.20am: Member group photo (Following this, members will move to the Boardroom)
Inaugural Meeting of the Post Office Advisory Council (Boardroom)

9.30am: Introduction

Tim Franklin: Chair, Post Office Advisory Council (ways of working, term length)

Focus on the functional aspects and responsibilities of the Council and Tim’s role as Chair, e.g. ways
of working; its role working alongside the Board and ExCo; member confidentiality issues; length of
individual terms; etc. Timto-di lenin Marks Abaene

9.45am: The role of the Advisory Council Members (a//ow 15 min for each presentation)

Mark Davies, Director of Communications and Corporate Affairs

Mark could talk about the context — why POAC has been set up, then focus on the members as
individuals: why they have been chosen (-experience, skills, perspectives, etc) and what we want from
them: their role in helping influence PO plans and products. Keeping it real: we will work to ensure
POAC is not a talking shop and will demonstrate its influence over time and being honest about what
we can do, and what we can’t, and why.

Q&A fallow10-min}

10.10am: Transforming our Business

Martin George, Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer

An overview of how we are working to deliver commercial sustainability and how we are working to
leverage our brand and consumer trust; talk about our advertising. Other key suggested elements:
growing new Financial Services- see NK slides; developing our existing Government Services (IDA, etc)
and the opportunities of new technology (mention investment in Digital PO — will organise a visit for
members in due course). (Jane to discuss content with MG)

Q&A

10.35: Transforming our Network

Kevin Gilliland, Network and Sales Director

An overview of how we’re modernising the physical network (working closely with SPMs and local
stakeholders) to enable transformation of our business and drive sales. (Neil and Tom’s slides provide
some great content for this) ~phis-e-great tudy in Neil's deck ont ked-with

POL00423972

POL00423972

iL 8&-SPM-to-relocate the branch. tof HighStred. tion-plans-te-brit
part-of Hig

Our unique structure (staff to agent ratio and challenges of that eg. Size and complexity, ensuring
effective two way communication, challenges of managing brand and reputation) and opportunities
(eg. Agents as independent SMEs, supporting local communities)

Q&A

11.00am: Refreshments (Members will return to the Café. Refreshments will be available)

11.10am: Squaring the circle - A Commercial Business with a Public Purpose
(The intro will help to provide context for the discussion session)

NeiLh

” Id-talkebout-why he decided to-join Rost Offi

te vi it ef ing-effe A _ i
oe pr extty S-eff wy 7 agHAg
brand-and- tation is-harderthan-for-oth: jos) and-th teuith ti
P F 1 PP fe-G-eG
ind dant SME: ting theirlocal itie local ies)
‘pe 77 SUPP OFEAG

Mark Davies, Director of Communications and Corporate Affairs

Mark could introduce our Public Purpose, show the RSA film here, and talk about how we have been
working with them to explore the role of PO in the community (may want to invite Ben to say a few
words at this point?) and how it can support local enterprise (e.g. “S Fund); aleo-talk-about-our-work

jth the Plunkett Foundati plete tth koen-te thi
PPI

F?
F
local-shi RO. Jude-by reviewing the RSA“ dati eh tte identif;
P - F yo
”

hat. listically-t st
‘ -

1?
Then ask how can we achieve our Public Purpose while becoming commercially successful and less

dependent on subsidy? (this leads into the next session)

11.30am: Table discussions
Members are asked to explore the following questions:
(Mark and Neil will ask Members will work in groups to discuss these. Suggest we bring in 3 larger
round tables for up to 10 and each table has a facilitator and member spokesperson to feedback)
The Post Office has recently defined its Public Purpose. How can the Post Office retain this
purpose, whilst ensuring it remains on the path to achieving commercial sustainability?

@ The RSA recently published its report on Post Offices as Community Hubs. What are your
views on its recommendations and which of these should the business take forward
considering the need to balance the issues above?

12.00neen: Feedback from tables and discussion

12.45pm: Summary and Conclusions
Tim Franklin: Chair, Post Office Advisory Council

1.00pm: Close and Lunch

1.4545: Optional Branch Visits (will conclude no later than 2.30pm)

Suggest we provide taxis — should arrive about 2pm which will also help to avoid the lunchtime
queues in branch. Estimated to last no more than 30 minutes. Offer to drop members off at mainline
stations if required as they'll have luggage?
