POL00054085

POL00054085
Mark Dinsdale To: Post Office Security@POSTOFFICE.
96/02/2010 09:07 Subject: Fw: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES
File in the West Byfleet file, cheers
Mark Dinsdale
Security Programme Manager
Security Team, Post Office Ltd
louse, Clippers Quay, Salford, M50 3NW
Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
----- Forwarded by Mark Dinsdale/e/POSTOFFICE on 06/02/2010 09:07 -----
John Longman To: Mark Dinsdale/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
- cc:
03/02/2010 14:18 Subject: Fw: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES
FYI
Regards,
Jon Longman

Seaurity Advisor,
Post Office Ltd, National Sequrity Tearn

ES] OFFICE ADDRESS: Post Office Investigation Dept, Watford MLO, Ascot Road, Watford, WWD18 844
@ LAND LINE PHONE:

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (5) and may contain
confidentialand privileged information, Any unauthor sed review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.
if you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by replye-mailand destroy ad copies of the original message.

POL00054085

POL00054085
John Longman To: Jamail A Singh/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE,
I cc:
93/02/2010 12:56 Subject: Fw: WEST BYELEET ISSUES

Jarnail/Warwick
Please see e-mail below.

I have spoken to Penny Thomas and she has arranged for a meeting to be held today to discuss the
statement that we require from them. After that meeting she will then be in a position to confirm the
timescales involved and the cost to POL for the statement. An Authority to proceed will then need to be
authorised by POL.

She is fully aware of the suituation with regards the deadline with the court for submission of the
disclosure items requested, but she is now acting under the instructions of David Jones, Head of Legal
UK.

Regards,
Jon Longman

Seaurity Advisor,

Post Office Ltd, National Seaurity Tearn

(3) OFFICE ADDRESS: Post Office Investigation Dept, Watford MLO, AscatRoad, Watford WDIBEAR
@® LAND LINE PHONE Spread the word.

Ae Ir eee

Confidential Information: This e-rnail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (5) and may contain
confidentialand privileged information, Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.
if you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mailand destroy all copies of the original message.

Fs]

F jer the ernironvrent ye E ae

homas Penny” To: <mark.dinsdaleg
ce: <jane.m.owen(_
G RO Subject: FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES

03/02/2010 12:24

"Lillywhite Tom’

Mark / John

We have taken guidance from our Legal Department concerning the West Byfleet and Porters Avenue
cases; please read mail string.

The request (referenced 1. to 4.) referred to in David Jones' instructions refers to the Porters Avenue
prosecution.

I am in the process of arranging the requisite internal meetings to determine timescales and costs for
West Byfleet requirements and we will revert as soon as possible.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is

virus-free.

From: Jones David M

Sent: 03 February 2010 11:42

To: Thomas Penny; Wilkerson Guy

Cc: Keeling David; Lillywhite Tom; Williams Roger; Roberts David (LON22)
Subject: RE: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES

Importance: High

Penny / Guy

POL00054085
POL00054085

I have now looked at this — both at the background and the specific information requested by the Defence

Expert.

It is for POL to decide what they want us to do to support the prosecution as although there is no

“property” in a witness we are engaged to support POL contractually and will need them to cover the work

involved. We should ask POL (and via them their counsel) to confirm that they want us to do the work
requested and whether they want us to provide —

1. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss how to
access an unencrypted version of the transaction files held on the
sub-post office terminals related to the Hosi case.

2. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss the
structure of the transaction es, the mechanisms by which they are
synchronized with the central system and the records held centrally.

3. An unencrypted copy of full transaction log of the sub-post office
terminals related to the Hosi case.

4, An unencrypted copy of the corresponding records held by the central
system

We need to explain what can be done and the time scales and costs involved and then Guy can
put in place an ATP to cover the work involved. If this work cannot be done in the timescales
ordered by the court then we need to tell POL and its counsel so that they can apply to court for
more time. We need an ATP and or specific authority not just to cover our costs involved but to
ensure that any disclosure and work have POL’s approval.

POL and its counsel must also agree how we provide any access to our people for the Defence expert
POL00054085

POL00054085

and who is also present and how the exchanges are recorded and minuted.

Any access must be subject to confidentiality agreement or a release from POL - our standard NDA will
need amending if we are going down this route. All access should be joint with a suitable POL person in
attendance so that issues that arise from their requirements can be dealt with by POL and not us.

If necessary please feel free to forward this note to POL.

Best wishes

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division
FUJITSU

Mob:

E-mail:

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 03 February 2010 10:40

To: Jones David M

Cc: Keeling David; Lillywhite Tom
Subject: FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES
Importance: High

David

Please find below the list of questions asked of our expert witness. Attachments
arei-

9cl5.misra - 2" interim technical expert’s report 19.11.09 - defence’s expert
accountant’s report - comments requested

0202.Gareth - West Byfleet Final - Gareth’s (Fujitsu expert) responses to
the defence’s expert accountant’s report
143.rtf - Eleanor Nixon’s statement - comments requested

In addition, and to present the whole picture for West Byfleet, a witness statement
prepared by Andy Dunks covering helpdesk calls for the outlet during the period
30 June 2005 to 31 December 2009 has already been returned to Post Office Ltd -
WS West Byfleet 126023

Also looming is the Post Office Ltd prosecution relating to the outlet Porters
Avenue. The attached collection of notes - Porters Avenue Issues - are also
relevant.

As explained in my previous note the urgency here is that during the pre-court
hearing for West Byfleet on Monday 1 February the judge ordered that all the defence
requests for further information be answered by 4pm on Monday 8 February.
POL00054085

POL00054085

Kind regards
Penny

Penny

I have just spoken to the solicitor dealing with this case. The question raised
by our barrister in his advice states with regards the Eleanor Nixon statement
is as follows,

" the witness statement does not reveal a problem with Horizon's reliability but
rather a mistake that can easily be made with the layout of the screen. It may
be that the alleged layout problem is something which Fujitsu are aware of and
has been rectified. A copy of Mrs Nixon's statement should be forwarded to Fujitsu
for their comments. It should also be straightforward to ascertain whether or
not Mrs Misra was falling into the trap identified by Mrs Nixon. . The error

described would presumably create a cash shortage matched by an equal surplus

elsewhere”

A xesponse to this question by Fujitsu would be appreciated, however brief.

Penny

I have just spoken to our barrister again and he has asked for two more items to
be covered in Gareth's statement.

1) Can Gareth detail in his statement how Horizon is tested, how often and how
robust the tests are.

2) There have been changes of hardware at West Byfleet (base units). Couid Gareth
comment on how this is done and how the new equipment is tested once installed.

Penny

Sorry to trouble you again but I had a further request from our barrister late
on Friday. He would like Gareth to respond in his witness statement to the points
raised in the Eleanor Nixon statement attached below.

In addition our barrister would like to speak to Gareth directly and would be

grateful if in the first instance whether Gareth could either send him his contact
details or give hima call on his mobile. r is called Warwick Tatford
and his e-mail address is warwicktatford, is

Jon Longman

POL00054085

POL00054085

Eleanor Nixon’s Statement - 143.rtf

Penny
When Gareth completes his statement about Callender Square could he also mention
whether there are any known problems with the Horizon system that Fujitsu are aware

of. If none could this be clarified in the statement.

The barrister dealing with this case has requested this additional information.

----- Original Mes
From: john.longma:
Sent: 28 January 2010
To: Thomas Penny

Subject: West Byfleet

Penny

My barrister telephoned me yesterday evening and requested that I found out any
information that Fujitsu may hold in relation to an office called Callender Square
in Falkirk. Apparently, Anne Chambers a Systems Specialist employed by Fujitsu
was cross examined and it is said that she had full knowledge of an error in the
Horizon system at this Post Office.

If Anne is still an employee of fujitsu could you please give me her direct number
so that I can contact her, or, alternatively, if there is any report oz
documentation as to what the error was can this be forwarded to me asap.

Gareth’s draft witness statement in response to the accountant’s report

0202.Gareth - West Byfleet Final

Penny

Our defence barrister has asked for all of Gareth's replies in relation to the
Defences 2nd Interim Report (see attachment below) to be produced as a witness
statement. I would suggest that the question from the defence is reproduced and
then Gareth's replies are recorded immediately after for clarity purposes.

A pre court hearing has been set for the lst February and ideally if possible it
would be helpful if the statement could be received by Friday of this week. Could
you let me know if this is going to be possible.

EXPERT ACCOUNTANT’S REPORT ATTACHED (SAME EXPERT AS PORTERS AVENUE CASE)
POL00054085
POL00054085

9C15.MISRA - 2N2 INTERIM TECHNICAL EXPERT’S REPORT 19.11.09

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is

virus-free.

