POL00447760

POL00447760
From: Simon Oldnall[/o=ExchangeLabs/ou=Exchange Administrative Group
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/cn=Recipients/cn=0c5f92d537e64 1abb3e04476e3cd8174-simon.oldna]
Sent: Mon 28/09/2020 2:17:29 PM (UTC)

To: Liam Carrol
Subject: FW: Fujitsu

Fyi... there is that risk word again..

Simon Oldnall
GLO/Horizon IT Director

20 Finsbury Street,
London,
EC2Y 9AQ

¢

WE'RE STRONGER TOGETHER

From: Jason Gottschalk
Sent: 28 September 2020 15:06
To: Simon Oldnall <°
Cc: Hermanus Wiid
Subject: RE: Fujitsu
Hi Simon

Thanks for the update.

I will check with Herman but the Remote Access shouldn’t take too long- > latest before 12 tomorrow?

I appreciate that Fujitsu are holding their positon but we will need evidence on file and that will not be negotiable
from BDO’s side. In addition, revisiting the same procedures to obtain the evidence will impact cost and timelines.
I realise this is not your position but it creates risk for us against the timelines and the audit procedures.

Regards

Jason

From: Simon Oldnall
Sent: 28 September 2
To: Jason Gottschal
Cc: Hermanus Wiid ¢_ GRO I a
Subject: RE: Fujitsu

Attention: This email originated outside BDO LLP. Please be extra vigilant when
opening attachments or clicking links.

HI Jason

As just discussed

I have just finished the call with Fujitsu; The headline is that we would like to kick off using the Historical KELS and
Remote access areas as a test of how the audit process will work.

Essentially Fujitsu are currently of the view that there will not be an exchange of documents and that they will work
through specific topic areas, responding to specific audit questions and showing (via screen share) documents and
evidence to support their responses.

My ask to BDO remains please populate your detailed Audit questions (as we discussed) and do this for both KELS and
Remote Access, we can use this as the mechanism to kick off these areas and get some more detailed engagement.
Can you let me know when I can expect this please?

Many thanks

Simon
POL00447760
POL00447760

Simon Oldnall
GLO/Horizon IT Director

20 Finsbury Street,

London,
EC2Y 94Q

WE'RE STRONGER TOGETHER

From: Jason Gottschalk
Sent: 28 September 2020 14:35
To: Simon Oldnall
Cc: Hermanus Wiid 4"
Subject: Fujitsu ;
Hi Simon

Thanks for the call earlier. I spoke to Herman and he was going to send the spreadsheet through to you. I am
hoping that Fujitsu will start to co-operate as we have already lost 2 weeks on this.

I will also revert back to you on the resourcing side, as I said adding to many resources may be counterproductive -
an end October completion for the full scope is simply not possible.

I will work through the project plan and update with new timelines so we can re-benchmark.

Regards

Jason Gottschalk

Partner/TRA (Technology Risk Assurance)

For and on behalf of BDO LLP

55 Baker Street
London W1U 7EU
UNITED KINGDOM

www.bdo.co.uk

View our Rethink hub for the latest information on how we can help you and your business.

As a fully-connected workforce, we're doing everything we can to help you meet your objectives and priorities. In line with advice
from the UK Government, we have re-opened our offices for those who can no longer work from home. But, the majority of our staff
are working from home, are connected to the BDO network and are contactable via their usual email addresses and phone
numbers.

IDEAS I PEOPLE I TRUST.

Follow us on Twitter, LinkedIn and Instagram. Find out more about us.

BDO LLP, a UK limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C305127, is a member of BDO International Limited, a UK company limited by
POL00447760
POL00447760

guarantee, and forms part of the international BDO network of independent member firms, A list of members’ names is open to inspection at our registered office, 55
Baker Street, London W1U 7EU. BDO LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to conduct investment business. BDO is the brand name for the
BDO network and for each of the BDO Member Firms. This email (including any attachments) is confidential, protected by copyright and may be privileged. It is for the
exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you have received it in error, please notify the sender immediately by emailing a response before deleting the email
completely from your computer, and note that any storage, copying or dissemination fs prohibited. Where the content of this email is personal or otherwise
unconnected with the firm or our clients’ business, we accept no responsibility or liability for such content. We accept no responsibility for viruses that we may have
unintentionally transmitted to you within this email and you should check for viruses before opening any attachment. Those communicating with us by email will be

deemed to have consented to us intercepting and monitoring those communications. Read our privacy statement for more information.

Accountants and Business Advisers © 2020 BDO LLP. All rights reserved.

2H 2 24 2428 24 2K 2 FAR 2 2K 2 FARR 0 2 2 GK 8 02 2 8 Eo oR aR a aaa

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

HER 2B FR fA FAR A AR FARR 0 0 RR A CGR Go CG a aa a

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

View our Rethink hub for the latest information on how we can help you and your business.

As a fully-connected workforce, we’re doing everything we can to help you meet your objectives and
priorities. In line with advice from the UK Government, we have re-opened our offices for those who
can no longer work from home. But, the majority of our staff are working from home, are connected
to the BDO network and are contactable via their usual email addresses and phone numbers.

IDEAS I PEOPLE I TRUST.

Follow us on Twitter, Linkedin and Instagram. Find out more about us.

BDO LLP, a UK limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C305127, is a member of BDO International Limited, a UK company limited by
guarantee, and forms part of the international BDO network of independent member firms. A list of members’ names is open to inspection at our registered office, 55
Baker Street, London W1U 7EU. BDO LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to conduct investment business. BDO is the brand name for the
BDO network and for each of the BDO Member Firms. This email (including any attachments) is confidential, protected by copyright and may be privileged, It is for the
exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you have received it in error, please notify the sender immediately by emailing a response before deteting the email
completely from your computer, and note that any storage, copying or dissemination fs prohibited. Where the content of this email is personal or otherwise
unconnected with the firm or our clients’ business, we accept no responsibility or liability for such content. We accept no responsibility for viruses that we may have
unintentionally transmitted to you within this email and you should check for viruses before opening any attachment. Those communicating with us by email will be

deemed to have consented to us intercepting and monitoring those communications. Read our privacy statement for more information.

Accountants and Business Advisers © 2020 BDO LLP. All rights reserved,
POL00447760
POL00447760
