POL00460627
POL00460627

Message
From: Rachel Scarrabelotti ! _
Sent: 17/07/2023 16:45:02 .
To: Benjamin Tidswell I
1; Gratton, Lorna - UKGI} ; Andrew Darfoor'
cc: Diane Wills
Subject: Inquiry Interim Report - Legally Privileged and Confidential - not to be forwarded

Attachments: Interim Report Summary - Legally Privileged and Confidential - not to be forwarded.pdf

Dear Board Members,

Please find attached a summary in respect of the Inquiry’s Interim Report which was published today. The POL Inquiry
team have advised as follows:

Today's Interim Report of the Inquiry provided a good outcome for POL. It recommends that DBT bring forward
legislation to extend the date of completion for the GLO Scheme, something we have discussed repeatedly, and
we welcome Sir Wyn's clear direction. There has been no timetable recommended on disclosure in the GLO
Scheme, which is helpful, given the challenges with the previous timescales.

The Advisory Board is being given a more prominent role and our engagement with the Board will increase,
which will require careful management, while respecting the Inquiry's comments on the Board's role. There
were no direct recommendations for POL in respect of the Advisory Board.

Sir Wyn has expressed some continued concern about progress on our schemes and in particular on HSS,
whether resolution of the most complex cases has taken too long, and we are already considering further
measures to settle those cases more quickly.

Overall, the message is clear that we and Government are expected to stand by and deliver our commitment to
delivery of fair compensation to postmasters, and we will continue to do so.

Best,

Rachel

Rachel Scarrabelotti
Group Company Secretary
Legal, Compliance and Governance

100 Wood Street,
London, EC2V 7ER

postoffice.co.uk
POL00460627
POL00460627

See the Company Secretariat Intranet Page for: Our Group Governance Framework, Post Office Group Board & Committee Dates

& Deadlines, Board Paper Templates & Guidance, CoSec Training Dates and Sign Up & Guidance on the Contract Approval
Process.
For Contract Approval Form (CAF) enquiries, please email ca

