POL00211254
POL00211254

From: Parsons, AndrewI

Sent: Tue 21/10/2014 2:33:28 PM (UTC)

To: Belinda
Subject: RE: Horizon access [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Attachment: _DOC_28614498(1)_Horizon data.DOCX

The latest draft of the note on Horizon access is attached. This describes the position as I understand it based on the
Deloitte report but this needs to go past FJ / Deloitte to confirm the position.

A

Andrew Parsons

Managing Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Direct:
Mobile:
Fax:

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Rodric Williams [mailto:/
Sent: 21 October 2014 12:48
To: Belinda Crowe

Cc: Parsons, Andrew

Subject: Re: Horizon access

Hi - as ever, it is far more important that we get this right that do it quickly.
If this is the remote access point - Andy, what progress has been made with Deloitte?

From: Belinda Crowe
Sent: Tuesday, Octob 21, 2014 12:32 PM

Rodric Williams; Parsons,
; Tom Wechsler; Melanie
gerd; Patrick Bourke; Mark Underwood1; Andy Holt

Ce: Amanda A Brown; Belinda Crowe

Subject: Horizon access

A couple of Second Sight draft case reports have referenced access to the Horizon system.
1am currently putting together a note on this (just in terms of what has been said and where).

We need to formulate a response on the individual cases this week (this is urgent) and also agree how we address this
issue going forward with Second Sight.
POL00211254
POL00211254

Would it be possible for you to let me have any times you may be available tomorrow for a conference call to discuss.
I have copied Amanda who will set this up for us. I can make myself available at any time except between 3-4.

James, please feel free to invite any others from Fujitsu as appropriate.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The informatis

in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by lav
il and any attachments, If yo co.uk, please notify andrew. parsonsf
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and m

nly is authorised to
ible and delete any

access this e-r

not rodrie, williams@postotti.

“has soon as po
be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been chee!
which may be caused by softwar

ed by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or di
‘iruses and you shoul

carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability parte
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of mem
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123.

ship registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our 1

+ to refer to a member of

names is open to inspection, We use the term pa
3627

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and

gulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
