POL00147935
POL00147935

Message

From: Harris, Matthe\

on behalf of — Harris, Matthe\ ~ a ~ 3
Sent: 02/04/2014

To: Rodric Williams:

ce: Kathryn Alexander f Shirley Hailstones

Subject: M046 - POL for GC a 's) (criminal) [BD-4A.FID25887183]

Attachments: POL Response - M046 - CK Amended.doc

Dear Rodric,

Please find attached M046's legal investigation report (criminal). Your comments would be appreciated.

CK's proposed amendments are in the attached document.

Further to CK's completion of the attached report CK requested sight of “documents 4 and 5, namely the interim
investigation report" and added the comments noted in the e-mail below. No further amendments were made to the
report.

Kind regards,

Matt.

Matt Harris
Trainee Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Andrew Bolc
Sent: 02 April 2014 16:18

To: Harris, Matthew

Ce: ‘Jarnail A Singh’

Subject: M046 - CK Amended Report

Dear Matt,

We sent you our draft report in this matter last Wednesday, requesting two further documents be
sent to us which we received this Monday. These have now been considered by Counsel Harry
Bowyer, and whilst he does not seek to further amend the content of the report, he makes the
following observations with regard to the inclusion of the two documents referred to being disclosed
as part of the mediation process:

POL-BSFF-0007058
POL00147935
POL00147935

“They are effectively the Officer’s reports and in this case are relatively anodyne. In a normal criminal
case these would not be disclosable as they are working documents and may contain

opinion/ conjecture, working/ investigation methods or sensitive information which POL would not
want in the Public Domain.

It is plainly a matter for POL as to whether they wish to disclose these documents, either in their
entirety or in a redacted form in each case but they should be aware that they will face certain
dangers if they do.

In this case if these documents are served without being redacted then we disclose the Officer's
telephone numbers to a disgruntled applicant. (a data protection issue) In future cases we may well
serve documents which might hurt our investigation techniques and put in the public domain
information that would allow dishonest postmasters to conceal their tracks.

If these documents are served as a matter of course in each case then it will become rather obvious
when we choose to sit on those that we cannot, or do not choose to, disclose.”

My view is that these documents should not be served or if they must be served then they should be
heavily redacted.”

In light of these comments I wonder whether further consideration ought to be given to the
disclosure of prosecution working documents in this and future cases.

Andrew Bolc

GRO

Direct:I GRO

CartwrightKing

mer SOLICITORS —

Birmingham I Derby I Leicester] London I Newcastle I Nottingham I Sheffield
Permanent House, 31 Horsefair Street, Leicester, LE1 5BU

"We have a new website"
www.cartwrightking.co.uk v ‘inI UK

This message is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. If you have received
and let us know by email or telephone.

is available at e ce. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation
312459. VAT Registration No: 737837295.

Save a tree - please only print emails that you must

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

POL-BSFF-0007058_0001
POL00147935
POL00147935

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law. jonny.gribbe nly is
authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not jonny.gribben { please notify matthew-harrig” ‘GRO. ¥s soon as
possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or aitachments is prohibited and may
be unlawful.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our
registered office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEL 3DX, where a list of members' names is open to inspection. We use the term partner

to refer toa member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing, Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

POL-BSFF-0007058_0002
