POL00003340
POL00003340

I
I
I
I

GotPro

www.bonddickinson.com

18 July 2017 Bond Dickinson LLP

Oceana House

39-49 Commercial Road
Southampton

S015 1GA

Second Letter

For the Attention of Mr J Hartley

Freeths LLP Faxi...GRO__ I
Floor 3 DX: 38517 Southampton 3
100 Wellington Street -
andrew.parson’
Leeds Direct:
West Yorkshire our ref
ur ref:
LS1 4LT ‘TMB2/AP6/364065.1369
Your ref:
By email only JXH/1684/2113618/1 /KL

Email: james.hartley

Dear Sirs

Bates & Others -v- Post Office Limited
Claim Number: HQ16X01238
Generic Defence and Counterclaim

Please find enclosed by way of service the Defendant's Generic Defence and Counterclaim.

Yours faithfully

GRO

Bond Dickinson LLP

Enclosures
1. Generic Defence and Counterclaim

Bond Dickinson LLP is a limited tiability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. VAT registration number is
68123393627. Registered office: 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names Is open to inspection. We use the
term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and
regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

4A_36391041_1

H/10/1
POL00003340
POL00003340

Claim No. HQ16X01238
POST OFFICE GROUP ACTION
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
QUEEN’S BENCH DIVISION
IN GROUP LITIGATION

BETWEEN: RECEIVED

1 sTue ty

ALAN BATES & OTHERS

~v-

POST OFFICE LIMITED

GENERIC DEFENCE AND COUNTERCLAIM

INTRODUCTION

1. This Genetic Defence responds to the Amended Generic Particulars of Claim (“GP0C”).

Except where otherwise indicated:
(1) references to paragraph numbers are to patagraphs of the GPoC;

(2) the Defendant (“Post Office”) adopts the headings and abbreviations used in the
GPoC, without making any admissions of any matters implied ot connoted thereby;

and

(3) where matters are noted, Post Office makes no admission and reserves its rights in

relation thereto.
The generic nature of the GPoC

2. Many of the allegations in the GPoC ate at a level of generality which omits important
details, treats different situations as if they were the same and leads to obscurity. Many of
these allegations cannot meaningfully be addressed, not least because their true nature and
extent cannot be properly understood until the Claimants identify the particular actions or
omissions relied on and the context in which and time at which they are said to have
occurred. In this Generic Defence, Post Office responds to the general thrust of such

genetic allegations, without going into detail and without prejudice to its right to admit,

H/10/2
wo

POL00003340
POL00003340

deny and/or advance a positive and/or detailed case in response to allegations by particular

Claimants pleaded with proper particulars.

At the pleaded level of generality of the GPoC, Post Office cannot anticipate all possible
claims that Claimants may be seeking to advance. Nor can Post Office set out all factual
and legal defences that it may prove appropriate to advance in all possible cases. In this
Generic Defence, Post Office identifies the defences that it considers may usefully be
identified at this level of generality, without prejudice to its ability to identify further or
other matters and defences as may be appropriate for such individual claims as may be

pleaded.

In this Generic Defence, Post Office cannot cover all the variations in its operating
practices and procedures or in the operation of Horizon that have occurred in the 18 years
since Horizon was first introduced. Indeed, until individual claims are properly pleaded,
Post Office cannot determine which particular practices, procedures or operations are
relevant to those claims. Accordingly, Post Office generally refers to the current practices,

procedures and operations.

Similarly, Post Office cannot cover all the variations made to the contracts relied upon by

the Claimants and so it refers to the versions of those contracts served with the GPoC.

Although it alludes to possible claims by “Assistants” (a term which includes persons
whom the GPoC refers to as Managers), Crown Office employees and directors or
guarantors of franchisees (“Franchisees”), the GPoC is essentially concerned with claims
by Subpostmasters. Many of the allegations in the GPoC refer to “the Claimants” as
having certain entitlements, rights or obligations, as being required to do certain things, as
taking certain steps and/or as suffering certain consequences in circumstances where the
allegations appeat to relate only to Subpostmasters. In this Generic Defence, Post Office
responds accordingly, without pointing out in every case that it believes the allegations are

limited to Subpostmasters.

SUMMARY OF THE GENERIC DEFENCE

Subpostmasters run Post Office branches on behalf of Post Office. They have day-to-day
operational control over those branches and they and/or their Assistants have direct
knowledge of what happens in them. By contrast, Post Office’s knowledge is largely based

on the accounts, cash declarations and other information from Subpostmasters.

H/10/3
10.

11.

Cash and stock can be lost from Post Office branches or other losses caused in branches
due to mistakes or misconduct by Subpostmasters and/or their Assistants in effecting
transactions and/or accounting to Post Office. The Claimants now seek to avoid their
responsibility for losses arising in the branches that they operated. They do so by, amongst
other things, trying to rewrite the legal relationship between Post Office and its
Subpostmasters so as to impose on Post Office oncrous obligations in relation to the
conduct of transactions and the investigation of losses arising in branches. The Claimants
go on to allege that Post Office did not discharge these obligations and that, as a result,
Post Office acted unlawfully in seeking to recover shortfalls from them ot terminating their

contracts or taking other action to vindicate its rights.

Post Office's position is that Subpostmasters are responsible for the conduct of
transactions and the security of cash and stock in their branches and the submission of
accurate transaction records and accounts to Post Office, with Post Office having a duty
not to prevent Subpostmasters performing their obligations and to provide any necessary
cooperation (which it did), The Claimants have not pleaded, let alone properly
particularised, any cause for the losses for which they would not be liable as agents to Post

Office. Many of the allegations they make in the GPoC appear to be speculative.

The patties agree that Subpostmasters are Post Office's agents. As one would expect, the
express terms of their contracts with Post Office reflect this agency relationship. In the
circumstances, Subpostmasters are liable for losses in their branches unless they can show
that the losses were caused by something other than their error or other things for which

istants. In line

they are responsible, such as the acts and omissions (“acts”) of their As
with usual agency principles, Subpostmasters who have signed off branch accounts
recording losses in their branches are bound by those accounts (and the losses in them)
unless they can show that the accounts ate mistaken and that it is appropriate for the

accounts to be re-opened and/or corrected.

The Claimants cannot tely on express contractual terms to support their claims. In an
ambitious attempt to invert the legal relationship between the parties, they seek to attack
certain express contractual terms as being unenforceable, to imply a great number of new
tetms and to impose elaborate fiduciary, tortious and other duties on Post Office. Ina
relationship of this sort, these additional terms and duties are unnecessary and
inappropriate and they contradict the express contractual terms which are both reasonable

and to be expected. Post Office denies the Claimants’ elaborate and artificial attempt to re-

POL00003340

POL00003340

H/10/4

12.

13.

14,

15.

POL00003340
POL00003340

write Subpostmasters’ contracts. If the Claimants fail in their attempt to reverse the legal
duties provided for in the contracts between the parties, many of the factual complaints

made would not give rise to a cause of action, even if they were to be proved.

Post Office denies that Claimants could not effectively investigate losses in their branches.
Subpostmasters had access to line by line data on the transactions they undertook.
Moreover, they had access to training, operations manuals, helplines and in-branch support
if they wanted. Post Office also undertook its own accounting reconciliations, where
possible matching a Subpostmaster's records against other records provided by third
parties, and then notifying Subpostmasters of discrepancies found and allowing them to

choose whether to accept or dispute those discrepancies.

Some Claimants chose to submit false accounts to Post Office. This false accounting
concealed losses from Post Office, sometimes for many months or even years. It also
corrupted the accounting records of branches, making it impossible or alternatively
excessively difficult for Post Office to assist a Subpostmaster in finding the root cause of
losses, once they were uncovered. Post Office expects that on closer enquity of individual
cases it will become apparent that where there were large, undeclared losses in a branch,
the respective Subpostmaster will often have submitted false accounts to conceal those
losses. Post Office's position is that where false accounting is admitted or proved, this will
typically give rise to insuperable evidential difficulties for which the relevant Subpostmaster

is responsible.

The Claimants attempt to excuse this behaviour by saying that they were placed under such
economic duress or were dealt with so unconscionably that they had no choice but to
deceive Post Office by submitting false accounts and/or making false declarations of cash
and/or stock at their branches. These allegations are denied in the strongest terms. Post
Office did not make threats or put illegitimate pressure on Subpostmasters and
mechanisms were in place for isolating disputed losses so that accurate accounts could
always be rendered. In any event, Post Office denies that any pressure can have made it

legitimate for an agent to act dishonestly vis-a-vis his ot her principal.

‘The Claimants’ attempt to excuse false accounting, combined with their attempt to place
extensive duties of investigation and burdens of proof on Post Office in relation to the
root cause of losses, would mean that the greater a Subpostmaster's misconduct, the more
difficult it would be for Post Office to recover in respect of losses from his or her branch.

This outcome would be absurd.

H/10/5
16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Highly generalised and speculative allegations are made that Horizon (being the IT system
provided by Post Office and through which business is transacted in branches) is unreliable
or vulnerable to manipulation, and thus may have been the root cause of some of the losses
in branches. Like any other IT system, Horizon is not perfect, but Post Office maintains
that it is robust and that it is extremely unlikely to be the cause of losses in branches. Its
design and technical controls, when supplemented by the vatious accounting and cash
controls applied in branches, make it very unlikely indeed that an etror in Horizon could
affect a Subpostmaster's financial position and go undetected. It is notable that the GPoC
does not identify any error in Horizon said to have affected a Claimant and, in
cotrespondence, the Claimants make it clear that they do not allege that there is a

systematic flaw in Horizon.

It is denied that Post Office ignored, or concealed, possible problems with Horizon or
failed to investigate losses in branches before holding postmasters liable for those losses or
terminating their contracts. Post Office provided reasonable cooperation, training and

support.

Post Office also asserts its rights to rely on the accounts and other transaction records
provided to it by Subpostmasters and on which it relied. As appropriate in particular
factual ciccumstances, Post Office will rely on estoppels and defences of accord and
satisfaction and of account stated. Post Office also asserts a generic counterclaim in

respect of any shortfalls that it has not to date recovered from Claimants.

It is denied that Post Office's express rights to terminate the Subpostmaster contracts are
fettered in any of the ways alleged by the Claimants. Post Office had a right to terminate
on notice ranging from 7 days (for ‘T'emporary Subpostmasters) to 6 months (for
Subpostmasters under the NTC). It also had a right to terminate summarily for cause and
(contrary to the impression the Claimants seek to create) it exercised those rights
responsibly and after considering the material circumstances. Any damages arising from a
claim for unlawful termination will be restricted to the loss of profits during the relevant
notice petiod and no claim for unlawful termination can arise where Post Office terminated
on proper notice. The attempts to claim the extensive range of other losses set out in the
GPoC appear to be grossly inflated. They are unfounded in fact, in Jaw, and in causation

and/or the losses ate too remote.

Finally, many of the Claimants left Post Office over 6 years ago, which is likely to be the

last date on which their causes of action could have accrued. Their claims are time barred.

5

H/10/6
21.

23.

Al

24.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Others have entered into settlement agreements with Post Office, are bankrupt and so
have no standing to bring a claim, or are attempting to run claims that are subject to res

judicata and/or issue estoppel and/or are an abuse of process.

THE GPoC

As to patagraph 1, paragraphs 2 to 6 above are repeated.

As to paragraph 2, the Schedules of Information provided to date offer little assistance in

understanding the claims that the Claimants propose to bring.
As to paragraph 3:

(1) Post Office has provided voluntary information and disclosure to the Claimants on a
generous basis. It is denied (if it be alleged) that the matters to which the Claimants
refer provide any justification for a failure properly to plead their case or for
advancing and seeking disclosure in relation to speculative claims or contentions for

which there is no proper basis.

(2) Regarding the alleged asymmetry of information, the Claimants overlook an
important asymmetry of information going the other way. At all material times,
Subpostmasters and/or their Assistants (but not Post Office) have had first-hand
knowledge of the transactions taking place in their branches. This asymmetry of
information is material to the construction of the parties’ agreements, to the issues of

fact between them and to the application of the burden of proof.

GPoC INTRODUCTION & KEY FACTS

The Parties
Defendant

As to paragraph 4, it is admitted and averred that Post Office operates its business through
a network of around 11,600 branches in the UK, that it offers products and services to the
public via this network, including the services referred to, and that it specifies procedures
and standards governing how branches ate to operate its business on its behalf. Where
those branches are managed by Post Office itself (“Crown Office branches”, now known
as "Directly Managed Branches"), they are directly managed by Post Office and so are

under its control. However, where those branches are operated by Subpostmasters or

H/10/7
25.

26.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Franchisees (“agency branches” and “franchise branches” respectively), they are under

the control of the relevant Subpostmasters or Franchisees.
As to paragraph 5:

(1) Post Office's products and services include products and services provided by other
businesses and organisations (known as "Post Office clients"). For example, Post
Office provides the physical location at which a person may deposit cash into a bank

account but it does not provide the underlying banking service.

(2) As one would expect, Post Office determines the products and services which it
offers to the public, although this is sometimes driven by other factors such as
regulatory changes and the requirements of Post Office clients. Post Office requires
some minimum products and services to be offered by its branches. However, it

does not require all Post Office branches to offer all its products and services.

(3) Some new products or services, such as ATMs and National Lottery terminals, were
introduced in agency and franchise branches only where the incumbent

Subpostmasters and Franchisees specifically consented to their introduction.

(4) No admissions are made as to the “increased ... complexity” of any particular
product or setvice. Post Office reserves the right to address these matters further in
the event that the Claimants plead that they are material in some way, which would
involve the Claimants identifying the product or service concerned, the nature of the

complexity relied on, the claims affected and how they are affected.
(5) Save as aforesaid, paragraph 5 is admitted.
‘Types of Branch

Paragraph 6 is admitted. These branches are also called agency branches and
Subpostmasters (now more commonly referred to as "postmasters") very often operate
their own retail businesses from the same premises. In their conduct of Post Office’s
business, Subpostmasters act as Post Office’s agents, which involves doing the following

things on its behalf:

(1) entering into transactions with Post Office customers;

H/10/8
27.

28.

29.

(2) effecting and/or processing transactions with Post Office clients such as Royal Mail
(for postal services), various UK government departments (for services such as
benefit payments and passports) and various financial institutions (for banking

setvices and insurance products);
(3) making and receiving payments and incurring liabilities;

(4) operating equipment belonging to Post Office or Post Office clients, ranging from
IT equipment (e.g. a lottery terminal used to sell Camelot lottery products) to basic

equipment such as safes in which cash is stored;

(8) holding and dealing with stock (including cheques, vouchers and other items)

belonging to Post Office; and
(©) holding and dealing with cash belonging to Post Office.
As to paragraph 7:
(1) Franchisees are not always (and are not required to be) limited companies.

(2) Post Office is unable to admit or deny whether most of the limited companies that
are patties to Franchise Agreements were set up for the purpose of contracting with
Post Office. Many were not (e.g. WH Smith, McColls, the Co-operative Group, and
Blakemore (Spat)).

(3) Save as aforesaid, paragraph 7 is admitted.
Subpostmaster Claimants and Contracts

Paragraph 8 is admitted as regards the Claimants (.e. the claimants in action No.
HQ16X01238).

As to paragraph 9:
(1) Post Office contracts with Subpostmasters on standard form contracts.

(2) As well as being expressed not to be contracts of employment, these contracts are

not contracts of employment, as the Claimants themselves admit.

(3) The contracts are contracts of agency. As one would expect with contracts

governing the conduct by an agent of the principal’s business, they reserve to Post

8

POL00003340

POL00003340

H/10/9
30.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Office the right to control certain aspects of its business (e.g. the procedures and
standards in accordance with which they are to conduct Post Office’s business and to
account to Post Office for the transactions, cash and stock they have dealt with on
its behalf). In relation to matters such as these, Post Office has the power to give

instructions that Subpostmasters are obliged to follow.

(4) However, Post Office would not characterise its contracts with Subpostmasters as
“teserveling] to the Defendant a high degree of power, discretion and control”. Post
Office is unsure what is meant by this vague expression and it does not know what

particular powers, discretions and controls the Claimants have in mind.
(5) Save as aforesaid, paragraph 9 is admitted.
As to the contracts pleaded in paragraph 10 (“the Subpostmaster Contracts”):

(1) SPMC: Paragraph 10.1 is admitted, save that the SPMC is not dated 1994 but
marked "1994 issue".

(2) Temporary SPMC: Save that the word “purported” is inapposite, paragraph 10.2 is

admitted.
(3) Community Subpostmaster Agreement:
(a) The first sentence of paragraph 10.3 is admitted.

(b) As to the second sentence, Post Office believes that all or some of the
Claimants who were engaged on the terms of these agreements will have
retained a copy of their contracts. Further, in their Response to a Request for
Further Information dated 16 May 2017 (“Part 18 Response”), the Claimants
state that it is not their case that none of them (i) has ot (ii) has ever had a
copy of the Community Subpostmaster Agreement, from which Post Office
infers that at least some of these Claimants in fact have a copy of that
agreement. In any event, Post Office provided a copy to the Claimants on 10

April 2017.

(©) As to the third sentence, the Claimants should not proceed on an assumption
as to the material content of any contract on which they intend to rely but

must plead a positive case.

H/10/10
31.

32.

4)

6)

POL00003340
POL00003340

NTC:
(a) The first sentence of paragraph 10.4 is admitted.
(b) The second sentence is noted.

(©) Asto the third sentence, Post Office believes that all or some of the Claimants
who were engaged on the terms of these agreements will have retained a copy
of their contracts. Further, from their Part 18 Response, Post Office infers
that at least some of these Claimants in fact have a copy of that contract. In

any event, Post Office provided a copy to the Claimants on 10 April 2017.

(@) As to the fourth sentence, the Claimants should not proceed on an assumption
as to the material content of any contract on which they intend to rely but

must plead a positive case.

Paragraph 10.5 is noted. Post Office will respond to any claim based on any other

contact if and when such a claim is properly pleaded.

For the avoidance of doubt, Post Office pleads to the SPMC, the Temporary SPMC, the

NTC and the Franchise Agreement attached to the GPoC without prejudice to its right to

rely in individual cases on the terms of such agreements as they stood at the time(s)

relevant to any particular claims made by particular Claimants.

Other Claimants

As to paragraph 11:

(1)

2)

@)

Regarding patagtaph 11.1, which is noted, Post Office believes that all or at least
some of these Claimants will have retained a copy of their employment contract.
Further, from their Part 18 Response, Post Office infers that at least some of these

Claimants in fact have a copy of that contract.

Regarding paragraph 11.2, which is noted, Post Office had no contractual or other
relationship with these individuals and these Claimants have not disclosed the basis

of terms upon which they were employed by the relevant Subpostmasters.

Regarding paragraph 11.3, which is noted, Post Office believes that the relevant

Franchisees contracted with Post Office on the terms of the Franchise Agreements.

H/10/11
A2

33.

34.

Tt had no contractual or other relationship with the Claimants who are merely alleged
to have been directors and the Claimants have not disclosed the basis or terms upon

which they acted as ditectors of the relevant Franchisees.

(4) Save as aforesaid, Post Office is unable to admit or deny paragraph 11.

Horizon

Paragraph 12 is admitted. Until 2010, Horizon was a distributed system in which
transactions were undertaken within branches, whose terminals transmitted transaction
data in batches to a central Post Office data centre. Once Horizon Online was introduced
in 2010, transactions were effected through real time exchanges of data from branches to a
central Post Office data centre. Save where otherwise indicated, Post Office uses the term
“Horizon” to refer both to the pre-2010 version of Horizon and to Horizon Online as the

context may require.

As to paragraph 13, the vast majority of Subpostmasters and their Assistants who have
worked in agency branches since the introduction of Horizon in those branches would

have been users of Horizon. Save as aforesaid, paragraph 13 is not admitted.
As to paragraph 14:

(1) Regarding paragraph 14.1, it is admitted that, if and to the extent that any Claimants
worked in a Post Office branch prior to the introduction of Horizon in that branch
and continued working in that branch thereafter, the introduction significantly
changed how they were required to work in that branch. Save as aforesaid,

paragraph 14.1 is denied.

(2) Post Office cannot meaningfully plead to paragraph 14.1A since neither the errors,
nor the data entry, nor the “sufficient error repellency” alleged are identified.
However, it is denied (if it be alleged) that Horizon had poor checks and controls for

data errors.

(3) Paragraphs 14.2 and 14.3 fail to identify any of the limitations apparently relied on.
However, the general thrust of these paragraphs is denied. The introduction of
Horizon increased, rather than limited, the ability of Subpostmasters and their staff
to access, identify, obtain and reconcile transaction records and to investigate

shortfalls. For example, before the introduction of Horizon, Subpostmasters

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/12
36.

37.

38.

POL00003340
POL00003340

maintained various hand-written ledgers for particular products or services. These
ledgers had various limitations, including that it was not possible to know how much
cash should be in the branch without first reconciling all the ledgers together, which
‘was a time-consuming process. After the introduction of Horizon, Subpostmasters
had the ability at any time to obtain a "Balance Snapshot" that showed them how
much cash should be in a branch, making it much easier to identify any shortfalls.
Subpostmasters also had the ability to obtain an extensive range of other reports and

information from Horizon, as pleaded further in paragraph 38 below.

Paragraph 15 is embarrassing for lack of particularity. In the absence of any indication as
to the actual changes the Claimants intend to rely on and as to the effect(s) each such
change is alleged to have had, Post Office cannot plead to this paragraph. However, Post
Office notes that, on the Claimants’ pleaded case, any changes in the Claimants’ ability to
access records and investigate shortfalls caused by the introduction of Horizon ot by
subsequent changes to Horizon or to products and services offered has no apparent
relevance to any of the breaches of contract or other claims advanced in the GPoC. As

regards such changes, paragraph 35 above is repeated, mulatis mutandis,

‘The first sentence of paragraph 16 is admitted. As to the second sentence, Post Office’s

use of the terms “Horizon” and “Horizon Online” similarly does not include training.
The operation of Horizon
As to paragraph 17:

(1) Save for the “others” referred to, whom the Claimants do not identify, the first
sentence is admitted. The processes for transferring transaction data from branch to
Post Office's central data centte, and the controls ensuring the accuracy of that data

transfer, are discussed in paragraphs 53 and 54 below,
(2) Regarding the second sentence:

(a) On the introduction of Horizon, transaction data was freely available to
Subpostmasters for 42 days from the date of the relevant transaction. Since
the introduction of Horizon Online, such data has been freely available for 60

days.

H/10/13
39.

2)

POL00003340
POL00003340

(b) While such transaction data is available, Subpostmasters can search for,
identify, organise and analyse data by means of a wide range of reports,
including a transaction log report which identifies cach and every transaction
undertaken in the relevant branch in the entire period. ‘This report can be
focused in a variety of ways if desired, including by reference to date ranges,
transaction types, stock items, value ranges and even particular users or

terminals.

Horizon provides Subpostmastets with tools for searching, checking and reviewing

the transactions undertaken in the branches for which they were responsible.

Transaction Corrections

Paragraph 18 refers to transaction corrections. One of the safeguards against errors by

Subpostmasters (or their staff) is a process by which Post Office proposes corrections to a

branch's accounts (“Transaction Corrections”). These are typically generated in the

following way:

@)

®

(8)

Post Office checks Horizon transaction data (i.e. data as keyed into branch terminals
by branch staff) against data taken from separate sources. For example, Post Office
client banks provide theit own records of transactions cartied out in Post Office
branches, which are transmitted directly from the chip and pin devices used in
branches to the banks and Post Office compares these to the transaction data on

Horizon.

Where there is a discrepancy between the two sets of data, Post Office reviews the
available data with a view to determining whether the branch staff have probably
made an error that requires correction (and it may contact the relevant
Subpostmaster for further information to assist in that determination). Where this is
the case, Post Office will generate a Transaction Correction notification which is sent
to the relevant branch via Horizon. For example, where a cheque deposit into a
bank account is keyed in on Horizon as a £100 credit but the true amount of the

cheque is £90, a Transaction Correction with a value of £10 debit is generated.

‘A Transaction Correction notification includes (i) a description of the transaction to

be corrected, (ii) the contact details of an employee of Post Office who will provide

H/10/14
40.

4)

6)

(0)

As to

()

further detail if required, (iii) typically, the outline reason for or nature of the

correction, and (iv) sometimes, evidence substantiating the proposed correction.

A Transaction Correction notification sent by Post Office to a branch is a proposal,
not an instruction, and it does not take effect unless accepted by the Subpostmastet
concerned. On receiving a Transaction Correction notification, the Subpostmaster

can either accept the correction or dispute it.

On the Horizon scrcen, there are two ways for a Subpostmastet to accept a
‘Transaction Correction. He or she may “accept” the Transaction Correction: this
immediately increases or decreases the cash or stock position (as appropriate) in the
branch's accounts as recorded on Horizon. Alternatively, if the amount of the
‘Transaction Correction is £150 or more, he or she may “settle it centrally”: this
causes the amount of the Transaction Correction to be transferred to his or her
personal account with Post Office. Unless a dispute is lodged with Post Office (see
below), he or she thereby accepts the validity of the Transaction Correction and Post
Office will in due course pay or collect the relevant amount to or from the
Subpostmaster. This process is addressed in page 30 of the operating manual
entitled “Branch Trading: balancing and dispatch of documents” (“Branch Trading
Manual”).

If the Subpostmaster wishes to query or dispute the Transaction Correction, he or
she should contact the person identified in the Transaction Correction notification.
This process is identified at page 34 of the Branch ‘Trading Manual. Tf, having
discussed the matter and reviewed any further information provided by the person
identified, the Subpostmaster wishes to dispute the proposed Transaction
Correction, he or she should accept it or settle it centrally and then lodge a dispute
with the Post Office by contacting the Helpline. Where it is settled centrally, the
amount of the Transaction Correction is transferred to the Subpostmastet’s personal
account with Post Office and a block is placed of the amount transferred to the

personal account whilst the dispute is resolved.
paragraph 18:

‘The first sentence is denied. Post Office does not require that a ‘Transaction

Cortection be accepted unless proven by the Subpostmaster not to be correct.

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/15
41.

POL00003340

POL00003340

(2) Save for the reference to “limited” reports (which is denied as indicated in paragraph

38 above), the second sentence is admitted. However:

every Transaction Correction comes with contact details for a person at Post
Office who can provide more information and a Subpostmaster can in any

event contact the Helpline referred to below to obtain more information;

(b) depending on the subject matter of the Transaction Correction, the
Subpostmastet may hold corresponding paper records in his ot het branch
which he or she can and should check; and

() not all Transaction Corrections require further information (for example, a
‘Transaction Correction could be generated for a missing cheque and the

cheque might be found in the branch).

Paragraph 19 bundles several different allegations together in a misleading way. Post
Office separates out and addresses those allegations in paragraphs 42 to 46 below. In the
interests of clarity and consistency, in this Generic Defence Post Office uses the following

defined terms:

(1) A “discrepancy” refers to any difference between (i) the actual cash and stock
position of a branch and (i) the cash and stock position shown on Horizon as

derived from transactions input by branch staff into the branch’s terminals.

(2) A “gain” refers to an event that causes a positive discrepancy (i.c. the situation
where the branch has more cash and/or stock than the derived figures for cash
and/or stock on Horizon). For example, a Subpostmaster carrying out a bank
account withdrawal of £100 for a customer, entering that withdrawal into Horizon

but providing only £90 in cash to the customer would generate a gain of £10.

(Q) A “loss” refers to an event that causes a negative discrepancy (ie. the situation
where the branch has less cash and/or stock than the derived figures for cash and/or
stock on Horizon). For example, a Subpostmaster carrying out a bank account
withdrawal of £100 for a customer, entering that withdrawal into Horizon but

providing £110 in cash to the customer would generate a loss of £10.

(4) A “shortfall” refers to a negative net discrepancy at the end of a trading period (Le.

the amount by which losses (if any) exceed gains (if any) in the period).

H/10/16
42.

43.

(5) A “net gain” refers to a positive net discrepancy at the end of a trading period (ie.

the amount by which gains (f any) exceed losses (if any) in the period).

(6) A “Horizon-generated shortfall” refers to a shortfall that is attributable to errors

and/ot bugs in Horizon.
Branch Trading Statements, making good and disputing shortfalls

As to the first sentence of paragraph 19, it is denied that the matters addressed in
paragraphs 19.1 to 19.3 “accentuated the importance of the accuracy of Horizon”.
Paragraph 19 addresses requirements whose purpose is to ensure the proper discharge of
the Subpostmaster’s contractual and common law duties to account to Post Office for the
transactions they entered into on its behalf and for the cash and stock it entrusted to their
cate. Such requirements are to the mutual benefit of Subpostmasters and Post Office in

that (amongst other things) they ensure the early identification and correction of any errors

and defaults relating to the transactions carried out and/or to the cash and stock held in the

branches for which the Subpostmastets are responsible.
These requirements are as follows:

(1) Subpostmasters are required to perform a regular “balancing process”, which
involves counting all stock and cash at their branches, comparing it with the cash and
stock indicated on Horizon and producing (and confirming) an account of the
transactions undertaken since the last balancing process and of the cash and stock
held. Initially, Subpostmasters were requited to do this weekly, but since 2005, they
have been required to do so at the end of each “Branch Trading Period” (Post
Office-specified periods of 4 of 5 weeks, of which there ate 12 in the year and which,

for convenience, ate referred to herein as “trading periods”).

(2) Where this process discloses a shortfall and the Subpostmaster accepts liability for
the shortfall, he or she is required to make it good (1) by providing his or her own
personal funds to the branch or (2) if the amount involved is £150 or more, by

settling it centrally. This election is made on the Horizon terminal in branch. By

“settling centrally", a separate entry is added to the branch accounts which offsets the

value of the shortfall, thereby bringing the derived cash figure on Horizon in line

with the actual cash on hand figure. The amount of the shortfall is transferred to the

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/17
44,

8)

)

6)

©

POL00003340
POL00003340

Subpostmaster's personal account with Post Office. Arrangements can then be made

to pay off the shortfall.

Where the Subpostmaster disputes liability for the shortfall, he or she is requited to
raise a dispute by calling the Helpline and in the meantime (if the amount involved is
less than £150) to provide it from his or her own funds pending resolution of the
dispute or (if the amount is £150 or more) to settle it centrally, thereby bringing the
branch accounts into balance. Raising a dispute causes a block to be placed on the
value of the shortfall that has been transferred to the Subpostmaster's personal
account with Post Office. The blocked value is not (and is not treated as) a debt due
to Post Office.

‘These processes are addressed in pages 92 - 99 of the Branch Trading Manual. ‘The
same processes ate followed where the Subpostmaster accepts or disputes a net gain,
with the relevant transactions being the removal of cash from the branch ot the

creation of a credit on the Subpostmaster's personal account with Post Office.

Having followed these processes, Subpostmasters are required to produce and sign a
statement setting out the quantities and values of the various receipt and payment
transactions that have been carried out in the branch during the relevant period and
the cash and stock held in the branch at the end of the trading period (called a “Cash
Account” until 2005 and a “Branch Trading Statement” from 2005). Branch
‘Trading Statements contain the following statement by the Subpostmaster: “I confirm
that the content of this balancing and trading statement is an accurate reflection of the cash and stock

on hand at this branch”.

A branch cannot enter (or “toll over” into) a new trading period without the
Subpostmaster declaring to Post Office the completion of the Branch Trading
Statement as aforesaid. However, although Subpostmastets are required to produce
Branch Trading Statements at the end of each trading period, if they do not do this,
their branches can continue to trade within the previous trading period (although

Post Office does not allow them to do so indefinitely).

Branch Trading Statements

As to paragraph 19.1, subject to paragraph 43 above:

(1)

The first and second sentences are admitted.

7

H/10/18
45,

46.

POL00003340

POL00003340

(2) The third and fourth sentences are denied. Paragraph 43(1) above is repeated as
regards the comparison between the derived figures for cash and stock shown on
Horizon and the actual cash and stock as counted by the Subpostmaster; paragraphs
43(2) and 43(3) above are repeated as regards bringing Horizon’s figures into balance
with the cash and stock as counted; and paragraph 43(6) above is repeated as regards

the ability to continue trading without entering a new trading period.

Making good

Paragraph 19.2 appears to be intended to allege that, whenever there is a shortfall between
Horizon’s figures and the cash and stock counted by the Subpostmaster: (1) unless some
special arrangement is made, the Subpostmaster is required to make good the difference;
and (2) if he or she does so by settling centrally, the amount of the shortfall is treated as a
debt due to Post Office. ‘These allegations ate specifically denied. As explained in
paragraph 43 above, Post Office’s procedures provide Subpostmasters with the

opportunity to dispute liability for shortfalls.
Disputing shortfalls
As to patagraph 19.3:

(1) Itis admitted that there is no “option within Horizon” to dispute a shortfall, in the
sense that the process of raising and resolving a dispute does not take place through
the Horizon system. The process for disputing a shortfall requires the dispute to be

lodged by calling the Helpline.

(2) Itis denied that Subpostmasters are unable to carry out effective investigations into
the disputed amounts. So is the allegation that there were unspecified “limitations”
on Subpostmasters’ ability to access, identify and reconcile transactions in Horizon
and that Horizon had no “adequate report-writing feature”. As indicated in
paragraph 38(2) above, Horizon provides Subpostmastets with tools for searching,
checking and reviewing the transactions undertaken in the branches for which they

are responsible.

(3) Thete are provisions in Post Office’s Operating Manual as to the process for
disputing discrepancies (see, for example, page 34 of the Branch Trading Manual)

and it is denied that these provisions give insufficient guidance regarding that

H/10/19
AZ

47.

48.

@)

POL00003340
POL00003340

process. In any event, the process involves calling the Helpline and, if further

guidance is needed, it is available directly from the Helpline.

As to the last sentence of paragraph 19.3, it is denied that Post Office fails to carry
out any, or any fair or adequate investigations into disputed amounts. Where a
shortfall is disputed then the Claimants' first point of contact would be with the
Helpline. In the case of a Transaction Correction, the dispute would first be raised
with the individual within Post Office who issued the Transaction Correction
notification and then (if necessary) with the Helpline. Disputes are generally resolved
at this stage, by Post Office and the Subpostmaster reaching a common
understanding of the position. But if this does not happen, the dispute can be
escalated. The steps in the escalation process, and the Post Office teams involved,
have changed over time and the specific escalation route can differ depending on the

nature of the issue raised. However, in broad terms these would include:

(a) After it is raised with the Helpline, the issue would generally be escalated to
mote experienced and senior personnel within the Helpline (or the team

issuing the disputed Transaction Correction) for further investigation.

(b) If not resolved, the matter would be referred to a senior person in a Post
Office team responsible for investigating branch matters, which is currently the
Support Service Resolution Team. This team undertakes a further
investigation into the disputed amount, seeks to identify the reason for it

arising and communicates with the Subpostmaster concerned.

Fujitsu

As to paragraph 20, Post Office has provided to the Claimants a copy of its contract with
Fujitsu (“the Fujitsu Contract”). The Claimants have not identified any reasons for
thinking that any other agreements between Post Office and Fujitsu are required for them
properly to plead their generic claims. Nor have the Claimants identified any respects in
which the redactions to the Fujitsu Contract have prejudiced their ability to plead their case
on the relationship between Post Office and Fujitsu. The redactions were made in order to
preserve commercially sensitive information and/or because the redacted content was

irrelevant to the issues in this case. Save as aforesaid, paragraph 20 is admitted.

As to paragraph 21:

H/10/20
POL00003340
POL00003340

(1) Depending on the specific branch and time in question, the telecommunication line
from the branch to the internet may have been provided by Fujitsu or by the

Subpostmaster. Save for this point of clarification, paragraph 21.1 is admitted.

(2) Fujitsu was only responsible for the Post Office side of the interface between central
data centres and Post Office clients. Further, some client equipment in branches
transmitted data directly to those clients without that data going through Horizon or
other systems for which Fujitsu was responsible. Save as aforesaid, paragraph 21.2 is

admitted.

(3) Paragraph 21.3 bundles together several different concepts and uses language that is

open to different meanings and/or misleading. However:

(@ — Fujitsu’s role included identifying and remedying coding errors and bugs in

Horizon.

(b) To the extent that the phrase "correct apparent discrepancies in the data" is
intended to mean that Fujitsu implemented fixes that edited or deleted specific

items of transaction data, that is denied.

(©) _ Itis denied that Fujitsu has implemented fixes that have affected the reliability

of accounting balances, statements of reports.

(d)_ Save as aforesaid, if Post Office understands it correctly, the general thrust of

paragraph 21.3 is denied.

(4) As to paragraph 21.4, it is admitted that until 2014 Fujitsu provided a telephone
advice service to Post Office in relation to technical problems with the Horizon
system or equipment. ‘This service was used by Post Office staff (such as staff
working on the Helpline referred to in paragraphs 61 and 62 below), but sometimes.
Fujitsu staff would have direct contact with third parties such as Subpostmasters in
order to obtain a better understanding of the problem on which it was asked to

advise. From 17 June 2014, this service was provided by Atos.
Bugs, errors or defects in Horizon

49. As to paragraph 22:

20

H/10/21
50.

()

@)

POL00003340
POL00003340

If and to the extent that the Claimants wish to assert that any of the shortfalls for
which they were held responsible were Hotizon-generated shortfalls, it is for them to
make that distinct allegation and seek to prove it. Post Office notes that they do not
make the allegation in the GPoC. It further notes that, in paragraph 20 of their
solicitors’ letter to Post Office’s solicitors dated 27 October 2016, the Claimants
make it clear that they do not allege that there is a systematic flaw in Horizon or
indeed any flaw which has caused any Claimant to be wrongly held responsible for

any shortfall.

It is denied that Post Office has unreasonably or otherwise failed to provide
“obviously relevant disclosure” in relation to bugs, etrors ot defects in Horizon.
There has been no order or application for disclosure and, in the premises set out

above, there appears to be no basis for providing such disclosure.

Paragraph 23 is embarrassing for its lack of particularity, in that (amongst other things) it

does not identify the errors, bugs ot defects on which the Claimants rely or how “large”

their number was or the period in which they are said to have occurred and nor does it

identify the transaction data that Fujitsu is alleged to have rebuilt, how “frequent” was the

need to rebuild it or the extent of the “risk of error” which is said to have been introduced.

In the premises, Post Office cannot plead to the first three sentences of this paragraph.

However:

(1)

2

8)

AILTT systems experience software coding errors or bugs which require fixes to be
developed and implemented. As is noted in paragraph 53 and 54 below, there ate

robust measutes in place in Horizon for their detection, correction and remediation.

AILTT systems involving the transmission of data over the internet experience data or
data packet errors during transmission and such systems routinely have protective
measures in place to prevent such errors creating any difference between the data
transmitted and the data received and retained by the recipient. Horizon has robust
controls making it extremely unlikely that transaction data input in a branch would
be corrupted when being transferred to, and stored in, Post Office's data centre in a

manner that would not be detected and remedied.

Like all IT systems, Horizon has backups to guard against any loss of data due to
local hardware failure. Where hardware fails, the data on that hardware is recovered

from the backup. Post Office takes the term "rebuild" to refer to the situation

21

H/10/22
51.

52.

53.

POL00003340
POL00003340

before the introduction of Horizon Online where a new terminal was introduced to a
branch and the data stored on the other branch terminals (or on a disc where it was a
single counter branch) was restored to the new terminal. In this context, Post Office

does not accept that there was a "frequent" need to "rebuild" data from back-ups.

(4) Itis admitted that Fujitsu maintain a “Known Exror Log”. ‘This is not used by Post
Office and nor is it in Post Office’s control. To the best of Post Office’s
information and belief, the Known Error Log is a knowledge base document used by
Fujitsu which explains how to deal with, or work around, minor issues that can
sometimes arise in Horizon for which (often because of their triviality) system-wide
fixes have not been developed and implemented. It is not a record of software
coding errors or bugs for which system-wide fixes have been developed and
implemented. To the best of Post Office’s knowledge and belief, there is no issue in
the Known Error Log that could affect the accuracy of a branch's accounts or the

secure transmission and storage of transaction data.

In paragraph 24, the Claimants again bundle many ambiguous and/or misleading
allegations together. Post Office separates out and addresses those allegations in

paragraphs 52 to 56 below.

As patagtaph 24.1 does not explain what is meant by “error repellency”, what sorts of
errors are referred to, what is meant by “data entry level”, what would constitute
“sufficient” prevention, detection, identification or reporting of these errors, or in what
respects the error repellency of Horizon was insufficient, Post Office cannot plead to this
patagraph. However, the general thrust of paragraph 24.1 is denied and the robust

controls, procedures and practices pleaded in paragraphs 53 and 54 below ate noted.

As to paragraph 24.1, it is a truism that errors or bugs in an IT system and data or data
packet etrors have the potential to create errors in the data held in that system. However,
Horizon has at all material times included technical control measures to reduce to an
exttemely low level the risk of an error in the transmission, replication and storage of the
transaction record data. ‘These have varied from time to time and they currently include

the following:

(1) Horizon creates, transmits and stores transaction data in the form of “baskets”. A
basket is a complete transactional session between a customer and Post Office and

may include one, several ot many individual transactions taking place within the same

2

H/10/23
54,

session. Horizon will not accept a basket of transactions that does not net to zero
(ie. the value of any sales is set off by the value of any payment made or received).

‘This reduces greatly the risk of any error in the data entered within any given basket.

(2) Ifa basket of transactions fails properly to complete its transmission to the central
database (because, for example, of a power loss), the system rejects any partial
transmission and requests the full basket from the branch terminal. This reduces

greatly the possibility of baskets of transactions failing to be recorded.

(3) At the point of a basket being accepted by Horizon, it is assigned a unique sequential
number (a “JSN”) that allows it to be identified relative to the other baskets
transmitted by that branch. This reduces greatly the risk of recording duplicate

baskets or there being a missing basket.

(4) Each basket is also given a digital signature, i.e. a unique code calculated by using
industry standard cryptography. If the data in the basket were to change after the
digital signature was generated, this would be apparent upon checking the digital

signature.

(5) Initial data integrity checks are undertaken when baskets are received at the Post
Office data centre from a branch. Baskets are then copied from the central database
to the Audit Store where a digital seal is then applied (the “Audit Store Seal”). If
the baskets and/or the data within the baskets were altered after the application of
the Audit Store Seal, this would be apparent when the baskets are extracted from the

Audit Store.

(6) Horizon and the above controls ate themselves subject to various audits and checks

including audits carried out by third parties.

Further as to paragraph 24.1A, in addition to the technical controls referred to above, there
are several operational procedures and practices conducted by Post Office and
Subpostmasters that serve to increase the reliability of the data stored in the central data
centre as an accurate record of the transactions entered on branch terminals. ‘These

currently include the following:

(1) For many transaction types, Post Office compares its own transaction record against

the corresponding records held by Post Office clients. If an error in Horizon were

23

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/24
56.

2)

i)

4)

6)

to result in the corruption of transaction data, this should be revealed by the

comparison.

There are detailed procedures in place to address the risk of data loss resulting from
interrupted sessions, power outages or telecommunications failures in branches.
These are set out in the "Recovery — Horizon Online Quick Reference Guide" and
Horizon guides the system user through the recovery process (which include
completing any transactions that are cut short). These procedures should prevent
any data errors arising from interrupted sessions, power outages and

telecommunications failures.

The display of the transactions being effected on-screen at the branch terminal
allows the user of the system to identify any inconsistency between the information
shown on the screen and the transaction that the user has keyed into the system. If,
for example, a hypothetical bug in the terminal were to cause a key-strike on numbet
5 to be recorded as an input of number 6, this would be detected rapidly by system
users, given the large number of system users and the huge number of transactions

effected on Horizon.

‘The accounting and record-keeping obligations placed on Subpostmasters reduce the
tisk of any errors going undetected. For example, there is an obligation for each
branch to count and declare to Post Office the cash it holds on a daily basis, which
increases the likelihood of promptly detecting any overstatement or understatement
of the cash position on Horizon. If a Subpostmaster detects that an error has been

made at an early stage, its cause is more likely to be identified.

Fujitsu operates industry standard processes for developing and updating Horizon

and for investigating and resolving any identified potential system errors.

As to paragraph 24.2, Post Office admits that, like all other IT systems, Horizon is not a

perfect system which has never had any errors ot bugs. However, as indicated in

paragraphs 53 and 54 above, it has robust systems in place to identify them, fix them and

correct their consequences (if any).

As to paragraphs 24.3 and 24.4:

(1)

There have been occasions on which bugs or errors in Horizon have resulted in

disctepancies and thus shortfalls ot net gains in some branch accounts, as outlined in

24

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/25
57.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Schedule 6 of the Letter of Response. It is denied (if it be alleged) that such bugs or

ertors have affected any of the Claimants.

(2) On each occasion, both the bugs of errors and the resulting discrepancies in the
relevant branch accounts wete corrected. Post Office took steps to ensure that it
had identified all branches affected by the bugs or errors and that no Subpostmaster

was ultimately held responsible for any resultant shortfalls.

(3) Paragraphs 4.1 to 4.5 of Schedule 6 to the Letter of Response relate to the so-called
Suspense Account Bug, Without prejudice to the burden of proof, none of the
branches affected by the Suspense Account Bug are branches for which the

Claimants were responsible.

(4) None of the Subpostmasters whose branches were affected by the Suspense Account
Bug were ultimately held responsible for the shortfalls that it generated. The
Claimants are therefore wrong to understand Post Office as having admitted that it
“ecovered such alleged shortfalls from Subpostmasters”. Where Subpostmasters in
the affected branches had made good ot settled centrally shortfalls that were later
corrected, those Subpostmasters received a payment or credit in the amount of the
shortfall.

Remote editing of branch transaction data I

Paragraph 25 appears to be concerned with the editing or deletion of transaction data input i
by of on behalf of a Subpostmaster without his or her consent. Accordingly, Post Office

assumes that it is not concerned with transactions such as ‘Transaction Corrections which

ate sent to branches but must be accepted by or on behalf of the Subpostmaster before

forming part of his or her branch account. As to the circumstances in which such

transaction data can be edited or deleted without the consent of the Subpostmaster:

(1) Neither Post Office not Fujitsu has the ability to log on remotely to a Horizon

terminal in a branch so as to conduct transactions.

(2) A Post Office employee with “global user” authorisation can, when physically
present at a branch, use a terminal within the branch to add a transaction into the
branch’s accounts. The purpose of “Global User” authorization is to allow access to
the systems for during training and/or audits. Any transactions effected by a Global

User are recorded against a Global User ID and are readily identifiable as such.

25

H/10/26
58.

°)

(4)

6)

POL00003340
POL00003340

Fujitsu (and not Post Office) has the ability to inject transactions into branch
accounts (since the introduction of Horizon Online in 2010, transactions of this sort
have been called “Balancing Transactions”). These transactions do not involve
any removal or amendment of the transactions entered at the branch. Their intended
purpose is to allow Fujitsu to correct errors or bugs in Horizon by cancelling the
effect of an etror or bug on a branch’s data. They may be conducted only by a small
number of specialists at Fujitsu and only in accordance with specific authorisation
requirements. They are rarely used. To the best of Post Office’s information and
belief, only one Balancing Transaction has ever been made so as to affect a branch’s
transaction data, and this was not in a branch operated by a Claimant. A Balancing

Transaction is readily identifiable as such.

‘There ate a small number of Fujitsu specialists who have certain privileged user
access tights which they could in theory use to amend of delete the transaction data
for a branch. The intended purpose of privileged user rights is system support, not
the alteration of branch transaction data. To have abused those rights so as to alter
branch transaction data and conceal that this has happened would be an
extraordinarily difficult thing to do, involving complex steps (including the writing of
sophisticated computer programmes and circumvention of sophisticated control
measures) which would require months of planning and an exceptional level of
technical expertise. Post Office has never consented to the use of privileged user
rights to alter branch data and, to the best of its information and belief, these rights

have never been used for this purpose.

Post Office cannot conceive of a reason why any Fujitsu personnel would have
sought to add, inject, amend or delete any transactions in any branch accounts so as
to create a false shortfall. It would for all practical purposes be impossible for any of
them to generate significant shortfalls without detection and, even if they were able

to do so, they would be unable to take the benefit of such shortfalls for themselves.

As to patagraph 26, the statements referred to therein are admitted. These statements were

made in April 2015 and August 2015. The Post Office representatives who were

responsible for the making of these statements believed that they were true.

As to paragraph 27, it is admitted that, although this would not usually be classified as

"functionality" in an IT system, thete is a highly theoretical (and highly remote) possibility

that certain Fujitsu personnel could abuse their privileged user rights to circumvent the

26

H/10/27
60.

Ad

61.

POL00003340
POL00003340

protections in the system as designed so as to edit or delete branch transaction data as

described in paragraph 57(4) above.

Paragraph 28 is noted. ‘The alleged inferences are inappropriate and each of them is
denied. Post Office is not aware of any material suggesting that transaction data has been

edited or deleted.

Helpline

Paragraph 29 is admitted. Calls to the Helpline are handled in accordance with the

following processes:

(1) Helpline operators categorise the callet’s query using an online system (now called
“Dynamics”, previously called “Remedy” and then provide advice by reference to
the Post Office “Knowledge Base”, an online resource which contains numerous

articles and other guidance documents on various matters. This is not scripted.

(2) Ifthe Knowledge Base does not contain sufficient information to allow the operator
to address the query, the next step is for the query to be escalated to a second tier of

mote experienced staff,

(3) Ifthe second-tier adviser cannot respond in a satisfactory way to the query, he or she
may seek assistance from the relevant Post Office product team. For example, if an
issue relates to a lottery product, assistance could be sought from the team at Post
Office who manage the operational processes for that product. Further, where
assistance is required in relation to reviewing Horizon data then they may seck
assistance from the Suppott Services Resolution Team. For issues relating to the
technical operation of Horizon (e.g. a broken printer), the matter could be referred

to Post Office's IT support partner, which was originally Fujitsu and is now Atos.

(4) If, after these steps, a satisfactory response has not been given, Post Office will
consider whether to organise a visit to the branch and/or further training for the

Subpostmaster and/or Assistant(s) concerned.

(5) Post Office is willing and able to provide further assistance to Subpostmasters whose
problems are not addressed adequately through the Helpline. It is for any Claimant

who asserts that inadequate assistance was provided to identify, amongst other

2

H/10/28
62.

AS

63.

POL00003340
POL00003340

things, the steps that he or she took to obtain further advice, assistance and/or

training.

Paragraph 30 makes allegations to which Post Office cannot meaningfully respond at the

pleaded level of generality. However, the general thrust of the allegations is denied.

Further:

()

iC)

Q)

(4)

©)

©

The Helpline’s houts of operation have changed over time to mect demand and
there have been periods where the Helpline was mote difficult to contact than in
other periods. It currently operates from 8am to 8pm on weekdays other than
Wednesdays (the usual day for branch balancing processes), 8am to 9pm on
Wednesdays, 8am to 6pm on Saturdays and 9am to 5pm on Sundays and most bank

holidays.
Helpline operators do not give script-based responses.

Helpline operators ate not instructed to provide misleading information or advice

and they would have had no reason to do so.

Whether it is appropriate to advise a Subpostmaster that a discrepancy should sort
itself out depends on the context. For example, the branch could be awaiting a

‘Transaction Correction that should correct an issue.

Helpline operators are not instructed to encourage a Subpostmaster to produce and
confirm a Branch Trading Statement which the Subpostmaster did not believe to be

true.

Helpline operators are not instructed to review and advise callers as to the experience
of and the incidence of particular problems suffered by all users of Horizon or of the

Helpline.

Post Office notes that, in the GPoC, the Claimants have not indicated whether and,
if so, how each of the matters alleged in paragraphs 30.1 to 30.7 is alleged to have

caused any Claimants any loss.

Post Office cannot meaningfully respond to the allegations in paragraph 31 for the

following reasons:

28

H/10/29
64.

(1)

i)

2)

POL00003340
POL00003340

The paragraph makes allegations said to apply generally across “investigations, audits
or similar enquiry” in circumstances where investigations are fundamentally different
processes (involving different Post Office personnel and procedures) from audits
and where the use of the term “similar enquiry” is embarrassing for vagueness and

(depending on what it is intended to mean) may be misleading.

‘The reference to “investigators” is misplaced and/or so ambiguous as to make the

allegations incapable of meaningful response.

‘The information and instructions that are alleged to have been provided to
“investigators” and what they ate alleged to have done are expressed at such a high
level of generality that it is impossible to assert a generic case as to what
“investigators” were told and/or otherwise knew and/or did in any potentially

relevant period.

Without prejudice to the foregoing:

(1)

i)

‘The people undertaking Post Office’s various audits, enquiries and investigations are
experienced individuals with a good knowledge of the operation of Horizon and of

the experience of Horizon users.

The nature of their instructions and actions varies depending on whether they ate
undertaking an audit, enquiry or investigation and the reasons why they are doing so.

For example:

(a) An audit is a process conducted by the field support team within Post Office.
The people undertaking audits ate not called investigators. An audit is
typically ordered where Post Office is concerned that a branch is failing
properly to account to Post Office, though some ate randomly selected
branches. ‘The purpose of an audit is principally to check the level of cash and
stock in a branch; it is generally not to determine the root cause of any

shortfalls.

(b) For a wide variety of purposes (including the purposes referred to in
paragraph 46(4) above), Post Office can make a wide variety of enquiries into
a branch’s operations without undertaking an audit. The people undertaking

such enquiries are not called investigators.

29

H/10/30
AG

65.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(©) Post Office has a security team whose main role is to investigate (and/or to
assist the police to investigate) suspected criminal offences. Persons in the
security team sent to branches to catty out such investigations are often called
investigators. In many instances, theit enquiries focus on suspected criminal
offences by Subpostmasters and Assistants (such as theft or rendering false

accounts), which may or may not require them to determine the root cause of

ashortfall,
(3) None of these "investigators" were instructed to disregard possible problems with
Horizon as a possible cause of shortfalls, nor was information deliberately withheld
from them about bugs of etrors in Horizon ot the alleged remote alteration of data.
(4) The alleged “organisational culture or practice” is specifically denied.
(5) Save as aforesaid, the genetal thrust of paragraph 31 is denied.
‘Terminations

Paragraph 32 makes allegations to which Post Office cannot meaningfully respond at the

pleaded level of generality. For example, the paragraph overlooks critical distinctions

between summaty termination of appointments for cause, termination of appointments on.

notice without cause and suspension of appointments. However:

(1)

2)

Q)

4)

Post Office has terminated Subpostmasters’ appointments summarily where it was of
the view that they acted dishonestly in relation to their functions (e.g. by falsely
accounting to Post Office with a view to concealing a shortfall from it) or that they
were otherwise in material, irremediable and/or repudiatory breach of their

obligations;

Post Office has suspended Subpostmasters when it has suspected them of acting as

set out in sub-paragraph (1) above; and

Post Office has terminated Subpostmasters on notice where it did not wish continue

its relationship of principal and agent with them; but

Post Office has not terminated Subpostmasters summarily or suspended them
merely because they have challenged shortfalls ot have alleged inadequacies in the

Horizon system ot difficulties in interrogating data.

30

H/10/31
66.

67.

AT

68.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Regarding the importance of dishonesty in the conduct of its business, Post Office notes

that:

(2) Section 19, Clause 1 of the SPMC provides that dishonesty is viewed most seriously
and any Subpostmaster involved in an act of dishonesty against Post Office renders

himself liable to summary termination of his contract.

(2) Part 2, Clause 3.1.2 of the NTC provides that: “The Operator shall ... act honestly at all
times in the operation of the Branch, Any failure by the Operator to comply with this clause 3.1.2

shall be deemed to be a material breach of the Agreement which cannot be remedied”.

As to paragraph 33, Post Office will respond to properly particulatised claims of wrongful

termination or suspension if and when they are made.

Context and Effect on Claimants

In Section A.7 of the GPoC, the Claimants set out what they contend to be relevant
contextual matters and these are addressed below. However, the Claimants overlook the
importance of the role that Subpostmasters performed as agents of Post Office, holding
cash and stock, effecting transactions, making payments and incurring liabilities on its
behalf. They also ovetlook the importance of false accounting to, and its effect on, Post
Office. Subpostmasters ate obliged (a) cach working day to count the cash in their
branches and make “cash declarations” to Post Office setting out the cash counted and
(b) at the end of each trading period to count the cash and stock in theit branches and
make Branch Trading Statements to Post Office setting out the cash and stock counted and
the transactions undertaken in the relevant trading period. Unless an audit is undertaken,
these accounts are Post Office's only information about the amount of cash and stock
actually held in the branch. In all cases in which a Claimant Subpostmaster makes false
cash declarations or false Branch ‘Trading Statements (i.e. cash declarations or Branch

Trading Statements that he or she does not believe to be truc):

(1) Where a shortfall is subsequently uncovered at a branch, the fact of this false
accounting invariably makes it impossible ot, alternatively, excessively difficult for
Post Office to identify or assist in the identification of the likely cause(s) of the
shortfall. Post Office is unable to place reliance on the declarations and the branch’s

accounts in seeking to identify the date(s) on which the discrepancy (or

31

H/10/32
69.

)

8)

4)

POL00003340
POL00003340

discrepancies) giving rise to the shortfall are likely to have arisen or the cause(s) of

the shortfall.

As regards any enquities it might make into the cause(s) of a shortfall, Post Office
cannot reasonably be expected and is not obliged to devote significant resources to
investigating factual circumstances that were, as a result of false accounting,

impossible of alternatively excessively difficult properly to investigate.

As is noted above, false accounting ot other similar conduct by a Subpostmaster
represents a material, irremediable and repudiatory breach of his or het contractual
obligations entitling Post Office to terminate the Subpostmaster’s appointment
summarily. Further, where Post Office suspects that a Subpostmaster is guilty of
such conduct, it is contractually entitled to suspend the Subpostmaster’s

appointment.

In relation to any issue arising in these proceedings as to the true state of account in
the relevant branch, the Court should make all presumptions of fact against that

Subpostmaster as are consistent with the other facts as proven or admitted.

Paragraph 34 appears to address a situation where a balancing process has been undertaken

at the end of a trading period and this process has disclosed a shortfall in the cash or stock

held at the branch which is disputed by the relevant Subpostmaster. It appears to be the

Claimants’ case that, in this situation, some Claimants felt that they had no choice but (a) to

sign off Branch Trading Statements disclosing the shortfall, accept liability for the shortfall

and make the shortfall good by paying or crediting the relevant amount to Post Office or

(b) to sign off incorrect Branch Trading Statements which misrepresented the cash and

stock held at the branch and thereby concealed the shortfall from Post Office. Post Office

will respond to properly particularised allegations of that sort if and when they are made by

particular Claimants. However:

(t)

It is denied that Subpostmasters had no choice but to proceed in this way or that it
was reasonable for them to feel that they had no such choice. As indicated in
paragraphs 42 to 46 above, Post Office’s procedures provided Subpostmasters with
the opportunity to dispute liability for shortfalls and render accurate accounts whilst

any disputed shortfall was resolved.

32

H/10/33
70.

2)

8)

4)

It would never have been reasonable for a Subpostmaster to sign off a Branch
Trading Statement — and thus to confirm to Post Office that the cash and stock
recorded by Horizon as being held at his or her branch was correct — in
circumstances where he or she did not believe that it was truc. Amongst other

things, in that situation the Subpostmaster would have:

(a) deceived Post Office as to the true level of cash and/or stock at his or her

branch, and the true state of his or her branch accounts;

(b) made it impossible or alternatively excessively difficult for anyone to identify

when or how the losses atose; and

(©) committed (i) a material, irremediable and repudiatory breach of the contract
pursuant to which the Subpostmaster was appointed (including, amongst other
things, Section 12, Clause 3 of the SPMC and/or Part 2, Clause 3.6.6 of the
NTO), and (i) a fundamental breach of the fiduciary duties the Subpostmaster

owed Post Office as its agent.

As indicated in paragraphs 184 and 185 below, Post Office may hold Subpostmasters
who signed Branch ‘I'rading Statements to the accounts that they signed off.
Alternatively, in relation to any issue arising as to the true state of account in the
relevant branch, the Court should make all presumptions of fact against the
Subpostmasters as are consistent with the other facts as proven or admitted. Further
or alternatively, Subpostmastets may not now challenge, seek to avoid ot seek any
relief in relation to the payment(s) made to or demanded by Post Office in
accordance with those accounts (including in making good shortfalls), without

pleading and proving such accounts to be mistaken.

‘These principles apply to false cash declarations made by the Subpostmaster to Post

Office, mutatis mutandis.

Regarding paragraph 35:

()

@)

‘As to paragraph 35.1, paragraph 29 above is repeated.

As to paragraph 35.2, the Horizon system did not allow a Subpostmaster to roll his
ot her branch over into a new trading period until he or she had signed off and

submitted to Post Office a branch account for the previous trading petiod.

33

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/34
71.

72.

2)

@

6)

©

7)

As to

@)

(3)

As to paragraph 35.3, Subpostmasters were contractually required to use the Horizon
system but that system did not require them to roll over into a new trading period:
that requirement was contractual, being contained in "A Quick Guide to Balancing -
Reconciling your Cash and Stock with Horizon" and page 93 of the Branch Trading

Manual.
Paragraph 35.4 and 35.5 are denied and paragraphs 42 to 46 above are repeated.

As to paragraph 35.6, at this generic level, Post Office cannot admit or deny what
any Claimants may have hoped. However, Post Office denies (if it be alleged) that it
advised or encouraged Claimants to believe that it was appropriate to sign off false

Branch Trading Statements and thereby deceive Post Office.

As to paragraph 35.7, at this genetic level, Post Office cannot admit or deny any
Claimant’s individual financial circumstances. However, Post Office denies (if it be
alleged) that a desire to ensure that a Subpostmastet’s appointment is not terminated

justifies rendering false accounts to and deceiving Post Office as aforesaid.
Paragraph 35.8 is denied and paragraphs 29 above, 76 and 78 below are repeated.
paragraph 36:

‘The act of intentionally submitting false accounts is, of itself, a dishonest act.

In some circumstances (for example where a Subpostmastet refuses to give any
explanation as to any of the material circumstances in his or her branch), it is an
appropriate inference that, where the Subpostmaster has deliberately rendered false
accounts, he or she has done so in order to cover up some other dishonest conduct

(such as theft).

Tt is denied that it was unfair, flawed or irrational to infer dishonesty from the
submission of false accounts. The natural inference from an agent’s decision to
render false accounts to his principal is that the agent wishes to deceive his principal
and conceal a shortfall in his accounts. Rendering false accounts is a breach of the

fundamental duty of loyalty owed by an agent to his principal.

Paragraph 37 is denied. In particular:

0)

Post Office did not exert illegitimate pressure on Claimants.

34

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/35
ABS

73.

2)

@)

(4)
6)

©

POL00003340
POL00003340

Post Office did not exert “unfair” pressure on Claimants (whatever that means).

It is not clear to Post Office what it is alleged to have done that constitutes economic
dutess exerted or unconscionable dealing but in any event (a) Post Office denies that
it exerted economic duress on Claimants and (b) Post Office denies that it is guilty of

unconscionable dealing with Claimants.
Post Office denies that it was in material breach of contract.
Post Office denies it wrongfully failed to disclose material facts.

Post Office denies that the legal concepts pleaded in paragraph 37 can be invoked so

as to justify false accounting.

The Defendant’s Suspense Accounts

As to paragraph 38:

()

2)

Post Office does not have a clear understanding of what the Claimants mean by
the term "suspense account" or by the phrase "unattributed surpluses including

those generated from branch accounts".

In relation to its dealing with its clients, Post Office is almost always able to
reconcile its figutes to those of its clients. However, as is inevitable given the
nature and scale of those dealings, occasionally Post Office is not able to do so.

For example:

(a) A client, such as a bank, makes a payment to Post Office in respect of a
particular transaction undertaken in a branch but the payment exceeds the

amount that Post Office considers to be due.

(b) _ Post Office seeks but does not reach agreement with the client as to the
amount due and the client does not accept repayment of what Post Office
considers to be the overpayment. In parallel, Post Office also seeks to
determine whether the overpayment should be credited to a branch or to

any other relevant part of its business.

() Where the proper beneficiary of a credit cannot be determined, Post

Office temporarily records the overpayment in its accounts. If the

35

H/10/36
74.

75.

BA

76.

POL00003340
POL00003340

overpayment is not resolved within 3 years, the overpayment may be

credited to Post Office’s profit and loss account.

2) ‘The existence of processes for recording and resolving credits of the type

desctibed above are an ordinary business practice.

As to paragraph 39, the Claimants have not pleaded any “shortfalls wrongly attributed to
the Claimants”. In these circumstances, Post Office does not speculate as to how any such
shortfalls could in principle have arisen and how, if at all, such shortfalls (or, more
accurately, the losses giving rise to such shortfalls) might relate to any discrepancies
between Post Office and its clients. In the absence of proper particulars, there is no case

to which Post Office can meaningfully respond.

CONTRACT TERMS - SUBPOSTMASTERS

As to paragraph 40, Post Office will also rely at any trial on the full contractual terms in
force at the material time(s) between Post Office and the relevant Claimant (if any). ‘These

terms varied from time to time, as already noted.
Factual Matrix

Post Office asserts that the following matters are important aspects of factual matrix
against which the various Subpostmaster Contracts relied on by the Claimants should be

construed:

(1) Subpostmasters typically stood to benefit from the relationship with Post Office in at
least two respects: first, by obtaining remuneration in accordance with their
Subpostmaster Contracts and, second, as a result of offering Post Office services in
the Subpostmasters’ premises, by enjoying increased footfall and revenue for the
retail businesses that Subpostmasters typically operated alongside the Post Office

business.

(2)  Subpostmasters contracted with Post Office on a business to business basis and in

the expectation of profiting from the business relationship as noted above.

(3)  Subpostmasters were under no obligation and no pressure to contract with Post

Office on the terms that it offered or at all.

36

H/10/37
77.

78.

79.

4)

6)

©

”

POL00003340
POL00003340

Post Office was unable to monitor at first hand the transactions undertaken in
branches on its behalf, in relation to which it was liable to Post Office clients. These
transactions and the manner in which they wete carried out were the responsibility of

the relevant Subpostmasters.

Post Office was unable to monitor at first hand the custody and use of its property
(principally, cash and stock) in branches. Again, these matters were the responsibility

of the relevant Subpostmasters.

Post Office relies on the accurate reporting by Subpostmasters of accounts,
transactions and the cash and stock held at a branch. Should Subpostmasters not
accurately report these things, it would be impossible ot alternatively excessively
difficult to determine (i) if a shortfall has occurred, (ii) when it occurred and/or (iii)

why it occurted. See further paragraphs 68 and 69 above.

Given the nature of Post Office’s business and the variety of transactions and
processes required for the operation of a Post Office branch, it would be
impracticable for all of the parties’ rights and obligations to be set out in a single
contractual document. It was to be expected that Post Office would rely upon

manuals and other documents containing instructions.

Paragraph 41 is admitted.

Tf and insofar as it is understood, patagraph 42 is denied. At the time of contracting, each

of Post Office and the Subpostmaster was free to contract ot not contract with the other

and each of them took an unconstrained and self-interested commercial decision in that

regard.

As to paragraph 43:

(ty

Post Office is unable to admit or deny what steps Subpostmasters took to put
themselves in a position to discharge their obligations to Post Office. Whether and
to what extent any of the steps referred to in paragraphs 43.1 to 43.7 were taken in
any case and, if they were taken, whether and to what extent they wete expensive or

long term, will be a mattet for each Claimant to plead and prove.

37

H/10/38
80.

81.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(2) Post Office incurred long term and expensive commitments in respect of the
Subpostmaster relationship, including by providing valuable cash, stock and

equipment to Subpostmasters on an unsecured basis.

(3) Tt was for the Subpostmastet to assess the commercial tisk and reward involved in
contracting with Post Office, taking into account (amongst other things) each party’s

contractual rights of termination.

‘As to paragraph 44, the operation of the relationship between a Subpostmaster and Post

Office required communication and cooperation.
Regarding paragraph 45:

(1) The SPMC, Temporary SPMC and NTC all stated expressly that Subpostmasters
were not employees of Post Office. Subpostmasters were not employees of Post
Office and Post Office notes that the Claimants accept this in paragraph 45, as they

have in correspondence.
(2) Regarding paragraph 45.1, paragraphs 29 above and 88 below are repeated.

(3) Paragraphs 45.2 and 45.3 appear to be based on a misconception as to what
constitutes personal service. The various Subpostmaster Contracts were in no way
contracts for personal services and the provisions referred to in paragraphs 45.2 and
45.3 did not require personal service. On the contrary, most of them made it clear
that Subpostmasters were entitled to employ third patties to run their branches. For

example:

(a) The holiday substitution allowance and sick absence allowance provisions in
Sections 4 and 7 of the SPMC expressly provided that they only applied where
Subpostmasters chose personally to work in their branches for at least 18

hours each week.

(b) Section 3 of the SPMC expressly provided that Subpostmasters were not
obliged to tender personal service and that they were entitled to make suitable
atrangements to employ a third party to run the relevant branch. That they
were required to notify Post Office when a third party was running the branch
and to give Post Office the name of the third party does not mean that they

were required to perform a personal service.

38

H/10/39
82.

B22

83.

84.

() Properly understood, Section 8 (which the GPoC mistakenly refers to as
Section 10) and Section 15 of the SPMC reinforce the point that the SPMC is

not a contract for personal services.
Paragraph 46 is noted.

Written Terms
Overview

As to paragraph 47, at a generic level, it is admitted that the written terms of the
Subpostmaster Contracts reserved to Post Office some control over some aspects of the
business conducted by Subpostmasters on its behalf (see paragraphs 29 above). It is denied
these terms imposed “very few express obligations” on it. Post Office will respond to any

particular allegations made about particular terms if and when they are made.
As to paragraph 48:

(1) Post Office’s practice at all material times has been to provide prospective
Subpostmasters with a copy of the written terms of the agreement with Post Office

and to requite them to sign a document recording their agreement to those terms.

(2) Ifany Subpostmaster alleges that he did not obtain a copy of the written terms of his
agreement, Post Office will respond to that allegation if and when it is properly

pleaded.

(3) The allegation that Post Office did not a draw a Claimant’s attention to “onerous or
unusual terms” is unparticulatised and cannot properly be pleaded to in this Generic
Defence. Without prejudice to that contention, it is denied that any of the terms
alleged by the Claimants to be onerous and unusual were such: as indicated below,
they were the sort of terms that would be expected. It is further denied that Post

Office was under any obligation to draw a Claimant’s attention to any such terms.
As to paragraph 49:

(1) ‘The written Subpostmaster Contracts are to be construed as a whole and in light of

the relevant matrix of fact pleaded in paragraph 76 above.

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/40
86.

87.

88.

Q)

2)

(4)

6)

POL00003340
POL00003340

It is denied that those contracts are to be construed presumptively against Post
Office. Further, the Claimants have not identified any ambiguity in the written terms
that they contend should be resolved in accordance with the contra proferentem

principle, which is a principle of last resort,

It is denied that the contracts ate “telational contracts” in the sense alleged by the
Claimants and, even if they were classified as such, it is denied that this should affect
their construction. They should not be construed “in the context of” the alleged
implied terms and any term that it is alleged should be implied must (amongst other

things) be consistent with the express terms properly construed.
It is denied that the terms identified by the Claimants are unenforceable.

It is denied that the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 affects any of those terms.

Fach and every allegation in paragraph 50 is denied. The only agreements between the

parties as to termination of the Subpostmaster Contracts are the agreements expressly

provided for in those contracts. The Claimants’ attempt to invent an alternative “true

agreement” between the patties and thereby to invoke Autoclenz v Belcher in order to

rewrite the Subpostmaster Contracts is unfounded (see paragraphs 110 to 112 below).

As to the contractual terms referred to in paragraphs 51 ef seq., Post Office will refer to all

the relevant terms of the relevant contracts for their full meaning and true effect.

Rules, Instructions and Standards

AAs to paragraph 51:

(1)

(2)

Save that the reference in paragraph 51.3(a) should be to Part 2, paragraph 1.1 of the
NTC, the terms of the SPMC, the ‘Temporary SPMC and the NTC pleaded therein

are admitted and averred.

It is admitted that, in accordance with those terms, Subpostmasters were required to
comply with (and were required to procure compliance by their Assistants with) the
rules, instructions and standards set out in the documents to which the terms
referred and as were notified to Subpostmasters in accordance with such terms. As
indicated in paragraph 76(7) above, in a business such as Post Office’s, requirements

of this sort were to be expected.

H/10/41
89.

90.

91.

92.

(3) It is denied that paragraph 51 is an accurate characterization of these rules,

instructions and standards, and it is denied (if it be alleged) that the contractual

standard of performance required by the SPMC, the Temporary SPMC and the NTC

was Post Office’s “discretionary satisfaction”.
Classes of Business

‘As to paragraph 52, the terms of the SPMC, the Temporary SPMC and the NTC pleaded
therein ate admitted and averred. In a business such as Post Office’s, terms of this sort
were to be expected. They reflected the fact that, as Subpostmastets were Post Office's
agents offering products and services to customers on Post Office’s behalf, Post Office

must be entitled to change those products and services from time to time.

Agency

As to paragraph 53:

(1)

2)

‘The terms of the SPMC, the Temporary SPMC and the NTC pleaded therein are

admitted and averred. Terms of this sort were to be expected.

In accordance with those terms, Post Office appointed Subpostmasters and
Subpostmasters accepted appointment as agents of Post Office. Such appointments
‘were true, not purported. The legal relationship between Post Office and

Subpostmasters was that of principal and agent.

Post Office notes that, as its agents:

(1)

2)

Subpostmasters owed fiduciary duties to Post Office, including a duty to act in Post
Office’s interests in relation to the functions they undertook on Post Office’s behalf
(which functions included holding and dealing with Post Office cash and stock,
effecting and recording Post Office transactions, generating liabilities for Post Office,

maintaining proper and accurate records and preparing and rendering accounts).

Subpostmastets owed a duty to account to Post Office.

Adcounts and Liabilities for Lass

‘As to paragraph 54, the terms of the SPMC, the Temporary SPMC and the NTC pleaded

therein are admitted and averted. Part 2, Clause 3.7.4 of the NTC also provided that: “The

41

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/42
93.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Operator shall ... immediately produce all Post Office Cash and Stock for inspection whenever requested by
Post Office Ltd”. ‘These terms imposed on Subpostmasters responsibility for losses at theit
branches. In circumstances where Subpostmasters were in control of and they and/or
their Assistants had first-hand knowledge of the transactions effected on Post Office’s
behalf and the cash and stock belonging to Post Office held at their beanches, such terms

were to be expected. It is denied that Post Office applied them wrongly.

Post Office notes that the Claimants’ case set out in paragraph 55 applies only to Section
12, Clause 12 of the SPMC. Mote generally, as regards shortfalls disclosed in a
Subpostmaster’s accounts, Post Office notes the following principles, each of which applies

to Subpostmasters:

(1) Where a Subpostmaster asserts that he o she is not responsible of liable for a
shortfall, the legal and/or evidential burden of proof is on him or her to establish the

factual basis for such assettion, in that:

(a) In the absence of evidence from a Subpostmaster to suggest that a shortfall
arose from losses for which he or she was not responsible, it is appropriate to
infer and/or presume that the shortfall arose from losses for which he or she
was responsible. Such an inference and/or presumption is appropriate
because (1) branches are under the management of Subpostmasters or their
Assistants, (2) losses do not arise in the ordinary course of things without fault
ot error on the part of Subpostmasters or their Assistants and (3) it would not
be right to infer or presume that a shortfall and loss was caused instead by a

bug ot error in Horizon,

(b) Subpostmasters bear the legal butden of proving that a shortfall did not result
from losses for which they were responsible. This is because (1) the truth of
the matter lies peculiarly within the knowledge of Subpostmasters as the
persons with responsibility for branch operations and the conduct of
transactions in branches, (2) it would be unjust for Post Office to be tequired
to prove allegations relating to matters that fall peculiarly within the
knowledge of Subpostmasters and/or (3) where a person is subject to a
fiduciary obligation as regards his or her dealing with assets, the burden is on

that person to establish the justification for his or her dealings.

42

H/10/43
94.

95.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(2) Where an agent renders an account to his ot her principal, he is bound by that
account unless and to the extent that he discharges the burden of demonstrating that

there are mistakes in the account that he should be permitted to correct.

(3) Where an agent deliberately renders a false account to his or her principal, in relation
to the matters covered by the account the Court should make all presumptions of
fact against that Subpostmaster as are consistent with the other facts as proven or

admitted.
As to Section 12, Clause 12 of the SPMC:

(1) Section 12, Clause 12 should be construed in accordance with the principles set out

in paragraph 93 above.

(2) On the true construction of Section 12, Clause 12, Subpostmasters are responsible
for all losses (as defined in paragraph 41 above) disclosed in their branch accounts
save for losses which were neither caused by any negligence, any carelessness, or any
error on their part nor caused by any act or omission (“act”) on the part of their

Assistants.

(3)  Subpostmasters who allege that they are not liable for any losses disclosed in their
branch accounts bear the burden of proving that such losses were not caused by the

things referred to in sub-paragraph (2) above.

(4) Regarding paragraph 55.1, no admissions are made as to what is meant by the term
“real loss”, but Post Office notes that, in Section 12, Clause 12, the concept of a

“Joss” is not tied to or dependent on economic detriment to Post Office.
(5) Paragraph 55.2 is denied.
(© Paragraph 55.3 is denied.
(7) Paragraph 55.4 is denied.
Assistants
As to paragraph 56:

(1) The terms of the SPMC, the Temporary SPMC, the NTC and the Operations

Manual pleaded therein are admitted and averred.

43

H/10/44
96.

97.

98.

2)

@)

)

POL00003340
POL00003340

These terms provided (and did not merely purport to provide) that Subpostmasters
were liable for the acts of their Assistants. Having been appointed as agents of Post
Office to conduct its business on its behalf from theit branches, Subpostmasters
were responsible for the conduct of the business at those branches. If
Subpostmasters selected and employed Assistants for that purpose (giving those
Assistants at least some control over and/ot custody of Post Office transactions,
cash and stock), one would expect these Subpostmasters to be responsible for their

acts.

‘The SPMC and the NTC stated that Post Office would provide initial training to
Assistants and/ot would provide to Subpostmastets training materials that were

adequate for the provision of initial training of Assistants.

The terms pleaded in paragraph 56 made it clear that the Subpostmaster was
ultimately tesponsible for providing or procuring the provision of such training as
‘was necessary to enable the Assistant to assist the Subpostmastet in discharging his
or her obligations to Post Office. Accordingly, where a Subpostmaster considered
that for any reason an Assistant was not, without further training, able properly to
discharge his or her functions in relation to Post Office business, the Subpostmaster
was required to: (a) notify Post Office that the Assistant was not so able; (b) where
further training could resolve the situation, provide or procure the provision of such
training, as appropriate; and (c) where further training could not resolve the situation

(and/or had failed to do so), cease to engage the Assistant on Post Office business.

Helpline

Paragraph 57 is admitted.

Paragraph 58 is admitted.

Aiccess to Branch Accounts and Records

Paragraph 59 is admitted. ‘The terms of the SPMC, Temporary SPMC and NTC pleaded

therein are admitted and averred. In an agency relationship of this sort, such terms were to

be expected. They reflected Post Office’s common law rights as principal and the

Subpostmaster’s common law duties as agent.

4

H/10/45
99.

100.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Suspension

As to paragraph 60:

(1)

2)

@)

‘The tetms of the SPMC and the NTC pleaded therein are admitted and averted.

‘These terms provided for Post Office to have the right (and not merely a purported
tight) to suspend Subpostmasters in the circumstances provided for therein. In
circumstances where Subpostmasters conducted Post Office’s business, entering
into, effecting transactions and incurring liabilities on its behalf, and dealing with
Post Office cash and stock for this purpose, it was to be expected that Post Office
would have the right to suspend Subpostmasters in circumstances where it no longer

felt that it could safely trust the Subpostmaster to discharge his obligations.

Regarding the Temporary SPMC, paragraph 60.2 is admitted.

Termination - Notice

As to paragraph 61:

@)

2)

0)

@

‘The terms of the SPMC, the Temporary SPMC and the NTC pleaded therein are
admitted and averted.

‘These terms permitted (and did not merely purport to permit) Post Office to (a)
terminate its contracts with Subpostmasters summarily for cause; and (b) terminate

those contracts on notice without cause (i.e. at will).

Post Office was in an agency relationship with Subpostmasters pursuant to which
Subpostmasters were entering into and/or effecting transactions and incurting
liabilities on its behalf, and dealing with Post Office cash and stock for this purpose.
It was to be expected that the contracts governing this relationship would contain
provisions confetting on Post Office (i) a right to terminate that relationship
immediately where the Subpostmaster had committed material breaches of their
contracts and (ii) a right to terminate the relationship on notice where for whatever
reason Post Office no longer wished to maintain that relationship with that

Subpostmaster.

The provisions for summary termination contained in these contracts did not

exclude either party’s common law tight to terminate the contracts for repudiatory

45

H/10/46
101.

102.

B3

103.

POL00003340
POL00003340

breach. Further, the provisions for termination on giving notice were matched by
equivalent provisions entitling the Subpostmaster to resign on giving the same notice
(see Section 1, Clause 10 of the SPMC, Clause 2.4 of the Temporary SPMC and Part
2, Clause 16.1 of the NTC).

Termination ~ Compensation for Loss of Offixe

As to paragtaph 62 and 62.1 to 62.3, the terms of the SPMC, the Temporary SPMC and the
NTC pleaded therein are admitted and averred. On their true construction, these terms
provided that Subpostmasters did not have a contractual tight to compensation for the
lawful termination of their contracts. Such terms did not affect a Subpostmaster’s right to
damages for wrongful termination in circumstances where (1) Post Office had summarily
terminated the contract where it had no right to do so; or (2) Post Office had given
insufficient notice of termination (Le. it had not given the period of notice specified in his

or her contract).
Termination — Subsequent Appointments

As to paragraphs 62.4 to 62.7, the terms of the SPMC, the Temporary SPMC and the NTC
pleaded therein are admitted and averred. These terms expressly preserved (and did not
merely purport to preserve) Post Office’s commercial freedom to decide whom to appoint
as its agent to conduct its business on its behalf, and from where such person should

conduct that business, Such terms were to be expected in a contract of this sort.

Relational Contract and Implied Terms
Relational Contract
Paragraph 63 is denied. Further:

(1) Itis denied that the Subpostmaster Contracts are “relational contracts” in the sense
alleged by the Claimants. Without prejudice to the generality of that contention, Post

Office notes that the relevant contracts were terminable on notice without cause.

(2) Itis denied that the classification of these contracts as “relational contracts” would
affect their construction or effects. ‘There are no special rules or principles of

construction that apply to such contracts.

46

H/10/47
104.

105.

106.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(3) Whether or not the relevant contracts can be called “relational contracts”, the
implied term at paragraph 63 should not be implied because it is neither so obvious
as to go without saying nor necessary to the business efficacy of the agreements.
Further, the implication of such broad and general obligations would contradict the

exptess terms of the contracts.

(4) Post Office will address Yam Seng Pte Ltd v International Trade Corpn Ltd
[2013] EWHC 111 and related case law in due course as and when appropriate.

Inplied Terms

Paragraph 63A is denied. At all material times, Post Office has obliged Subpostmasters as
its agents to conduct its business on its behalf and to perform their duty to account to it
through the electronic point of sale and accounting system called Horizon. At no material
time has Post Office agreed to carry out Horizon as a service to Subpostmasters, and nor
has it agreed to carry out any of the steps necessary to enable Subpostmasters to fulfil their
agency obligations as a service to Subpostmasters. In relation to Hotizon, the Helpline and
the training and training materials referred to in paragraph 63A, the Subpostmaster
Contracts are not “tclevant contracts for the supply of services” by Post Office within the
meaning of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982. Accordingly, that Act does not
apply to those contracts as alleged. As regards Claimants who are or were not

Subpostmasters, there are no contracts to which the Act could apply as alleged.

As to paragraph 64, Post Office avers that each of the Subpostmaster Contracts on which
the Claimants rely contained the following implied terms (implied as being so obvious as to

go without saying and/or necessary to the business efficacy of the agreements):

(1) Each party would refrain from taking steps that would inhibit or prevent the other
party from complying with its obligations under or by virtue of the contract (the

“Stirling v Maitland Term”).

(2) Each party would provide the other with such reasonable cooperation as was
necessary to the performance of that othet’s obligations under or by virtue of the

contract (the “Necessary Cooperation Term”).

Save as aforesaid, paragraph 64 is denied. Further:

47

H/10/48
107.

BA

108.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(1) The Claimants’ reliance on the alleged status of the Subpostmaster Contracts as
“relational contracts” as the basis for implying terms is wrong in law. Save for terms
implied at law, no term is to be implied unless it is so obvious as to go without saying

and/or is necessary to the business efficacy of the agreement.

(2) The numerous additional terms alleged by the Claimants in paragraphs 64.1 to 64.19
are neither necessary to the business efficacy of the Subpostmaster Contracts nor so
obvious as to go without saying. Many of them would obviously have been rejected
by Post Office had they been proposed and/or are unreasonable and/or make no
commercial sense. Further, many of them address matters that are already governed
by the terms of the said contracts (including the Stirling v Maitland Term and the

Necessary Cooperation Term) and/ot they positively contradict those terms.

(3) For the avoidance of doubt, it is specifically denied (if it be alleged) that any of the

alleged implied terms:

(a) _ affected or qualified Post Office’s contractual or common law rights to
terminate the relevant Subpostmaster Contracts, whether summarily for cause

ot on notice without cause;

(b) affected or qualified Post Office’s right to assert claims, rights and liabilities
against Subpostmasters or any other patty which it believed to be valid or to

seek to enforce or otherwise vindicate such claims, rights and liabilities;

(c) affected or qualified Post Office’s right to decide whom to appoint as its agent
to conduct its business on its behalf, and from where such person should

conduct that business; or

(d) affected or qualified Post Office’s constitutional right to bring a private

prosecution against Subpostmasters or any other party.

Paragraph 65 is noted. The matters pleaded in that paragraph do not support the

Claimants’ case on the implied terms they allege.

Onerous and Unusual Terms

Paragraph 66 is denied. Specifically:

48

H/10/49
BS

109.

B6

110.

(1)

@

2)

POL00003340
POL00003340

It is denied that any of the terms identified in Section B.2 of the GPoC was onerous
or unusual in the relevant business context and, in particular, in the context of the
appointment of an agent such as a Subpostmaster. As noted in paragraphs 88(2), 89,
92, 95(2), 99(2) and 100(3) above, one would expect Subpostmaster Contracts to

contain terms of this sort.

It is denied that the principle in Interfoto Picture Library Limited v Stilletto
Visual Programmes Limited [1989] QB 433 has any application to the identified
terms. These terms formed part of written contracts entered into in a business to

business context and in the anticipation of a commercial relationship.

If and to the extent that any Claimant may contend that he or she did not obtain ot
have access to a copy of his or her written agreement and/or was unaware of ot did
not have access to its terms before agreeing to them, that is a matter for him or her

to plead and prove.

Unfair Contract Terms

Paragraphs 67 and 68 are denied. Specifically:

(1)

@)

None of the terms identified in Section B.2 of the GPoC would entitle Post Office
(a) to render a contractual performance substantially different from that which was
reasonably expected of it or (b) to render no performance at all in respect of the
whole of any part of its contractual obligations. Accordingly, Section 3(2) of the

Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 (“UCTA”) does not apply.

If (contrary to Post Office’s ptimary case) and to the extent that any of the identified
terms do in any respect(s) fall within Section 3(2) of UCTA, Post Office will say that

they are fair and reasonable and so may be relied upon,

The True Agreement

Paragraph 69 is denied. Specifically, it is denied that the dicta in Autoclenz v Belcher

[2011] UKSC 41 at [35] have any application to the present case. Without prejudice to the

generality of that denial, Subpostmasters are not (and are not alleged to be) employees, and

the Subpostmaster Contracts are “ordinary contracts’ and/or “commercial contracts? that fall

within the principles set out in Autoclenz at [20] to [21]. Further, it is not alleged that any

of the terms of those contracts were not actually relied upon by Post Office and/or were

49

H/10/50
111.

112.

POL00003340
POL00003340

inserted into the written contracts for the sake of form only. Post Office will address

Autoclenz in due course as and when appropriate.

Paragraph 70 is denied. Further:

(1)

i)

(3)

Under the NTC, the specified notice period was 6 months, not 3.

It is denied that termination of a Subpostmaster's appointment on notice would
cause a Subpostmaster's goodwill and other investments to be forfeited. A
Subpostmaster could not assign the benefit of his or het Subpostmaster Contract and
this was not a saleable asset, whether or not he or she was still appointed. Further,
an ex-Subpostmaster could sell his business (including any investment therein) to a

new buyer and the new buyer could apply to be a Subpostmaster in the usual way.

Post Office and Subpostmasters both intended that the parties’ agreements be as set
out in the written terms. If Claimants allege that they intended some other terms to
govern their relationship with Post Office, it is for them to plead and prove such
intention and the grounds on which they allege that it was shared by Post Office,
providing particulars of the alleged terms and when and how it is said those terms

were agreed, They have not done so.

Paragraph 71 is denied. Further:

()

2)

Post Office notes that, on the Claimants’ own case, there was no “true agreement”
between the parties that Post Office would be entitled to terminate the
Subpostmaster Contracts without cause on giving the 12 months’ notice of

termination that the Claimants apparently seek.

It is denied that the principle in Autoclenz (even if applicable) would permit the
Claimants to rewrite the termination provisions in the Subpostmaster Contracts in
the way that they wish to do. These are the sort of provisions one would expect to
see in such contracts. ‘The principle in Autoclenz is exceptional, and it cannot be
used to citcumvent the normal rules on construction and the implication of terms as

the Claimants seek to do.

50

H/10/51
fon

113.

114.

115.

C2

116.

POL00003340
POL00003340

CONTRACTUAL TERMS - OTHERS

Crown Office Employees

Implied Terms

Ass to paragraph 72:

(1) The implied term alleged in paragraph 72.1 is admitted.

(2) Without knowing which “discretions” are referred to in paragraph 72.2, Post Office

is unable to admit or deny the implied term alleged in that paragraph.

‘As to paragraph 73, the Claimants have not identified the particular discretions on which
the implied terms in paragraph 72 are said to have operated or the terms governing those
discretions. Post Office reserves its right to plead to such discretions if and when the
Claimants identify them with proper particulars. For the avoidance of doubt, however, it is
denied (if it be alleged) that such implied terms applied to Post Office’s contractual or
common law rights to terminate the relevant Claimants’ employments, whether summarily

for cause or on notice without cause.
Paragraph 73A is denied.
Assistants

Rights of Third Parties

Paragraph 74 is denied. Section 1(b) of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999
does not apply as alleged. Specifically:

(1) On the true construction of the SPMC, Section 15, Clause 7.1 did not purport to

confer a benefit on the Subpostmaster’s Assistants.

(2) On the true constructions of the NTC, Part 2, Clauses 2.3 and 2.5 did not purport to

confer a benefit on the Subpostmaster’s Assistants.

(3) The unexplained allegation that the alleged implied terms purported to benefit the

Subpostmaster’s Assistants is denied.

(4) Paragraph 74(d) is not a proper plea but its general thrust is denied.

sl

H/10/52
C3

117.

118.

119.

120.

121,

122.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Franchise Agreements
As to paragraph 75:

(1) It is admitted that, where a corporate Franchisee was to be appointed which
appeared to expose Post Office to financial risk, Post Office generally required a

personal guarantee. Save as aforesaid, the first sentence is denied.

(2) Regarding the second sentence, patagraphs 76 to 80 above ate repeated, mutatis

mutandis.
Express Obligations of the Defendant

The terms identified in paragraphs 76 and 77 are admitted. Post Office will rely on all the

relevant terms of the Franchise Agreement for their true meaning and full effect.
Relational Contracts

Paragraph 78 is denied. In relation to the allegation that the Franchise Agreement is a

relational contract, paragraph 103 above is repeated, mufatis mutandis.
Implied Terms

Paragraph 78A is denied. In relation to the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982,

paragraph 104 above is repeated, mutatis mutandis,

Paragraph 79 (which Post Office assumes is intended to refer to paragraph 64) is denied.
In elation to the implication of terms into the Franchise Agreement, paragraphs 103 to

107 above are repeated, mutatis mutandis,

CONCURRENT DUTY IN TORT

As to paragraph 80, it is denied that Post Office assumed a tortious responsibility to the

Claimants. Further:
Subpostmasters and Crown employees

(1) Paragraphs 80.1 and 80.2 are inadequately particularised. Insofar as they are

undetstood, they are denied.

H/10/53
2)

(3)

E. AGENCY

POL00003340
POL00003340

Assistants

Each and every allegation in paragraphs 80.3 and 80.4 are denied. Without prejudice

to the generality of this denial:

@)

)

Assistants were under the control, supervision and guidance of the
Subpostmasters who employed them, not Post Office, and they were in a
proximate relationship with these Subpostmasters, not Post Office. Unlike
Post Office, such Subpostmasters were in a position to assess their
competence and to determine whether they needed training (or farther
training). Unlike Post Office, such Subpostmasters were ultimately

responsible for providing the training they needed.

If Post Office understands the Claimants’ case correctly, they allege that Post
Office owed Assistants a duty to take care not to seek to enforce any rights it
believed it had against any person if to do so might in any way affect or even
raise a risk of affecting Assistants in any way. Such a duty would be

extraordinary.

It would be would be unfair, unjust and unreasonable to impose the alleged
duties of care on Post Office. It would also be inconsistent with the
contractual relationships between Post Office and Subpostmasters on the one

hand and Subpostmasters and their Assistants on the other.

Directors or Guarantors of Franchisees

Paragraph 80.5 is denied and sub-paragraph (2) above is repeated, routatis mutandis.

123. As to Patageaph 81:

(1)

Q)

Regarding paragraph 81.1, Post Office recorded the transaction data entered on

Horizon by Claimants and so far as possible sought to reconcile that transaction data

with other data is possessed.

Paragraphs 81.2 to 81.5 are admitted (save for its reference to paragraph 52.1, which

appeats to be an error).

53

H/10/54
124,

125.

126.

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.

Paragraph 82 is denied. Specifically:

(1) The Subpostmaster Contracts made clear that Subpostmasters were agents of Post
Office, and they owed Post Office the contractual, fiduciary and other duties that
accompany that status. They were under a duty to account to Post Office, not the

other way around.

(2) Post Office did not agree to act as an agent of any of the Claimant Subpostmasters
for any purposes. Nor did it agree to act as an agent of any Claimants who were
Subpostmaster's Assistants or Franchisee directors or guarantors or Crown

employees. Post Office notes that no such agreement is alleged by the Claimants.

(3) Post Office did not hold or deal with cash or other assets on behalf of Claimants,
and it did not effect transactions on their behalf or commit them to transactions with
third parties. Post Office did not undertake any of the characteristic roles of an

agent and did not agree to be subject to any of the characteristic duties of an agent.
Patagraph 83 is denied.
Paragraph 84 is denied. Post Office was not an agent and was under no such duties.
FIDUCIARY DUTIES

Paragraph 85 is denied. The Horizon accounting system was operated on Post Office's

behalf.

As to paragraph 86, it is admitted in general terms that Post Office provided information to
Subpostmasters. However, the contexts in which they did so were so various and the
allegations made in paragraph 86 are so generic that Post Office cannot meaningfully plead

to them.
Paragraph 87 is denied.
Paragtaph 88 is denied and paragraphs 29 and 88 above are repeated.

Paragraph 89 is denied. Further, Post Office notes that the duties alleged in paragraph 84

cannot properly be characterised as fiduciary duties.

54

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/55
132.

133.

134.

POL00003340
POL00003340

GENERIC BREACHES OF CONTRACT / TORT / FIDUCIARY DUTY

Regarding the generic allegations of breach set out in Section G of the GPoC:

(1)

Q)

‘These allegations are so general that it is in many instances impossible for Post
Office to provide meaningful responses. Amongst other things, they overlook
ctitical differences between Subpostmasters on the one hand and Assistants,
Franchisee directors ot guarantors and Crown employees on the other. Moreover,
the facts relevant to various of the allegations of breach will have changed

substantially over the relevant period.

As these allegations turn on matters of fact and degtee that would need to be pleaded
and proved in individual cases, Post Office can only address these breaches in the

most general of terms.

In relation to any particular claims that may be asserted by any particular claimants,
in appropriate cases Post Office will assert the generic defences referred to in Section

N below.

Paragraphs 90 and 91 are denied.

The general thrust of paragraph 92 is denied:

(t)

2)

@)

Post Office provided adequate training and training materials to Subpostmasters,
both initially on their appointment and thereafter (including in response to requests
for training). Such training varied from time to time and from case to case but with
the benefit of such training and the other assistance and support available to
Subpostmasters, a reasonably competent and diligent Subpostmastet was able

properly to discharge his or her obligations to Post Office.

The Operating Manuals referred to varied from time to time and from case to case
but they were sufficient to enable compliance by a reasonably competent and diligent

Subpostmaster.

If and to the extent that any Subpostmastet considered himself or herself unable
ptoperly to discharge the obligations to Post Office, it was incumbent on him or her
to contact Post Office and seek further training and/or make use of the assistance

offered by the Helpline.

55

H/10/56
135.

136.

137.

138.

139.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Paragraph 93 is denied. With the benefit of the Helpline and the training and other
assistance and support available to Subpostmasters, a reasonably competent and diligent
Subpostmaster would have been able properly to discharge his or her obligations to Post

Office.
As to paragtaph 94:

(1) Post Office does not know the transaction types to which the allegation in paragraph

94.1 relates.

(2) Regarding paragraphs 94.2 to 94.4, transaction data relating to the preceding 42 days
or 60 days (after the introduction of Horizon Online) was freely available to
Subpostmasters. In addition, more extensive transaction data was provided, and
further data was provided outside these periods, where this was necessary. The
Claimants have not identified any circumstances in which such data was requested,
was denied and would, if provided, have protected any Claimant Subpostmasters

from any alleged prejudice.

(3) Paragraph 94.5 is admitted. However, Post Office provided access to transaction
data and other relevant records requested by a Subpostmaster where this was

necessary.

As to paragraph 94A, it is denied that the Horizon system was not reasonably fit for
purpose. Regarding the reference to “adequate error repellency”, paragraph 52 above is

repeated.

Paragraph 95 is so vague that Post Office cannot plead to it, other than to repeat

paragraphs 49 to 56 above.

As to paragraph 96, Post Office denies that it was under a duty to do all the things alleged

therein. Further:

(1) Regarding paragraph 96.1, it is denied that Horizon failed properly to record
transactions. Post Office notes that Subpostmasters were under a duty to account to
Post Office, not the other way around. Further, taking into account the matters
pleaded in paragraphs 23 and 76 above, if an explanation was required for any
shortfall, in many cases it would be for the relevant Subpostmaster to identify the

likely cause or causes. Post Office further notes that, in cases where a Subpostmaster

56

H/10/57
140.

141.

POL00003340
POL00003340

was guilty of false accounting it would be impossible or alternatively excessively

difficult for anyone to do so.

(2) Paragraphs 96.2 and 96.3 ate denied. Post Office provided such reasonable

cooperation as was necessary in the circumstances.

(3) Regarding 96.4, it is denied that, when forming a conclusion as to whether a
Subpostmaster was or was not liable for a shortfall, Post Office did not give a
reasonable and fair consideration to that question. It is also denied that Post Office
was required to “investigate” the matters referred to in that paragraph. Post Office
notes that, in cases where a Subpostmaster was guilty of false accounting, it would be

impossible or alternatively excessively difficult to “investigate” those matters.

As to paragraph 97, the alleged duties are denied as aforesaid. Post Office did not demand

payment other than in accordance with the applicable Subpostmaster Contracts.

As to paragraph 98, the alleged duty of investigation is denied, as is the allegation that
compliance with this duty was a precondition for exercising Post Office’s rights, whether to
seek recovery of shortfalls from Subpostmasters, to suspend their appointments or to
terminate their appointments. Further, Post Office notes that the contractual terms
regatding suspension and termination pleaded in paragraph 60 expressly provided for the
circumstances in which those rights applied (the right of suspension applied in cases of

mere suspicion).

. Paragraph 99 is so vague that Post Office cannot plead to it. It confuses different

situations in such a way to make them appear the same. For example, suspension is
different from summary termination for cause, which is itself different from termination on
notice without cause. As to the allegation that Post Office applied unspecified “pressure”
to cause a Claimant to resign, Post Office notes that the alleged pressure is neither
explained nor alleged to be illegitimate. Post Office further notes that, under the
Subpostmaster Contracts, it was entitled to terminate those agreements without cause on
giving the same notice given by Subpostmasters on resigning. Furthermore, in relation to

summary terminations for cause:
(1) Paragraph 99.1 is denied as aforesaid.

(2) As to paragraph 99.2, paragraph 94(4) above is repeated.

37

H/10/58
143.

144.

145.

146.

147.

i)

(4)

6)

(6)

POL00003340
POL00003340

Paragraph 99.3 is denied.

It is denied that Post Office’s allocation of the burden of proof was wrong as alleged
at paragraph 99.4, It allocated such burden of proof as was reasonable and
appropriate in the relevant case, taking into account the material circumstances,
including the asymmetry in knowledge in favour of Subpostmasters, the cooperation
that Post Office was able to obtain from the relevant Subpostmaster and/or his ot

her Assistants.

‘As to paragraph 99.5, itis denied that Post Office was required to establish
“causative fault” by a Subpostmasters before it could form the conclusion that

responsibility for shortfalls at their branches rested with them.

‘As to paragraph 99.6, Post Office denies that, when it formed the conclusion that
responsibility for shortfalls rested with Subpostmasters, it relied on flawed or

unreasonable inferences.

As to paragraph 100, it is admitted that, in some instances, Post Office pursued civil

and/or criminal proceedings in relation to shortfalls. As to the reference to paragraph 99,

paragraph 142 above is repeated.

As to paragraph 101:

(1)

2)

As the Claimants admit in paragraph 62.4 ef seq., the Subpostmaster Contracts
expressly provided that Post Office was entitled to decide for itself (and by reference
to its own interests) whom to appoint as a new Subpostmaster and from where he or

she should operate. It was subject to no obligations ot constraints in that regard.

It is denied that, having regard to its own interests, Post Office acted unreasonably in

relation to the appointment of new Subpostmasters.

Paragraph 102 is denied and paragraphs 58 to 60 above ate repeated. Post Office had no

duty to disclose the matters set out in those paragraphs.

As to paragraph 103, paragraphs 61 and 62 above are repeated.

Post Office cannot plead to paragraph 104. For example, Post Office does not know: (1)

which, if any, breaches are alleged to have been in bad faith or the basis of such allegation;

(2) which, if any, of Post Office’s contractual discretions are alleged to have been exercised

38

H/10/59
148.

149,

HA

POL00003340
POL00003340

arbitrarily, capriciously or unreasonably or the basis of such allegation; (3) which, if any,
steps taken by Post Office are alleged to have been in breach of an implied duty of trust
and confidence or the basis of such allegation; (4) which, if any, steps by Post Office are
said to have been taken without reasonable care and skill or the basis for such allegation; or
(5) what, if anything paragraph 104.5 is referring to. However, Post Office denies that it

breached the Subpostmaster Contracts to which Claimants were party.

Paragraph 105 is noted. Save as set out above and below, Post Office was not subject to

the pleaded duties and did not make the alleged misstatements ot misrepresentations.

ACTIONABLE MISREPRESENTATION AND DECEIT

Paragraphs 106 and 107 are noted. In relation to the “indicative” allegations of deceit,
negligent misstatement and misrepresentation set out in Section H of the GPoC, paragraph
132 above is repeated, mutatis mutandis, Post Office cannot meaningfully respond to
“indicative” allegations of this sort. The facts relevant to the making of a representation to
a Claimant, to the truth or falsity of the representation and to the Claimant's reliance on the

representation will differ from one case to another.

Representations

. As to paragraph 108:

(1) Paragraph 108.1 is denied. ‘The fact of a shortfall was apparent on the face of the
accounts submitted by a Subpostmaster to Post Office. It was a matter which Post
Office was entitled to have a view on and discuss without making an actionable

representation as alleged.

(2) Paragraph 108.2 is denied and sub-paragraph (1) above is repeated. Shortfalls were
addressed in accordance with the parties’ obligations, including the Subpostmasters’
obligation to account to Post Office, not on the basis of actionable representations

made by Post Office to Claimants.

(3) Paragraph 108.3 is denied. Post Office did not advise Subpostmasters on the true
construction of the Subpostmaster Contracts. Whether an explanation was required
from the Subpostmaster in any case was a matter which Post Office was entitled to

have a view on and discuss without making an actionable representation as alleged.

59

H/10/60
153.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(4) If Post Office understands the Claimants’ case correctly, paragraph 108.4 relates to
statements that some Helpline operators are alleged to have made to some Claimants
when they called the Helpline with particular problems. Post Office cannot plead to
this case without knowing when and by whom the relevant calls were made, the
context and purpose of those calls, what problems were raised and how those
problems are alleged to have been communicated. However, paragraphs 61 and 62

above are repeated.

(5) Post Office cannot plead to paragraph 108.5 without knowing the words alleged to

have been used and context in which those words are alleged to have been said.

© — The first part of paragraph 108.6 is denied. As to the second part, paragraphs 63 and

64 are repeated.

(7) Regarding paragtaph 108.7, which appears to refer to the two alleged representations
in paragraph 26, paragraph 59 above is repeated.

Reliance

. In the absence of any details, Post Office cannot plead to the allegation of reliance made in

paragraph 109. However, if (which as set out above is largely denied) any of the
representations alleged in paragraph 108 were made to any particular Claimants, they would
have been made in different contexts, for different purposes and at different times. For
example, in relation to the only representation which is admitted (that alleged in paragraph
108.7), Post Office notes that the representations were made in 2015, long after the vast
majority of the claims asserted by the Claimants had arisen and long after many of the
Claimants had left Post Office. Further and in any event, Post Office relies on the matters

set out in paragraph 155 below.

Falsity

. Regarding paragraph 110, Post Office’s general case is as set out in paragraphs 41 to 46, 49

to 64, 68 to 71 and 92 to 94 above.

Lack of due cate

‘The allegations in paragraph 111 are made at a very high level of generality. Responding at
the same level of generality, the general thrust of paragraph 111 is denied. Specifically:

60

H/10/61
H4

154.

155.

1)

2)

8)

(4)

POL00003340
POL00003340

Post Office considered every shortfall challenged by a Subpostmaster on its facts.

It is denied (if it be alleged) that Post Office acted without due care if and insofar as
in any case it attached importance to the safeguards and other material factors
pleaded in paragraphs 53 to 55 above and/ot in considering that, absent evidence to
the contrary it was extremely unlikely that any particular shortfall had been caused by

a bug of error in Horizon.

It is denied (if it be alleged) that Post Office acted without due care if and insofar as
in any case it drew adverse inferences from a Subpostmaster’s failure to prepare or
retain proper accounting records and/or his or her decision to falsify accounts or
make false cash declarations and/or his or her failure to cooperate with Post Office’s

investigations and/or procure cooperation from his or her Assistants.

It is denied that Post Office’s statements regarding the remote editing of branch data
were negligent. The persons responsible for the making of the representations were
not aware that Fujitsu privileged user rights could in theory be abused to circumvent

the protections of the system as designed and edit or delete such data.

Negligent Misstatement

As regards any representations that Post Office made to any particular Claimants

paragraphs 112 and 113 are denied. Without prejudice to the generality of this denial, if

and to the extent that Post Office made any of the representations alleged in paragraph 108

to any particular Claimants, Post Office reserves the right to deny that it made them in

circumstances importing a duty of care owed to those particular Claimants.

Misrepresentation Act 1967

As to paragraph 114:

()

2)

Save as expressly admitted above, it is denied that Post Office made any

mistepresentations.

To the extent that it is the Claimants' case that they were bound by their acceptances
of shortfalls and/or the accounts that many of them submitted to Post Office, that
case is admitted and averred. It is denied that the Claimants relied on the alleged
mistepresentations when accepting those shortfalls and/or submitting those

accounts to Post Office.

61

H/10/62
@)

@)

POL00003340
POL00003340

To the extent that it is the Claimants’ case that they were bound by the various
compromise and/or settlement agreements that several of them entered into with
Post Office, that case is also admitted and averted. Those parties have settled
and/or discharged and may not now bring any claims in relation to the matters

covered by these agreements. Further:

(a) It is denied that the Claimants relied upon any alleged misrepresentation by

Post Office in entering into those agreements.

(b) In at least some of the agreements, the relevant Claimants acknowledged that
they had not entered into the agreements in reliance on any assurances,
statements, representations or misrepresentations by Post Office (without
releasing any liability for fraud). Post Office relied on these acknowledgments
in entering into these agreements. The relevant Claimants ate not entitled to
make and/or ate estopped from making any claims for misrepresentation

other than claims for deceit (as to which see below).

(©) For the avoidance of any doubt, Post Office notes that most of the
compromise and/or settlement agreements were entered into before the
statements concerning the remote editing of branch transaction data referred

to in paragraph 26 GPoC were made.

Save as aforesaid, paragraph 114 is denied. Further and in any event, if (which is
denied) any Claimant has entered into any contract in reliance on any
mistepresentation made by Post Office, Post Office reserves the right to contend
that it had reasonable grounds to believe and did believe that the facts represented

were true.

H.6 Deceit

156. Each and every allegation in paragraph 115 is denied. The Claimants have no proper basis

to make allegations in deceit. Without prejudice to the generality of this denial:

(1)

‘As to paragraph 115.1, where Post Office concluded that a shortfall was the
responsibility of a Subpostmaster, it believed that the shortfall ()) was a shortfall, (i)
was necessarily a shortfall (whatever that means), (iii) was a shortfall to the value of
the recorded amount, (iv) had been properly attributed to the relevant branch and (v)

was the true responsibility of the relevant Claimant.

62

H/10/63
H.7

157.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(2) Paragraph 115.2 is not understood.

(3) Itis denied that Post Office knew or should have known (which is not an allegation
of knowledge) that it bore the (unparticularised) contractual burden. In these very
proceedings Post Office denies that it bears the burden of showing the
Subpostmaster’s account to be mistaken and/or showing that a shortfall was caused
by an Assistant or was caused by a Subpostmaster’s error, negligence or carelessness.

Paragraph 115.3 is denied.
(4) Paragraph 115.4 is denied and paragraphs 61 and 62 above are repeated.

(5) As to paragraph 115.5, whenever a particular shortfall was attributable to a particular
Subpostmaster, Post Office believed that this was the case. It would not have
reached that conclusion in circumstances where it knew that, or was reckless as to

whether, the shottfall was a Horizon-genetated shortfall.
(6) Paragraph 115.6 is denied.
() Paragraph 115.7 is denied.
(8) Paragraph 115.8 is denied and paragraphs 56 to 60 above are repeated.
Reliance
As to paragraph 116:
(1) Paragraphs 151 and 155 above are repeated.

(2) Regarding paragraph (i), it is denied that any of the alleged representations by Post
Office would have been made in relation to, or would have been material to, any
decision to accept a Transaction Correction. It was incumbent on a Subpostmaster
to accept or dispute a Transaction Correction as he or she considered appropriate
taking into account information that was known to him and/or her or could be
obtained from Post Office, the relevant Assistants or any other relevant third party.
‘The Subpostmaster is bound by his acceptance and/or account in relation to any

contention that a Transaction Correction was erroneous.
(3) Paragraph (ii) is not understood.

(4) As to paragraph (iii), paragraph 155(3) above is repeated.

63

H/10/64
158.

159.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(5) Paragraph (iv) is not understood.
HARASSMENT

Paragraphs 117 and 118 are noted. In relation to the “indicative” acts set out in Section I

of the GPoC, paragraph 132 above is tepeated, mutatis mutandis.
Paragraph 119 is denied. Specifically:
(1) Post Office has not engaged in acts which amount to harassment.

(2) Post Office was entitled to make demands for payment, to propose Transaction
Cotrections, to seek admissions of liability for shortfalls, to give warnings of legal

proceedings and to pursue such proceedings without being guilty of harassment.

(3) Post Office does not know what is the “pressure” referred to in paragraph 119.2 but
avers that the matters of which the Claimants complain in paragraph 119 (1) are the
otdinary incidents of commercial life and, in particular, an agent’s operation of a
business on behalf of its principal; or (2) in the case of criminal proceedings, resulted
from the Claimant’s own wrongdoing and/or Post Office’s belief in such

wrongdoing.

(4) Post Office acted in accordance with its own good faith assessment of its rights and

obligations without knowing ot believing that its conduct amounted to harassment.

DURESS & UNCONSCION, E DEAL!)

I. Paragraph 120 is noted.

. Post Office cannot meaningfully respond to generic allegations of the sort made in

paragraph 121. However:
(1) Paragraphs 29, 76 and 88 above are repeated.

(2) Post Office was entitled to assert its rights as it understood them to be and to hold

Subpostmasters to theit contracts and to their duties as its agents.

(3) Post Office can neither admit nor deny the general allegations as to the Claimants’
own knowledge and situations in paragraphs 121.4, 121.5 and 121.8. Tt-will respond

if and when particular allegations are made by particular Claimants.

64

H/10/65
162.

163.

164.

165.

166.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(4) Post Office does not know what pressure it is alleged to have applied to any
Claimant but it specifically denies having taking unconscionable advantage of the
Claimants and/or having put the Claimants in a position in which they acted under

economic duress.

(5) No basis for applying the concepts of economic duress ot unconscionable dealings in
this case has been articulated with sufficient clarity to allow meaningful response.
However, it is denied (if it be alleged) that the Claimants may invoke these concepts
so as to justify, avoid the consequences of or blame Post Office for any false

accounting for which they may be responsible.

Paragraph 122 is denied. Further, (1) the “transactions” that the Claimants seek to rescind
on the basis of duress and/or unconscionable dealing are not properly identified; and (2)

the Claimants may not claim damages for economic duress ot unconscionable dealing,

MALICIOUS PROSECUTION

Paragraphs 123 and 124 are noted. For the avoidance of doubt, Post Office will deny all
claims for malicious prosecution, which it will contend are made without any proper basis.
Post Office also notes that most of the relevant Claimants seek to claim malicious

prosecution in relation to proceedings that were determined in Post Office’s favour.

UNJUST ENRICHMENT

Paragraph 125 is noted.

Post Office cannot meaningfully respond to generic allegations of the sort made in
paragraphs 126 and 127. However, the Claimants’ entitlement to claim in unjust
enrichment is denied. The matters relied upon in support of that claimed entitlement are

denied as pleaded in the relevant parts of this Generic Defence.
Further, in appropriate cases, Post Office will rely upon the following defences:

(1) Post Office will rely upon its tight to treat acceptances of shortfalls and accounts
rendered by Claimants as final and binding and/or as giving rise to defences of
accord and satisfaction and/or estoppels and/or compromises and/or accounts

stated and/or settled accounts.

65

H/10/66
167.

168.

POL00003340
POL00003340

(2) Post Office will if necessary assert that it would be inequitable in all the

citcumstances to allow a Claimant to re-open the accounts that they have rendered.

(3) Post Office will rely on the defence of change of position in circumstances where
(for example) Post Office resolved its transactions with third patties in reliance on

any acceptances of accounts as rendered.
LOSS AND DAMAGE
As to paragraph 128:

(1) The Claimants must each properly patticularise any loss and damage that they claim

to have suffered.

(2) The Claimants must each quantify that loss and damage (which they have not done
so in pte-action correspondence and only done so in a haphazard manner in the

Schedules of Information provided to date).

(3) The Claimants must each properly particularise that such loss and damage resulted

from specific breaches of contract or other legal wrongs on Post Office’s part.

(4) Until these matters are properly particularised, Post Office reserves the right
(amongst other things) (a) to deny in any or all cases that the alleged loss and damage
was suffered by the relevant Claimant; (b) to deny that such loss and damage was the
result of the alleged breaches of contract or other legal wrongs; (c) to assert that all
or some of such loss and damage is irrecoverable as a result of failures to mitigate;

and (d) to assert all ot some of such loss and damage is too remote.

Paragraph 129 is noted. In relation to the “indicative” types of loss and damage set out in
Section M of the GPoC, paragraph 132 above is repeated, mutatis mutandis. Itis not

possible meaningfully to respond to the pleaded heads of loss for the following reasons:

(1) The Claimants have not identified the particular breaches or legal wrongs which are
said to give tise to liability for the pleaded losses. It may be that the Claimants are in
some instances secking losses that are not available for particular breaches or wrongs
as a matter of law (for example, neither damages for pure stigma/reputational harm
nor damages for distress falling short of a genuine psychiatric illness are available for

breaches of contract such as those at issue in these proceedings).

66

H/10/67
169.

170.

171.

(C2)

(8)

@)

POL00003340
POL00003340

‘The Claimants have failed to identify the causal connection between the alleged

breaches and the alleged losses.

‘The types of loss are pleaded at a very high level of generality. It may be that liability
for some of the types of loss covered by each heading ate irrecoverable in law ot for
reasons of causation and/or remoteness (for example, non-pecuniary loss such as
mental ill-health consequent on a breach of contract is not ordinarily within the
contemplation of parties to contracts such as those at issue in these proceedings and
is highly likely to be too remote, and financial losses alleged to arise from
stigma/reputational harm ate, in the circumstances addressed in these proceedings,

highly unlikely to pass the contract law tests of causation and remoteness).

Issues such as causation in fact, remoteness and quantification of loss cannot

meaningfully be addressed in the absence of pleaded facts of individual claims.

In the premises, Post Office pleads to Section M of the GPoC in general terms and

without prejudice to its right to address such particulatised allegations of loss as may be

brought against it (including by raising such affirmative allegations and defences as are

available in fact and law).

Financial loss

Paragraph 130 is noted.

‘As to paragraphs 131:

(1)

2)

‘The claims for loss of business investment and consequential losses appear to be
based on the premise that, but for the breaches for which Post Office is alleged to be
liable, the Claimants’ appointments as Subpostmasters would have continued
indefinitely. However, Post Office will rely upon its express right to terminate the
Subpostmaster Contracts without cause on notice and upon the principle of

minimum legal obligation.

By teason of this right and this principle, the only losses that a Subpostmaster may
claim in relation to the termination of his or her appointment (including by
resignation) would be the losses he or she would not have suffered if Post Office had
given the contractual notice of termination (namely, 3 months’ notice under the

SPMC, 6 months’ notice under the NTC and 7 days’ notice under the Temporaty

67

H/10/68
172.

173.

174,

POL00003340
POL00003340

SPMC). In all ot almost all cases, the Subpostmaster would be entitled to no more
than the net profits he or she would have earned during the contractual notice
period. Where Post Office in fact terminated the Subpostmaster’s appointment on
giving this notice, or the Subpostmaster resigned on giving this notice, the Claimant

would be entitled to claim nothing.

(3) Further and in any event, as regards the allegation that Claimants have suffered losses

of their business investments, paragraph 111(2) above is repeated.

As to paragraph 132, where Post Office suspended or terminated a Subpostmaster’s
appointment without notice, it had the express right to do so under the applicable
Subpostmaster Contracts. As regards the right to suspend, Post Office notes that, in many
cases of suspension, temporary Subpostmasters are appointed to run the relevant branch,
and that these temporary Subpostmasters typically pay the suspended Subpostmastes for

the right to do so.

As to paragraph 133, no admissions are made as to whether, and if so on what basis and to
what extent, the Claimants’ residential arrangements may result in claims for consequential

losses.
Sti and/or reputational damage
As to paragraph 134:

(1) Itis denied that damages for pure stigma/reputational harm are recoverable for
breaches of contracts such as those at issue in these proceedings. Further, the
pleaded losses appear unlikely to pass the contract law tests of causation and

remoteness.

(2) As to remoteness, stigma and/or reputational harm was not in the parties’
contemplation as a not unlikely consequence of any of the pleaded breaches of
contract and/or Post Office cannot reasonably be assumed to have undertaken
responsibility for any stigma/reputational harm that might result were it to breach its
contractual obligations to Subpostmastets. The pleaded losses ate too remote
and/or ate irrecoverable because they do not satisfy the test stated by Lords
Hoffmann and Hope in Transfield Shipping Inc v Mercator Shipping Inc [2009]
1 ALC. 61.

68

H/10/69
8)

4)

175. As to

(ty

Q)

@)

‘The contract law test for remoteness (including the test in Transfield Shipping v
Mercator) is also to be applied in relation to any concurrent duty in tort. It is not

passed.

The reference to "similar treatment” is vague and embarrassing. Post Office does

not speculate as to what is intended by these words.
Post Office will also rely on the matters set out in paragraph 175 below.
paragraph 135:

It is denied that the claimed loss is attributable to any breach or other legal wrong on

the part of Post Office.

It is denied that Post Office suspending or terminating a Subpostmaster (or requiring
the exclusion of an Assistant) would itself create the impression of dishonesty on
their part. Post Office was entitled to take those steps in the absence of dishonesty
(and, as regards termination, without any cause). If, which is unclear, it is alleged that
Post Office acted so as to publicise or otherwise generate stigma and/or the

impression of dishonesty, such allegation is denied.

‘The Claimants are required to explain how any stigma or reputational hatm is
attributable to any step taken by Post Office, rather than to a failure to mitigate on
their part and/or to the intervening act of a third party that would break any chain of

causation.

M.3 Distress and related ill-healt

176. As to

(t)

2)

(8)

paragraph 136:

It is denied that damages for distress are tecovetable for breaches of contracts such

as those at issue in these proceedings.

It is denied that damages for distress are recoverable for the pleaded torts, save for

harassment.

Il-health resulting from distress was not in the parties’ contemplation as a not
unlikely consequence of any of the pleaded breaches of contract and/or Post Office

cannot reasonably be assumed to have undertaken responsibility for any such harm

69

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/70
POL00003340
POL00003340

as may result were it to breach its contractual obligations to Subpostmasters. The
pleaded loss is therefore too remote and/or is irrecoverable because they do not
satisfy the test stated by Lords Hoffmann and Hope in Transfield Shipping v

Mercator.

(4) The contract law test for remoteness (including the test in Transfield Shipping v

Mercator) is also to be applied in relation to any concurrent duty in tort.

M4 Bankruptcy
177. As to paragraph 137:

(1) Post Office is aware that some Claimants entered into bankruptcy or individual
voluntary arrangements. It is unable to admit or deny the causes of, or reasons for,

any particular bankruptcy or voluntary arrangement.

(2) Post Office denies that is liable for any of the alleged losses. It is unable to admit or
deny the implicit allegation that the relevant Claimants are entitled to recover such

losses.

@) Further and in any event, Post Office does not admit and requires the relevant

Claimants to plead and prove their standing and title to sue Post Office.

M.5 Prosecutions:

178. Paragraphs 138 and 139 are noted. As the Claimants have elected not to plead particulars
of, and are not currently proceeding with, their claims for malicious prosecution, Post
Office does not plead to these paragraphs.

M.6 Exemplary Damages

179. ‘The claim in paragraph 140 is denied. Itis denied that exemplary damages are recoverable
for breaches of contracts such as those at issue in these proceedings. Further and in any
event, no particulars of deliberate and/or cynical disregard of the Claimants’ rights have
been pleaded. Post Office denies that it acted so as to justify any claim for exemplary

damages.

M.7 Interest

180. Paragraph 141 is noted.

70

H/10/71
181.

182.

183.

N.2

184,

POL00003340
POL00003340

GENERIC DEFENCE:

As against the various claims brought by the various Claimants, Post Office anticipates that

it will raise some or all of the following points or defences.
Burden of proof and associated point

If and insofar as Claimants are alleging that Post Office attributed to them or sought to or
did recover from them shortfalls in branch accounts for which they were not liable, they

bear the burden of proving those allegations.

If and insofar as Claimants are alleging that branch accounts that they have rendered to

Post Office ate incorrect, they bear the burden of proving those allegations.

False accounting and failure to maintain records

In appropriate cases, Post Office will contend as follows:

(1) where a Claimant has rendered false accounts to Post Office (including false cash
declarations) ot has failed to maintain proper records or keep proper accounting
records, in relation to the matters covered by the relevant accounts or records, the
Coutt should make all presumptions of fact against that Subpostmaster as are

consistent with the other facts as proven or admitted;

(2) further or alternatively, adverse inferences should be drawn against a Claimant from
any false accounts tendered to Post Office or any other failure to maintain proper
accounts ot to keep proper accounting records as were required from time to time
under the relevant Subpostmaster Contracts and/or the relevant manuals and/or

instructions;

(3) _ if (which is denied) Post Office owed any Claimant a duty to investigate to identify
the root cause(s) of any discrepancy or shortfall, the Claimant may not rely on or
benefit from any breach of that duty in circumstances where an investigation has
been rendered impossible ot alternatively excessively difficult by his or het false
accounts and/or failure to maintain proper accounts or keep proper accounting

records; and

(4) _ in rendering false accounts and failing to maintain and keep proper accounting

records as aforesaid, the responsible Subpostmasters committed breaches of their

n

H/10/72
185.

187.

188.

POL00003340
POL00003340

Subpostmaster Contracts entitling Post Office to terminate them summarily, both

pursuant to the terms of the contracts and at common law.

Estoppel, accord and satisfaction, account stated, and other defences

In appropriate cases, Post Office will rely upon the following defences:

(1) Post Office may assert an estoppel to prevent a Subpostmaster denying the truth of
any Transaction Cotrections or shortfalls that he or she has accepted or of any

accounts (including cash declarations) that he or she has rendered to Post Office.

(2) Post Office may assert that, where a Subpostmaster has accepted any Transaction
Corrections or shortfalls or has rendered any accounts to Post Office, this amounts
to an accord and satisfaction and/or a binding contract and/or an account stated

and/or a settled account that a Subpostmaster may not re-open.

Settlement agreements

. In appropriate cases, Post Office will say that the Claimants’ claims have been settled and/

or compromised and/ or discharged and/ or satisfied by agreement between the patties.
Res judicata, issue estoppel and abuse of the process

Where Claimants have been involved in other proceedings with Post Office in relation to
the matters of which they seek to complain herein which have been brought to judgment,
Post Office will say that their claims are barred by res judicata and/or issue estoppel
‘and/or it is an abuse of the process for them to seek to avoid of to reopen the judgment
and/or to bring claims that they could and should have brought in the course of these

other proceedings.
Limitation

Post Office will where appropriate rely upon the expiry of the applicable limitation periods

as barring the Claimants’ claims. In particular, Post Office will rely upon:

(1) ‘The 6 year limitation periods in relation to claims in tort and contract under Sections
2and 5 of the Limitation Act 1980 and in respect of all unjust entichment claims and

in respect of all similar equitable claims.

72

H/10/73
N.7

189.

190.

191.

192.

193.

194,

195,

POL00003340
POL00003340

(2) ‘The 3 year limitation period in relation to claims for personal injury under Section 11

of the Limitation Act 1980.
Reflective loss

Where a claim is brought by a Claimant in respect of losses he or she has suffered as a
shareholder in a company which has suffered losses as a result of Post Office’s acts (for
example, a company which was a Subpostmaster or a Franchisee), Post Office will in

appropriate cases contend that the claim is barred by the principle of reflective loss.
Set off

Against any amounts for which Post Office may be found liable to any Claimant, Post
Office will set off in law and/or equity such amounts as are due from such Claimant to
Post Office, including the amounts for which such Claimant is found to be liable to Post

Office on the Counterclaims referred to below.
Save as aforesaid, the GPoC is denied.

The Claimants are not entitled to the relief sought or any relief.

GENERIC COUNTERCLAIM

The Generic Defence is repeated.

Where any Claimants are liable for a shortfall and/or a loss of cash and/or stock which
Post Office has not to date recovered from the Claimant in full ("untecovered
shortfalls"), Post Office claims the amounts of such shortfalls or losses or the
unrecovered portion thereof as debts in accordance with its contractual rights as pleaded
above. Post Office relies upon the following terms in relation to the payment of shortfalls
after the termination of the relevant Subpostmaster Contracts, namely Section 12, Clause

13 of the SPMC, Clause 6.5 of the Temporary SPMC, and Part 2, Clause 4.3 of the NTC.

Further of alternatively, depending on the circumstances of a particular Claimant's case,

Post Office claims the value of unrecovered shortfalls and/or of lost cash and/or stock

B

H/10/74
and/or losses suffered by Post Office caused by false or incorrect transactions entered into

Horizon on the following grounds:

@)
2)

8)

4)

6)

As damages for breach of the Subpostmaster Contracts.

In restitution where a Claimant has been unjustly unentiched by receiving the benefit

of the shortfall and/or cash and/or stock and/or transactions.

As damages and/or compensation in equity where a Claimant has committed a fraud

ot breach of contract or breach of trust or fiduciary duty.

In cases where cash has been stolen or taken by or with the consent of a Claimant

Subpostmaster, reconstitution of the trust fund and/or compensation in equity for

breach of trust and/or damages for breach of the applicable Subpostmaster Contract.

Tn cases where stock has been stolen of taken by ot with the consent of Claimant,
compensation in equity for breach of fiduciary duty and/or damages for conversion

and/or damages for breach of the applicable Subpostmaster Contract.

196, In relation to Claimants who are guarantors of Franchisees, Post Office claims the debts or

indemnities due under and/or damages for breach of their guarantees.

197. Post Office will claim interest on all amounts found to be due to it in accordance with s.

35A of the Senior Courts Act 1981 at such rates and for such periods as the Court shall

think fit. It will claim compound interest in respect of its claims for breach of trust and/or

fiduciary duty and/or its claims in unjust enrichment.

AND POST OFFICE CLAIMS:

(1) The amounts of any relevant unrecovered shortfalls and/or cash and/or stock (see

paragraph 194).

(2) Damages for breach of contract, fraud and/or conversion.

(3) An order for reconstitution of any trust fund and/or compensation in equity for breach of

trust and/or fiduciary duty.

(4) Restitution of any amounts or benefits in respect of which Claimants have been unjustly

enriched.

74

POL00003340
POL00003340

H/10/75
POL00003340
POL00003340

(5) The amounts due under and/ot all necessary indemnities and/or damages in respect of any

relevant guarantees,
(6) Interest thereon as aforesaid.

(7) Further or other relief.

Anthony de Garr Robinson QC

Owain Draper

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

The Defendant believes that the facts stated in this Generic Defence and Counterclaim are true. I
Signed

Position / office

Dated

18

H/10/76

