POL00033611
POL00033611

Appendix B

Stakeholder I Change requested Output
Chris Lose Sales Session - Too long a session, delegates don’t like it and I This relates to all conversational sales sessions and is dependant on
Fayers don't participate, (General comment on all sessions. Not specific to I number of participants and their willingness to participate

an actual session.)

Lose 6 Credit Card - We can only refer to the leaflet Session is still valid even though we cannot process in branch.

Lose 12 pt2 Perfect Branch - See no benefit to this exercise Slides are set by the Sales Team and are currently under review. The

exercise is designed as an end to the course (for most) which enforces
knowledge of conversations. It is dependant on the number of
delegates/willingness to participate. No change required to slides, they
are just summary slides building up to the exercise. Could be moved to
before Stock Balancing session as delegates just want to go home after
that. This will be looked in Q4 with the timetable review.

Lose Insurance session is far too long. Could be split and use Would also mean a lot of work to change each session to include the
session on Car Tax to introduce car & bike. Home insurance linked I conversations etc We will await the sales & service review.
with redirection etc

Lose 12 pt2 The Perfect Branch - The content of the slides is poor Slides are set by the Sales Team and are currently under review. The
and basically is already covered in the sessions Business exercise is designed as an end to the course (for most) which enforces
Awareness, Customer Service and The Secret. knowledge of conversations. It is dependant on the number of
delegates/willingness to participate. No change required to slides, they
are just summary slides building up to the exercise. Could be moved to
before Stock Balancing session as delegates just want to go home after
that. To be looked at in Q4

Lose Handout - The secret assessing conversations - More No change required. The ‘assessing conversations' handout is to
beneficial is to replace this with the ‘Science behind the enforce the slide. The 'science behind the conversations’ is a 19 page
conversations’ ( to go with the Minimum standard conversations document and is not designed to be given out, more as a reference
handouts.) point although it can be printed on an ad-hoc basis as required.

Lose The Secret - 45 Slides!!! This whole session does not work & is I Slides are set by the Sales Team and are currently under review. The
unnecessary if the sales aspect of our transactions are delivered session is designed as a pre-cursor to doing the individual sales

well. sessions showing the science behind sales.

Lose 65 Homephone & Broadband - Slide 7 & 11 on handout No change required. Minimum Standards conversation slides to remain

as per all other sessions. These are under review by the Sales Team

Lose Minimum service standards 9/05 - colours, cant read, coloured I Minimum Standards conversations under review by Sales Team. I agree
blind people cant read. States on school for blind, red and green the colours are not ideal. Red and green is designed to be like traffic
unreadable. lights suggesting a route to follow. The handouts/slides could be
changed so that the question box has a red or green outline but the in-fill
is white with black writing. This would still be identifiable but easier to
read.To be looked at in Q4.

Training Q3 Review 1
December 2011
POL00033611

POL00033611
Lose Minimum standards - Sheet 11, 4th triangle along writing Minimum Standards conversations under review by Sales Team. I agree
unreadable. the colours are not ideal. Red and green is designed to be like traffic

lights suggesting a route to follow. The handouts/slides could be
changed so that the question box has a red or green outline but the in-fill
is white with black writing. This would still be identifiable but easier to

read
Change 64 PO Savings - Overcomplex with delegates being Inputting on HOL is an option but will add time to the course. It is a ‘scan
bombarded with features on all savings. Let's use the HOL kit in barcode' transaction so not hard to do. Time is better spent doing other

practical support of products and services ie concentrate on instant practicals.
Saver which can be processed on HOL, and also premium bonds
which again can be processed on HOL. Quick overview showing
web site on our other products.

Add to Insurances - Very brief overview on Insurances and where to I Awaiting the sales & service review in Q4.
access info ie website, or Help.

Change - Concentrate on practical ‘Customer Referrals’ exercise Inputting on HOL is an option but will add time to the course. It is a ‘scan
using Car Insurance / Home insurance. Can’t remember if we can barcode’ transaction so not hard to do. Time is better spent doing other
completely process Over 50 application on HOL in classroom. If we I practicals. No harm in doing a customer referral transaction but can be

can have an exercise on taking application and in depth selling at discretion of instructor rather than a scripted transaction
scenario using Over 59 Prospectus.
Change The Secret slide — far too long, too many slides, mail Awaiting the sales & service review in Q4.

workshop results slide is not easy to understand. Made for internal
use — BDM's??

Change Insurances, link them to sessions — example, home Good idea but will need to agree which product can be introduced in
insurance linked with redirection rather than 3 hours on insurances. I which session. Will have a big impact on the FTL's who hold those
sessions as each session would have to be changed to include the

conversation/product.
Change 12 Customer service - Better if merged with session 1 Intro, I No change required. The ‘intro' session on day 1 is an introduction to the
too late in the course by day 2 course itself. Session 12 Customer Service is a pre-cursor to Session 12

pt 2 and sets the scene for that session.

Change 64 Savings - Very wordy slides, could do with a lot of

simplification & most of the detail in the notes. Awaiting the sales & service review in Q4.
Change Minimum service standards9/05 - Red green to white on Minimum Standards conversations under review by Sales Team. I agree
red. Black on red to white on red the colours are not ideal. Red and green is designed to be like traffic

lights suggesting a route to follow. The handouts/slides could be
changed so that the question box has a red or green outline but the in-fill
is white with black writing. This would still be identifiable but easier to
read

Change Minimum standards - grey should be black writing. Minimum Standards conversations under review by Sales Team. I agree
the colours are not ideal. Red and green is designed to be like traffic
lights suggesting a route to follow. The handouts/slides could be
changed so that the question box has a red or green outline but the in-fill

Training Q3 Review 2
December 2011
POL00033611
POL00033611

is white with black writing. This would still be identifiable but easier to
read

Keep Minimum Standards Conversations handout
very good starting point for delegates

No change required

Keep 12 pt2 The Perfect Branch - no issues

No change required

Keep 61 Insurances - no issues

No change required

Minimum Standard Conversation would have been useful if they had
it sent to them with the distance learning pack so they would be able
to look at it in advance so as to see what they would be doing when
we cover the perfect branch.

No change required. Previous feedback suggested too much was in the
DLP so it was reduced dramatically as a result. Minimum standards
document is introduced earlier in the week so they are aware of the
conversations anyway.

Having done my first course for quite a while I went into this course
with a positive attitude but possibly looking for issues.

My initial thought is what has changed. I have already expressed the
opinion that we might have missed the boat as far as making
changes to the course and still hope this isn’t seen as being negative
and unconstructive. It seems to me all we have done is to take the
old sessions, up date them a little but no longer call them module 1,
2 or 3. I was very aware that this course is still a one size fits all type
of course which is aimed more towards the crown office branches.
All of this might of course be changed with the network changes,
even so, SPMR of Main PO Branches are not the same as counter
assistants in a Crown Office, my feeling is there should be a course
written completely from scratch that is aimed specifically at someone
who will have to run a branch by themselves after a couple of weeks
or so. As a for instance, we could cover Rem’s more fully.

The notes are very full now almost scripted and even though I tried
to follow them I found I was talking a head of the slides. I do find it
hard to train with the notes in front of me meaning that I have
probably missed something that was important. The onsite training
will probably high light if that is the case. When I was running
courses back to back I developed my own style and more
importantly, made changes. So the next course always ran smoother
than the previous one, unfortunately this doesn’t seem possible now,
which I fully understand.

Day 2 I found a very heavy day and I think the delegates did as well.
Someone commented that Business awareness sits better in day
one. I didn’t really understand slide 14 in session 9, and there are no
notes. The notes for slide 6 say, ‘you may have seen this before’,
when did the delegates see this slide before? If we are going to
simply put another presentation designed for a different type of
audience into the course, can we at least make some changes to

General comment on running a course. It does suggest that if you do
classroom training on a regular basis, you are able to understand the
course content better and develop fluidity in your delivery. This can only
be obtained by doing courses regularly so, dependant on geographical
location and delegate’s availability, this may not be the case. Awaiting
the sales & service review in Q4 and any training support from that
team.

Training
December

Q3 Review
2011
POL00033611

POL00033611

reflect what we are about? In fact I wasn’t comfortable delivering this
session as although it clearly is important, I didn’t feel qualified to
deliver it. It is clearly designed to be delivered by an experienced
sales manager. Still I feel I did my best.

Dave Ogleby

Change 23 RM parcels - Slides 10,11,12 & 13 are repeated over the
next three sessions, it's a bit repetitive & heavy handed

Will stay for now until Michael Larkin team refresh the sales/service
conversations in Q4, although the conversation isn't one of the slides
Frank has asked to be moved. I think the slides are necessary on all
three sessions, as they reinforce the message about income generation,
and give the delegates a chance to think about linked sales
opportunities, and also recap on the session they've just done.

Change 43pt1 PFWW Inland - as above

Will stay for now until Michael Larkin team refresh the sales/service
conversations in Q4, although the conversation isn't one of the slides
Frank has asked to be moved. I think the slides are necessary on all
three sessions, as they reinforce the message about income generation,
and give the delegates a chance to think about linked sales
opportunities, and also recap on the session they've just done.

Change 43pt2 International Parcels - as above

Will stay for now until Michael Larkin team refresh the sales/service
conversations in Q4, although the conversation isn't one of the slides
Frank has asked to be moved. I think the slides are necessary on all
three sessions, as they reinforce the message about income generation,
and give the delegates a chance to think about linked sales
opportunities, and also recap on the session they've just done.

Rita
Kendellen

Change Passports (42pt3) -Passport session would be easier if we
had the previous example used from previous module

No changes - Session was changed to add a blank passport to be
completed by delegates initially and left the option for 1 or 2 practical
examples in this session. Only one feedback so leaving as it is for now.

Change 42pt2 Bureau - Pre order process does not work on HOL so
quick overview only needed. Rem in currency to each SU and
concentrate on buy and sell of Euro Dollars only. Carry on with
Travel Money Card as it is. Overview only of travellers cheques as
we cannot process.

No Changes - Only one slide for Pre Order (more than previously) and
says to talk through as cannot be processed on HOL. Rem in of
currency to be added to prep guide. Travellers Cheques can be
processed using dummy cheques available as Adhoc item.

Change - Bureau session needs to be made more appropriate to
offices on course especially if only Pre order/Euro on demand

No changes - Courses are mixed so this is down to the delivery of the
session being made appropriate for the audience. We need to include
content that is suitable for all delegates

Change 42pt1 Travel Insurance - slides 16&17 are the wrong way

round Changed
Change 42pt2 Travel Money - slides 34&35 wrong way round Changed
Change 42pt3 IPS - slides 11&12 wrong way round Changed

Bob Collins

Keep 74 Redirection - no issues

Reviewed the handouts and material with Anne Lealman during the
summer. Anil made changes and on EASE via Myself.
All timings to be reviewed with general timetable review

Training Q3 Review
December 2011
POL00033611

POL00033611

Keep 45 Security - no issues

Arranged review with Dave Pettitt & Mark Dinsdale for Grapevine invited
to FTL's WTL's and with support from Neil Stewart & Dave Young
agrred amendments and contents and placed on EASE.

All timings to be reviewed with general timetable review

Keep 54pt1 POCA existing accounts - no issues

All amendments made to fit any changes during the year. All timings to
be reviewed with general timetable review

Keep 54pt2 POCA opening etc. - no issues

All amendments made to fit any changes during the year. All timings to
be reviewed with general timetable review

Chris
Gilding

Lose 46 Cash Management - Relevant only to Sub Postmasters.
Can be covered much better on site.

No change - Important to stress the impact on business profitability for
all to see.

Lose PSA — daily - A few seconds after each session is all that is
needed for trainees to enter any comments on their PSA. We also
have 1% hours on the last day to catch up if necessary.

Agree best way forward (a) as listed here or (b) formal sessions remain.
Await outcome of timetable changes in Qtr 4

Change 1&4 Intro H&S - Wording on slide e "interesting" about
yourself.

"Interesting" removed

Change Business Strategy - 3/4 shows values as FACTS

Was updated in June 11

Change Introduction to horizon 8/1 - Q3 customer has £5

Was updated to £6 on 7th July

Change HOL Help - Exercise similar to that for COM’s. Use
questions that we know will be asked in branch eg DVLA VED;
stores catalogue; country codes; customs; prohibitions etc

Not essential as this is an exercise in navigation only. However 3
questions have been altered to cover regular searches..

Change PSA - Retention — how long? Who it’s sent to — Contract
Admin Team not branch support Team

Retention Periods listed at end of guidance notes.

PSA needs to be revisited as we feel at the present it does not give a
guide to how the delegate has performed in the classroom.

More detail required.

Stock balancing is only 2 slides and that is taking about cash
management, which has already been covered in an hour’s session.
It needs to have more reference to all aspects of balancing — for
example, TP and BP, net discrepancies’ settling centrally,
transaction corrections and rems.

2 new slides added to explain balancing terminology and accounting
procedures for Gains & Losses

Add more information regarding how a branch works difference as above
between office & stock unit, TPs & BPs, how Horizon accounts for

transactions.

Change 184 Intro H&S - "something about yourself. As above

Change Business Strategy - New values are FEB

Was updated in June 11

Introduction to horizon 8/1 - Change this to £6

Was updated to £6 on 7th July

Change 1 and 4 session H & S - slide 14 mis spelling shows
LACATION

Version 1.4 - changed to Location

Change Slide 3 H&S - add the word NO TEXTING on mobiles

Wording changed to - Mobiles - switch off. Only use during breaks, your
full attention is required

Add to H&S slide 16 - Green line around items for 10kgms plus

No change as H&S is an overview session only, don't want to get

Training Q3 Review
December 2011

5
POL00033611
POL00033611

bogged down in too much detail. Also Green Line is no longer a
requirement. Parcelforce session covers this.

Introduction to horizon trainers notes - Add after slide 5 but before 6,
delegates need to log on with the cto user name, create themselves,
THEN they log out and log back in using their new user. Then
complete the practical exercise

Notes added to slide 6

Session 46 slide 3 notes - add in calculation how we got to the final
sum.

Explanation of how the sum is calculated has been added to the notes

The new Help navigation exercise - This new exercise crucial to the
new course to ‘sow the seed’ of the importance of the Help function
was not in my prep box (2 weeks ago). I had to print off my own
copies.

Confirmation required that this will in future be included.

Sandra confirmed that 8,2 is a Reprep item, 8,3 is adhoc and should be
printed by FSA's as required

Not sure what you cover in the ‘intro’ bit but we need to make sure
that we bring this session into line with our Post Office Story .... (do
we show our heritage video?) ... are the values in line with the PO
Story stuff around care, passion and trust?

Also need to make sure there is something in the intro about our
future aspirations and the major change programmes going on
across the business i.e. NT, Crown Transformation, Front Office of
Government etc.

Bit concerned that there is absolutely no mention in the objectives
about focusing on providing a high standard of ‘customer service’ ...
the focus seems to be sales and transactional I think the first or
second bullet needs to reflect the importance of providing a high
standard of service to the customer (as well as selling of course!) but
if you get the first right the sale will come as_a matter of course.

8 Intro to HOL Helpline - no issues N/A
46 Cash Management - no issues N/A
3 Business Awareness - no issues N/A
10 Balancing - no issues N/A

Frank Blue Cashcheques transaction especially is now very uncommon Agree we can take out the session as we cover HMRC cheques in the
Martin and could be covered on site if necessary this would give more time I same session wich covers security etc, will look at Paystation session
in class to introduce Paystation and stress to the delegates’ how once the timetable has been reviewed
important Paystation is to the future of the business rather than
spend time on paper based transactions that we as a business are
moving away from.
Change: Combine the Cashcheques and DWP sessions which are
very similar There is no need also for 2 separate questionnaires, Good idea combining both sessions and having one questionnaire but
these could also be combined. will review when we change timetable
Training Q3 Review 6

December

2011
POL00033611

POL00033611

51pt1 CheqDebitCredit Card - General note: Would be good to have
a slide to explain what we can/can't accept cheques for.

No, and the reason for this is we could be constantly changing the slide
if the way we settle a transaction changes, bill payments normally have
the method of payment on them, there was a list of products sent out
telling us what we can't take cheques for and we can use debit cards for
most transactions and if their not sure we all ways ask the customer to
try anyway.

Change DWP answer sheet - Full driving licence if paper one, or full/
provisional photo driving licence

Q.7 would a driving licence be acceptable when cashing a Girocheque,
change wording on answer sheet to what is on feedback, yes can
change

Keep 16 Postage Stamps - no issues No change
Keep 51pt2 Cashcheques - no issues No change
Julia Mann I Lose 70/72 International Letters etc. Slide 9 as all others of this type I This slide needs to be left as it is at moment, as the Sales Team are
- too confusing on a slide. Small packet etc lose updating/re-designing slides and conversations.
Change 70/72 International Letters etc. Plain text with 3 headings Queried with Frank - 02/12 - response received 14/12. Not
and list underneath of what can be enclosed in each. Wings are implemented as the aim here, is for delegates to use HOL Help to
stupid define the 3 rates of International Mail — Letter, Small Packet and
Printed Paper.
Session 70/72 - add cash and jewellery must be sent in polyops, Queried with Frank - 02/12 - response received 14/12. Not implemented
counter focus has picture as I checked HOL Help and couldn’t find any reference that states cash
and jewellery must be sent in polyops. When I enquired about this
further and asked the contributor where a picture of a polyop could be
added the answer was to slide 23, however there isn’t a slide 23!
Pete Change Day 7 — MVLs (66 & 68) All V11 do not show correct prices I Cannot be altered as V11’s and Tax Discs will
Jackson on HOL screen , We should if possible just carry out transaction of 1, I always be out of date
PLG , 1 Motorcycle & Pc , The V11 for Disabled does not come up
as a zero price so it makes it awkward to show delegates what to Extra slide put into session regarding 2 day rule.
expect. Add in about the break in a tax disc in a slide with regard to,
the customer can purchase it only 2 days before the end of the
month, for the new month or have it starting from the 1st from the
month they came which means they have lost 3 weeks but still have
to pay for it to be legally on the road.
Any scope for mentioning AEI service? * To remain as part of the on-site training as by proportion of delegates
there will only be a few.
Add handout for spoiling tax disc’s to prep box Added to process
37 Postal Orders - Slide 10 not in keeping with other presentations The slide is designed to put the delegates into the
when indicating a practical is to be done. correct frame of mind. Also same style in MVL’s
66868 MVLs - no issues No action required
50 DVLA Premium Service - no issues No action required
David Change 59860 NS&I - Losing the work, premium bonds can be NS&l slides already amended and sent 7/11

Training Q3 Review
December 2011
POL00033611

POL00033611
Patrick incorporated into PO Savings, which I shall comment on later
NS&l products from course leave only Premium bonds and INVAC.
account in light of recent events NS&l slides already amended and sent 7/11
7pt2 Regulatory Compliance — Slide 22 add to notes instead. Noted - full 7pt 2 session is currently with Georgina Blair (risk &
Slide 30 The video (if available) duplicates what has already been assurance reg compliance training manager) for a full review to ensure it
trained is current & fit for purpose. Slide 30 reinforces the message
Lose 47 ETop ups - Slide 18 as before - its on a handout simply adds a visual to help with product knowledge
Lose Reg Compliance - FSA, AML and Mails Noted - full 7pt 2 session is currently with Georgina Blair ( risk &
assurance reg compliance training manager for a full review to ensure it
is current & fit for purpose
Compliance workbooks or learning packs should still be issued as
delegates that have been on the course have not been able to read
up before taking the on line tests, and have no points of reference
afterwards. Escalated to Shirley hailstones for consideration
7pt2 Regulatory Compliance - Slide 4 says "Activity One" but there
are no other "activity" slides. will take the word ‘one' off it
Reg Compliance - Receipts delegates bring in do not state which
tests they have passed, they need to be titled by the compliance
team Georgina Blair is aware of issue and looking for a fix
7pt1 & 5 Take over stock unit & Datestamps - no issues nla
59&60 NS&l - no issues na
Lee Heil Classroom should be made a specialist that is not to say that no one I Every FTM should be able to deliver a Classroom course and is the role
else should ever do it. All should be given the opportunity to cover if I of FTL to manage the activity and performance of each individual to
necessary. We feel it gets watered down if it is not done for a while, I ensure they can perform this role confidently. If they were too introduce
and this is not fair on the delegates. ‘Specialists’ it would restrict us to the number of courses run and the
location. Currently we have scheduled FTM to deliver classrooms that
have not done them for a while but these often revert back to the FTM
that performs them regularly and we also have to schedule the other
FTM for shadowing thus doubling up resource.
Time needs to be allocated to ensure materials are up to date in This would increase days allocated to classroom and would reduce
CTO long before prep day as not enough time to get up to date resource available. This cannot be done too early as the materials will
POPOS especially if OOD material missing in prep box. be out of date for the course but a possible solution would be that the
heath and safety check is carried out at the CTO which every 3 months.
The materials could be checked during this visit.
Keep the sessions so that just 1 FSA can do the whole course rather I As per description. It give consistency for the delegates and allows the
than in the past having 3 FSA’s to do modules 1,2 and 3. Works well I FTM's to work well across the 6-8days
and is easier to resource.
Linda Lose 30 Giro Practical - Can be covered better in daily revision isolated comment
McLaughlin

18 RM Inland mail - slide 16 unnecessary.
Slide 17 unnecessary in conversations handout

no change, useful for re-iteration

Training Q3 Review
December 2011
POL00033611
POL00033611

slide 26 unnecessary
slide 38 as slide 17

RM Inland Mail Session - Not enough time scheduled

capture until quarter 4, new timetable may be imminent

Royal Mail 1% & 2"4 Class / Rec Del/Special Delivery (18) The
slides from 1-22 are correct and should follow on with Royal mail 1%
& 2" which helps the delegate to get used to using post office labels
etc as this would be the first time they would be using the horizon
icons , printer, cash etc.

changed to keep

Recorded Delivery and Special Delivery would be easier to cover on
day separately. To cover all three sessions above in 2.30 is difficult.

capture until quarter 4, new timetable may be imminent

Session 18. Revisit the order of the slides, mail segregation and cop I No change.
are mentioned with special delivery and should be in with the first

and second class slides, because neither cop or mail segs applies to

special delivery.

Mails revert to 1°,2"¢ recorded, special as way of introducing No change.

products

18 RM Inland mail - Slide 8 untidy.
Slide 9 too many words, this could be mostly notes

Slide 8 untidy: no change required> 9 - could reduce and move to
notes?

28pt1 Santander Deposits - no issues Updated
28pt 2 Aps/reversals - no issues Updated
I've just completed a classroom course and session 28 could do with I Updated

sorting out — unless it’s already being looked at. Powerpoint still
shows mixed business deposits and most of the practicals are still
for Girobank or A&L Giro.

Sandra
McBride

Lose all out of date material being sent to CTO and in prep box.

Upon further investigation it appears some of the Financial Services
leaflets have been out of date. I have discussed this with Stock
Services and instead of the item list being checked on an Adhoc basis
this will now be checked on a weekly basis and any out of date items will
be replaced in the Training Stores. Also the Travel insurance leaflet was
missing from the box, which has now been added.

Prep boxes have missing handouts/brochures.

Email sent to Adrian for more detail

Could the sub postmasters be issued with a simplified version of the
toolkit that was given to WH Smiths managers, we think this would
save on interventions.

Unfortunately the answer is No. Most of the information is available on
Horizon Help and in hard copy format the toolkit would go out of date
very quickly so is deemed as a Business risk. It would also be costly to
produce and maintain.

DDA pack — is it sent to the office or do they just inherit one? Or
could they have one sent to them with the joining instructions so we
can cover it in the classroom.

The DDA Pack is posted out to the new agent by HR as part of the
Welcome Pack.

Embed DVD's into the sessions. Example — mails session DVD
session 18. This was very advantageous.

Yes, this is possible if the DVD's are available in electronic format.

Prep boxes - out of date leaflets included within.

Email sent to Pete for more detail

Training Q3 Review
December 2011
POL00033611
POL00033611

With the current format we can tell delegates’ How to do something
and let them do it on the horizon terminal. But we cant “Show Then”
in a full classroom could we have a spare kit in the classroom are
more HOL screenshots in the PowerPoint presentations.

This would be too costly to have spare kit and there is currently no
budget available. Each delegate has their own kit to be able to navigate
themselves.

80 Feedback & Closure - Last few slides could be in a better order.

Slides rearranged and added to EASE

There are many areas as a ctc trainer that I have had to deal with in
a short period of time, and its then we build up the rapport with the
new delegates, if we know they have left the course happy and
understood , then the transition will not be so daunting.

Observation - Emailed David to discuss with contributor

It would be nice to have a CA to sit in on a session to see how
delegates are doing on the course, but understand they are busy,
but we have to pick up the pieces when they are struggling.

Observation - Emailed David to deal with (invite CA to attend WTL?)

It would be useful to ask a member of the Sales Team to take a 1% -
2 hour session on sales as they are more experienced than us.

All of the team received training on the new sales sessions from a
member of the Sales Team in the spring. The Sales and Service Team
are revising conversations which will be ready for Q4 then we will look
how it impacts on the sessions.

Would like to see a place where comments can be left by the on site
trainer, e.g. Subpostmaster generally very good however there was
an issue when his Paystation crashed three times in one day or
Subpostmaster had his rubbish stolen whilst I was on site. This
would assist with the PTC process as whoever was completing this
element would have an understanding of any problems the Sub was
having.

Email sent to Chris G to add to PSA or discuss other suggestions

Sue
Richardson

Can we find a compromise, for existing Postmasters who are
required to attend classroom training. There have been several
occasions recently, where postmasters have attended courses. For
example Twechar, where the postmaster had 10 years previous
experience, but had taken over the Office from his father. He only
required the conversations, to boost Office sales.

Castlemilk road where the Postmaster had owned and run Burnbank
for over two years, so only required the conversations.

Fortunately the attendance of both Postmasters was not detrimental,
or disruptive to the new trainees, but this could easily be the case in
future.

In addition, the above examples could easily produce negative
Kendata scores as a result of attending a course needlessly.

We will provide clarification to the CA's that it should be the OIC that
attends and where that person is an existing Agent/colleague,
consideration should be given to sending them on the 2 day classroom
course delivered to on-site conversions rather than the full 6 or 8 days.
However, they have the opportunity to chose depending on the past
performance.

Is it necessary for a existing Postmaster to attend the classroom
training and on-site training if they have several years experience
when applying for a second or third office, this seems a waste of
resource?

The views of the Contracts managers have been sought.

Training
December

Q3 Review
2011
POL00033611
POL00033611

Train the trainer? Quality needs to be good, Sub postmasters are
investing a lot of money and poor training also has a knock on effect
when it comes to an audit.

This is an observation rather than a suggestion.

Is it possible that post masters that have experience of the counter,
and are competent could sign a disclaimer to exclude them from the
classroom, as it is distracting for new entrants and can also be de-
motivating?

This is being driven by us as a requirement and I am not sure a
"disclaimer" would be in the best interests of customers.

We keep getting experienced Spmr’s on CTC’s and after discussing
it with my team we agree that that they are not a benefit to the
course. Not that they are purposely trying to disrupt or spoil
anything. It’s just that we find They get bored listening to what they
already know. Some have had to pay extra wages so they can
attend to be told what they know already. They try to help others
which is not always a good thing as they show them the shortcut’s
etc. When they do exercises on Horizon they complete well before
the others and this has a detrimental affect on the others confidence.
Some contradict or tell them “how it should be done, never mind
what the Post Office say’s”

Please don't think we are being negative, quite the opposite. Our
suggestions are that

Have a 2 day course for them where we can concentrate on matters
such as branch standards, compliance, sales, etc. Arrange a training
regime that suits them, such as on site.

1. The trainer assess their capability

2. Helps any member of staff that may need support

3. Concentrate on any specific area the Spmr requests help on

4. Agree with the Spmr what we can do best for his office

5. Agree with the Contracts Advisor this course of action

6. Have a signed pro-forma that the Spmr signs to say he is OK with
this process.

Good suggestion and this may link in well with the sales & service team
revision in Q4 where this will be considered.

Also we think we could look to have a different process on-site for
Spmr’s who are not going to have an active part in the running of the
office. If we try to get them to be behind the counter for the 6 days
training this leads to problems.

It should be the OIC not the Agent if they are going to be absentee's but
this must be notified to the CA initially.

Add: Details and Application for Grapevine included in New Agent
Welcome Pack. To raise awareness of the Grapevine service and
encourage sign up from all Agents on appointment

Passed to Lee to arrange

Many of the new delegates who are spm do not seem to have
contact from HR & Recruitment with regard to contracts, transfer
dates change due to problems with outgoing, so may be if both
teams could contact the new spm whilst they are on the course it

Passed to Lee to investigate

Training
December

Q3 Review
2011
POL00033611
POL00033611

would avoid cancellation or changing transfer dates at the last
minute,

Most of the time the spm have not received contracts and additional
papers from HR.

Passed to Lee to investigate

Not all FSA’s are trained to complete classroom training thus limiting
our resource.

This should be flagged to Sue as a gap to be addressed with the RNM's

We should be holding ‘Train the Trainer’ sessions to make sure we
are all delivering the sales sections in the same way.

This will hopefully follow the Sales & service review - TBA

All Owners

Loose notes reference to pouch numbers as there are only two
pouches

Inconsistency on slides — some have twirling numbers, some have
showering — the format needs to be simplified.

Any questions at the end, should be build into the last slide. This
also tells the trainer it's the end of the session slides.

Review sessions & slides to ensure relevant and no mistakes (184,
slide 7, there is no test - session 7 pt 2, slide 3, Or Branch?)

General Observations: The whole appearance of the presentations is
mixed. It's quite obvious they've been written by different people.
The result is an incohesive look and feel to the course which makes
it harder to deliver and makes the trainer look less professional

Timetable 8 days - Too much to cover in the 8 days, but the new delegates do I To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
struggle to take all on board with the timetable sessions
Focus CTC on core products and leave sales until a later date To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
Spmr's feel the sessions are too rushed. Too much info in a short To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
period of time (Three people commented on this)
Day 5 End of day - no work done? To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
Day 6 Stock balancing session - No stock has been used since last I To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
balance
Day 8 - Again stock balancing session, only thing to check MVL’s To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
session
More practical’s to be included in classroom sessions. This would To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
give a better understanding of their knowledge of transactions and
also improve our ability to complete the filling out of the PSA
Change the length of time spent on Royal mail sessions. It always To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
takes me twice as long as the time allotted.
Change the running order of the classroom course. To me it is To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
totally illogical. What other business would tell their new recruits and
agents who they were and what they about after four days?
Change Course time - Increase length of course to 9 days. Mails To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
sessions aren't long enough and not enough practicals
Change Cash declarations - With regards to the classroom course To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Training Q3 Review 12

December

2011
POL00033611
POL00033611

on the timetable there is no mention of end of day reports on some
days. As we are to encourage daily cash declarations enabling good
cash management, maybe this should be scheduled on the timetable
especially for those just beginning to deliver the course.

Add: Knowledge gain test - Can we have a pre and post course test
(only 5 minutes needed?), similar to the one we had on EASE for the
old module 2? The test could be on all aspects of the PO and
classroom course, is given out at the start and the end of the course,
and would give the FSA another indicator for the delegates’
knowledge gain

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Since review my time in the classroom has been limited so I can only
judge on a couple of days; Timings seem tight to get the course
done in 8 days. Long days reduce learning ability. Course being
rushed would be worse. Suggest an extra day to make a 9 day
course, which would still be 1 less day than before modular course.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Too much to cover in the 8 days, but the new delegates do struggle
to take all on board with the timetable sessions. Suggest back to 10
days

To be reviewed in 4 following the Sales & Service review

Day 1- should include Business awareness (sess. 3) due to the
history of the Post Office, business value, retail standards and
mystery shopper

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Security (45) should also be on day one to highlight importance

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Day 2 — add Postage (16) and Cheqs, Deb/Cred (51) card to
second day. Follow on with Post office card account 54 pt 1 and
Per/ online Banking 51 pt 3

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

AS SOON AS ALL SESSIONS ARE CARRIED OUT ON THE
DELEGATES OWN POSITIONS THEN WE SHOULD BE
COVERING END OF DAY EVERY DAY to make the delegates
used to routine they will be carrying out in there branches, and not till
day 3 as our current time table.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Change Day 3 - balancing, if a course starts on a Monday then day 3
should be kept as if they are in the branch to get the delegates used
to Wednesday balancing,

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Moneygram (76) should be added into the 5 days as if a delegate is
not attending the full 8 days then it has to be covered by the onsite
trainer.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Practical Revision - Add a 40 min session beginning of all days from
day 2 onwards, covering mailwork, banking, giro, APs etc as course
progresses. I get feedback on every course from delegates saying
they want more time using the kit processing common transactions

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Reversals / Common Problems - Build in a problem solving session

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Training
December

Q3 Review
2011

13
POL00033611
POL00033611

separately into course covering common errors and how to deal with
them ie Adjusting cheques, AP eversals, Giro Reversals, Spoilt
Labels, Reject Labels

Timetable / Days Allocated - We can cover the course in how ever
many days are allocated by cutting the content and quality down.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

I believe we need to find what content is actually wanted and
needed, write the sessions and allow adequate time to present them
properly ( by time testing the sessions ) build in time for revision,
make maximum use of the Horizon kit, and relegating some of the
talking sessions to handouts gven before the delegates arrive, to
make use of the kit to maximum effect.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Timetable needs adjusting. Too much information on Day 1.
Postage, etc. should be on Day 2 with Day 1 covering the admin
sessions, Compliance, Securtity, etc.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Not long enough in classroom.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Not enough practical sessions. More opportunity to put into practice
what has been learned. (three people commented this way)

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Day 1 of the counter training course is too busy. To do the
Introduction/Horizon/Stock unit/Postage/All the mails/
Cheques/Postal orders on the first day is too much for them to take
in. 18‘ -2"*-recorded delivery-special delivery is too important. The
Mails session needs to be changed to a first session later in the
week. (All NFSA’s who deliver CTC said this)

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Change: The Insurance and Moneygram sessions are only available
to delegates who do Passports/MVL.

To be reviewed in 4 following the Sales & Service review

There should be 15 mins each day for delegates to complete their
PSA.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

On day 5 the delegates do a balance but there are no transactions to
print reports for. This would be a good day to do a practical session.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Weekly evaluation at the end of 6 days — take time out from PSA.
We feel an evaluation is a better guide to delegates understanding.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Add: Knowledge quizzes for example — the ones used in module 2
for the financial products.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

More practical’s, delegates find hands on more beneficial.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

End of day cash declarations should be on the timetable for every
day as a minimum.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Shut down time needed for course.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Extra end of day routine needed

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Timetable needs looking at, delivery time for sessions needs to be
based on actual delivery

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Training Q3 Review
December 2011
POL00033611

December 2011

POL00033611
Course timetable too tight, Needs to be 9 days split 7 & 2 To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
No proper evaluation on how delegate has understood or performed I To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
during the course.
Extend to 7 or 9 days to allow more time for practicals To be reviewed in 4 following the Sales & Service review
More practical materials are needed. To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
Timetable needs looking at especially if full course and slow learners I To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
Not enough practical’s To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
Strange that Insurances are not covered on six day part as these are I To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
key to the business
Found timetable very restricting, no real time for lengthy questions or I To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
lack of understanding by delegates.
Mails on first day a bit heavy as not a lot of time given to practicing To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
with HOL.
Business awareness needs to be earlier to ensure delegates know __I To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
what is at stake for them and the business as it is a partnership.
Moneygramm all officers do why only MVL offices etc get training To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
More practical’s needed to make balancing and end of day more To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
realistic
Add practical sessions to make End of day day5 and Stock To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
balancing day 6 more apt
Moneygramm to be included in 6 day part of course as ALL offices To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
can do it
Change timetable to flow better — why do we wait until day 4 to tell To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
delegates about our business
Add section on Paystation To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
MoneyGram - Move from Day 8 until sometime in first 6 days as To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
delegates’ who only attend the first 6 days miss out on a transaction
that is now transacted in all branches and is also a very high income
generator.
More time in class needed to practise transactions. Overall I found I To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
the class very tight on time especially for the delegates’ only
attending for 6 days .I did have more time over the last 2 days could
all delegates’ not attend for 8 days ?
Add: Recap/practical - 30 mins daily - Most trainers actually do this To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
at the start of each day, recapping the previous days’ transactions,
which is essential to confirm understanding and to give confidence to
the trainees. Therefore why not make it an official part of the course.
Change: Day 1 is overloaded. Suggest moving Cheque acceptance I To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review
to day 2 and Postal Orders to day 4. This will give more scope to
very important day 1 which currently is under too much pressure.(

Training Q3 Review 15
POL00033611
POL00033611

the HOL Help function exercise needs extra time if we are to achieve
our goal of selling it!!) (See Timetable embedded on 2nd tab of
Excel Sheet)

76 Moneygram - Should be in first 6 days

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

The content of the Counter Skills Course. It is only the timings and
running order that is wrong.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Day 1 - Keep sessions 1 &4, 8 and 7pt1 &5
Day 2 — Keep sessions 7pt2 , 70 & 72, 46, 47
Day 3 — no changes, can move sessions around
Day 4 - as above

Day 6 - as above

Day 7 - as above

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Classroom Course duration & content - Cannot comment since I
have not run a course for a very long time.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Duration of course 6 to 8 days.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Needs to be longer as can be difficult to get every thing done
especially with a full course of delegates.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

I only shadowed for the last 2 days of the course which covered
passports, car tax and car/bike/home/life insurances but I found the
sessions very rushed and only gave a very brief overview with no
real depth

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

I feel that the new module does not cover any means of test after
day 5 and day 8. Previously with the old course we covered a
course on day 5 which gave an indication on how the delegates
under stood the transactions and the course, which also meant that
any weak areas could be forwarded on to the onsite trainer , The
same with day 7 & 8 there is no test to show if the delegates have
understood the sessions.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

I have heard from previous delegates with the group how much they
have to take in such a short time.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Over all my main changes would be to have a 10 day course as
before, and having day 2 on all sales products , The secret and
perfect branch all covered at the same time.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Also to have a test on both day 5 and day 10 so we know how well
the delegates have done and also it gives the ctc trainer an idea on
how the course went.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

PSA time at end of course who goes first? What keeps others
occupied and ensures privacy when delivering the feedback to
individuals

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Feedback from a new agent at PTV — As generally for most
branches at least a third of transactions in branch are mails should

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

Training
December

Q3 Review
2011
POL00033611
POL00033611

we spend more time percentage in the classroom doing lots of
practical exercises, playing customer and clerk, so that they are fully
competent with mails items, This would allow time on site to do the
easy scanning, etc. and postmaster will be more confident with initial
customers and transactions.

Shorter classroom - Shorter classroom showing the basics, increase
onsite so they get to know what the office requires and cover less
common transactions, at times we leave them too early and unready

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

51pt1,51pt3 & 54pt1 - Merge these three sessions and allocate the
time to cover properly. They all make use of same technology on
HOL and can be run well together. As personal banking cannot be
processed on HOL just to give overview only on these.

To be reviewed in Q4 following the Sales & Service review

questions in their own way. Then, at later visits, the correct
conversations are rarely heard.

Stakeholder I Change requested Output
Chris Change Minimum Service Standards (conversations) - No problems I The conversations are under review by the Sales Team. At present
Fayers with these personally but most new entrants seem to want to ask the I these are the agreed standards from the Sales team who have stressed

that, whilst certain words could be changed, the overall meaning has to
stay the same to ensure consistency. We can only monitor them whist
they are in training (onsite or classroom) so if they change the words
after that we can't tell. On a positive note it is better to have a level of
sales conversations in the branch, even if they are not worded as
originally intended. As long as they are compliantly done I would not see
it as a waste.

Minimum Service Standards (conversations) - Is it just me? I’ve tried
to instil the correct conversations into the folk I’ve trained but they all
want to ‘say it their way’. Then at later visits, all of the work done on
these conversations is proved to be a waste since they are not
having them as they should be.

The conversations are under review by the Sales Team. At present
these are the agreed standards from the Sales team who have stressed
that, whilst certain words could be changed, the overall meaning has to
stay the same to ensure consistency. We can only monitor them whist
they are in training (onsite or classroom) so if they change the words
after that we can't tell. On a positive note it is better to have a level of
sales conversations in the branch, even if they are not worded as
originally intended. As long as they are compliantly done I would not see
it as a waste.

Dave Ogleby

Pre-Training Checklist - Could the following be added to the list —
Are all forms and leaflets the current versions? If not, can you
please order the current versions before the Branch Transfers? (This
will aid and encourage new PM to practice conversations)

Yes - can be added straight away

Chris
Gilding

PSA Alter PSA so if you mark a subject as Red then a comment
feeds through to the action plan (make it the same as the CAT
reporting tool).

PSA Updated so that Name and Branch from Cover Page flow through
to Action Plan. On site tab has button to click if any RED items appear,
these will then flow through to the Action Plan. New tab added for PO

Training Q3 Review
December 2011

17
POL00033611

POL00033611
Local on site.
Julia Mann I Lose Ready To serve - This is something the Subby may do for a Some areas are now Weekly activities and not Daily. Retail Standards
couple of days and then it’s just going to be forgotten about. were used to define what should be Daily & Weekly, also I sought
Maybe it should be a ‘once a week’ task, just like checking scales is, I feedback from Mark Lawrence. Some activities have been added
and not every day. together where they were similar and a new Daily activity has been
added - Confidential waste destroyed as per guidelines. New version is
V1.2 December 2011.
Ready to Serve - Change to a form that is completed once a week
(Monday) See above
Change Ready to Serve Document so that it is completed weekly
rather than daily, by the end of week 1 the Subpostmaster just goes
down the list and puts a tick against whatever was ticked the
previous day without reading the question and consequently the
form loses it value. See above
Ready to Serve document is useful for new agents to prepare
themselves. Maybe not to be used on a daily basis when they are
more used to the job, but new agent feedback has said as an intial
aid it was very useful. See above
Keep Ready to Serve - This requires the Subby to do a check every
day which is too much and not really required. As a result, they tend
to do it for about a week or two and then forget it. It would be better if
it were a ‘once a week’ task and maybe the completion of it should
be checked at audit. See above
Pete SPMR Self Audit - No problems with this
Jackson + These are positive comments — No action required
Lee Heil Change the staffing levels at some PO Local’s. It is impossible to No change as Classroom courses for PO Locals being introduced during

train out back on and all the sales assistants and keep the branch
from being error free.

rollout.

Onsite too short at times - Once the transfer audit is done, the
balance is shown on a Wednesday and a half day Saturday there is
not always time to cover topics

Standard training package. The training package would have to
increase. Forms part of this review.

Change - Transfer day-even if transfer audit is efficient (cash/stock
neat/tidy/well presented)-delays on transfer of deeds/funds due to
solicitors/banks can make it a late opening (or even next day). Can
funds/deeds be transferred the day before?

Not a bad idea but there are problems that arise from this. .ie. Who has
access to building, keys, security. It is more often than not agreed with
both the outgoing and incoming of their transfer date and it would have
to be made clear to them that the deeds/funds should be transferred the
day before. This has been done before but it meant that transfers were
arranged for Wednesday afternoons and at 5.30pm to allow deeds/funds
to be transferred. This still caused problems as with any sale of
business or house it all depends on when the funds transferred.

When training on site hours tend to be longer than when auditing so
can accrue quickly. Also time to prepare handouts, /finish audit

This would reduce the resource available to achieve the Audits plan and
accommodate transfers and classroom/onsite training and any other

Training Q3 Review
December 2011

18
POL00033611

POL00033611

reports / fill in PSAs /Action Plans needed,& especially with FUB now
a longer activity much longer -. I suggest day after FUB as an admin
day (if a late balance how do you get 11 hours break if an early audit
start required), and a prep day before. If last day on site is a
Wednesday, an audit Thursday AM is again inadvisable.

BAU activity. It is better to conduct audits on a Thursday following
balance and TP. It is the responsibility of the FTL to manage the
performance and activity of their team and should flag this up to NSA
team as an exception but this would not be the rule.

Sandra
McBride

Introduce the sales model to Sub Pm and coach them how to coach
their staff by using the science behind the conversations. Also how
to run focus days and staff warm ups

The Sales and Service Team are revising conversations which will be
ready for Q4 then we will look how it impacts on the sessions/training.

I haven't really done that much on-site training, however I don’t see
there is much change here. The main issue I think on site is training
a new PM to run a well managed branch and some time in a
classroom setup going through basic routines, i.e. Remittances, MVL
procedures etc I am sure would be useful, let’s call a one day
induction.

Email sent to Chris G for more information

Rita
Kendellen

PO Local - General - Completing the transfer and then expecting the
branch to open in the afternoon is a very optimistic expectation. In
all but a handful of cases the money transfer for the business does
not take place until at least 2pm on the day of the transfer and it is
quite often later than that. Once the money has transferred the
incoming is then pulled in all directions, trying to learn from the
outgoing what all the keys open and close, learning the locking up
process, how the tills work, dealing with stock takers, removal men,
agreeing meter readings, putting beds together so the children have
somewhere to sleep that night, numerous phone calls from the
bakery/ milk/ newspaper supplier wanting to set up accounts etc etc.
The last thing they want to do serve in the PO. So you either get the
staff running the branch, which is OK as you can get them coached
in minimum sales standards (if required) but this could obviously be
completed later in the week However as the on site FSA you want
the new Subpostmaster and it is very rare to see him/her. If a single
person branch you get a very harassed person who wants/needs to
be elsewhere and he/she takes nothing in. No matter how much
you stress on the pre transfer telephone call what the expectation is
in my experience it does not happen successfully very often, I feel
we should go back to lunchtime transfers and leave the PO closed
pm. As branches are generally busier mornings that afternoons
anyway less customers would inconvenienced. Branches were
there are staff or the Sub wants to could still open after the transfer
once the money has gone through and it would make better us of
FSA time as we would not need to attend until lunchtime in all but
the busiest branches where it may be beneficial to go a bit earlier.

Understand what is being said and the importance of maintaining a
survive for customers is key. To transfer in the afternoon and start
training the following day would require extra resource. To be able to
understand if late opening is a big issue a question will be added to
Transfer SharePoint for Qtr 4 to identify the time the office opened to the
public following the transfer. This will allow the gathering of information
and be able to make the appropriate decision based on fact.

Training
December

Q3 Review
2011
POL00033611

POL00033611

We would not to sit around for at least half a day and sometimes
considerably more awaiting the transfer of funds. I am of course
aware that there would be an additional cost of one day on site
training if it was decided to stick to the same delivery package as at
present, but this would in my opinion be justified as the value of day
one on site in terms of training is generally worthless.

All Owners I From my experience both are working well, and feedback from the
postmasters has been positive.
Works well and shouldn't be changed
‘Bost Transfer Contact
Stakeholder I Change requested Output
Pete Lose cash check at PTV, the office will be audited with in the first 9
Jackson months + Acash check has to be done at every visit

I don’t think the current procedures are relevant when the branch
transfers from one nominee to another and the staff remain in place.
Much of the one month and three month contact questions simply do
not apply.

* The questions are to establish good working practises are in place as
well as monitoring the new Agents progress

Lose the 1 month phone call. (four people commented on this)

* To remain - contradicts other views and offers vital support

Lose the one month phone call and the PTV at three months and
change it to a PTV at one month and PTA at 6-9 month stage.
Generally if a Subpostmaster is struggling with a particular element it
will have raised itself by one month, it is much easier to sort out
problems on site rather than over the telephone, if additional training/
support is required the Sub may be reluctant to ask for it over the
telephone but on site you can see the issue. It seems daft to me to
leave it until the 3 month visit if the Sub tells you over the telephone
that everything is fine at the one month stage.

+ Schedule and T&S will not allow a 1 month visit unless after the call it
becomes an intervention issue due to problems the office is having
issues

If three elements of PTC are to be maintained then the questions
should be less repetitive. What is the point of asking at one month
“are you aware of the Helpline to assist you” then repeat the
question at the PTV and PTA. If know about the Helpline at the one
month stage then they obviously know about at PTV and PTA so
why ask again it just makes us look unprofessional. The questions
should only be repeated if there was gap last time.

* Questions have been reviewed and made less repetitive.

PTV's are important and add value, but due to the size of the teams
now, and their geographical spread, it’s unrealistic to schedule them

+ NFSA’s carrying out PTV’s has been addressed.

Training Q3 Review
December 2011

20
POL00033611
POL00033611

to the FTLs. I’ve had some FSAs complete some for me, and also
ran a training session and shadowing for FCAs, a couple of whom
have done some visits for me

This is from a SPMR, via Kendata, and although they’re not an + States in the reviewed instructions that if it is impractical to carry out
internal stakeholder, thought I'd include it anyway: “As the audit and I the PTV after the audit then the NFSA to make arrangements to

Post transfer visits were conducted on the same day I was not pre- _I re-visit.

informed. Had I known I would have made provision for another
member of staff to be present as I happened to be alone on that day
and therefore not an ideal situation. Otherwise the visit went well.”

Amend for Locals — especially for PTV re sales & remuneration + Already addressed

1-month call - Would be better as a visit + Schedule and T&S will not allow a 1 month visit unless after the call it
becomes an intervention issue due to problems the office is having
issues

6-9-month audit - Too much to cover with Audit, Cat questions & + States in the reviewed instructions that if it is impractical to carry out

PTC questions the PTV after the audit then the NFSA to make arrangements to
re-visit.

1 month call - PTC —A visit is more beneficial on the 1 month PTC. + Schedule and T&S will not allow a 1 month visit unless after the call it

A phone call is not always convenient to the subpostmaster. becomes an intervention issue due to problems the office is having. If

not convenient arrange a time that is.

Only completed one of these as yet, but it felt too soon to be
contacting the PM, he hasn’t had a chance to get into the role. I The phone call will be made 4 weeks after the FUB
think it would be better to make these calls at the 2-Month stage.

Do Compliance at 3 month PTV then gaps can be picked up at Post

Transfer Audit Added to process

Kendata forms do not fit the process as there are times when all we I Although it is in the form of a chat all the points on the Kendata form
are having is a chat.(Two people commented on this) should be covered

Change 1 month phone call to six weeks after FUB The phone call will be made 4 weeks after the FUB

Change - Follow up visit sooner to ensure weaknesses’ shown on-

site can be corrected sooner rather than later i.e. ATM, Lottery, + If apparent problem established at 1 month Phone call. Organise an
Sales, cash management. Possible reduction in number of Intervention Visit

interventions required.

Visit is extremely useful to get genuine and honest feedback,
however it is not best use of FTL’s time and generates high t&s costs

Training Q3 Review 21
December 2011
POL00033611

POL00033611

because of the areas covered. Perhaps they could be scheduled for
the FSA and then the FTL to pick up at least 2 per six months for
each of their FSA’s to complete to get this feedback on their
performance

* NFSA’s carrying out PTV’s has been addressed.

The whole process has impressed the agents I have been involved
with.

+ These are positive comments — No action required

The PTV at the three month stage works well with the FTL being
able to access the performance of the FSA as well as being able to
deal with problems and issues raised my our new Postmasters.

* These are positive comments — No action required

3-month visit - No problems with this

+ These are positive comments — No action required

Pre — Transfer Contact - No problems with this

+ These are positive comments — No action required

A great opportunity to engage with spmr and find out how they are
doing. This provides a quick healthcheck and gives them a chance to
air their views and concerns. (Four people commented this way)

+ These are positive comments — No action required

Self audit pack a brilliant idea but make all the questions . E.g.
Question 38 “my staff and I are competent in knowledge of NS&l
products” this should be a specific question to test knowledge. E.g.
If Premium Bonds are purchased on 34 December which month will
they be eligible for the draw?

* The question is designed for Spmr and their staff to become
conversant with products but nothing to stop the NFSA/NFSTL
asking specific questions such as stated to verify their knowledge.
Will need to be reassessed in the near future with changes to NS&l.

Potential to select a more bespoke option for smaller branches,
especially for Island branches. Perhaps forego a face to face 3
month visit, replacing with a phone call and spending longer onsite at
6-9 month audit.

* This needs to be done on an individual basis.

4 month Call - These calls can be difficult. You cannot see if the
Subby has a queue and if it really is convenient to be talking with
him. A visit also allows you to check on the general running of the
office in the most crucial early stages e.g. is he/she doing everything
right. Any problems can be resolved quickly which, under the present
procedure, would not be spotted until the 3 month visit.

+ Already stated why a 1 month phonecall against a visit. The phonecall
needs to be arranged with the Spmr to be at a convenient time for them.
This has been added.

6-9 month audit - There is rather a lot to do at this audit and it all
takes a long time. It can be very difficult to ask all of the questions,
and talk about everything that we have to, whilst the Subby is trying
to serve customers.

+ States in the reviewed instructions that if it is impractical to carry out
the PTV after the audit then the NFSA to make arrangements to
re-visit.

DDA Accessibility Guidance Pack - The PTC document states the
following on the front page, and is an action at the 1 and 3 month
contacts - All New Agents must complete DDA Self audit contained
within Guide prior to PTV visit. Completion is also a condition of
appointment. At the 3 month visit

This is also always a Condition of Appointment.

« Recruitment are emailing this to the new Spmr along with the
Recruitment Pack. This is being addressed.

Training
December

Q3 Review
2011

22
POL00033611
POL00033611

However I have completed at least 19 PTV’s and not one PM has
ever seen sight of this document. I always end up emailing the PMa
copy after my visit. This needs to be looked in to and a copy need to
be with the PM ready for when they start at their brach — either sent
by HR or Contract Advisors.

New procedure for follow up balance at 6-9 months is a good idea
and PTC process is quite straight forward to follow. Also Sub Pm
self audit and Ready To Serve doc as been received well

+ These are positive comments — No action required

3 month PTV, should not be restricted to FTL only, should be utilised
as a development opportunity for FSA. Also due to geographical
location these visits can be extremely costly without making best use
of FTL time. Feedback on FSA could be obtained by phone based
on Kendata feedback etc if required

NFSA’s carrying out PTV’s has been addressed.

I can’t comment on the PTV as I haven't done one, however the
phone call is good as issues can be picked up quickly. As to the
audit, again this is good as it picks up any problems, however, would
it not be better to do a compliance audit at the 3 month visit and use
the actual audit at the 6 month stage to gauge whether any gaps
have been closed. This can then be seen not so much as finding
fault but as part of the training and support. Most new PM's want to
have a well run compliant branch and will take this seriously. The
real concern would be if they haven’t closed the gaps by the 6 month
period.

Added to process

Various amendments required to Self Audit document (Wayne
Griffiths)

Amendments made as requested plus reworded slightly.

‘Tesues
Stakeholder I Change requested Output
Sandra Set-up a group to change and test what goes on EASE. People New items are tested prior to being added to EASE. To make this more
McBride using the system regularly should control more of what is on it and visible I will inform team of who tests new documents /processes via the
where it goes. Audit Update, etc.
I find EASE so cumbersome and out of date. This is the starting We will be moving EASE to SharePoint in the next few months where it
point of all the other bits, so needs to be user friendly and up to date. I will be updated. There will also be a much more efficient Search facility.
Further feedback will be sought then as we do currently.
Lee Heil There is not enough information on the Intervention Request form / Information is provided by the requestor on a form to the Branch Support

have found the visit unnecessary on arrival. (Two people commented
this way)

team. Pat Bursi updates SharePoint with this information and can only
go off what is provided. For every intervention a phone call should be
made to the branch to determine what is required and whether a visit is

Training Q3 Review
December 2011

23
POL00033611
POL00033611

required or not. Alternatively a call should be made to either Pat Bursi
or the requestor who may be able to explain a bit further.
I know we use Mondays etc when free to update ourselves, but No change as this is the responsibility of the Team Leader to manage
occasionally preparation time and keeping up to date should be performance and activity of the FTM.
scheduled.
Training Q3 Review 24

December 2011
