POL00423293
POL00423293

Message

From: Jane MacLeod pee i
on behalf of Jane MacLeod! GRO 4
Sent: 29/07/2015 0

To: Georgina Blairj- .

cc: Nisha Marwaha jessica Madron}

Subject: RE: Whistleblowing service - decision require ”

Georgina

It seems that the decision required is:

e Same supplier (In Touch) but on different (reduced and cheaper) terms, or
e Possibility of changed supplier (Kings) on uncertain terms?

On that basis, this seems a no-brainer and we should stay with In Touch but on the revised basis.

From your email below, I understand that In Touch currently provide a service for £22,300 pa and we currently owe
them £7,444 for the period 1 April to I July. They have agreed to de-scope the service for a reduced fee of £9,720 p.a
which would be effective from 1 August provided we give them notice immediately.

Please go ahead and make the necessary arrangements. Please advise finance of what we are doing and that this is
unbudgeted expenditure having been omitted from the budget. Please ensure it is factored into next year’s budget!

thanks

® Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number:

From: Georgina Blair

Sent: 27 July 2015 15:59

To: Jane MacLeod

Cc: Nisha Marwaha; Jessica Madron

Subject: Whistleblowing service - decision required

Hi Jane,

As agreed, Nisha and I have worked with Toni Sless to determine whether Kings Security, the current provider of the
Grapevine service, could provide us with a comparable whistleblowing service to our existing ‘Speak Up’ line. Kings
believe they could provide a similar service but are having to scope out various technical matters with BT and have not
yet been able to give us an approximate cost, despite being chased a few times. They would need to develop a number
of systems and processes which they don’t have at the moment, and we do not know how long it would take to get
these in place.

In the meantime I have also checked with the existing provider, In Touch Ltd, to see if we could agree a revised fee
based on a revised number of expected users (when we set the line up we were expecting it would cover all branches
(including agents and their assistants) and so the prospective suppliers all quoted on that basis). If we restrict the line to
POL00423293
POL00423293

POL employees, contractors and agency workers (which is the approach recommended by Nisha and Jessica) In Touch
can provide the service for £9,720 p.a. (as opposed to their current fee of £22,300 p.a.).

In Touch are able to switch to the new revised fee from 1 August, if we confirm that we want to do this. We currently
owe them outstanding fees of £7,444 (covering the period 1* April to 31* July) and if we decide to cancel the existing
contract (rather than switch it) we will need to give three months’ notice (which adds up to £5,574).

Please can you let me know what you would like us to do.
Thanks,
Georgina

Georgina Blair
Risk Business Partner (Network).

Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street
London

EC2Y 9AQ

GRO

SWYDDFAR L

POST

