POL00304160
POL00304160

-
De I oO itte e STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL

HNG-X: Review of Ass Sources

Executive Summary

Emerging findings at 29/04/14, Geet to completion of Deloitte work

Deloitte Ref: Board Summary v5
SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE
POL00304160
POL00304160

Executive Summary

Context

Post Office Limited (“POL”) is responding to allegations that the “Horizon” IT system used to record transactions in
Post Office branches is defective and that the processes associated with it are inadequate (e.g. that it may be the

source and/or cause of branch losses). POL is committed to ensuring and demonstrating that the current Horizon

system (“HNG-X”) is robust and operates with integrity, within an appropriate control framework.

Since its implementation in branches in 2010, POL has commissioned or has received an increasing number of
pieces of work relating to HNG-X to provide comfort over the design and operation of key controls. Deloitte has
been appointed to consider whether this assurance work appropriately covers key risks relating to the HNG-X
processing environment and raise suggestions for potential improvements in the assurance provision.

Our work was performed in the context of activities we see in other, similar orga
offered by recognised, best practise control frameworks (for example, the COSO framewo
Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission).

isations, as well as guidance
, as published by The

Our work is near completion and thus this summary outlines our emerging con. 29" April 2014. Our
report, containing final conclusions, additional detail and recommendations foy/next steps, will be issued in May.

Overall Comments

A significant amount of work has been performed relating to key risks_acro

> Si

s‘the HNG-X processing environment.

al control environment risks at Fujitsu adopts best
practises, where the risk assessment and control ve been formalised and is independently assured

were aligned to a formalised, in

Governance and controls ovei
(subject to the provision of

inge/isks relating to the HNG-X implementation align to expected practices
documentary evidence by POL to support the verbal assertions of interviewees).

Relating to more specific risks (including responses to reported errors), extensive and detailed documentation has
been produced by technically competent professionals, familiar with the system, at Fujitsu. These documents
include descriptions of the key design and operating features of the HNG-X system in more specific areas and thus
contain significant information relating to controls within HNG-X. We note that the documents produced are of
system and operational nature, and, whilst consistent with organisations like POL that are not subject to external
compliance requirements in this area, would provide greater comfort over the complete coverage of key risks if
supplemented from a risk assessed lens.

Our main recommendation for improvement in the assurance provision therefore would be for POL to extend the
formal risk and control framework, already in place for general controls, to also embrace key risks and controls
holistically across the HNG-X processing environment. For example, to include controls in specific risk and thus
more operational areas of the business, such as the Finance Service Centre.

DRAFT FINDINGS
STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE.
POL00304160
POL00304160

This exercise would provide a fully encompassing and coherent risk and control framework for the HNG-X
processing environment, and give a platform from which POL can deliver more comprehensive, efficient and
sustainable comfort that key processing environment risks are being managed on an ongoing basis.

Such an enhanced approach would also enable POL to formally optimise the design of the control framework
against POL’s emerging risk appetite definitions and take forward the more granular improvement suggestions
contained in our report. For example, the need for POL to formalise its response to the ISAE 3402 “User Entity
Control Considerations”, which POL has recently started to document.

Key Emerging Findings

We structured our work around 3 main areas of risk and have aligned our more detailed, emerging findings to
these:

IT Environment Risks:

IT Environment Risks relate to the policies and procedures which support thé day to’day running of the system,
such as security management, change control management and system jons management. Controls which
mitigate these risks are often referred to as “General Computer Co; ork ussed on assurance
provided over Fujitsu's activities in these areas. aS

Formally structured and independent assurance work has been performed felating to these risks, in line with
benchmarks for an outsourced IT processing environment suct

POL's assurance over key risks in this area could be stré pleting its formal response to “user
refinements to the narratives within

HNG-X Implementation Change Risks:

governance structures when HNG. ise risks are governed and controlled outside of day to

HNG-X Implementation Change Ris} asp to the very significant IT changes that required formal project
X wi ler f-
day system operating procedures<Controls‘which mitigaté these risks are often referred to as “Project Controls”.

projects are an opportunity to efficiently capture and create the control and assurance frameworks for Specific
Risks (see below), and to help‘Clarify descriptions of controls and their optimal testing once changes are live.

Specific Risks:

Specific Risks relate to those more granular or unique matters, specific to and as applied to POL’s HNG-X
processing environment, for example inherent features within the application design, required end user activities
and application enforced behaviours. ‘ Controls which mitigate these risks are often referred to as “Inherent System
Controls’, “End User Controls’, “Application Embedded Controls” and “Process Controls”. Our work focussed on
the interfaces with other systems (DVLA) and the preservation of HNG-X audit trail (Audit Store).

Substantial work has been performed over risks in this area, delivered largely by Fujitsu, in particular in areas
where reported issues have occurred in system processing. Based on the areas we have been provided, Fujitsu
have produced extensive and detailed documentation relating to the key design and operating features of the HNG-
X system, using technically competent professionals, familiar with the system.

DRAFT FINDINGS
STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE.
POL00304160
POL00304160

In order to provide greater comfort that this work addresses all key risks, this area would benefit from being
managed, and documented, through a risk lens, potentially extending the formal risk assessment and control
framework already in place for IT Environment risks (above).

Our work relating to both the DVLA interface and the Audit Store found that the level of understanding
demonstrated through system documentation appeared comprehensive, and that key controls were referenced
within that documentation (such as the use of ‘tamper proof" IT infrastructure). The documentation has not however
been produced from a risk assessed perspective, that would then support more evidenced based, independent
verification of these key control features and attestations.

Such a formalisation exercise would not only give greater assurance over specific risks, but would also enable a
more automated and thus efficient control design to be considered (for example, more automated controls and
further proactive monitoring / alerting to key risk events).

Other matters:

We observed that the risk appetite of POL is yet to be defined, though we undefstand that an exercise is underway

8
a7
&
eG
=
=
Ea
fe}
a
Q
2.
e
a
fom
€
»
a
a:
a
3

27001

2 Information Risk Management \[RM) who ac

perform risk based reviews within POL.

x Internal audit, who

DRAFT FINDINGS
STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE.
Other than as stated below, this docu!
beneficiaries of our advice listed in our engagement letter. Therefore you should not, refer to or use our name or
this document for any other purpose, disclose them or refer to them in any prospectus or other document, or make
them available or communicate them to any other party. If this document contains details of an arrangement that
could result in a tax or National Insurance saving, no such conditions of confidentiality apply to the details of that
arrangement (for example, for the purpose of discussion with tax authorities). In any event, no other party is

int is confidential and prepared solely for your information and that of other

entitled to rely on our document for any purpose whatsoever and thus we accept no liability to any other party who

is shown or gains access to this document,

Deloitte LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C303675
and its registered office at 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom.

Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL"), a UK private

company limited by guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see

www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL and its member firms

STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE.

POL00304160
POL00304160
