POL00124105
POL00124105

From:
Sent:
To:

Subject: FW: Prosecution meeting outcome

FYI

Sharron Logan
Security Operations Lead - South

2017 Winner of the Post Office Security,
Global Postal Award Future Walk, 1 West Bars,
for Customer Chesterfield, S49 1PF

Experience

From: Mark Raymond

Sent: 21 December 2017 10:06

Cc: Helen Dickinson Sharron Logari..
Christopher G Knigh'

Subject: RE: Prosecuti

Hi Robert,

As far as liaison cases go we will continue to support any cases being progressed by external prosecuting authorities. I
raised this issue and it will be on the agenda for the January meeting. My view is that we will remain in the current
position for some time with a very generic disclosure that we already provide, as a form of words as you know that
gives very little.

The conclusions of the report are yet to be finalized and the SME is yet to be sourced so timing is a real issue. It is also
clear that paramount is the test in the civil case, so I doubt anything will be made available to any criminal
proceedings before this happens. I stress that is only my opinion, but hopefully in the new year this issue will be
addressed.

As an aside we will also discuss the potential civil recovery options in Scotland that we discussed.

Regards
Mark

Mark Raymond

Head of Security Operations
2017 Winner of the

Global Postal Award Pest Office Limited
for Customer Finsbury Dials
Experience 20 Finsbury Street
London

EC2Y 9AQ

For Government Security Classifications

OFFICIAL please use:

mark.raymond”

From: Robert Daily

Sent: Thursday, December 21, 2017 9:06 AM

To: Mark Raymond

Ce: Helen Dickinson; Sharron Logan
Subject: RE: Prosecution meeting outcome

Mark

Police liaison enquiries.

POL00124105
POL00124105

Is there any “set” advice we will have to give when approached by the Police for assistance in an
enquiry. I.e. the Postmaster has reported a member of staff to the Police for theft (potential use of
Horizon to disguise the theft).

Regards

Robert

2017 Winner of the
Global Postal Award for
Customer Experience

Robert Daily
Security & Investigation Manager

Post Office Ltd
Admin Office/CTO,
230 Springburn Way,
Glasgow, G21 1BU

robert.daily

For Government Security Classifications
OFFICIAL, please use

robert.daily’

POL00124105
POL00124105

From: Mark Raymond
Sent: 20 December 2017 19:12

Joel Watson

I Matt Mowbray

} Steven Moseley
stephanie J Ball
Sharron Logan
Christopher G Knight

ia Andrew Wis:
4; Sandra Daykin

Subject: Prosecution meeting outcome
Hi All,
I just wanted to give you a quick update from the prosecution’s meeting with Jane and Mark yesterday.

A report has been produced externally examining the issues with regards to the Group Action litigation, that is due to
commence hearings in November 2018. The primary function of the report is to support the POL case in the civil
arena; however moving forward the findings will be equally applicable to criminal trials. The report has been
considered by a specialist external lawyer. Certain findings have been referred back for clarity but overall there
appear to be no major flaws.

When the report is fully complete the QC will provide his opinion and recommendations. The next stage will be to
identify a subject matter expert who will act for POL in all future hearings, be it Group Action, CCRC or criminal
prosecutions.

What has been highlighted is the risk of testing a case in the criminal court prior to the civil hearing, where the burden
of proof has to be beyond all reasonable doubt, as opposed to the balance of probability in civil cases. The risk is that
should a trial collapse, or a not guilty verdict be reached, this could have a devastating impact on the civil cases, in
particular if the Judge made negative comments against POL. The counter argument is that without prosecutions our
losses are increasing hugely and will continue to be so.

At this stage the risk appetite dictates that every case will be reviewed on its merits, weight of evidence and public
interest as it is now, however we are unlikely to proceed to prosecute until post-civil action, unless there are
exceptional circumstances. This is how we operate at present but as you know the business can change policy at any
time.

There will be a legal/prosecution workshop held in January that will consider the impact of prosecuting or not, and
looking at the way we deal with investigations, for example, should we continue to carry out PACE interviews if the
policy is not to prosecute etc. After this meeting we will have a finalized and clear steer as to our function moving
forward.

On a more positive note, the wish of the board is that as soon as practicable we return to being a fully functional
prosecution team. Our team numbers will be increased considerably, we will have a full Fl capability and our legal
team will have a criminal section purely to support prosecutions (the good old days — before my time ).

I appreciate (as do Jane and Mark) the frustration of the whole process for everyone, and thank you all for your
efforts, hard work and can-do attitude. After the January meeting we will have a team conference call so I can give
you the updates and decisions taken. In the meantime if you have any questions about the above please give me a
call.
POL00124105
POL00124105

Kind regards

Mark

Mark Raymond

Head of Security Operations
2017 Winner of the
Global Postal Award Pest Office Limited

for Customer Finsbury Dials
Experience 20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

mark.raymond

For Government Security Classifications
OFFICIAL please use

mark.raymondg

