Automation Transformation Steering Group Meeting
22 September 10.30 a.m. in Second Floor Board Room, KEB

AGENDA

Improvement Opportunities from last meeting: The meeting should be

sharper, not go over the same issue in more than one agenda item

1 Actions from last meeting Paul Rich
2 “Red Light” Programme Issues Dave Smith
Input: Attached summary from monthly report.

Review of milestone report

Output: Actions and owners to resolve
3. Review of issue register and new issues Dave Smith
Input: Attached summary from monthly report.
Output: Recommended solutions and further actions agreed
4, Business Standards . Rob Durrant
Input: Presentation by Rob Durrant
Output: ATSG to agree next steps
5. Requirements specification Dave Smith
Input: Pre circulated paper

Output: ATSG to agree the way forward

Next meeting : 2pm on 20 October , Second Floor Board Room, KEB

“ 10.30-10.45

* 10.45- 11.05

11.05-11.25

11,25-11.45

11.45- 12.00

POL00028323
POL00028323

POL00028323
POL00028323

TSG Progress Report

AUTOMATION PROGRAMME

Transformation Steering Group
Progress Report to 28 September 1998

Contents : Page
1. Actions from previous meetings 2
2. Key Programme Issues . 6
3. Issues Log 7
“4. Top-level Milestone Report ll
5. Project Highlights Reports 15
Attachments
A. Minutes from last meeting 21
I
Automation Programme Printed : 9/25/98

POL00028323

: ee - POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
1. Actions from previous meetings
ITEMS FOR DISCUSSIONS ARE SHOWN IN BOLD
Action Who When Update
. raised ;
1 The project sponsors to report back to the ATSG through Project 17/3 The S3 project board has agreed their project
the TMT on their proposals on the form of project assurance they sponsors/ assurance requirements.
will introduce, TMT National Audit are now working with the TIP
project board to identify their assurance
requirements.
Proposals for Horizon project assurance remain
outstanding.
‘ Carry forward.
2 SERVICE DEVELOPMENT Stephen 19/5 An update was given to the ATSG in August. The
(a) The Service Development Plan (SDP) categories for Woolley SDP preparation is following business planning
prioritisation be clarified to.ensure consistent understanding. timescales and a draft will be presented in December.
(b) (6) The first iteration of the SDP plan to be completed by the
end of August °
3 Any existing training / change management budgets Ruth 19/5 The Requirements Specification will require
which would be used to deliver the change management required, Holleran appropriate projects to develop detailed change
or part of it, need to be identified. A break down of the management plans. Once these are known the manner
components of change management will enable this. in. which these will be funded, including within
. existing budgets, will be ascertained.
To be revisited at the end of phase 1 of the
Requirements Specification. 4
Automation Programme 2-

Printed : 9/25/98

POL00028323

POL00028323
ie

TSG Progress Report : 28 September 1998

4: The Horizon programme Board to take place at the Dave Miller 23/6 Horizon testing is now on the ATSG issue log.
beginning of July to consider urgent issues such as testing and EPOSS- see action points 15 & 16.

EPOSS. Discharge

5 A review across all the SAP projects should be Roger 24/7 An initial review has been undertaken and report
undertaken to ensure that the right amount and type of resource Tabor prepared, significant gaps have been identified and

(SAP professionals, change management staff, staff with business work is ongoing.
knowledge) is present and identify skills gaps. Carry Forward.

6 Dave Smith should let John Main know whether EPOSS D Smith 24/7 Done.

has multi till functionality. : ; Discharged. I"

7 Paul Rich to discuss with Peter Turgoose with input from PRich 24/7 a)TMT will give Peter a list of prioritised project

Paul Thornton, the potential shortage of project management P Thornton urgent needs across the programme.

skills in the business and action to be taken for the short term. b) Peter T, having spoken to Paul Thornton, will

follow up leads for some specialist cheaper project
urgent consultancies and hold a ‘beauty parade! for
potential call-off.

. : Carry forward
8 The acceptance process to include a-condition on the clear DMiller 24/7 Work is ongoing within the Horizon programme on
separation of boundaries between BA and POCL within the the acceptance process. This will be incorporated
Pathway system. : . . within it.
9 D Miller to confirm that the LFS link will be included DMiller = 24/7 The LFS is within the contents of Release 2+.
within release 2+. ae Discharge.
10 A comprehensive set of business standards, to enable R Durrant 24/7 AGENDA ITEM.

project and programme assurance, that are short and easy to Discharge.

follow to encourage conformance, should be produced.

Automation Programme . -3- . Printed : 9/25/98

POL00028323

POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
11 The TMT and HO Finance should teamwork to resolve TMT 24/7 Balanced scorecard reporting package is being piloted, I
the issues on the new project reporting package (balanced issues are being worked through.
scorecard) where possible. Discharge.
12° Paul Rich to remind projects that CEC agreed that this PRich 18/8 Done.
reporting package be trialed by the automation projects. Discharged.
13. Paul Rich to raise at the TSSG the need for Group P Rich 18/8 Verbal update.
intentions and requirements generally to be more specifically :
defined. -
14 An impact assessment should be done on the results of the D Smith 18/8 I The PWC report is now expected at the beginning of I’
group single SAP client work for the whole programme by the W Powncy October.
TMT/ ISITSU for a decision to be made in October. This is being raised as a red light issue. I
. : Discharge.
15 There is a need to assess the operational impact of the . D Smith 18/8 Work is being done to identify solutions and an
£3.1m of errors on TP in terms of manpower and capacity operational impact assessment is part of this work.
16 Dave Miller to confirm whether it is envisaged that the DMiller 18/8 The decision on the incorporation of EPOSS A I
proposed EPOSS improvements will be incorporated in Release , improvements into release 3 can only be taken when
3. the improvements have been defined.
‘ ‘ Discharge. I
17 A better definition of the criteria for the suitability of DMiller 18/8 Work in being undertaken on the criteria for suitability
release 2 is required, together with agreed tolerance levels, and of release 2, this is due to complete end of September.
these should be presented to the ATSG in September Report back in October.
Carry forward.
18 Dave Miller to ensure that as far as possible the Pathway D Miller 18/8 Pathway are being pressured to ensure that the
design of the system forces conformance. system forces conformance. Also a conformance
manager will soon be appointed.

Automation Programme mo -4- “ Printed : 9/25/98

POL00028323

POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
19 There is a need to review the training resource and J Main/ D 18/8 Verbal update at the meeting
specification for the Horizon system to ensure that it will Miller . i]
support conformance
20 There is a need to impact assess the release of a new front DMiller 18/8 Animpact assessment will be done once the contents
end as part of release 3, this to be done jointly between the of release 3 are known.
Horizon Implementation team (Bruce McNiven) and the ADT. Discharge.
21 (a) The benefits monitoring report to be piloted on the _ Project 18/8 OCTOBER agenda item.
automation projects for October and that project sponsors would sponsors .
ensure such reports are reviewed at the project board.
(b) To share the benefits monitoring approach with Jan TMT Done.
Challis for general management process lessons. : ” Discharged.
i]
Automation Programme -5- Printed : 9/25/98

POL00028323
POL00028323

TSG Progress Report , 28 September 1998

2. Key Programme Issues this month

Red light issues

POCL single SAP system an
The appointment of consulting partners for the conceptual design stage is due in early

October. However the view from Group IS strategy is that POCL should ‘halt this
process until the systems implications of the Shaping for Competitive Success (SCS)
programme are known. :

Impact

Either .
Group withhold concurrence and the project is delayed, which will delay the entire
automation programme . :
or

POCL is allowed to move ahead with single client but is delayed at a later stage when
change requests from group materialise, causing substantial rework and potentially
delay the entire automation programme. ~

Accept delay as inevitable and wait for group requirements

or : .

POCL goes ahead with single client. Migrate to Group single client once the
automation programme is completed.

or”

POCL abandons single SAP system and reverts to individual SAPCON, SAPADS,
SAPHR systems implemented to programme timescales. Migrate to Group single client
once the automation programme is completed.

Automation Programme : -6- Printed : 9/25/98

. TSG Progress Report

POL00028323
POL00028323

28 September 1998

3. Steering Group Key Issues Log

New issues

the issue impact proposed solution who when further
: uO raised raised I action
Capability planning Business is not able to sustain the pace I CEC are due to discuss D Smith 28/9/98

of transformation, either through a
lack of resource or because it has to
pause to enable changes to current
state to be made.

18 months ago the Midlands region
supported by Chris Robinson (external
consultant) undertook some work on.
regional capabilities to support roll out .
concentrating on people capability. This
work indicated that the then planned level
of resource was insufficient to support the
roll out. Amongst a number of measures to
address this issue CEC agreed that there
would be no new products launched during
the roll out.

The Migration Working Group has been re
convened and will be undertaking detailed
migration planning, which will identify the
impact and constraints of automation on the
business. . This process needs to plug into a
wider business capability checking process.

The Business Planning process gives a high
level view of a single point in time. A
more detailed capability process is needed
that is updated on a regular basis

proposals on the Gateway
process later in the day.
CEC members are invited
to consider the extent to
which the Gateway

process can fill these gaps.

POL00028323
POL00028323

28 September 1998

TSG Progress Report

Timing of releases The business planning assumptions are I TMT to work with D Smith 28/9/98

-The automation plan is being baselined on I incorrect with a risk of further business planning to .

the strategic guideline dates. These are in _I slippage making the Business plan identify a way forward

line with Horizon dates in most areas information out of date. based on the most realistic

except the timing of release 2+, release 3 Dates suggested for release 3 clash dates.

and subsequent releases. ~ with the switch over to the new back

end systems.

Royal Mail tariff increases D Smith 28/9/98

Royal Mail have indicated that there may Royal Mail are unable to introduce This issue is being

be tariff changes in January 99. Pathway tariff changes. managed by Graeme

timescales for such an operational change Seedall (Horizon

are different from the Royal Mail decision Assurance Team).

“making timescales.

Existing issues
Id. when Issue Update Next Steps Owner

raised .
1. 29/7/97 Horizon re-plan ~ 7 Dave Miller
There is a lack of clarity around the contents Release 2 dates have been agreed and Discharge.

of release 2.and its timing. There is no
agreed baselined Horizon plan which makes °
it difficult for the back end automation

timescales.

projects to plan with certainty.

baselined. Baseline assumptions have been
made about Release 2+ and release 3

he?

TSG Progress Report

POL00028323
POL00028323

28 September 1998

Id

when
raised

Issue

Update

Next Steps

Owner

2214/97

Group IS Strategy - “TOFFEE”

Proposals from Group for consolidation of
SAP systems may have a substantial impact
on POCL programme plans.

See new red light issues being raised, This

- issue has been superseded.

Discharge.

Wendy Powney

172198

EMU
Compliance with EMU requirements will
have a substantial impact on POCL

. automation programme. A statement of

POCL’s busiriess requirements of compliance
needs to be produced to enable impact
assessment by the systems.

A draft implementation approach for the
EMU has been prepared.

It is envisaged that the business strategy for
EMU would be agreed by October 98.

October agenda
item.

Roger Tabor

17/3/98

ADS link to Horizon

The TMT to work with ADS to ensure that
the LFS (logistics feeder system)
requirements are clearly and unambiguously
stated

The LFS requirement is included in release
2+

Discharge.

Dave Smith

24/7198

Horizon testing

The testing strategy is not being deployed as
originally planned. There is evidence that the
early phases of testing are not covering the
scope that they should, and there is a danger
that the true purpose of MOT testing will be
lost, that major faults will be detected during
it, and that this will result either in delay or in
workarounds

MOT2 is now seen as the critical testing
stage where all major functionality is due to
be tested.

Update at the
meeting.

Dave Miller

POL00028323

— = POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
Id when Issue Update Next Steps Owner
raised
6. 24/7/98 Transaction times - Dave Miller
A survey was conducted by research services A plan has been put in place by the Horizon Ongoing
in February and May on the transaction times - programme to resolve this issue. Further
at a sample of automated offices. The results work involves: basclining transaction times, {
_ show that on average the transactions at further measurement of transaction times,
automated offices are taking longer than the — work on the layout of Horizon equipment
contracted rate
{

POL00028323
POL00028323

TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998

4,

4.1

Top-level Milestone Report

Milestones achieved

system testing successful

Automated Payment System, Interim TIP and Reference Data) completed
successfully and indicating that EPOSS and APS well on track

04 First 200 offices live Complete roll-out of 200 offices and lessons learnt for POCL 30-Sep-97 30-Jun-97
(Stream A) implementation activities

B3 Automation Business I MaPEC business case produced and agreed and restructuring of projects Sept-97. July-97
Case complete .

B4 Programme Automation steering groups in place and working well and TMT resourced Aug-97
management structures I by POCL employees _
fully operational

O06 Horizon Congo 4 Pathway’s BPS service and all BA and POCL activities are ready to be 2-Nov-97
release authorised switched on in the 200 live offices

O5 New BA settlement Testing and procedure walk-through demonstrates to POCL’s satisfaction 3-Nov-97 6-Oct-97
process ready that new plastic-card settlement process is ready to go live

B6 Start of Distribution Agreement to proceed with ADS Pilot. Pilot region ready to proceed. 12-Mar-98 26-Feb-98
Pilot :

O7 Regions ready for b) Regional plans for supporting task force developed .
Horizon April 98

O16 Pathway to POCL Testing between Pathway and POCL’s 3 systems (HAPS -Host 8-July-98 1-May-98

POL00028323

POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
Milestones achieved this month
No milestones achieved this month
Milestones removed
No milestones removed in this report. -
4.2 Milestone report
Key
Traffic light conventions:
Milestones for which dates have not been agreed will have a TBA under the date : no traffic light shown
_ Milestones for which there are firm agreed dates will show date in bold and underlined traffic light relates to due date
Milestones for which dates are generally accepted but not yet agreed, dates shown in normal characters traffic light relates to due date
e
c)
Key Milestone Activity Description Hel Due Date Old Date
O7 Regions ready for a) National and regional implementation teams in place c@ Jan 99
Horizon
O08 POCL Release contents . I Release prioritisation process agreed —@ Dec 98
prioritisation process .
agreed
O9 EPOSS and AP Services I PDA demonstrates integrity of Pathway services and POCL’s accounting, Ke) 18-Dec-98 5-Oct-98
fully tested reconciliation and settlement process .

POL00028323

a POL00028323
TSG Progress Report - . : 28 September 1998
=
(2) .
Key Milestone ‘ I Activity Description bai ‘Due Date Old Date
O10 Service management a) All Service Level agreements and service management processes are in x) Jan-99 31-Mar-97
ready place and ready for live trial evaluation : - :
TBA
b) Conformance requirements identified and Procedures i in place to enable
conformance.
O11 Horizon Nile 2 release a) Pathway’ 's full service and all BA and POCL activities are re ready and KG) “18-Dec-98 Oct- 98
authorised full service authorised to go live
b) Start of live trial ; 1 OI sune 99 "Jar 99
Olla Release 2+ authorised Horizon release 2+ “proof of concept” agreed to enable contractual AO February’ I I October 99
: acceptance : 2000
O12 Live trial complete. Activities to assess the acceptability of Pathway’ 's service complete. April 99 31-Mar-98
Authorisation to proceed with roll-out given. . Ke} :
B2 Overall automation Plan agreed, including legacy systems interfacing/replacement, to November Jan 98
G
programme plan agreed__I implement migration approach 98 .
B5 POCL’s overall Test End to end integration testing strategy defined ‘and end to end UAT agreed x) Dec 99 I, Sep-97
Plan agreéd "I ,‘I to enable 6 month trilateral testing between the projects to commience
prior to all back end systems going live.
B8 Pathway Release 3 live -I Pathway Release 3 accepted for go live ° AG) I April 2000 Apr-98
: AN
I B15 Year 2000 Compliance work complete on all.systems - * a @ Dec-98 NEW

POL00028323

POL00028323 _
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
2
@) .
Key Milestone Activity Description He Due Date Old Date
B9 New accounting systems I Back end systems ready to operate new accounting + settlement AO Oct-2000 TBA
operational processes.
B10 Operational TIP a) Operational TIP (batch 1, interface to Horizon) developed, tested and x) October 99
operational ready to replace existing systems
b) Operational TIP (batch 2 , interface to strategic systems and ready to @® April 2000
replace legacy systems) ready for testing
B11 POCL-MIS Phasel POCL-MIS developed, tested, and ready for operation TBA
operational
B12 Distribution roll-out Final Cash Centre operating with ADS x) Oct- 2000 Nov-99
complete .
B13 Pathway roll out a) Pathway roll out complete AC) I Oct-2000 Dec-2000
complete
b) Pathway’s service available in every outlet (i.e. “mop up” exercise. O
complete) A March
2001
B14 Migration complete IS Strategy systems implemented and all legacy systems replaced Ke) Dec-2000 TBA
B15 Data Management Data Management processes defined and implemented, data management x) April 2000
systems ready for multi lateral testing with strategic systems

POL00028323

POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
5. Project Highlight Reports
High Level Last Month Planned for Next Month
Summary
Horizon ¢ MORI for Release 2 commenced 3 3 August and completed I System test for EPOSS,TPS, MIS forecast to complete 21
26 August. September.
¢ DIT completed as planned. e Eto E reforecast to November completion as we do not yet
e Eto E commenced 3 August. . have confidence in the accounting processes.
© Office surveys and modificatons commenced 3 August.
TIP OPERATIONAL TIP/DATA HUB - OPERATIONAL TIP/DATA HUB
- pilot of Constellar in productivity terms undertaken - submission of refined business case
- New cost profiles developed for business case ~ presentation to MaPEC.
- design continues - Installation of development environment subject to POITS
- Supplier resourcing for development in anticipation ordering
~ Move to new accomodation - ordering of Constellar licences if approved
: - continue with system design
INTERIM TIP - complete PID for next phase
- continue to support Horizon E2E tests and MOR
Data - Key stakeholders engaged - Data Management vision to be developed i in detail @hase 1
Management I - Communication via Newsbrief Monthly , of Pilot project)
- Initation phase completed - Key POCL resource to be allocated - including Data
- Communication plan developed Administrator
- Resource requirements identified + Identification of change management and Reference Data
Library pilots to be confirmed
- data administration software tools to be made available for
pilot
Reference Release 60 of the Reference Data application accepted and Project Board: 10 September.
Data with POITS for implementation.

POL00028323

POL00028323 _
TSG Progress Report. 28 September 1998
High Level Last Month Planned for Next Month
Summary ;
Horizon testing, Model Office Rehearsal Phase 1 (MORI) MOR2 and E2E Phase 2.

completed. First test data drop for MOR2 delivered.
Horizon testing, End To End Phase 1 (E2E1) running to plan,
with all ref data targets met.

The Live Reference Data Proving test phase has been planned;
preliminary work is underway; live ref data is being supplied
to Pathway from the live system.

Initial OBC deployment to Regions continues, with four
regions (and Outlet Systems Group) prepared and a further 2
planned.

Release 61 work package defined and work underway, using
on-site programming resource.

A number of data quality initiatives are in progress.

An Interim Disaster Recovery Plan has been prepared.
Reference Data work has been handed over to the POCL
Horizon team, c/o Janet Topham. The final project board
meeting for the Enhancements project has been scheduled for
10 September.

Commencement of Live Ref Data Proving.
Completion of initial rollout of OBC data change processes.
Continuation of data quality initiatives.

Release 60 live running; commencement of Release 61
development.

the pilot site. Enhancement Releases #3 and #4 will deliver
improvements to the cash account. Work on the cash account
release #3 has identified some additional improvements.
Additional ABAP resource requirement has been identified.
The pilot site cash account has been run on a daily basis at the
Project Office to try to establish where the problems lie.
These investigations continue with the aid of the Operational
Support Team who will be on site to monitor processes.

Single SAP Still working on HR. HR UAT commences & SSSP initiated
system Building team and evaluating tenders for SSSP. :
ADS Enhancement release #2 has been successfully implemented at I Completion of Manager Training development.

Delivery of CBT Training.

Induction and Training of Implementation and Operational
Support Teams. :

Delivery of Finance and Manager Training.

Enhancement Releases #3 and #4 complete coding and Team
Testing.

POL00028323

_ POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
High Level Last Month Planned for Next Month
Summary .

CBT Development has been completed. The development of
the Finance Training Modules is complete.

Recruitment, selection and release of staff for the
Implementation Support Team and Operational Support Team
has run to schedule. A training structure has been formalised
for both Teams.

Orders have been placed for Dartford equipment. Delivery
lead times are acceptable to the programme.

I Two people have been recruited to carry out the System

Documentation work.

Stock has been removed from Dartford as of 27/8/98. The
manual process proposed by the LBU is being assessed for
system impacts by the Project Team.

System Documentation complete Finance Modules.
Operational Documentation design complete and incorporate
feedback from Users.

The Disaster Recovery test is to take place w/c 28" September
at Greenford.

Progress of the QA recommendations from Clare Birks of
French Thornton will presented to the Project Board on the
15" September. :

Delivery of supplementary equipment for Dartford expected
on 14" September.

AP project

The production and testing of prototype A APT’s was
successful and prototype B APT’s have now been received at
Farnborough for testing.

Modification to offices for installation have been completed in
all areas with the exception of NT/EA which will be
completed by 30 September 98.

Roll out plans by Regions have been completed and submitted
to Keltek and the regions.

Installation is due to start as originally planned and a
completion date of November 98 is targeted.

Completion of office Modifications.

Training of installation staff.

Recruitment and training of Famborough Helpdesk staff.
Delivery of 250 apt’s to offices.

Completion of testing of prototype B APT’s .

POL00028323

POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September-1998
High Level . Last Month Planned for Next Month -
Summary - .
Year 2000 Critical I - Test Nots-trritémplete interface testing and to conduct end to
Total Number of Systems 54 64 end testing have been requested
‘ Number of systems exempt or retired 3 43 - Review “Change Freeze” proposals and present to
Number of systems to be replaced 21.. September Board.
Number of systems to be converted * 49 20° - Escalation Process for systems failing target definitions -

Systems with detailed and resourced plans (confirmed by
supplier) 48 20 :

Number of systems planned to complete in 1998 ° 49 20
Number of systems with conversion commissioned 49 20

Number with completion dates in 1999 00
Number requiring use of test centre ‘161
Number booked into test centre 161

Number with UAT planned andr resources confirmed OK by
Business 21 8
Systems completed 2512
Activities completed/In progress:

Computer Systems

- CBDB testing completed on schedule .

- Intellect testing started and on course for completion 4
September .

- Plan agreed to use the IBM DR site for testing of SAPADS
and SAPHR :

- two systems likely to miss the December deadline -
replacement of old RIVA tills and replacement of MS Mail
with Lotus Notes, ,
Suppliers

~ All critical Goods & Services suppliers contacted. .

- KPMG’s modified survey will provide the Post Office with a

present to September Board.

~ Present draft Success Criteria to September Board:

- Review HR/Continuity plan for Year 2000 at September
Board :
- start SLA review for October Board

- Risk Review <

- 3" Supplier seminar on 30 September

means to produce for each critical supplier, a “‘spider’s web”

POL00028323

POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
High Level Last Month Planned for Next Month
Summary

measure of their compliance status. This “Self Assessment
was launched at the Suppliers’ Seminar on 12 August and
seemed to be well-received by them. It is being put on the
Internet and suppliers (including Franchise partners) will be
invited to complete it and share results with the Post Office.

Client management

- 91 % of the National clients contacted have responded. The
remaining three will be included in the list of invitees to the
next supplier seminar.

- clients have also responded re their equipment on
POCL/Agents’ sites

Success Criteria

Measures have been identified and the recommendations will
be put to the September project board.

Communications

- Effectiveness Survey of agents issues to sample of 1,200.
Analysis due to be completed mid September

- Further communication to team leaders to list business
critical “End User” systems and availability of local skills to
make compliant. This should help to identify any skill gaps to
be raised with ITS.

- Courier article to be in September issue

- POCL section of Post Office Year 2000 Internet website
active on www.postoffice.co.uk

Client Take
On

Service development - timescales merged with Business
Planning timescales (Dec 98)

LFS contract agreed, CCN issued for impact assessment.
EFTPOS migration planning in progress.

Service development - commence analysis of business centre
commercial proposal inputs

LFS contracts signed. Delivéry activities planned.

Further EFTPOS service definition development.

POL00028323

POL00028323
TSG Progress Report 28 September 1998
High Level Last Month Planned for Next Month
Summary
TMT Programme assurance process drafted. Programme change control process drafted ready for

Programme impact on business Centres identified and
communicated to them.

Programme plan baselined on strategic guideline dates
Migration working group re convened

End to end requirements specification work ongoing
Automation programme project profiles completion co-
ordinated for input to business planning

comments.
Programme plan baselined.

POL00028323
POL00028323

TSG Progress Report

28 September 1998

Appendix A

Item1

Item 2

24

2.2
Action

Action

Ttem3

3.1

3.2

Action

3.3

Action
3.4

Notes of meeting on 18 August 1998

Actions from last meeting

See updated action points

It was noted that the new balanced scorecard reporting package had not been
produced for the meeting due to the failure of some projects to complete the pack.
Paul Rich to remind projects that CEC agreed that this reporting package be trialed
by the automation projects.

Red Light issues

There were no new red light issues.

It was noted that a detailed Horizon plan, consistent with the dates in the strategic
planning guideline, is still outstanding.

TOFFEE and Group impact

It was noted that Group intentions and requirements generally need to be more
specifically defined and , and this would be raised at TSSG.

It was noted that Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC) are due to report back on the
group single SAP client work at the end of September. An impact assessment
should be done on the results of this for the whole programme by the TMT and
Wendy Powney for a decision to be made in October. (October agenda item).

EPOSS and Service Development

Stephen Woolley gave an update on EPOSS and Service Development (see attached.
slides).

EPOSS

The current estimate of the impact of the “ECCO” effect is £3.1m, however this
does not take into account the different error profile of CAPTURE offices which
have very low error levels, so this figure may be understated. The ECCO effect is
caused by parallel manual and computerised processes.

Work has identified that some of the biggest changes required to the manual process
affect main office procedures and TP, but do not affect clients so will not require
client permission before changes are made.

Where changes do affect the clients, change may be minimised by capturing
information in an extra field that exists within Horizon.

There is a need to prioritise changes to the manual process and work is ongoing on
this aspect. Detailed recommendations on changes to manual processes applicable
to each client will be produced by the end of September and findings presented to
the October ATSG.

It was agreed that there is a need to assess the operational impact of the £3.1m of
errors on TP in terms of manpower and capacity.

Service Development Plan (SDP)

As part of the business plan the Business Centres are currently producing a demand.
position for the automation platform, the results of which will be used by the ADT
to prioritise client take on according to the criteria agreed by the ATSG in May.
The timescales are consistent with the business plan and a first cut SDP showing
client take on will be produced in December. Current draft timings for client take
on slots indicate a Release 3 in April 2000 which may include the results of current
strategic developments, mails, banking and modular design of the front end.

Dave Miller to confirm whether it is envisaged that the proposed EPOSS
improvements will also be incorporated in Release 3.

‘The next major release will be in April 2001, to avoid a release at the time of cut
over to all the new back end systems. Following that, there will be new major
releases at six month intervals. However a move to a modular design will allow

Actions

Paul Rich

Paul Rich

‘TMT/ Wendy
Powney

Stephen
Woolley

Dave Miller

Automation Programme -21- Printed : 9/25/98

POL00028323
POL00028323

TSG Progress Report

28 September 1993"

3.5

Item 4
4.1

4.2

Action

43

44

45

Action
Action

47

4.6

_ Item5
5

more frequent client take on.

It was noted that the key dependency of the SDP is the timing of the releases and
client take on slots, and the capacity of each for technical changes as well as the
capacity of the business to deal with the resulting operational impact.

Review of risks

The ATSG undertook a thorough review of the revised risk register . The risks,
impacts, ratings and actions to manage them were agreed with the following
additions/ comments (see revised register circulated with the minutes):
“Horizon testing risk”

It was noted that actions and timescales have been identified to manage this risk,
now the critical timescale is for MOR2. It was noted that if the scope and/ or results
of MOR2 did not meet the expected criteria it could result at best in a 4-6 week
delay or in a worse case scenario in the release being postponed.

, It was agreed that a better definition of the criteria for the suitability of the release is

required, together with agreed tolerance levels, and these should be presented to the
ATSG in September.

“Increased front end errors”

An additional action is required to identify the operational impact of this risk (see
3.2)

“Non conformance to business procedures”

It was agreed that there is a need to (a) define processes and (b) build the
infrastructure to enable the processes to be adhered to, and that long term action is
required to enable this.

A view on the magnitude and impact of non conformance will be taken during live
trial. The magnitude of the problem will contribute to the decision on the timing of
the start of roll out and the necessity for fire breaks during roll out. Where required
conformance problems may be resolved on a parcto basis in terms of operational
impact to enable roll out.

It was agreed that Dave Miller should ensure that as far as possible the Pathway
design of the system forces conformance,

It was agreed that there is a need to review the training resouce and specification for
the Horizon system to ensure that it will support conformance,

“Ability of the Horizon solution to maintain business continuity”

It was agreed that there is a need to better understand the criteria for business
continuity that will enable release authorisation (see 4.2)

“Uncertainty about the businesses’ capability to change the front end during roll
out”

It was agreed that there is a need to impact assess the release of a new front end as
part of release 3, this to be done jointly between the Horizon Implementation team
(Brice McNiven) and the ADT.

It was agreed that there should be a thorough review of the risks ir in November when
the rebaseline plan will be reviewed .

Benefits Management

Elena Marsh gave a presentation on benefits management (slides attached)

The following points were made during this presentation:

© under the new programme management process agreed, the project sponsor will
be the programme director.

© All projects have a benefits management plan which should at least be reviewed
at business case stages

© Most project benefits are due to be delivered in the medium to Tong term, not in
the short term

¢ More emphasis is placed on targeting projects to deliver their scope within the
agreed cost

e Benefits duc to be delivered in the short term are driven in through the OPB
round

© Non financial benefits are not usually defined in a measurable way

© Soft benefits of automation are being defined by the business requirements

Actions -

Dave Miller

Dave Miller

John Main/
Dave Miller

D Miller

Automation Programme -22- Printed : 9/25/98

POL00028323
POL00028323

TSG Progress Report

28 September 1998

5.2

Action

Item 8

_ Item9

specification work

¢ Benefits due to be delivered after the project is complete and the team has
disbanded are at greatest risk of not being delivered

A suggestion for the monitoring of benefits was presented to the ATSG which

involved monitoring on two aspects, value of the benefits and timing of the delivery.

This would be in the form of traffic lights and an attempt would be made to link this
in with the balanced scorecard report and the new programme management process.
It was agreed that this method of monitoring would be piloted on the automation
projects for October and that project sponsors would ensure such reports are
teviewed at the project board.

It was agreed that this approach would be shared with Jan Challis for general
management process lessons.

‘ Communication and recognition

Communication to project managers and project sponsors (if: absent) about the
benefits monitoring report.

AOB

‘There was no other business

Meeting review

it was noted that there is an opportunity to make the meeting sharper, not go over
the same issue in more than one agenda item.

Actions

Project
sponsors

TMT

Automation Programme -23- Printed : 9/25/98

