POL Training Adequate

POL00060593

POL00060593

Day 3 page 11 paragraph B
Training and helpline adequate

In terms of some areas where regulatory compliance is
necessary we very much dissuade people from doing things
differently themselves. They must follow the operating
rules otherwise we fall foul of potentially regulatory
compliance.

The training provided to the sub postmasters and the manuals
provided will be simplistic in nature so that anybody can follow it.
The reason being to ensure that the Post Offices are complying
with regulatory and legislative matters. Therefore the manuals
and training provided would be adequate to ensure that this is
being done.

Day 3 page 18 paragraph G

We encourage them to do regular snap checks of their staff.

During the training period the sub postmaster is informed that any
losses which are incurred are their own. Therefore POL actively
encourages sub postmasters to complete snap checks of the stock
which the employees have so that they are aware of any
discrepancies if they should occur.

Day 3 page 7 paragraphs D,E,G
and H
Day 7 page 69 paragraphs F, G
and H

Training lasting for 1-2 weeks. There are 44 classrooms
geographically spread around the UK. The sub postmaster
must have a minimum of one week training in a classroom
or two full weeks in the classroom.

The training conducted by Post Office lasts a week. In this time
the sub postmasters are informed of the relevant transactions that
are likely to be conducted within their given Post Office.

Day 3 page 8 paragraphs F and G

There are four to five A4 training folders. They contain a
reference guide fully detailed in writing often with pictures
with screen shots from the Horizon operating system so
that the sub postmasters can work their way through them.

Operations manuals are the bible for sub postmasters.
They should always be at the branch. People are dissuaded
from doing things differently because it is all a question of
compliance.

The sub postmasters are clearly told to follow a strict procedure so
that no errors can occur. They are told to consult manuals if any
errors do occur so that the errors can be eradicated. The sub
postmasters are informed of their responsibility for training staff at
the outset, so there should be no reason why the training can be
inadequate as the manual is always there for them to get help.

Day 3 page 26 paragraphs B, C,D
and F also

page 28 paragraphs A and H
page 29 paragraphs C,D,E and H
page 30 paragraph B

Page 33 paragraph D and

page 53 paragraphs B,C and D

The trainers will spend however long it takes with the sub
postmaster to make them understand the process. The sub
postmasters are able to ask for additional training. If the
performance of a sub postmaster during the training is
inadequate then the sub postmaster can have additional
training.

(Page 28 paragraphs C and H) the classrooms only have
eight people in attendance.

(Page 29 paragraphs C,D,E and H) the sub postmaster is
not allowed to run a Post Office until they have had the
weeks training. If the sub postmaster says that they have
understood things it is accepted by the trainer that they
have understood.

The training sessions are designed to ensure that the sub
postmaster is competent enough to run a Post Office on their own.
The trainer will not allow the sub postmaster to run their own Post
Office if they have shown that they are not competent or if they
have suggested that they do not understand. The sub postmaster
has the opportunity to request additional support and training
from the trainer should they feel they need to do so. At least one
week of training is compulsory for the sub postmaster.

“@R_4867304_4
POL00060593

POL00060593

(Page 30 paragraph B) if the trainer does not believe that
the sub postmaster is competent they will stay on the
training programme until they believe that he has become
competent.

(Page 33 paragraphs D and E) the sub postmaster can ask
for additional help and support should they need to do so.

6 Day 3 page 53 paragraphs C and
D also
page 56 paragraphs E and D

The sub postmasters complete a number of transactions
that they would do in the classroom that requires them to
use the system and produce a result. The trainer looks at
these results and will check them against what everyone
else has been doing so that they can see if people have
understood what is going on. (Page 56 paragraphs B and
D) it is a close to real life as we can make it without it being
in the real live environment. The sub postmasters can
compare transactions and see what everyone else has
done.

The training which the sub postmasters receive is as close to the
real environment within the Post Office as possible. They all
complete the same transactions. Therefore if a particular sub
postmaster does not understand something or his results are
completely different to those of the others the problem will be
picked up and the trainer can therefore look into it.

7 Day 3 page 54 paragraphs C,D,F
andG

Not every transaction will be observed because if a
customer does not walk in for a particular transaction we
cannot observe it. A tick sheet is used to ensure the sub
postmaster can understand a particular situation. A
relationship is developed with the sub postmasters
therefore you want them to succeed and you want the
training to be adequate for them. (Page 55 paragraphs A
and B) the line managers of trainers will have a look at the
performance of the branch, to which the trainer was sent,
and assess the losses which have been obtained.

The trainer will assess the sub postmaster’s understanding of the
training by completing a two week period within the Post Office
sitting behind the sub postmaster whilst they complete
transactions. If a particular transaction does not occur the trainer
will go through the transaction with the sub postmaster so that
they have an idea of what happens. Because the trainer develops
a relationship with the sub postmaster they will want him to
succeed, Further as the trainer's success is directly linked with the
success of the particular Post Office to which they have been
assigned the trainer will be more likely to ensure that the sub
postmaster understands the process within the Post Office to
ensure that losses are kept to a minimum.

8 Day 6 page 49 paragraphs A, D,
E and F

The sub postmaster got her manuals in 2005. She received
documentation on the training days which told her how to
operate the computer system. She took this with her when
she began working as a sub postmaster at the post office.
A trainer sat behind the sub postmaster observing how she
completed the transactions and assisted her with the daily
reconciliation at the end of the day. The trainers were there
for two weeks.

The sub postmaster had substantive assistance while she
completed her tasks as a sub postmaster. Firstly, she had a
manual containing information regarding the Horizon system. In
addition to this the sub postmaster has documentation which they
have taken away from the two week training period. This provides
further details on how to operate the systems. Thirdly the sub
postmasters have a trainer on site with them for a period of two
weeks examining how they complete transactions.

9 Day 6 page 55 paragraph E

What time the sub postmasters have during training is
shared with other subpostmasters.

This enables sub postmasters to work closely together and if there
is a specific point which one sub postmaster does not understand
it will be valuable for the whole group to understand. The groups
were very small, there were only around six people in each

4A_4867304_1

2
POL00060593
POL00060593

training group, so each sub postmaster will still have received a
great amount of attention.

10 I Day 6 page 118 paragraphs D
and E

It is the first time we are seeing Horizon so it goes through
the term saying all of that because you have to start
entering the products into the system.

The sub postmasters during their training are told the basis
elements of Horizon and how it works and the sub postmasters are
given a chance to enter products into the system as if they were
really using the Horizon system. They get a practical hand on
experience of Horizon. Trainers have the opportunity to see how
the Subpostmaster would react to situations which are likely to
occur within the PO branch.

4A_4867304_1
