POL00045565
POL00045565

REGINA
-V-
SEEMA MISRA
ATTENDANCE NOTE

1. This case was listed for mention on 7/5/10.

2. Prior to the hearing I was handed a new request for disclosure asking for a
mountain of material relating to the central Horizon computer system. The
request had been drafted by Professor McLachlan who unwisely ended the
document with the suggestion that his work in this new area was likely to
take 42 hours. I told the Defence that I was not prepared to make any
further disclosure and they would have to make a s.8 application. When
HHJ Critchlow was shown the document he stated that the suggested 42
hours work would be a complete waste of public money. The Defence did
not pursue the matter further.

3. The Judge was prepared to break the fixture of 21 June because it had been
fixed without knowledge of Keith Hadrill’s dates to avoid. The Judge
ordered that the experts should compile a schedule of their points of
agreement and disagreement. No further directions were made. My
conversations with the Defence suggested that they would seek to serve a
final report from Professor McLachlan within 6 weeks.

4. The List Office gave us a new fixture of 11 October. Jon Longman was able
to contact almost all of the witnesses to confirm their availability.

5. The witnesses the Defence require are: Jenkins, Longman, Dunks, Morris,
Varsani, Noverre and Bayfield.

6. The Defence told me that they are prepared to print out all of the
transaction logs that have been served on CD, so long as we are willing to
serve that printed material as an exhibit in the case. This request was no
doubt in part made because the Defence’s fees are determined by the page
count of statements and exhibits. Nevertheless, I do think that we should
accept their proposal. It will be impossible for the jury to follow any
POL00045565
POL00045565

evidence derived from the transaction logs unless the material is in printed
form.

7. I would like to have a conference once Professor McLachlan’s report has
been served. I would like Gareth Jenkins to attend.

WARWICK TATFORD
