POL00149277
POL00149277

From: Patrick Bourke;
Sent: Mon 20/10/2014 9:54:52 AM (UTC)

To: “; Belinda
Crowe’ a hsleri~
Subject: RE: Remote access - reactive statement - in strictest confidence [BD-4A.FID26214201]
Mel

Many thanks. Can you put me on the copy list for this type of thing ?

Cheers

From: Melanie Corfield

Sent: 20 October 2014 10:02

To: Belinda Crowe; Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler

Subject: Fw: Remote access - reactive statement - in strictest confidence [BD-4A.FID26214201]

As discussed

From: Parsons, Andrew
Sent: Sunday, October 19, 2014 08:47 PM

To: Melanie Corfield; Jessica Barker

Subject: RE: Remote access - reactive statement - in strictest confidence [BD-4A.FID26214201]

Mel

I'm just about comfortable with this. I understand that although FJ cannot alter individual branch transactions, they
can inject a transaction into a branch's accounts (though use of this facility is very very rare) so we just need to keep
being careful with any changes to the wording below until we get to the bottom of this.

A

Andrew Parsons

Managing Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson

Blin

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Melanie Corfield I
Sent: 17 October 2014 18:
To: Jessica Barker; Parsons, Andrew

Subject: Remote access - reactive statement - in strictest confidence
POL00149277
POL00149277

Hi both

A quick update because Fujitsu comms have come back with revised wording - I think they have made our statement
stronger so that is good, but I suspect because there is (ofcourse) some remote access so that the system can be
maintained etc Second Sight will continue to pursue. Have a good weekend!

Mel

If we are asked about remote access potentially being used to change branch transactions it is simply: "The system is
designed to prevent any access, either remote or direct that would allow individual branch transactions to be
altered."

If pressed further: "The system has been designed to prevent any access, either remote or direct, that would allow
individual branch transactions to be altered. Fujitsu has controlled access to the Horizon system for software updates
and maintenance purposes. This is of course strictly controlled with security processes in place, but could not, in any
event, be used to alter individual branch transactions - there is no facility within the system for this."

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

nly is authorised to

ion in this e-
il and
horised use, dissem

and any attachments is confidential and

achments. If you are not melanie.corfield

ation, distribution, publication or copyin;

ed and protected by law. melanie corfieldg

se notify andrew. parsons

‘communication or attachments is prohibited and

The inform:

soon as possible and delete any
Be unlawful

copies. Una

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or dan
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
