POL00308864
POL00308864

From:
Sent: Tue 16/12/2014 2:27:18 PM (UTC)
To: Mark R DaviesI
Subject: RE: One Show
Dear Mark,

As laid out fully in our communications with you to date we have the testimony of numerous postmasters who believe
there are unresolved problems with the Horizon system resulting in amounts of money being shown to be missing.
These postmasters are adamant they have done nothing wrong. As the PO is fully aware the concerns of the sub
postmasters are historical, ongoing and already publicly documented and they are entitled to continue to air these
views. As is the barrister who states there may be grounds to argue some convictions may not be safe. His opinion is
formed through documentation which would all be in the possession of the PO. As you already know from the quote
we supplied, he chooses his words carefully and only ever makes the point that there may be grounds to argue some
convictions are unsafe. This is his view, he is entitled to have it in these circumstances.

We responded separately last week to your legal team in relation to the documentation point.

We will fully reflect the right of reply you supplied yesterday and the invitation to attend the studio in person is still
open to you giving the PO an opportunity to address any issues raised in the film. We made it clear that for production
reasons a filmed interview needed to have been done by yesterday. The BBC has repeatedly asked the PO for a
filmed interview and has in fact been requesting one on this matter for 5 years, it has always been declined. We do
not therefore accept that the PO has been 'refused an interview’ in these circumstances.

The film that will broadcast on The One Show tomorrow is not the last time the BBC will visit this issue. We would
welcome the opportunity to conduct a filmed interview for a further film in the New Year.

Jane French
Editor, Current Affairs

From: Mark R Davies [;
Sent: 16 December 2014 12:19
To: Jane French

Cc: Clare Hoban; Melanie Corfield
Subject: Re: One Show

Hi Jane

Thanks for this. What evidence will you be putting forward to support the serious suggestion that there "might" have
been miscarriages of justice? You will be aware that should there be evidence of that Post Office has a legal duty to
disclose that evidence. It therefore follows that to make such a serious allegation there must also be some evidence
to support it, and if so I would urge you to please let me know what it is so that we could discharge our
responsibilities.

Given that this appears to be the main thrust of your programme I think it very important that you provide us as soon
as possible with evidence to support the suggestion, particularly as we are not being accommodated to appear in your
film.

I look forward to hearing from you ASAP please given the seriousness of this matter.

Best wishes
POL00308864
POL00308864

Mark
Mark Davies
Communicati

‘orporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone
On 16 Dec 2014, at 12:09, "Jane French" <

wrote:

Hi Mark,

As explained the reason for the film is the MPs adjournment debate. The programme explores the
concerns of subpostmasters as laid out in our letter of last week. I’m not sure how I can add to this. Mr
Patel’s opinion that innocent people ‘might have been convicted’ is not unfamiliar to the post-office and
remains the view as I’m sure you are aware of a number of MPs. It would be negligent of us not to
reflect this in the item and to carry your response,

Jane French
Editor, Current Affairs

From: Mark R Davies [7
Sent: 16 December 2014 11:
To: Jane French

Cc: Clare Hoban; Melanie Corfield
Subject: Re: One Show

Hi Jane

Thanks for this. If everything is laid out in your communications of last week, there is no real substance
to any of the serious allegations you seem to be making, or at least not that you have shared with us.

Please therefore can you let me know ASAP what your central allegation - the reason for this second film
in a week - will be?

Although we have concerns as to the basis for any of the allegations you seem to be making, as I said
yesterday, I have particular concerns about the comments of Mr Patel QC. He seems to be speculating
ona very serious matter (alleged miscarriages of justice) and without any real basis, but in such a way
that it is likely to be very damaging to Post Office and likely to cause serious harm.

This in itself is an extremely serious allegation around which to speculate in the absence of any
evidence. It is hard to see how we could adequately respond to that in a sofa slot. We have offered you a
pre-recorded interview but you have not been prepared to accommodate this.

Best wishes
Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Mobile::____.G

Sent from my iPhone
On 16 Dec 2014, at 10:58, "Jane French"

wrote:

Dear Mark,

I think you have everything else laid out in our communication of last week. Thank you for
your help to date. Are you taking up The One Show offer of the studio chat?

Jane

_Jane French

Editor, Current Affairs
BBC South

From: Mark R Davies [,
Sent: 15 December 2014 19:52
To: Jane French

Cc: Melanie Corfield; Clare Hoban
Subject: Re: One Show

Dear Jane

Thanks for letting me know. What then now forms the core allegation against us in your
film? I note the comments from Mr Patel QC which at face value lack any evidence to
support them.

Indeed, the selection from what Mr Patel might say in the quote as presented to us
contains the following qualifications: "there may be’ ‘perhaps’ and ‘it could be argued’.
This contribution therefore appears to amount to little more than speculation. Yet it is
speculation on a very serious matter. Please can you let me know what further points Mr
Patel may make to support his view?

Many thanks

POL00308864
POL00308864
Mark

Mark Davies
ications and Corporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone
On 15 Dec 2014, at 17:58, "Jane French"

‘> wrote:

Thank you for your reply. I can confirm that because of the complexities
surrounding how subpostmasters are interviewed when concerns are raised
about missing funds this will not now be covered in our One Show film.
However this is an area that we would like to return to in future broadcasts as
the mediation progresses and it would be helpful to discuss this at greater
length once the Wednesday programming is complete.

_Jane French
Editor, Current Affairs

From: Melanie Corfield [_
Sent: 15 December 2014 17:
To: Jane French; Clare Hoban; Ingrid Kelly
Cc: Mark R Davies; Ruth X Barker
Subject: One Show

I attach the answers to the questions you have raised with us and also a short
statement, for use in full please, in the film.
Please let me know if you need clarification about any of the information.

Thanks

Mel Corfield
Communications Team

POL00308864
POL00308864

ceeeegenanes ceeeeaees coerce ereeeaeeneees arene’

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If
you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and
then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed

POL00308864
POL00308864

within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you
are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the
contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered
Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JESUS IS IIHS IIIS IS IIS IIS III III III III III I III II III IIE
