&

Branch talk

HO

branchstandards
getting it right every time

POL00084769
POL00084769
66 Getting branch standards
right every time will help
you run your branch
efficiently, professionally and
securely, as well as giving
our customers the service

they expect and deserve. 99

This booklet is a summary of some of the operational requiremen'

made you aware of in the past, and covers many of the things you need to do
to run your branch properly. esigned to be a useful reminder of the main
branch standards you need to achieve, and to you get these right.

You should also refer to current operational in ions and guidance,
including Operational Focus. Branch standards may vary in the future

we will let you know about any changes.

Given the changing regulatory environment, there is a serious risk to Post
Office if the branch standards are not met and, therefore, please be reminded
that we are obliged to take steps to ensure compliance. These steps,

which include ety in some instances, are explained in the letter
accompanying this booklet. We will, of course, inform you on a regular basis if
any further measures are required.

2. I Welcome

POL00084769
POL00084769

getting it right every time @

Dear colleague

As we work to protect our existing business, compete in new markets and
explore the new services the Post Office® can offer, we need to maintain
our unrivalled reputation for trust. And in the commercial environment we
operate we also have to control our costs whilst giving our customers a level
of service that will keep them coming back again and again

This booklet is a summary of the existing branch standards. It is designed
to be a useful reference guide to the operational requirements we have
previously given you for running your branch efficiently and compliantly.
As you'll recall from the recent Compliance and Pricing in Proportion (PiP)
training, it is extremely important that branch standards are met in order
to avoid the very real risk of action from our regulators - either against
the Post Office or against individual agents. Working in line with branch
standards is also important to ensure the Post Office keeps its costs toa
minimum, and that you aren't disadvantaged financially.

Just as importantly, meeting branch standards means you will be treating
our customers fairly. The standards themselves are not new and they cover
the things the majority of branch teams do successfully every day. Because
of the risks I have outlined, it's essential we get branch standards right every
time, and in every branch. To give you an overall view of how your branch is
performing against these standards we'll provide you with regular updates
to help you identify areas for improvement. We'll work with you to help you
make the necessary improvements.

Delivering these branch standards is key to helping you run your Post Office
branch compliantly and successfully. Please read this booklet carefully and
share it with your team.

GRO

Paula Vennells
Network Director

Getting it right every time I 3.
POL00084769
POL00084769

Getting it right every time

e @ . .
TOvVi j Nn 1. Opening times
g Sticking to your contracted and published opening times is essential. It will
give your customers confidence in your branch and assure our partners that
i people have access to their products and services at the agreed times.
e > Your Post Office opening hours should ideally match the opening hours of
your store, but as a minimum should be in line with your contractual and
S © I V : ( @ published opening times.
> Ifyour store hours are longer than your Post Office hours, keep your
Paystation’ on your retail counter so customers have longer access to

useful services such as E Top-ups, Quantum gas card recharging, electricity
key recharging (or NIE Powercodes in Northern Ireland) and bill payments.

Giving customers a professional, > Wan emergency means you can't open your branch or you cant open on 6
oe . . time, contact the NBSC straight away.

efficient, friendly service and

protecting our brand

4. I Providing a great s Providing a great service - Opening times I5

POL00084769

POL00084769
©
2. Branch experience 3. Customer experience
Customers expect and deserve a safe, accessible, pleasant and welcoming The Post Office has a great reputation for customer service that is built on
environment when they visit a Post Office. Keeping your branch clean and the assistance offered by branch teams, and our friendly, personal service is
tidy with all your promotional material correctly displayed will go a long way something our customers really value.
to creating this environment.
Getting it right every time Getting it right every time
> Keep your branch and store exterior clean and in a good state of repair, > Create a positive first impression.
with your opening times clearly displayed. > Provide a warm, friendly welcome
Mak te feel val
> Ensure the entrance is accessible to all your customers. > Make your customer feel valued
> Keep your branch interior clean, tidy and in a good state of repair, with clear, > Find out and enquire more broadly into your customer's needs.
wccoscible arte > Actively question what your customer wants and how you can help them
sespieas > Make eye contact and give them your full attention.
> Ensure your lighting is bright, welcoming and in working order.
> Offer a relevant product or service to your customer, matching it to .)
> Keep counters and counter screens clear and free from clutter. their needs.
Look fc tt tuniti id introdi dditi ( product
> Ensure your team are neat, tidy and professional in appearance. > Look for cross sell opportunities and introduce an additional produc
or service if appropriate
> Ensure everyone is wearing a name badge > Highlight the features and benefits of the product you're introducing,
> Make sure they have understood by asking if they have a tions,
> Display Post Office promotional materials correctly. ure Mey have understood by asteng ft Mey have any question’
Leave a lasting positive impression when you complete the conversation
> Do not use locally produced marketing material to promote any > Ing positive Impression you P '
Post Office products > Make sure your customer wants to continue with the transaction, and
p that they have all the information they need
> Comply with your obligations under the Disability Discrimination Act and the > Ask if you can help in any other way.
Health and Safety at Work Act. Free information and guidance is available
> Keep an eye on the queue in your branch, and ensure waiting times are
on www.hse.gov.uk. We have also sent you a guide entitled ‘Accessibility and kept to a minimum
the Post Office’ to help you with DDA compliance. You can order the disability
Ne booklet through Horizon )

6. I Providing a great service - Branch experience Providing a great service - Customer experience I 7.

4. Making the most of sales opportunities

POL00084769

POL00084769

Customer service is about more than just a friendly welcome and helping
people when they need it. A great service includes offering customers the
things they need, at competitive prices from their local Post Office

As a minimum, we expect every customer to be asked (where appropriate)
if they want to top up their mobile, withdraw cash, or benefit from the
added peace of mind Special Delivery’ can give them. Simply offering
these three choices to customers will potentially increase your
remuneration, reinforce your branch's reputation as the place to

go for essential services, and grow sales.

We also expect you to look for appropriate opportunities to introduce
our range of financial services, telephony and travel products to all your
customers in a compliant way.

8. I Providing a great service - Making the most of sales opportunities

Getting it right every time

Special Delivery’

> Every time a customer asks to post an inland item up to 2kg, ask them if they
would like it guaranteed to arrive tomorrow. If they do, explain “For just (quote
current price) we can guarantee delivery by 1pm tomorrow and if it should get
lost or damaged you will receive compensation of up to £500 depending on
market value.”

Banking withdrawals
On every cash or cheque transaction ask “Would you like to pay by debit card?”

After every debit card transaction with a partner bank, follow the prompt and
ask “Would you like some cash today?”

E Top-ups
Ask all customers at the end of their transaction, “Do you need to top up
your mobile while you are here?”

>
>
> Ifyou have an ATM you need to make sure it is kept topped up with cash.
>

Look for appropriate opportunities to introduce other Post Office products
and services.

Providing a great service - Making the most of s. opportunities

19.
POL00084769
POL00084769

Selling Compliance
products training
comp liantl 5. Compliance training

We need to demonstrate to our regulators that all Post Office people have
been trained properly to promote, introduce or arrange regulated products,

ry Meeting reg ulatory requirements, and comply with regulations. It also shows we can give our customers the eS
service they expect and deserve from a brand they can trust. Everyone who
i i I works in a Post Office branch needs to complete the required compliance
acting responsibly and with our training, which could include mails integrity, financial services compliance,
tS anti-money laundering, telephony, data protection and other regulatory
customers interests at heart compliance training. As well as helping to ensure we are selling compliantly,

it will also give you and your teams more confidence to talk about our
products compliantly.

Getting it right every time
> Make sure everyone who works in your branch completes the relevant
compliance training in the timescales we require.
> You also need to keep records of the training that takes place in your branch,
L including any confirmation receipts from Horizon .

ling products compliantly ompliantly - Compliance training I 1:

Financial
services

6. Selling financial products and
services compliantly

POL00084769
POL00084769

Getting it right every time )

> Only display or give out the latest versions of leaflets and other promotional
materials for Post Office and NS&I financial services products.

The Financial Services Authority's (FSA) regulations are legal requirements
and help ensure customers receive accurate and balanced information so
they can make an informed decision about a product or service.

Following these regulations is also part of our agreement with our partner,
Bank of Ireland

Demonstrating that we provide these services compliantly shows we are
a trusted provider of financial services and supports our aspirations for
developing this important area of our business.

12. I Selling products compliantly - Financial services

> Ensure customers have all the information they need to make an informed
decision.

> Travel insurance: Make sure that you tell the customer they must disclose
existing medical conditions and tell them about the cancellation period.
Savings: If the customer asks about savings generally you should tell
them about Post Office products and also let the customer know that
they could also arrange some NS&l accounts through the branch.
Over 50s life cover: Ensure that the customer understands how long they
will pay premiums, that their executors may not get back as much as is
paid in premiums and that they will not get anything if the customer
stops paying premiums at any stage before they die or the final
payment date,

v

v

> Don't give advice.

> Always give customers balanced information about product features
and benefits.
Don't make comparisons for the customer.
Don't provide financial advice.
Don't try to calculate any repayment amount or potential interest that
can be earned on a financial services product. You can however refer
them to the relevant contact centre or to www.postoffice.co.uk for more
information.

vvy

> Only talk to the customer about the customer's business: keep the customer's
information confidential. By

Selling products compliantly - Financial services I 13.

Bureau de
change

7. Bureau de change and anti money
laundering regulations

We have a legal and ethical obligation to
follow anti money laundering regulations
and play our part in protecting our
communities. This means following
current operational instructions, including
recording two forms of identification when
a bureau de change transaction is worth
£5000 or more, or if you are suspicious
about the transaction. Genuine customers
are unlikely to question the need to
present their ID

If we don't follow the correct procedures
there's a risk of us becoming an easy target
for criminals. This will not only seriously
damage our brand but it could also result
in fines from our regulator, HM Revenue
and Customs, criminal prosecution and
even having our licence to supply bureau
de change revoked.

14. I Selling products compliantly - Bureau de change

POL00084769
POL00084769

Getting it right every time

>. Ask your customers for, and record on Horizon, two forms of identification

whenever:
> The value of a single bureau de change transaction is £5000 or more.
> Acustomer wants to carry out two or more bureau de change
transactions that appear to be linked, and the combined value is
£5000 or more.
> Acustomer wants to enter into a business relationship in which regular
bureau de change transactions are carried out.

> Ifyou are suspicious about a transaction of any value:

> Ask what they are using the currency for and consider if the answer
given is a reasonable explanation.

Ask for further identification.

if they can't provide it, refuse the transaction.

If they can, but you are still suspicious and the transaction is for

a large amount, explain that ordering the currency may take up to
seven days. Immediately call Grapevine on 0845 603 4004 to follow
the consent procedure

In all cases report the activity to the Money Laundering Reporting
Officer on a suspicious activity report P4677

v

v

<

> [If the customer can't provide acceptable identification the transaction

cannot take place. oO

r

If you are suspicious about any financial transaction, not just for bureau de change,
you must complete a suspicious activity report P4677, and send it to the Money
Laundering Reporting Officer.

This is a summary of some of the key anti money laundering procedures. You
and your team have previously been provided with more detailed instructions

and training on anti money laundering procedures. Make sure you always
follow these.

Selling products compliantly - Bureau de change

Mails

8. Pricing in proportion

POL00084769
POL00084769

9. Pricing parcels

Only parcels below a certain size can be sent using Royal Mail services as
larger parcels need to be carried by Parcelforce Worldwide. Royal Mail will
remove all oversized international items from their operation and upgrade
them to a Parcelforce Worldwide service, which is expensive for them to do.
It can also lead to your customer's item of mail being delayed ~ which means
they're not getting the service we promised them.

Getting it right every time

Royal Mail's pricing in proportion system means that customers are charged
to post their inland and BFPO mail dependant on how much it costs to
handle their item. This cost is related to the weight and size. Overcharging
for a mail item is unacceptable, and may also be an offence under consumer
protection legislation. Undercharging could mean that the people who receive
the mail are surcharged. If this happens our reputation will be damaged, and
we risk losing business to competitors.

Getting it right every time

> Use the pricing in proportion template at all times to correctly size and price
inland and BFPO mail items.

> Refer to your pricing in proportion ‘Size matters’ training guide for more
information and guidance,

compliantly - Pricing in proportion

> Check the size of each parcel and compare the dimensions against the size
limits for both Royal Mail and Parcelforce Worldwide services, and ensure
the correct service is selected.

10. Mails integrity

POL00084769
POL00084769

11. Mails segregation

Our customers trust us to look after their mail while it’s in our possession
and we have a legal requirement to keep it safe and secure. Anyone who
has access to mail in your branch needs to comply with the mails integrity
minimum standards code of practice.

To help give customers the best service possible you need to segregate mail
in your branch before it is collected. This allows our colleagues in Royal Mail
to sort the mail quickly and deliver it on time. Simply segregating the mail in
your branch will give customers the service they expect and help us to protect
our business.

Getting it right every time

©

ZA Getting it right every time

> Ensure only registered assistants have access to mail in your branch, and that
they comply with the mails integrity minimum standards code of practice.

> Protect mail ites from the risk of delay, loss, theft, or interference by
ensuring they are secured at all times and not accessible to the public.

> Make sure you check redirection forms carefully and note the proof of identity.
This will help to reduce the risk of fraudulent redirections and delays.

> Register all your assistants with Post Office Human Resources using a
P250 form.

compliantly - M

> Segregate your customers’ mail into these categories:

> Place all 1st class packets, including BFPO packets and (st class
packet post returns into a grey mail bag and tie it with a bag seal and
the appropriate 1st class bag label.
Place all 2nd class packets and 2nd class packet post returns into a
grey mail bag and tie it with a bag seal and the appropriate 2nd class
bag label.
Place all other items (i.e. Ist and 2nd class letters, large letters,
franking meter impressions, PPI, smart stamps, fast stamps, online
postage labels mail and Royal Mail international) - into a third grey
mail bag.

v

v

> Keep priority services such as Special Delivery™, International Signed
for and Airsure items separate in a secure area.

> Keep Parcelforce Worldwide items separate.

\> Any postage stamps on 1st and 2nd class packets must be date stamped.

ling products complian Aails segregation I 1

Telephony

12. Selling telephony products compliantly

We need to make sure customers fully understand our telephony and

broadband products, and that these products are sold compliantly. This is
necessary under OFCOM regulations which are legal requirements. It will
also help us develop this area of our business.

20. I Selling products compliantly - Telephony

POL00084769

POL00084769

Getting it right every time

Before you sign up a customer check that:
> They are over 18.
> They are the current telephone or broadband subscriber, or have the
current subscriber's permission to cancel and transfer their current
service to Post Office.
> They are not a BT Light, BT Basic or Kingston Communications customer.

Applications from spouses or others to transfer to HomePhone from another
provider cannot be accepted if the current named subscriber has died, unless the
applicant is the executor of the deceased's estate or has the executor's written

permission ~ in which case they can apply to transfer in their own name. If not,
the named subscriber needs to be updated with the current provider prior to any
transfer to Post Office HomePhone.

Copies of our terms and conditions, price list, acceptable use policy, and a copy
of the Post Office HomePhone code of practice, detailing the complaints and
dispute resolution process should be available to customers who request to see
itin branch. Let customers know they can get their own copy by calling the
Customer Contact Centre on {” Jor visiting www.postoffice.co.uk.

Inform customers who are signing up for broadband what their anticipated line
speed is - Horizon shows this when you input their telephone number.

Inform customers that by completing the transaction they are entering into a
contract, and not just applying for information. Horizon will prompt you to read
out the statement and sales confirmation.

Ensure the customer reads and signs the branch copy of the order confirmation
receipt that is produced on Horizon. You'll need to retain this securely for
two years.

Give the What happens next’ receipt to the customer and explain the next
steps in the transfer process.

Customers must be informed that if they are signed up to a minimum
term contract with their current provider, they may have to pay an early
termination charge to them if they move to the Post Office before the end
of that minimum term.

Selling products compliantly - Telephony

[21.
POL00084769
POL00084769

Information
security

13. Protecting customers’ information

: Getting it right every time
Protecting personal data is important for maintaining the trust of our

customers and is also a legal requirement. The Data Protection Act 1998 > Keep personal data securely and confidentially at all times.
places legal obligations on those who handle personal data, and not complying >
with its requirements is a criminal offence and can lead to prosecution.

Only keep personal data for as long as is necessary (e.g. for
auditing purposes), and dispose of it as confidential waste,
and not with your normal rubbish.

Personal data doesn't have to be held on a computer to be protected by
the Act. It can include office copy receipts. documents or forms that contain > Only use personal data for the purpose it was obtained for.
customer information, customer signatures or card details, data printed from
Horizon or cash holding information:

> Never remove any personal data from the branch premises.

If in doubt, you should treat all information and documents about customers
or other individuals as personal data.

Personal data means data which relates to a living individual who can be identified:

(a) from the data, or
(b) from the data and other information which is in or is
likely to come into your possession.

compliantly Information security I 2!

POL00084769
POL00084769

Keeping and moving cash in the network is very expensive. If you have
too much cash in your branch, it may mean we do not have enough for

M an a g in g 14. Overnight cash holdings

other branches, and it also increases your security risk. This is, however,

balanced by the need to have enough cash to serve our customers, and to

assure our partners such as the DWP and our partner banks that we can

give their customers access to their cash. Getting your cash levels just right

is therefore a crucial part of running your branch, and keeping Post Office

e profitable.
you will receive or need to return on your next remittance.
A > Review the level of cash you need on a regular basis. You can do this by *

looking at the balance snapshot and identifying the level of payments

against receipts.

Getting it right every time

> Check the planned order on Horizon each day to identify how much cash

> Let the Inventory Team know if there's been a significant change in your
business over the past six weeks, such as a new business customer.

Being in control of the cash in > Contact the inventory Team to alter or cancel a planned order if you dont

. think you need the predicted level of cash. This includes cash orders for
your branch and meeting your Post Offce ATMs.

> [Ifyou think you can return more cash than the amount shown on your

customers’ needs planned order please do s0

> Only place a special order for cash if it's absolutely necessary.

> Don't use notes taken from a Post Office ATM on the counter unless the
Inventory Team has approved this, as this will impact on the overall planning
for your branch.
Ne

24. I Managing cash in your branch in your branch - Overnight cash holdings

15. Foreign overnight cash holdings

POL00084769
POL00084769

16. Cash declarations

Managing your foreign currency is important for the same reasons as
managing your sterling. Whilst you need enough foreign currency to meet
your customers’ requirements, holding too much is not only a cost to the
business, but can also increase the security risk to you.

Getting it right every time

The cash in your branch, including cash for your ATM, is monitored by

the flexible planning system. The effectiveness of this system depends on
you accurately declaring the cash sterling belonging to us that you hold
overnight, every day your branch is open for business. Accurately declaring
cash means you can monitor it effectively, and identify and resolve any
discrepancies.

> Ifyou are an on-demand branch, make sure you only hold one and a half
times the value of your weekly sales of foreign currency.

> Asales report can be printed through Horizon to show how much
foreign currency you have sold in the current trading period. This can
be used to work out how much foreign currency you should be holding

> It needs to be printed within 42 days of the start of a remuneration
period.

> Instructions on how to print a sales report can be found
in Operational Focus

> [Ifyou are a pre-order branch, please make sure you return
any foreign currency you have bought back from
customers to us at the earliest opportunity, following
your normal remittance procedures.

26. I Managing cash in your branch - Foreign overnight cash holdings

Getting it right every time

Complete an accurate daily cash declaration on the Horizon system for all
stock units used during the day. This must be done before 19:00,

If the stock unit isn’t going to be used, or the branch is closed the following
day, a cash declaration must be the last Horizon transaction of the day.

Declare your notes and coin against the correct denominations. Any
banknotes that are damaged or mutilated should be declared as ‘unusable’.

Complete a cash declaration for every stock unit that has been attached
that day, whatever the reason. This includes cash or stock transfers to or
from the lottery stock unit to AA, even though the cash figure may not have
changed or the stock unit does not contain any cash.

vi Vi Viv

> [Ifyou have a self fill Post Office ATM, this needs to be included in your cash
declaration each day. All cash that is specifically for Post Office ATMs,
whether it is in the machine or held in the safe ready to go into the machine,
must be declared against the £10 ATM note line, regardless of denomination.
If you have a non Post Office ATM for which Post Office supplies the cash
you need to include this in your cash declaration against the correct note
denomination

> Cash prepared for remittance to the cash centre doesn't need to be included
in your cash declaration

Managing cash in your branch - Cash declaratior

POL00084769
POL00084769

Wo rki Nn 17. Processing transactions correctly

Rectifying mistakes is a significant cost to Post Office. Whilst we understand
that mistakes will happen on occasion, we want to minimise them - to reduce
our costs and give good customer servic. Getting transactions right means

® e
we don't have to waste time resolving mistakes. It also gives our partners
confidence that we can transact their products in the correct way.

~
Getting it right every time
Keeping control of costs > Make sure that you and your teams follow the correct procedures for each
; transaction. This will increase confidence and help prevent transaction errors
reducing losses and corrections.
. > [Ifyou receive a transaction correction to rectify a mistake, deal with it as

and staying secure soon as possible, and always within the balance trading period

° > Ifa transaction correction has a monetary value, any discrepancies must be 6
\___ dealt with promptly by contacting Product & Branch Accounting )

66 Getting transactions
right means we don't
have to waste time
resolving mistakes.99

18. Motor vehicle licence discs

POL00084769
POL00084769

19. Cheques on hand

Motor vehicle licence discs are valuable stock items, and need to be kept
securely. Whilst Horizon will record the discs you have sold, you need to
account for all the discs you have in your branch including any that are
spoilt, lost or stolen.

It's also important that we meet the standards agreed with the DVLA about
product knowledge, availability of forms and leaflets, and their customers’
perception of our branches.

Getting it right every time

We settle with our partners based on the information that is transacted
through Horizon. This means that if cheque payments are not cleared
daily we have to settle amounts owed to our partners before we have the
money in our bank account. This has a negative impact on our cash flow.
Despatching your cheques every day means they can be processed and
cleared in the correct timescales which reduces our risk of liability

for bounced cheques. Our customers also expect us to process their
cheques quickly.

Getting it right every time

> Keep all MVL discs safely and securely.

> Ifyou spoil a tax disc you'll need to account for it, destroy it and dispose of it
as confidential waste

> Only accept cheques for certain products and services, as prompted
by Horizon.

> Ifyou lose a disc or suspect one has been stolen, you must account for
it on Horizon.

> Ensure you record all the relevant information on the reverse of the cheques
you accept.

> Make sure the correct MVL forms are available to your customers.

> Despatch all cheques to the relevant place, with the right paperwork with
your daily collection

> Make sure everyone who works in your branch is up to date on MVL
procedures and product knowledge.

30. I Working ntly - Mot

> Make sure the cheque values on Horizon and your branch trading

\___ statement match the values of the cheques held in the till

66 Despatching your cheques
every day means they can
be processed and cleared in
the correct timescales. 99

eques on hand I 3

POL00084769

POL00084769
@
20. Stock holdings 21. Branch trading
Similar to your cash holdings, you need to be confident you have enough Completing a branch trading statement at the end of each branch trading period
stock to meet your customers’ demands, but holding more than you need helps us keep our accounts in order and lets you keep a close eye on your own.
is an unnecessary cost to our business.
~

Keeping good control of your stock also reduces the risk of missing return

Getting it right every time
dates and therefore losses for obsolete stock.

> Complete a branch trading statement on Horizon for each branch trading
period, within the required timescales.

Ensure your branch has rolled over into the correct branch trading period
\___ following completion of the branch trading statement

Getting it right every time >

> Make sure you are only holding three weeks’ worth of stock in your branch

> Follow the current operational instructions for accounting for, managing and
securing your stock.

> Return obsolete stock within the timescales required by current operational
@ \___ instructions

) e

66Keeping good control
of your stock reduces
the risk of missing
@ return dates.99

32. I Working efficiently - Stock holdings Working efficiently - Branch trading I 33.
POL00084769

POL00084769
©
22. Security standards Branch scorecard
Keeping you, your team and your Post Office branch safe and secure is of You'll be sent a regular scorecard report showing how you are performing
paramount importance. Following the security guidelines will reduce the risk against some of the branch standards in this booklet. It will show:
to your people and the risk of losses. The majority of customers will come to
your branch to either deposit or collect cash and they need to feel safe and > If you have processed any non compliant bureau de change transactions

that their assels are secure, > The percentage of valid cash and ATM declarations for your branch

> Your FONCH ratio

Getting it right every time ‘I > Ifyou have lost any MVL discs
> You must follow the security guidelines outlined in the current operational The scorecard will also show other measures such as the result of any audit or
instructions, in addition to further security instructions which may have been
mystery shopping visits if you have been visited in the previous month.
issued to your branch based on your branch type.
> Follow the advised opening and closing procedures.
> Close all doors and parcel hatches when they're not in use.
> Formally identify visitors, including contractors, and record their details branchstandards }
> Lock all access and safe doors at all times ~ keep the keys on separate getting it right every time °
key rings. ensure they are not accessible or visible to members of the :
public, and remove them from the premises at night. Branch name: Newtown Post Office F
> Keep working cash to a minimum. Branch code: 123456 ke
> Store bulk cash in the safe, with any time-overlocks on at all times 4
Your Performance Period Yeartodate I
> Use appropriate security equipment.
X 7 Selling products compliantly i
Bureau de change i
Number of non compliant bureau de change transactions 0 0 ;
Managing cash in your branch i
‘Overnight cash holdings !
‘bof valid cash declarations 100 too
44 of valid ATM cash declarations 100 100
Foreign overnight cash holdings i
FONCH ratio 15 I
Working efficiently I
Motor vehicle licence discs
Number of missing discs 0 o f

34. I Working efficiently - Security standards Branch

POL00084769
POL00084769

Useful contacts

If you have any questions about branch standards, please contact the
Network Business Support Centre on

Other useful contacts can be found in the source telephone directory.

March 2010

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540, Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9H
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd

