POLO0060587
POL00060587

Message

From: Hugh Flemington [IMCEAEX-

on
behalf
of

Sent: 7/1/2013 1:49:21 PM
To: M i

f ; Rodric Williams
cc: Lesley J Sewell Jarnail A Singh

Subject:Re: Legally privileged and confidential

Is someone re-writing plse? I'm in the parents race right now...

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Monday, July 01, 2013 01:41 PM

To: Hugh Flemington; Alwen Lyons; Martin Edwards; Rodric Williams
Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Jarnail A Singh; Nina Arnott

Subject: RE: Legally privileged and confidential

My changes/suggestiions below

From: Hugh Flemington

Sent: 01 July 2013 13:16

To: Alwen Lyons; Martin Edwards; Rodric Williams
Cc: Mark R Davies; Lesley ] Sewell; Jarnail A Singh
Subject: Legally privileged and confidential

DRAFT — it has gaps / square brackets in
High level points for the Board on the SS matter

e Aninterim report to MPs and the JFSA has been promised by SS — currently intended to be presented next
Monday 8" July.
e Early indications are that this may say either
o. There are no systemic issues with the Horizon Computer system but
= PO has alerted SS to 2 issues (which affected 64 and 14 branches respectively and x transactions
over a x period)
= there are potentially issues with certain of POL’s business processes around attitude, support
and training in relation to Horizon.
°
@ PO are meeting SS this afternoon
© Foran update on their investigation
o. Tostress how key it is that what message they give is significant
oto take issue with some of the recent interactions with subpostmasters and the JFSA in terms of the
language they have used
oto remind them that they have not as yet used all the evidence PO have provided them with to put
themselves in a position where they can make a final decision themselves
© to remind them that they should not rely on subpostmasters to make any decisions for them

POL-0057066
POLO0060587
POL00060587

oto remind them that JA is expecting an interim report next Monday in which they come to a final
conclusion on at least 3 of the cases they have been considering.
e@ = PV will be having a call with JA this Wednesday, with the possibility to escalate matters via a face to face
meeting later in the week if necessary

e We need to see this issue in a wider context

o We process over [X] 6 million transactions a day

o Over 11,800 branches

o And to date two anomalies have been identified which suggest a total of 78 transactions might have

been affected in terms of the subpostmaster’s balance. Moreover, the system picked these issues up

e On the 2 defects we have already found:

o On the 64 the subpostmasters affected have already been contacted

© On the 14, we are in the process of writing to the subpostmasters.

o [Costcutter — Rod?]

o [One of the two defects has already been discussed in a court case (Misra) — being confirmed]
Weare preparing a Factual Q & A which we would seek to agree with all key parties (SS, JFSA, MPs, Fujitsu).
e@ Weare seeing what company (possibly E&Y) we could appoint to carry out a review of our business processes to

improve them (and to message this to JA on Wednesday).

e [Update on the 4 MP cases?]
e A final report is currently expected in October 2013.

°. This was intended to provide closure on the 4 “best” cases against PO.

o. [There are also another 29 MP cases which need to be addressed (and will be addressed by the report)]

Hugh Flemington I Head of Legal

© 8 Old Street, ON, ECI

oO) 148 Old Street, LONDON, ECIV 911Q
© Mobex:

@ hugh flemingtong GRO I
S Post Office stories. :

POL-0057066
