POL00022042

POL00022042
Message
From: Swil, Jonathan [/O=LAW/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP (FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=JSWIL]
Sent: 20/03/2014
To: rmorgani
cc: Band, Christa [/O=I INGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP (FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Cband]
Subject: RE: Post Office

Attachments: A17895240 v0.7 Post Office Limited_Report_Legal Analysis.docx

Richard

I attach our report to the Post Office Board in respect of legal issues raised by the complaints/claims made in the Post
Office mediation scheme we discussed briefly on the phone. We were pressed for time to get this to the Post Office today
in final form before sending it to you so that it could go to the Board ahead of the Board meeting next week at which
Christa will be presenting the advice. Accordingly, please limit your comments to high level points of which you think we
or the Post Office should be aware before the Board meeting.

We should be grateful if you could get any comments back to us by Monday. Do let me know if, as you suggested, you
would prefer to set up a call to discuss your views or if you have any questions about anything which is unclear to you in
the document.

Kind regards

Jonathan

GRO

From: Richard Morgan QC [mailt
Sent: 19 March 2014 11:04

To: Swil, Jonathan

Cc: Band, Christa

Subject: RE: Post Office

Jonathan,

Receipt acknowledged!

Nice to speak to you, and I look forward to receiving the draft when you are ready.
All the best,

Richard

From: Swil, Jonathan [mailt
Sent: 19 March 2014 10:58
To: Richard Morgan QC

Cc: Band, Christa

Subject: Post Office

Dear Richard

You now have my details. As I mentioned, we will send you a draft of our report later today and would be most grateful for
any high level comments you have which if you prefer, we are happy to discuss over the phone.

Kind regards
Jonathan Swil

Managing Associate (Solicitor, New South Wales)
Linklaters LLP, London

POL-0018521
POL00022042
POL00022042

Any business communication, sent by or on behalf of Linklaters LLP or one of its affiliated firms or other
entities (together "Linklaters"), is confidential and may be privileged or otherwise protected. If you receive it in
error please inform us and then delete it from your system. You should not copy it or disclose its contents to
anyone. Messages sent to and from Linklaters may be monitored to ensure compliance with internal policies
and to protect our business. Emails are not secure and cannot be guaranteed to be error free. Anyone who
communicates with us by email is taken to accept these risks. Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership
registered in England and Wales with registered number OC326345. It is a law firm authorised and regulated by
the Solicitors Regulation Authority (www.sra.org.uk), The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is used to
refer to a member of Linklaters LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its affiliated
firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. Please refer to www.linklaters.com/regulation for
important information on our regulatory position. A list of Linklaters LLP members together with a list of those
non-members who are designated as partners and their professional qualifications, may be inspected at our
registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ and such persons are either solicitors, registered foreign
lawyers or European lawyers.

This message has been checked for all known viruses by MessageLabs. For further information visit
http://www.messagelabs.com

This message has been checked for all known viruses by MessageLabs. For further information visit
http:/;www.messagelabs.com

POL-0018521
