POL00104821
POL00104821

Condensed Guide For Audit Attendance

Audit at Branch
( Introduction and Horizon Reports)

On arrival at the branch and entry to the secure area, explain the
purpose of the visit. Establish if the person in charge has full
access to the Horizon system (ie may just be a member of staff),
and ask them to Log on to the Horizon system.

You may wish to make a mental note of where personal items (bags,
holdalls etc) taken into the secure area are located when the
audit commences or anything carried in by staff who arrive later.

REPLACE (If SPMR/staff were already in secure area prior to your
arrival, obtain a Transaction Log from 17.30 hours the previous
working day, in addition to the following reports) WITH

Office Snapshot: TAKE THE SENTENCE IN BRACKETS OUT, A BALANCE
SNAPSHOT MAY NOT CONTAIN ALL RECEIPTS & PAYMENTS
WITHIN TRADING PERIOD IF ROLLED INTO BP, MUST BE
OFFICE SNAPSHOT
(This can be Balance snapshot if only one AA Stock
unit.
However) If multi-stock unit, obtain Transfer
Reconciliation and individual snapshots as well.

Cash declaration/s Obtain reprint of figures entered previously

Foreign Currency
Holdings - if applicable

If time is limited the following reports can be obtained later:

e Previous Branch Trading Statement (Reprint

® Suspense Account (Entries need to be supported by NBSC
reference and to be within an 8 week timescale)

e Rems In and Rems Out (Printing both ‘Daily’ and ‘By
Product’ useful, especially if completing Tier 2
entries on P.32)

e Reversals (Transaction Log, Mode, ER and RV)

e Transaction Corrections Processed

e Transaction Corrections Outstanding

e User Summary (if any changes made to users ‘proper’ to
office, obtain a second copy showing amendments
e Transaction Log - over £5000 for previous 6 weeks

V2 Oct 08
POL00104821
POL00104821

Establish where all Cash and Stock is located, including any
outstanding Lottery from retail side, ATM monies etc. There may
also be dormant stocks in Combi-tills, which are not being used.

Proceed to count Counter Working Cash and Stamp Portfolio,
together with loose Stamp Books and any Foreign Currency. Check
any documents and Cheques on hand and relating to the current
Trading Period.

Then move onto Bulk Cash and Stock

Proceed to enter Cash , Stock and Documentation from the above
reports onto P32. You may wish to start with figures B/F from the
last BTS and the Office Snapshot, remembering that some reports
have entries on more than 1 page of the P.32 if completing Tier 2
audits. Rem In figures for postage totals and stock are entered
on the corresponding page ‘tab’ - scroll to the far right of the
pages to locate the columns.

e If audit is on Thursday morning after a Trading Period, the
BTS must be produced before the auditors leave.

V2 Oct 08
