30 June 2011

Memo

Legal Services

POL00046229

POL00046229

Post Office Ltd
3" Floor

3° Floor Royal Mail House
6a Eccleston Street Clippers Quay
Victoria rater’

London Tel QaNW.
SW1W 9LT Mob

Your Ref: CRM 267013/RGW
Our Ref: POLTD /1011 / 0186

Your memo dated 18" May 2011 refers.

A statement has been obtained from the assistant Limair Liaquat and a copy can be found in
Appendix A of this file.

In the statement Mr Liaquat states that he worked until 17:30 and only helped with the balance on a
“few” occasions. When he helped with the balance he said that he only counted the cash and stock in
the counter position. He never obtained any money from the safe and if cash was required the sub
postmaster would get the cash for him.

He would be picked up by the sub postmaster at 6.30 each morning and he never took a
lunch break. The sub postmaster got the cash and stock out each day. The sub postmaster
initially set him up with a password and he changed it when prompted, however when he
changed it he told the sub postmaster as he though that is what he had to do. He did not
know the sub postmasters password.

The sub postmaster completed the daily reports and the cash declaration. He said he would
ask how the balance went and was told that it was fine. He did not recall the sub postmaster
ever telling him that he had forgotten to count any cash when he has helped with the
balance.

Mr Liaquat also stated the sub postmaster would check his remittance and count the
individual notes.

The branch was closed on 26 February 2009. The sub postmaster reported that the staff
closed the branch down at lunch time and requested advice. The outcome was that the
branch remained open and was closed for approximately 10 minutes as the sub postmaster
was only five minutes away. The relevant call has been extracted from the log and a copy
can be found in Appendix C of the file.

k/
POL00046229
POL00046229

Q-

With regard to the alleged missing stamps they would only know for certain in the branch if
they are physically counted. However I would expect the sub postmaster to notice as 400
sheets of stamps as the pile would be approximately 3 inches thick and also when balancing
even if he was using derived figures he should be able to notice the difference between the
derived figure and the actual amount on hand.

When I spoke with the sub postmaster on 24 June 2011 he informed me that he was in
contact with his solicitor to obtain a letter of undertaking as the business was in the process
of being sold.

The file is returned for further advice regarding possible charges. Documents shown at
interview can be found in Appendix B of this file.

Stephen Bradshaw
Fraud Investigator
Post Office Ltd Security Team
