POL00046997
POL00046997

/3 .

Second Sight - Case Review Report ar py

Post Office Mediation Scheme

Case Reference: M029
Applicant: Hughie THOMAS
Advisor: Emma Porter (Aver)

2 April 2015

This report and accompanying documents are confidential and are not to be disclosed to
any person other than a person involved in the processing of the Applicant’s claims through
the Scheme.
POL00046997
POL00046997

1. Introduction

1.1. This report has been prepared by Second Sight, which is the trading name of Second Sight
Support Services Limited, the company appointed to conduct an independent investigation of a
number of matters raised by Subpostmasters, or former Subpostmasters.

1.2. This report should be read in conjunction with the following:

a) the documents submitted by the Applicant and his Professional Advisor;
b) Post Office's Investigation Report (‘POIR’) including attachments;

c) comments by Post Office on the previously issued draft of this report;
d) Second Sight's Part 1 Briefing Report; and

e) Second Sight's Part 2 Briefing Report.

The Applicant has not provided any comments on the previously issued draft of this report.

1.3. The Terms of Reference for Second Sight as set by the Mediation Working Group for this work
are as follows:

a) To investigate the specific complaints raised by each Subpostmaster who has been
accepted into the Scheme with the aim of providing:

i. an assessment of points of common ground between Post Office and that
Subpostmaster;

ii. an assessment of points of disagreement between Post Office and that
Subpostmaster;

iii. where there is disagreement, a logical and fully evidenced opinion on the merits of
that Subpostmaster's complaint where it is possible to do so;

iv. a summary of any points on which it is not possible to offer a fully evidenced
opinion due to a lack of evidence/information;

v. aview on whether a case is suitable for mediation; and

vi. assisting with any reasonable requests made by the Working Group and/or Post
Office.

1.4. Second Sight has been provided with the following documents:
a) the Initial Application to the mediation scheme submitted by the Applicant;

b) the Case Questionnaire Response ('CQR’') submitted by the Applicant's Professional
Advisor; and

Pagel
POL00046997
POL00046997

c) Post Office's Investigation Report (’POIR’), prepared in response to the above
mentioned documents.

1.5. The following are the issues raised by the Applicant:
a) responsibility for direct losses amounting to £50,257.89;
b) transaction anomalies associated with:

1. telecommunications and power failures
I. hardware
lll. stamps/postage labels/phone cards
IV. GIROs and cheques

c) adequacy of training and support;

d) limitations in the Transaction Audit Trail;

e) the contract between the Post Office and Subpostmasters;
f) Post Office's investigations and prosecutions process; and

g) other significant, consequential losses (not dealt with in this report) but which may be
raised if the case progresses to mediation.

1.6, Given that the main issue here is financial loss, this report focuses primarily on the direct
losses of £50,257.89. The other issues listed in paragraph 1.5. above, not all of which may
necessarily be linked directly to responsibility for the financial loss, and not all of which are
therefore dealt with in detail in this report, may however be relevant to an overall
consideration of the case.

1.7. The Applicant and his wife purchased the Gaerwen branch in May 1981, which his wife
operated until 1994. After previously working as a Post Master at another branch until his
retirement in 1991, the Applicant assisted his wife in running the branch. Following his wife's
illness he formally became the Subpostmaster at the Gaerwen branch on 9 June 1994 and
remained in post until his suspension following an Audit on 13 October 2005, which revealed a
cash shortage of £48,454.87 and a cheque discrepancy of £1,803.02, resulting in a final shortage
of £50,257.89.

1.8. Following the Audit and after the Applicant had been interviewed under caution, Post Office
pursued prosecution on a charge of False Accounting to which he pleaded guilty. He received a
custodial sentence, was ordered to pay costs and was subject to a Proceeds of Crime Act
application under which he was ordered to pay approximately £19,000. As a consequence of
this, the Applicant, in January 2008, petitioned for and was declared bankrupt.

Page 2
POL00046997
POL00046997

1.9. Post Office did not pursue a claim in the Applicant's bankruptcy as they were advised that there
was no prospect of any distribution and consequentially wrote off an amount of £44,250.91.

1.10. This £44,250.91 appears to be the net amount outstanding following a payment of
£5,996.68. It is not clear what became of the £19,000 payment by the Applicant under the
POCA order nor whether the £5,996.68 was some form of 'part payment' to Post Office of the
£19,000. This is further confused as the payment and amount written off total £50,247.59
rather than the total losses of £50,257.89.

1.11. The matters raised by the Applicant occurred in the period 1994 to 2005 and therefore fall
outside the Post Office document retention period. Although some evidence has been provided
by Post Office and the Applicant, including his chronology of events covering the period June
1994 to October 2005, the source documents are so limited, that it is now impossible to
establish the real cause of the losses that arose. Post Office comments that as the Applicant
admitted to making false entries in Horizon it would not be possible, even if records had been
maintained, to distinguish between genuine and intentionally false errors.

1.12. The Applicant states that at the time of the Audit in October 2005, which he comments was
the only 'support' visit by Post Office throughout his tenure, all of the documentation in the
branch, including personal papers and a calendar containing details of differences and other
information, was removed and never returned.

1.13. In regard to how the shortfall arose, the Applicant states that he received inadequate
training in handling problems and a lack of support when he needed it, despite his numerous
requests to the Helpdesk, especially given the remote location of the branch. Post Office notes
however that there were no calls recorded in the NBSC helpdesk call logs in which the Applicant
requested additional training. As referenced in paragraph 2.3. below it would appear that the
Applicant had a weak understanding of how to properly operate the Horizon system which
introduces the possibility that errors made at the counter could have caused some of the losses.

1.14. He also refers to the potential impact of power failures and hardware problems (as
referenced in our Part Two Report) and to the possibility of 'nil transactions’ being the cause of
some of the losses. This latter point is further developed and considered below.

1.15. This report was originally completed in September 2014 but was not issued pending
finalisation of our Briefing Report - Part Two that will now shortly be released, allowing the
finalisation of this report. In addition, completion of the report was delayed pending receipt
and review of documentation, relating to the Applicant's prosecution, in addition to that which
Post Office had already supplied. We have been advised by Post Office that there are no
further documents to be provided beyond those already supplied to us as part of the
investigation and POIR production process. We have therefore now completed our report.

Page 3
2.

2.1.

2.2.

2.3.

3.

3.1.

3.2.

3.3.

POL00046997

POL00046997

Points of common ground between the Applicant and Post Office

It is common ground that an Audit took place on 13 October 2005 and that discrepancies
totalling £48,454.87 were revealed although the cause of the discrepancies has never been
established. A cheque discrepancy of an additional £1,803.02 was also subsequently
identified. It is also agreed that documents, including personal items, were removed from
the branch during the Audit, as it is "Post Office policy to remove items that are believed to be
pertinent to any investigation". Post Office now claim that there is no documentation to
support this and therefore do not consider it common ground that they removed the
Applicant's personal items. Post Office also state that the Applicant was allowed access to
the branch after the Audit to remove any remaining personal documents.

It is also common ground that there were problems with the Horizon hardware and that all of
the equipment was replaced prior to the branch re-opening in January 2006 after the
suspension of the Applicant. The suggestion by the Applicant that this indicated that there
were faults with the system and that these could have been the cause of differences suffered
is however disputed by Post Office which maintains that the old equipment was removed for
testing, although there is no record available to show the results of any such testing.

The Applicant states that he made frequent calls to the Helpline, averaging approximately
one per week over an extended period. The Post Office notes that the Horizon Helpdesk call
logs are no longer available but that such of the NBSC call logs that could be accessed "show a
high volume of calls from the office on a variety of subjects", although Post Office consider
that these averaged approximately one per month. These call logs confirm the frequency of
reported hardware problems and may also indicate a weak understanding by the Applicant of
the basic operations of the Horizon system and how some important aspects were meant to
operate.

Points of disagreement between Post Office and the Subpostmaster

The Applicant raises several concerns relating to the extent and quality of training and
support provided to him. He notes that training was limited to less than two days initial
training immediately followed by three visits to provide specific assistance. All other training
and assistance was provided via Operating Manuals, which he found difficult to interpret, and
access to the Helpline, which he found to be "insufficient". According to the Applicant,
Horizon training was provided some six months prior to the installation of the system, which
is clearly less than ideal and would appear to be different from what has been described by
Post Office as the training that would normally have been carried out at that time.

Post Office notes that training records for the Applicant are no longer available but that "had
this case arisen today....such training would have been offered".

The Applicant maintains that in addition to the possibility of making operator errors, the
problems with the hardware, including screen freezing, power cuts, transfer interruptions
and the need for remote rebooting of the system, of which he kept comprehensive records,

Page 4
3.4.

3.5.

3.6.

3.7.

3.8.

3.9.

3.10.

3.11.

POL00046997

POL00046997

could have been the underlying cause of the discrepancies but Post Office disputes this.

The Applicant comments in his CQR on the limitations on the extent to which he could review
the audit trail and compare data in order to determine the source of the differences, which
appeared to have accumulated over a period of time.

The Applicant believes that the discrepancies might also have been caused by a number of ‘nil
transactions' in which the system shows a nil value for a Post Office Card Account (POCA)
transaction but the customer receives cash. There are a number of valid reasons why the
system would show a nil value including if the transaction was a ‘balance only' enquiry; a PIN
number change; if a withdrawal limit is exceeded; if there are insufficient funds in the
customer's account or if multiple incorrect PIN numbers were entered.

Post Office advises that an analysis undertaken at the time of the prosecution covered 70
such transactions over an eight day period and revealed that all of them could be analysed as
being one of the valid reasons set out above. Due to the lack of evidence, this cannot be
further investigated nor can it be proven what the Horizon screen may have indicated at the
time. Such evidence could have provided some rationale for the Applicant paying cash to
customers without their accounts being debited.

In addition to a possible lack of understanding by the Applicant of how to properly operate
the system, a further possible cause for the discrepancy is stated by the Applicant as being
problems with cheques ‘doubling up’ on the system and the process for ‘cutting off’ Giro
deposits. The call logs that are available indicates that the Applicant made a number of
requests for assistance with cutting off, which may suggest a lack of understanding of how
the system was meant to operate since a failure to cut off should not, as such, cause errors or
balancing problems if correctly manually processed.

The Applicant states that he was accused by Post Office of both Theft and False Accounting but
that the charge of Theft would be dropped if he agreed to plead guilty to False Accounting.

Post Office's records indicate that there is no reference or explanation in any available
documentation as to when, or why, the initial charge of Theft was dropped.

The Applicant considers that the approach taken by Post Office in relation to his prosecution
was inappropriate and that he was subject to a criminal process before his concerns appeared
to have been fully addressed, with the basis for the prosecution being "inflation of the cash on
hand figure for a prolonged period and failure to make good the losses" although there is no
documentation available to show the timing of the cash differences and the definition of the
"prolonged period".

It is also perhaps noteworthy that the ‘consideration of dismissal’ letter from Post Office was
issued just eleven days after the Audit. It is unclear what investigations were undertaken to
establish the possible root cause of the differences and shortfalls that appeared to have
accumulated over time.

Page S

POL00046997
POL00046997

3.12. Post Office believes that the investigation and subsequent prosecution were conducted

properly and that a guilty plea was appropriate in the light of the admissions that were made by
the Applicant.

3.13. In his CQR the Applicant also refers to a difference of approximately £3,000 that arose in
2003/4 and that, although he did not know why the difference arose, he maintains that it was
settled on a 50:50 basis with Post Office. Although Post Office notes that an amount of
approximately £1,200 was written off in the immediate months after migration to Horizon, as
part of an exceptions process, they have no record of any 50:50 agreement or payment.

3.14. _ Inits POIR Post Office refers to an earlier incident involving the Applicant's daughter
resulting in the Applicant repaying Post office a sum of £11,000 and agreeing that the
daughter would no longer have access to the branch. Post Office further comments that at
the time of the Audit she was still listed as a user on Horizon although there is no evidence as
to whether this was being used.

4, Where there is disagreement, a logical and fully evidenced opinion on the merits of that
Subpostmaster's complaint where it is possible to do so

4.1. Due to the length of time that has elapsed since the events of 1994 - 2005 few of the matters
of disagreement can be further analysed.

4.2. Issues relating to Post Office prosecution policy and the conduct of any prosecution, fall
outside our terms of reference.

5. Asummary of any points on which it is not possible to offer a fully evidenced opinion due to a
lack of evidence/information

5.1. The expiry of document retention periods has resulted in it no longer being possible to offer a
fully evidenced opinion on a number of the matters raised by the Applicant.

5.2. The inadequacy of the training provided to the Applicant is raised by him as a key issue of
concern but the lack of training records now available makes it impossible to express an
evidence based opinion on this matter. The Post Office statement of what the standard
training would have been at the time and also what is normally now offered is not considered
to be of particular relevance.

5.3. The Applicant maintains that he consistently noted his concerns with Horizon but in the
absence of further evidence it is impossible to conclude whether these concerns were valid.
The apparent number of calls to the Helplines, where he was reportedly passed between the
Horizon Helpline and the NBSC support function, perhaps further demonstrates that the
Applicant struggled to understand how to properly use the system, which is linked back to his
comments on the significance of his inadequate training.

Page 6
POL00046997
POL00046997

6. Is this case suitable for mediation?

6.1. In our opinion and notwithstanding the Applicant's guilty plea to the charge of False
Accounting, this case is suitable for mediation and the following issue should be considered:

a) whether Post Office or the Applicant is responsible in part or whole for the overall loss
of £50,257.89. I

Page 7
