POL00460652
POL00460652

From: Mark Underwoos

Sent: Thur 06/01/2022 11:46:55 AM (UTC)
To: ‘Simon Recaldin’

Subject: FW: Remediation Programme

As discussed just now
Mark

Mark Underwood
Legal, Compliance & Governance Operations Director

From: Mark Underwood1
Sent: 11 August 2021 09:41 PM
To: Bruce, Julie ey
Subject: RE: Remediation Programme
Thanks Julie,
None of this will come as a surprise but my view is that whatever remediation / compensation Scheme is set up, it
needs to:
© Be capable to bringing closure to this matter for interested parties.
* To be funded appropriately to enable those affected to be properly compensated
* For it to be independent of Post Office, to avoid conflicts
© To be properly but not overly governed, so that affected individuals receive compensation swiftly
* Not distract and therefore prevent POL from being able to deliver on its forward facing strategy
* Represent good value for money for the public purse — the administration of the scheme and how much that
costs must be proportionate but not to the detriment of those affected — i.e money going to law firms rather
than affected individuals
© Be properly documented - processes, controls, delegated authorities, ToR.
* The ‘client’ and decision makers must be identified and trusted.

Happy to chat through on the phone if helpful. You may also benefit from speaking to Graham Hemingway who
manages the Historical Shortfall Scheme, as there are definitely lessons to be learnt from the journey he has been on.
Mark

From: Bruce, Julie [mailto:
Sent: 11 August 2021 1
To: Mark Underwood!
Subject: Remediation Programme

Hi Mark,

This might also be useful, it was the pack we initially talked through with Nick setting out how Remediation
Programmes are normally run.

Thanks

Julie

Julie Bruce
Director

seI Park RowI Nottingham I NG1 6FQI UK

This email has been sent by and on behalf of one or more of KPMG LLP, KPMG Audit plc, KPMG Resource Centre Private Limited or a company
under the control of KPMG LLP, including KPMG United Kingdom plc and KPMG UK Limited (together, "“PMG"). This email, and any
attachments, is confidential and may be privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure. It is intended solely for the stated addressee(s) and
access to it by any other person is unauthorised. If you are not the intended recipient, you must not disclose, copy, circulate or in any other way
POL00460652
POL00460652

use or rely on the information contained herein. If you have received this email in error, please inform us immediately and delete all copies of it.
Any communications made with KPMG may be monitored and a record may be kept of any communication. Any opinion or advice contained
herein is subject to the terms and conditions set out in your KPMG LLP client engagement letter.

A list of members of KPMG LLP is open for inspection at KPMG's registered office.

KPMG LLP (registered no. 0C301540) is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales. Each of KPMG Audit ple (registered no.
03110745), KPMG United Kingdom ple (registered no. 03513178) and KPMG UK Limited (registered no. 03580549) are companies registered in
England and Wales. Each entity's registered office is at 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL.

For full details of our professional regulation please refer to httos://www.kpmg.com/uk/en/about/aboutkpmg/pages/requlatory-information aspx.

To understand how we respect and protect your personal data, please see our online privacy policy at www.kpma.co.uk/privacy. To opt-out of
marketing communications from KPMG in the UK, please email KPIVGunsubscribe™

