POL00412894
POL00412894

From: Veronica Brantonfi.

Sent: Mon 13/01/2020 8:43:54 AM (UTC)

To: Aldred, Tom-UKGI, GRO.
Subject: RE: Feedback on Chairman for appraisal discussion

Many thanks, Tom
I’m happy to make those changes and happy with the template for the Chair’s self-assessment.
Best wishes

Veronica

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI [mail
Sent: 10 January 2020 1
To: Veronica Branton ¢_
Subject: RE: Feedback on Chairman for appraisal discussion

}; Cooper, Tom - UKGI <

Veronica

Sorry for the delay in responding. I have a couple of thoughts:
1. Suggest rephrasing questions to make them more open:
a. ‘To what extent has the Chair....’ Instead of ‘has the Chair’
b. ‘What else could the chair do’ instead of ‘is there anything more the chair could do’
2. Suggest expand the question on promoting a successful culture to read “promote an open,
collaborative and successful boardroom culture”. Tom — given Alex's interest, do you think there is
anything specific the appraisal should explore here?

Tim’s self-assessment should be against the Chair Letter of Feb 2019. You asked for a template. I have
suggested one below, which asks for an assessment against each of the main elements of the letter. I've
also added a section at the bottom for overall comments. I need to double-check this with Tom C when
he’s back in next week, and would also welcome any comments from you.

Tom

Annex B: Self-Assessment against Chair’s Letter of February 2019
Priority Self-assessment

Appoint a new CEO and ensure a smooth transition

Promote opportunity and diversity — and undertake
succession planning

Board development — comply with governance codes

Improve investment spend controls

Company restructuring, including Framework Document

Develop a company strategy, including for funding

POL00412894
POL00412894

beyond 2021

Litigation - keep Government appraised

Agent Pay — develop proposals and keep Government
informed

DMB franchising programme — improve communications
and engagement

POca — robust plan for transition

Overall comments on successes and areas for improvement:

Any other comments:

From: Veronica Brantoni_
Sent: 10 January 2020 0:
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <

Ce: Aldred, Tom - UKGI <i _GRO

Subject: RE: Feedback on Chairman for appraisal discussion

Dear both,
Please could I check if you’ve have a chance to look at the feedback form?
Will UKGI be providing the new Chair letter?
Best wishes
Veronica
Veronica Branton
Company Secretary

First Floor, Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London
EC2Y 94Q

I Form (CAF) enquiries & submission, please email

rd & Committee dates can be found on the Company Secretariat
POL00412894
POL00412894

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI [mailto:}
Sent: 02 January 2020 1
To: Veronica Branton <j.
Cc: Aldred, Tom - UKGI:
Subject: Re: Feedback on

iscussion

airman for appraisal

Thanks Veronica
We'll get back to you next week.
Tom

Sent from my iPhone

On 31 Dec 2019, at 11:35, Veronica Branton <!

> wrote:

Dear both,

Please find attached a draft timetable and draft Chair feedback questionnaire. Ken has asked me to
check whether you have any comments on the drafts.

The timeline is designed to align with the Board evaluation for 2019/20 and the draft questionnaire uses
the headings proposed by BEIS (as set out in Tom A’s email to Ken of 4 December 2019) with the
questions informed by the FRC’s description of the role of the Chair in its guidance on board
effectiveness.

I'd be grateful if you could let me have your thoughts.

Best wishes
Veronica

Veronica Branton
<image003.png> Company Secretary

First Floor, Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street

London
EC2Y 9AQ

Form (CAF) enquiries & submission, please email
POL00412894
POL00412894

All Post Office Group Board & Committee dates can be found on the Company Secretariat

2A C22 9 IRR RRR A ORR RR A ORR IO RR A AOR OR IO ROR AON I ACO RRR ACR COE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2H RR ARR RRR A RR RR A 2K 2 FRR A KR FRR ASR A RRR aS aa

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this
can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”
<AnnualChairAppraisalProcessAndTimeline_201920_V2.docx>
<ChairFeedback_201920-v1.docx>

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote
also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and
for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote
also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and
for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.
