POL00102249
POL00102249

Message
From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd! GRO i
on behalf of Angela Van-Den-Bogerd _
Sent:
To:

cc:

Subject: : ice : FAD 1602071

Hi Paula,

I have already actioned your earlier request to me and have dropped a brief e-mail to Michael at the
branch to let him know I have picked this up.

I’m with Rod and Amanda tomorrow to discuss ‘Back Office’ support so will discuss and establish where
the gap in the process is. I’ll provide a complete update when we’ve concluded our enquiries.

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Partnerships

is Floor, Ty Brwydran,
Atlantic Close, Llansamiet
Swansea SA7 9FI

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 01 March 2015 21:28

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Harry Clarke; Rod Ismay

Cc: Alisdair Cameron; Kevin Gilliland; Avene O'Farrell; Gavin Lambert
Subject: Fwd: Scratchcards - Aston on Trent Post Office : FAD 1602071

Dear all,

I would really appreciate your help. This complaint simply shouldn't have reached me - it is my understanding that the
NBSC/Chesterfield are supposed to be on the alert for any calls that relate to missing money and especially any that
relate to the Sparrow themes, of which this is clearly one and then ensure they are dealt with.

le., I understood there was an urgent/escalation process in place, so that we avoided any unnecessary additional noise
or references to Horizon, as all the investigations have so far shown problems to be mostly branch operational issues
rather than the system.

You will see that I have already asked for Angela to look into the complaint personally.

This needs to be the priority.

However, I am as concerned about the helpline answers and why this wasn't immediately flagged and escalated? We
know that Scratchcards have caused problems in the past; and as I say above, I'd like confirmation that any of the

POL-0101832
POL00102249
POL00102249

Sparrow/Second Sight themes are flagged so that colleagues know what to do if they are unable to resolve them at the
first line.

Many thanks,
Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennell:
Date: 1 March 2015 20:56:12 GMT
To: Mike and Denise Crock
Ce: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd:
Subject: Re: Scratchcards - Aston on Trent Post Office : FAD 1602071

Dear Michael,

Thank you very much for taking the trouble to let me know. It's only when colleagues do that I can help.
Of course I will do my best to sort this out for you. I am sorry that you haven't had more help from the
helpline, we are usually much better than this, especially on issues where money/stock goes missing.

I have copied Angela van den Bogerd, who will look into this personally for you and will keep me in the
loop.

If I can be of any more help, please don't hesitate to let me know.

Best wishes,

Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

On 1 Mar 2015, at 17:22, Mike and Denise Crocker:

Dear Paula,

I feel compelled to contact you regarding a very serious issue at my Post Office and trust
that you will be able to rectify matters.

The issue relates to National Lottery Scratch cards and discrepancies on Horizon.

POL-0101832
POL00102249
POL00102249

At our last Trading Period of 2014, Horizon showed that we should have £980 more in
scratch cards than we physically had. Needless to say, this discrepancy caused me a lot
of concern, and after having contacted the PO Helpline, who assured me that it could be
nothing other than theft and was not a fault with Horizon, I did no more than to contact
the police , who were also unable to do anything! Our scratch card dispenser is securely
locked and only opened when a customer wishes to make a purchase. Our Post Office is
in a small village and theft of this magnitude is unheard of .

I found it very distressing to have to consider theft and quite frankly, I could not accept
that as included in the overall discrepancy was a shortage of 60 x£10 scratch cards -
who would have been able to remove these when there are only 20 in the dispenser at a
time.

In order to complete the balance for our Trading Period, I sadly had to put £980 of my
own money into the system.

I have just returned from a week’s holiday and once again , we have a discrepancy. This
time it is for 40 x£5 cards. I contacted Camelot immediately who confirmed that our
stock matched their figures and they actually said that Horizon was more than likely to
be the issue and that this was not the first time they had been made aware of a
potential problem with Horizon. I then contacted the Helpline on Wednesday 25%
February and was assured that this would be given priority as we have another Trading
Period on 4" March and I am not prepared to pay for an error that I know is not of my
making. I was given a reference number of 836269 and assured that the Lottery Team
would be in contact. As yet, I have not heard from anyone and that is my reason for
escalating the matter to you.

I feel that both of these issues point to a possible system issue which no-one seems
prepared to investigate and I respectfully ask for your assistance.

Kindest regards

Michael Crocker

Sub Postmaster

POL-0101832
