POL00028163

POL00028163
AUTHORITIES' AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A07 RESTRICTED - CONTRACTS
SCHEDULE A07- ACCEPTANCE PROCEDURES
i. SCOPE
1. This Schedule specifies the procedures for Acceptance of

Deliverables and Services provided under the terms of the
AUTHORITIES’ Agreement. The scope of this Schedule includes
the Acceptance of all Deliverables and Services provided
under this Agreement, including, for the avoidance of doubt,
Deliverables and Services arising from orders or changes
after the date of execution hereof.

1. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “AUTHORITY”
shall be deemed to mean the AUTHORITIES where both of the
AUTHORITIES have an interest in an Acceptance Test, and to
mean the relevant AUTHORITY where only one of the
AUTHORITIES has an interest in an Acceptance Test.

1. Where in this Schedule the AUTHORITY or the CONTRACTOR is
required to approve an Acceptance Specification or a report
or Deliverable, such approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed by either party.

1s ACCEPTANCE METHOD

Le An Acceptance Test shall take the form of one or more
Acceptance Trials as defined in paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, one or more Acceptance Reviews as defined in
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, or combinations thereof.

ike In general, Acceptance of Services shall be by Acceptance
Trial and the Acceptance of Deliverables shall be by means
of Acceptance Review. An Acceptance Review shall be used to
accept a Service where the AUTHORITY agrees that an
Acceptance Trial is inappropriate or unnecessary.

1. The scope and conduct of any Acceptance Test shall be
documented in an Acceptance Specification in accordance with
paragraph 5 of this Schedule.

da In approving any Acceptance Specification the AUTHORITY
reserves the right to require testing to establish whether
the relevant Service is in accordance with all obligations
of the CONTRACTOR under this AUTHORITIES’ Agreement.

Ls The CONTRACTOR and the AUTHORITY shall nominate
representatives to manage and to participate in each
Acceptance Test at least one month prior to the commencement
of the Acceptance Period.

Le The CONTRACTOR shall repeat any or all parts of the
Acceptance Test as often as necessary during the Acceptance
Period to resolve any outstanding Acceptance Incidents
affecting the Acceptance Test.

Acceptance Procedures Page 1 of 5 Version 5.0 - Pathway
POL00028163

POL00028163
AUTHORITIES' AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A07 RESTRICTED - CONTRACTS
1. The outcome of an Acceptance Test shall be one of the

following:
(a) Acceptance as defined in paragraph 7 of this schedule;

(bo) Failed Acceptance as defined in paragraph 8 of this
Schedule.

le The AUTHORITY shall raise a report in relation to each
Acceptance Incident occurring during an Acceptance Test, as
soon as is reasonably practicable after the Acceptance
Incident occurs. When the CONTRACTOR has satisfactorily
resolved an Acceptance Incident and the AUTHORITY has signed
the report by way of confirmation of satisfactory
resolution, such Acceptance Incident shall be deemed to have
been resolved.

1. ACCEPTANCE TRIAL
1. An Acceptance Trial shall consist of one or more of the
following:

(a) inspection of any system used to provide a Service;
(b) demonstration of any system used to provide a Service;

(c) running a real or simulated operational workload on any
system used to provide a Service;

(d) monitoring provision of a Service over a trial period to
verify performance to the Service Levels specified for
the Service.

1s The scope and conduct of any Acceptance Trial proposed shall
be documented in the Acceptance Specification in accordance
with paragraph 5 of this Schedule, and the Acceptance Trial
shall not commence until the Acceptance Specification has
been approved by the AUTHORITY.

1. ACCEPTANCE REVIEW
Ls An Acceptance Review shall consist of one or more of the
following:

(a) inspection of a Deliverable (e.g. a document) by one or
more competent reviewers nominated by the AUTHORITY;

(bo) inspection by one or more competent reviewers nominated
by the AUTHORITY of documentary evidence that a Service
has been provided;

(c) a meeting between the AUTHORITY and the CONTRACTOR at
which one or more of the following occur:

i. Deliverables or documentary evidence are inspected;

Acceptance Procedures Page 2 of 5 Version 5.0 - Pathway
POL00028163
POL00028163

AUTHORITIES' AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A07 RESTRICTED - CONTRACTS

ii. a presentation is given by the CONTRACTOR;

iii.the results of prior inspections, visits or
presentations are reviewed and the outcome agreed.

is The scope and conduct of any Acceptance Review proposed
shall be documented in an Acceptance Specification in
accordance with paragraph 5 of this Schedule, and the
Acceptance Review shall not commence until the Acceptance
Specification has been approved by the AUTHORITY.

ds ACCEPTANCE SPECIFICATION

1. The CONTRACTOR shall prepare an Acceptance Specification for
approval by the AUTHORITY. The Acceptance Specification
shall:

(a) define the purpose and scope of the Acceptance Test;

(bo) define the detailed procedures for raising and resolving
Acceptance Incidents for the Acceptance Test in
accordance with paragraph 2.7;

(c) define the Acceptance Period for the Acceptance Test;

(d) identify the Deliverables and Services which are subject
to Acceptance and the acceptance method, as described in
paragraph 2, to be used to accept each;

(e) identify the Acceptance Criteria for each Deliverable or
Service, where appropriate by reference to the
Agreements; and for each Acceptance Criterion:

i. define the Acceptance Test Conditions to be used for
establishing that the Acceptance Criterion has or has
not been met;

ii. designate the severity of any deficiency resulting
from a failure to meet the criterion in accordance
with paragraph 6 of this Schedule.

(f) for any Acceptance Trial define any test data necessary;

(g) identify AUTHORITY responsibilities, including the
resources required to carry out each Acceptance
Trial/Acceptance Review.

1. The CONTRACTOR shall assist the AUTHORITY in meeting the
AUTHORITY’s responsibilities as approved in the Acceptance
Specification approved by the AUTHORITY for the development
of the Acceptance Tests, including, but not limited to,
assisting in the preparation of any necessary test data.

Acceptance Procedures Page 3 of 5 Version 5.0 - Pathway
POL00028163

POL00028163
AUTHORITIES' AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A07 RESTRICTED - CONTRACTS
1. ACCEPTANCE DEFICIENCIES
1. The CONTRACTOR shall analyse each Acceptance Incident, and

the following definition shall be used to categorise each
Acceptance Incident:

(a) failure to meet an Acceptance Criterion defined in an
Acceptance Specification as essential to the Deliverable
or Service shall be designated a high severity
deficiency;

(o) failure to meet an Acceptance Criterion defined in an
Acceptance Specification as highly desirable for the
Deliverable or Service shall be designated a medium
severity deficiency;

(c) failure to meet an Acceptance Criterion defined in an
Acceptance Specification as desirable for the Deliverable
or Service shall be designated a low severity deficiency;

(d) an Acceptance Incident which does not relate to an
Acceptance Criterion, but which identifies a failure to
meet any other obligation under this AUTHORITIES’
Agreement and, in the reasonable opinion of the
AUTHORITY, represents a substantive fault, equivalent to,
and categorised according to, part (a), (b) or (c) of
this paragraph; or

(e) none of the above.

1. Other than for category (e) above, the analysis of an
Acceptance Incident shall not of itself be sufficient to
resolve the Acceptance Incident. Resolution of an Acceptance
Incident shall only occur when the deficiency or fault has
been corrected by the CONTRACTOR and the relevant parts of
the Acceptance Test have been repeated without further
category (a), (b) or (c) Acceptance Incidents arising.

le The AUTHORITY may, at its sole discretion and in accordance
with Clause 611, waive in writing the resolution of an
Acceptance Incident and deem it resolved.

1. ACCEPTANCE

1. The outcome of an Acceptance Test during an Acceptance
Period shall be Acceptance where no Acceptance Incidents
remain unresolved at the end of the Acceptance Period, and
the full scope of the Acceptance Test as defined in the
Acceptance Specification has been covered. In these
circumstances, the AUTHORITY shall confirm Acceptance to the
CONTRACTOR in writing, within five (5) working days of the
end of the Acceptance Period.

1s The outcome of an Acceptance Test during an Acceptance
Period shall also be Acceptance where only category (c)
Acceptance Incidents remain unresolved at the end of the

Acceptance Procedures Page 4 of 5 Version 5.0 - Pathway
POL00028163
POL00028163

AUTHORITIES' AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A07 RESTRICTED - CONTRACTS

Acceptance Period, provided that the CONTRACTOR shall be
required to resolve all such outstanding Acceptance
Incidents promptly thereafter and complete any necessary re-
testing at its own cost. For the avoidance of doubt,
Acceptance on this basis shall not imply any waiver of the
CONTRACTOR’s full compliance with all its other obligations
under this AUTHORITIES’ Agreement.

Le Any charging mechanism associated with a Service becomes
active after achievement of Acceptance of the Service. Any
payment associated with a Deliverable becomes due on
achievement of Acceptance of the Deliverable.

1s FAILED ACCEPTANCE
is The outcome of an Acceptance Test shall be Failed Acceptance
where one or more category (a) or (b) deficiencies as

defined in paragraph 6 of this Schedule remain unresolved at
the end of the Acceptance Period. In these circumstances,
the AUTHORITY shall confirm Failed Acceptance to the
CONTRACTOR in writing, within five (5) working days of the
end of the Acceptance Period.

1. In the event of Failed Acceptance the CONTRACTOR shall,
within one (1) month of the notification of Failed
Acceptance, submit in writing to the AUTHORITY a plan for
the correction of unresolved Acceptance Incidents and a date
for a further Acceptance Test.

1. In the event of Failed Acceptance, the Deliverable or
Service to which the Acceptance Test relates shall be
regarded by the AUTHORITY as unfit for use.

1. The AUTHORITY’s right of termination for Failed Acceptance
shall only apply under Clause 902.2, and only in the event
that:

(a) one or more high severity deficiencies; or
(b) ten or more medium severity deficiencies;

remain uncorrected at the end of the Operational Trial
Period.

1. Any payment or charging mechanism associated with the
Deliverable or Service due on achievement of Acceptance will
be withheld until deficiencies are rectified and Acceptance
is achieved.

Acceptance Procedures Page 5 of 5 Version 5.0 - Pathway
