POL00297994
POL00297994

From: Charles Colquhoun[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP

(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=CHARLES COLQUHOUNA9B383DA-47EC-48D9-

9DBD-75CAFEFD3E80]

Sent: Fri 26/07/2013 1:48:13 PM (UTC)

To: Susan Crichton! 7 Martin
Edwards[?

Ce: Chris MDayf GRO, Alwen Lyonsf

Subject: RE: .

How about this?

Responses to other questions raised at the 23 July Board meeting

1. The Board requested further clarification on their position as directors; in summary it is highly unlikely
that any individual director would have any personal liability in connection with this review, unless
they had acted in bad faith or maliciously, (See Annex A) In the unlikely event that an action is
brought (could only be by Post Office Limited or in very rare circumstances by the Shareholder acting
on behalf of the company) there is insurance cover in place to cover directors and officers liability
which provides full cover where an action is brought against them, the policy has a £25,000 excess for
claims by the company but no excess claims brought by individuals (ie Directors and Officers of Post

Office Ltd) and cover up to £60 million, it is also retrospective.

In response to the Board’s request for a post-mortem, Internal Audit has now been tasked with carrying out
a review of our response to the Second Sight investigation, reporting to the ARC. The terms of reference

will be agreed with the Chair of ARC over the coming weeks

Regards
Charles

Charles Colquhoun I Head of Corporate Finance

First Floor =
¢

Qld Street Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V SHQ

From: Susan Crichton

Sent: 26 July 2013 13:56

To: Martin Edwards

Cc: Chris M Day; Alwen Lyons; Charles Colquhoun
Subject:

Responses to other questions raised at the 23 July Board meeting

1. The Board requested further clarification on their position as directors; in summary it is highly
POL00297994
POL00297994

unlikely that any individual director would have any personal liability in connection with this review,
unless they had acted in bad faith or maliciously, (See Annex A) In the unlikely event that an action
is brought (could only be by Post Office Limited or in very rare circumstances by the Shareholder
acting on behalf of the company) there is insurance cover in place to cover directors and officers
liability which provides full cover where an action is brought against them, the policy has no excess
for individual claims and cover up to £60 million, it also is also retrospective.

2. In response to the Board’s request for a post-mortem, Internal Audit has now been tasked with carrying

out a review of our response to the Second Sight investigation, reporting to the ARC. The terms of
reference will be agreed with the Chair of ARC over the coming weeks.

Chris — how about this to get over the insurance point?
