POL00104744

POL00104744

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page I

INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES

1. PURPOSE

The aim of this policy is to give investigators a quick reference to interview recording procedures.

2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES

Security Managers

3. POLICY

31 TAPE RECORDED INTERVIEWS

Plan the interview thoroughly.

Get full names and ranks of all persons attending interview. Have a copy of CS001 available.
Give all exhibits identification numbers.

Put a ‘DO NOT ENTER’ notice on the door and disconnect the telephone.

Have sufficient new tapes and seals (CS022) available.

Have a notice to person form (CS019) available.

3.2 USE 24 HOUR CLOCK - USE FULL NAMES OF PERSONS PRESENT PRELIMINARIES

Unseal two tapes in the presence of the interviewee
Put the tapes in the machine

Write the starting time on Master Tape seal

Press the start/record button and wait for buzzer to end

State: "This interview is being tape recorded. My name is .... My colleague is .... We are Officers
of the ....
of interviewee and any other person present). The date is .... the time

employed to investigate possible criminal offences. Also present is ..

.. This interview
conducted in the .... Office at the .... I want to ask you some questions about ..... At the end of the
interview I will give you a notice explaining what will happen to the tapes. Have you any objection

to the interview being tape recorded?”

It is important to ensure that the suspect is aware that his rights are covered by PACE and the Codes
of Practice issued thereunder. He should be under no misapprehension that he is facing a criminal
investigation because the Officers believe he has committed a criminal offence.

33 PROCEDURE IF INTERVIEWEE OBJECTS TO INTERVIEW BEING TAPE RECORDED

Policy Title
Version
Date

If interviewee objects or does not answer question

State: "Jwill be free to make a note of the interview anyway but the recording will provide a clear
and undisputed account of what takes place." I objections continue
State: "My instructions require that your objections should be recorded on tape."

After the interviewee has stated his objection or made no reply

State: "Jam going to stop the tape because .... (reason for objection) .... The time is..."

Stop the machine and seal tape. The interview should then continue in writing

Interview Recording
20
January 2001

POL00104744

POL00104744

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 2
INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES
3.4 IF THERE ARE NO OBJECTIONS CARRY ON AS BELOW

State: "Will you please state your full name?”

For voice identification purposes all other persons present at the interview including the support
officer_should also be asked to state their name in full

«State: Caution: "You do not have to say anything, but it may harm your defence if you do not
mention when questioned something which you later rely on in court. Anything you do say may
be given in evidence.”
State: "Do you understand that?"

Show form CS001 to interviewee,
« In addition, the suspect’s right to consult a Solicitor must be explained in full on tape.
¢ The use of the CS001 is not just a formality that just has to be got out of the way. It is the

written record showing that the suspect’s rights have been fully explained. The form is also
used to record the interviewee’s decisions.

© State: "7am now showing you form side A which explains your legal rights. Will you please read
this form."
When interviewee has read form
«State: "Will you please answer the questions as indicated, then sign, time and date the form

When the interviewee has completed this

State: "Mf... has now read and signed side A of the form

Allocate an item identification number to form.

3.5 PROCEDURE IF SOLICITOR IS REQUESTED AT INTERVIEW
After interviewee has made the appropriate entry on the CS001.
State: "Jam going to stop the tape while you arrange for your Solicitor to attend. The
The time is now........ "
Stop the machine. Do not remove tapes
¢ Investigators should offer to assist in obtaining a Solicitor, if the suspect does not have one. If
necessary, the officer should telephone the local Police Office to ascertain whether the Duty
Solicitor will attend or, failing this obtain the local Yellow Pages and telephone any Solicitor the
suspect may name.
When Solicitor arrives start machine
«State: "The time is.... M.... has entered the room. Lam.... this is....We are Officers of the
....employed to investigate possible criminal offences. Lam about to interview ....
Policy Title Interview Recording
Version 2.0
Date January 2001

POL00104744

POL00104744

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 3

INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES

3.6

about .... He/she has asked for you to attend as his/her legal representative. Will you please state

your full name.."

After Solicitor has replied

State: "Do you agree that we have not discussed....(nature of inquiries) whilst waiting for your
solicitor to arrive”

After the interviewee has replied he should be re-cautioned or reminded that he has previously been
cautioned. Continue interview as above.

IF A SOLICITOR IS NOT REQUIRED CARRY ON AS BELOW
e The suspect’s reasons for not wanting a solicitor must be recorded.

e Ifa suspect says he is unsure or does not say with certainty that he does not require a solicitor (for
example suspect says he does not think he needs a solicitor) then he should be invited to telephone a
solicitor immediately who can help explain his rights. If he declines his reasons should be recorded.

© Ifthe suspect, during the course of the interview, indicates in any way that he may need help, or is
considering using a solicitor or specifically asks for a solicitor then no further questions must be
asked, the interview must be stopped and arrangements made to obtain the services of a solicitor.

e Where the suspect changes his mind about legal advice the Officer must state on tape or make an
entry in his notebook to be signed by the suspect that the Officer has spoken to his superior officer
(to be named) and the position has been explained to the Superior Officer. In addition the Superior
Officer has authorised the continuation of the interview.

State: "During this interview you can have a friend present if you wish. Any friend you nominate must
be at least 18 years of age and not involved in the inquiry. Your friend must be a Post Office
employee, who may be the local union representative, or an official of the recognised union for your
grade. This right is in addition to your right to speak to a solicitor. Do you understand? Do you
require a friend."

3.7

PROCEDURE IF FRIEND IS REQUESTED AT INTERVIEW

«State: "Who would you like to act as your friend at this interview?”

After the reply

Show interviewee form CS001Side B

e State: "Please complete the top half form Side B, Item No.... (refer to Item No.allocated earlier)."

« State: "Jam going to stop the tape while we arrange for....to attend. The time is now..."

Stop machine. Do not remove the tapes

When the friend arrives start machine

State: "The time is.....M....has entered the room. I. am....This is....We are Officers of
the... .. employed to investigate possible criminal offences. I. am about to interview ....
about.... He/she has called for you to attend as a friend. Your role would be to witness the

Policy Title Interview Recording

Version
Date

20
January 2001

POL00104744

POL00104744

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 4

INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES

interview proceedings. You may take notes if you wish but they must be treated confidentially. You
may supply a copy of these notes to the interviewee and to his union if he so wishes.
communication about the interview is allowed without the permission of the Post Office. Are you
now prepared to act as a friend under these conditions?"

Yo other

If the Friend agrees to the conditions
«State: "Will you please state your full name, rank and office.”

Afler reply show friend form SIDE B

State: "Would you now complete form, side B, Item identification number....which I now produce
to you.”

e State: "Do you agree that we have not discussed ....(nature of inquiries) whilst waiting for your
friend to arrive.”

After the interviewee has replied he should again be cautioned or reminded that he has_

previously been cautioned. Continue interview as above.

3.8 IF A FRIEND IS NOT REQUIRED CARRY ON AS BELOW
Show interviewee form Side B referring to the item identification number already allocated and ask
them to complete the top half
State: "M.... has now read and signed side B of the form.
3.9 QUESTIONING
Commence questioning interviewee. The following should be noted:
« Ensure that everyone present speaks clearly and that the suspect clarifies any nods, shrugs or
gestures, i.e. “You have just nodded. Would you please answer the question verbally”
« All items shown to the interviewee should be described concisely and given item numbers
« Becareful not to say anything that could be interpreted as oppression or construed as inducement
3.10 I VISITORS TO INTERVIEW ROOM
Ensure it is clear that an interview is being conducted in the interview room so that other people do not
enter the room unnecessarily. Do not lock the interview room. If someone does enter room
«State: "You have just entered the interview room. The time is.... This interview is being tape
recorded. Please state your full name and why you have come in."
Unless it then becomes necessary to suspend the interview and the interviewee leaves the room, the
interview can carry on without the tapes being changed
3.11 I BREAKS IN INTERVIEW
Policy Title Interview Recording
Version 2.0
Date January 2001

POL00104744

POL00104744

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 5
INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES
If interviewee leaves interview room for any reason

© State: "We are taking a break during this interview because ....(quote reasons). Please sign this
seal before I stop the machine, the time is ....”

Stop machine, remove tapes, seal master tape with CS022 and label working tape. Everyone else

present should also be asked to sign the master tape seal

3.12, I WHEN INTERVIEW IS BEING STOPPED IN ORDER THAT SEARCHES CAN BE MADE.
State: “Do you have any objection to a search being made of your person, locker, car and home in
order that I may satisfy myself you are not in unauthorised possession of Post Office property.

Remind Interviewee of entitlement to the presence of a friend during search:

~ When interview resumes unseal and place new tapes in the machine and start machine in normal
way

State: "Jam resuming the interview, the time is...."

« tis mandatory at this stage for everyone present to reintroduce themselves and for the date, time
and location of the interview to be announced. The interviewee should be reminded that he is still
under caution, (or be re-cautioned) and reminded of his legal rights and the availability of a friend
Produce CS001, quote item number and ask interviewee to sign, date and time in appropriate place
on CS001A. The reasons why there was a break in the interview should be stated. If searches have
been carried out a completed form CS005 must be produced and given an item identification
number

3.13. I WHEN TAPE HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND NEW TAPES REQUIRED
When buzzer sounds towards the end of the tape
«State: "This tape is due to end, please sign this seal before I stop the machine, the time is
Stop the machine, remove tapes and label as above
Unseal_new tapes in the presence of the interviewee place in the machine and startin the
normal way
e State: "Jam continuing this interview, the time is...."
It is advisable to remind the interviewee of the caution, legal rights and the availability of a
friend. Produce, quote item identification number and ask interviewee to sign, date and time
in appropriate place.
Each person present should reintroduce themselves to assist in voice identification
3.14. I TO END THE INTERVIEW.
When the questioning is complete
Policy Title Interview Recording
Version 2.0
Date January 2001
Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 6

POL00104744
POL00104744

INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES

State: "I have to inform you that you may have rendered yourself liable to prosecution.

You do not have to say anything, but it may harm your defence if you do not mention now
something which you later rely on in court. Anything you do say may be given in evidence. Do you
wish to clarify anything you have said or add anything else before the end of the interview." If.as a
result of the interview it is not appropriate to mention the first sentence about prosecution the
Interviewee should still be asked if he wishes to add or clarify anything that has been said

When the interviewee has answered that question hand him form CS019

State: "Here is a leaflet that explains what will happen to the tapes. Lam about to stop the tape
machine. One of the tapes will be sealed, Will you please sign the seal before I stop the machine."

Stop the machine and seal the tapes as described above, with everyone present being asked to sign the

master tape seal.

4. Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version Type Policy No.

5. Document details

5.1 Author :

5.2 Owner : Head of Corporate Security, 4 Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge
Road, Croydon CR9 1PJ

5.3 Audience: Security Community

5.4 Enquiry point : Paul A Booth, Corporate Security, 4 Floor, Impact House,
2 Edridge Road, Croydon CR9 1PJ

5.5 Effective from : January 2001

5.6 Review date : January 2002

3.7 Last updated December 2000

6. Assurance Details

6.1 Name Policy Assurance Team

6.2 Business Unit Various

6.3 Assurance Date 29 Nov 2000

7. Final Review

TA Approved by

7.2 Documented (Hard Copy) YES/NO Location:

7.3 ‘ (Electronic) YES/NO Location:

Policy Title Interview Recording

Version 20

Date January 2001
