POL00126734
POL00126734

Objectives April 2012 — March 2013

Dave Posnett — Security Operations Manager, Timescales
Operations
1! Mutual support of Security Operations. March 2013
e Achieve average score of 90% minimum across all cases where
compliance is undertaken.
« Monthly standardised submission of Fl case updates.
« Maintain casework to Triggers & Timescales policy.
« Working collegially across areas and across teams.
e Evidencing flexibility and adaptability.
e Consistent support to enable Security Operations to achieve aims/goals.
2 I Impacting Behaviours - Ensure team members demonstrate all impacting March 2013
behaviours and activities to support business requirements and culture.
Visible outputs to include
e — Inter Strand activity support
e® — Crown Office cover
« — Product support day participation
e Adherence to programmatic approach and adherence to personnel
processes, particularly PDR completion.
3 Fraud activity return on investment. Evidence activity that produces March 2013
recovery rates on enquiries closed of 65% or more (subject to quarterly
review).
«Personal efforts - Searches of persons and property and maximum
possible recovery (e.g. monetary recovery/asset recognition).
. Fl engagement — FES completion, 48 hour reporting, financial intelligence
checks (GS208, Equifax, etc), offender reports, taped summaries, legal
memos — level of engagement throughout the life of a case.
e — Any other avenues explored to ensure that all necessary activity is
delivered to recover stolen funds.
4 People Plan - Induction. Demonstrate delivery against designated Focus March 2013
Area activity as appropriate:
e Activity to include:
e Support activity within your identified key work area.
e Own and deliver specific areas of the work plan as agreed with your
SLG lead.
e Assist in delivery of the wider people work plan through collaboration
and support for security team colleagues, where appropriate.
e Demonstrate business standards and security team behaviours through
delivery of all activities
5 Training and Development March 2013

Version 1
1 of 7
POL00126734
POL00126734

Objectives April 2012 — March 2013

Prepare/produce/deliver an induction plan for new starters to the
Security Team

Deliver an effective monitoring programme to evaluate progress of new
starters throughout the year

Produce a plan for mentoring approach

Ongoing/refresher Fl engagement and generic Sec Ops training
Support/assist/develop new Financial Investigators (Q4 onwards) to up
and running status

Managing Crime Risk March 2013

Contribute as required to all impacting activities in order to meet
targets around FYF crime losses — CVIT £765K, Robbery £964K and
Burglary £421K

Demonstrate at quarterly PDR the support given and particularly when
YTD losses exceed target

Quarter 1 Comments

Mutual Support Of Security Operations — New compliance protocols have been
considered, agreed and cascaded. These were to commence in July, but have been
delayed due to arrival of additional Financial Investigator who has been allocated
responsibility. Training to be provided in early September, in order for compliance
checks to commence thereafter. Monthly case updates continue to be monitored and
I ensure a spreadsheet detailing completion/non completion is circulated to Sec Ops
Lead Team. I have assisted on cases due to lack of resource within the South Team
e.g. Crown Office enquiries re forged cash being despatched by branch and
attending/supporting a card account trial in Southend for 4 days. Conducted review
of case where abuses of processes had been raised and conducted fact finding
interview with the relevant Security Manager. Submitted comprehensive report in a
timely manner. I have also assisted new entrants by talking through/advising on
cases, providing knowledge and input and sharing reports and case files ... to enable
smoother transmission to understanding ways of working.

Impacting Behaviours — PDR timelines adhered to, including completion,
submission, review discussion and objective setting. I have also continued to adhere
to all security requirements such as monthly submission of T&S forms, correct out of
hours messages on my mobile and laptop, completion of electronic calendar, etc.
Inter strand working and engagement has been demonstrated — most notably in the
induction process for new starters. Programmatic approach adhered to, including
arranging conference call for Sec Ops Team to discuss security related programmes
and further call to be arranged re fraud risk type programmes.

Fraud Activity ROI — Continual focus on recoveries, numerous applications for
Restraint/Confiscation. I have discharged £174k Restraint (Bath Rd) for civil
recovery by way of Third Party Debt Orders, which has been confirmed as received.
From personal cases closed up to P3, the losses have totalled £267k and recoveries

Version 1

20f7

POL00126734
POL00126734

Objectives April 2012 — March 2013

have been £242k. Performance Pack has detailed consistent recovery adherence to
target (65%) - P1 detailed 75% recovery YTD, P2 detailed 75% recovery YTD and P3
detailed 71% recovery YTD. Emphasis on recoveries have been communicated to
new recruits at every opportunity, such as induction, case advice and progressions.
The FES and compliance also discussed in depth at their team meeting.

e People Plan - Induction — a key part of this activity has included the drafting of a
clear and meaningful induction process, by agreement with all those involved. Phase
1 induction (4 x new Security Managers) and phase 2 (4 x further Security Managers)
This involved drafting and overseeing a time table of activities over a 5 week period
to ensure new recruits are fully aware of their surroundings and responsibilities.
Numerous stakeholders engaged in this process and feedback requested from the
new recruits has been very positive.

e Training & Development — Induction process fully thought through and rolled out.
Ongoing training needs and FI refresher training is being factored into this years
activities for all the Security Operational Teams. I have also sourced, prepared and
will lead on a full Investigator course for new recruits that do not have experience of
PACE or other appropriate legislation.

e Fraud Risk Programmes — I have already taken the lead in driving such activity, by
obtaining Scratchcard holding figures from Crime Risk. Holdings appear acceptable
across the network and therefore other areas to be considered. I have agreed to
conduct an ONCH programme, the mechanics of which are to be determined, but I
envisage focus on the number of worst performing branches in terms of holdings (not
NT branches or multiples), with audits confirming assets present and
discussions/monitoring branches for 3 Trading Periods thereafter. Branches to be
allocated to Sec Ops Managers for liaisons and aim will be 15% reduction in cash
holdings across those targeted over the 3 month period.

e Managing Crime Risk - No specific support or assistance required as yet. However,
PDP areas have been considered to align to this objective; Managing Risk &
Uncertainty’, ‘Understanding Risk Analysis’, ‘Developing Relationships’ and
Understanding Emotional Intelligence’ (all e/learning courses) These will be
completed during the financial year. Again, induction process fully thought through
and rolled out, with key elements addressing crime risk. Ongoing training needs and
FI refresher being factored into this years activities, with attendance at Sec Ops
Teams meetings. Full Investigator course currently being scoped and prepared with
view to delivering 2 week course to appropriate new starters. Additionally, security
programmes being led by other members of the lead team may facilitate

Quarter 2 Comments
« Mutual Support Of Security Operations — I have fully transferred compliance to a
new Financial Investigator, providing him with relevant documents, explaining the
process, the scoring matrix and the recording/monitoring of compliance checks.
Monthly case updates continue to be monitored and I ensure a spreadsheet detailing
completion/non completion is circulated to Sec Ops Lead Team. I have fully prepped

Version 1
3 of7
POL00126734
POL00126734

Objectives April 2012 — March 2013

the 2 week course material for 6 new Investigators, provided them with e/learning
material in readiness for their entrance exam and booked the training venue and
accommodation to ensure this is delivered effectively in Q3. I have happily taken on
this additional role and demonstrated adaptability and flexibility in the process. In
order to assist colleagues in relation to ATM retracts issues, I volunteered to
participate in scripted telephone calls with branches, ensuring they maintain and feed
back incidents of retracts and advising them that the retract facility was being
switched off. This demonstrated both care and commitment in enabling branches and
indeed the business to address an area of fraud. Monthly Fl case updates continue
to be submitted to stakeholders, with no adverse feedback.

e Impacting Behaviours — Half year PDR timelines adhered to, including completion
and submission. I have also continued to adhere to all security requirements such as
monthly submission of T&S forms, correct out of hours messages on my mobile and
laptop, completion of electronic calendar, etc. I also adhered to the business request
for flexible attendance in the office during the Olympics, thus contributing effectively
to the requirements of having less employees travel into London.

e Fraud Activity ROI — At P6, the recovery figure for investigation cases was 53%.
This is less than the target of 65% but mainly due to some significant losses from
extremely dated cases that have been closed during Q2. It is envisaged that this will
increase again as the year progresses. Attendance at operational team meetings has
occurred to promote recoveries, with a continued focus on FES completion and
searches. I have also continued to utilise Restraint powers where appropriate.

e People Plan - Induction — I have continued to have a major input and indeed
ownership of the induction process, which has now seen delivery to the second
phase of new Security Managers in the Sec Ops Team. Feedback from the induction
was positive and the consensus was that this was a valuable introduction to the
Security Team and Post Office Ltd. The induction process has already been adopted
by others within the team and I have cascaded the process to various line managers
at their request when new starters gave joined the team.

e Training & Development — Induction process fully thought through and rolled out.
Ongoing training needs and FI refresher training continues to be factored into this
year's activities for all the Security Operational Teams. I have also sourced,
prepared and will lead on a full Investigator course for new recruits that do not have
experience of PACE or other appropriate legislation. This is a 2 week residential
course with interactive training in areas like interviews and searches, along with
study of 9 e/learning modules prior to the course. The course is booked to be
delivered in October.

e Fraud Risk Programmes — Not applicable as it has been agreed that the FIU will
become heavily involved in Policies & Procedures relating to investigations following
the split from RMG. This objective to be changed to reflect this. Sec Ops teams will
be tasked with undertaking fraud risk programmes.

e Managing Crime Risk — I have volunteered to participate in scripted telephone calls

Version 1
4of7
POL00126734
POL00126734

Objectives April 2012 — March 2013

with branches, ensuring they maintain and feedback incidents of retracts and
advising them that the retract facility was being switched off. PDP areas have also
been considered to align to this objective; ‘Understanding Risk Analysis’ and
‘Developing Relationships’ (both e/learning courses). These will be completed during
the financial year. Again, induction process fully thought through and rolled out, with
key elements addressing crime risk. Ongoing training needs and FI refresher being
factored into this year’s activities, with attendance at Sec Ops Teams meetings, to
ensure that recoveries remain high on the agenda, minimising the failure possibility of
the risk of loss v recovery targets. Full Investigator course currently being scoped
and prepared with view to delivering 2 week course to appropriate new starters, again
with a focus on recoveries.

Quarter 3 Comments

e Mutual Support Of Security Operations — I have actively participated in the TORCH
visit programme, visiting 10 branches and relaying concerns and issues around the
security areas examined. In light of the separation from RMG, all policies and forms
required reviewing and amending, to reflect correct processes and corporate image
of POL. I have led on this aspect and commenced a Programme to tackle what is
quite a time consuming activity. Through the assistance of others forming a working
group, all forms have now been reviewed and amended and agreed as live or
obsolete and these have all been cascaded to Investigators via a new Security
Sharepoint site. This work continues in respect of policies. I have also demonstrated
flexibility and support for colleagues during this quarter, especially those still new to
the business and their remit. Examples include casework assistance, evidence
gathering, and compliance checking. FI monthly updates have continued to be
delivered to appropriate stakeholders on time, providing them with information
required as part of their role.

e Impacting Behaviours — In order to assist the business during the Christmas
pressure period, I volunteered to work at Crawley Crown Office for two days.
Feedback on my efforts from the Branch Manager were positive (and I balanced my
stock!). Business and Security requirements have been adhered to e.g. T&S
submissions, PDR submissions, etc. I have also demonstrated support to inter strand
activities such as casework, TORCH visits, training and development. Programmatic
approach is also evidenced by the policies and forms programme, led by myself and
incorporating others to review all investigation related documents in line with
timescales and milestones.

« Fraud Activity ROI — Numerous recoveries have continued into Quarter 3; Swiss
Cottage - £46.5k recovery, Furze Platt - £97k recovery, Pleasley - £23.8k recovery,
Carlyon Bay - £85k recovery. The national recovery figure is currently running at
55%, which although below the 65% target is impacted by dated cases with
significant losses that have been closed without recovery. I continue to engage with
Investigators on specific cases and encourage them to do the same. Meetings have
also been attended and areas like compliance, Financial Evaluation Sheets, SARs,

Version 1
5 of7
POL00126734
POL00126734

Objectives April 2012 — March 2013

Equifax checks, Land Registry checks and other intelligence checks have been
promoted.

e People Plan - Induction — Following successful design and implementation of the
induction process under the Focus Area’ banner, I have been placed into the People
Plan Induction team. The first meeting of this team is due in January.

e Training & Development — Following the successful delivery of the Investigation
Workshop, I have now arranged a days courtroom confidence training for all new
colleagues and those with little/no experience of giving evidence. Course is booked
for 22/01/13, delivered by Pacifico Partnership and I have also arranged for delivery
to take place at Inner London Crown Court to make the day more authentic. Prior to
the split with RMG, all Investigators received Conflict Management training and a
refresher every two years. As this is a key area of health and safety for those dealing
with offenders I am currently looking into delivery of a training package to all Sec Ops
Investigators. Again, delivery expected in the new year.

e Managing Crime Risk —

Due to increased incidents of security breaches which have contributed to robbery
and burglary losses, I participated in the TORCH visits led by a colleague. I visited
10 branches and contributed to the overall 400 branches visited as part of this
programme.

Quarter 4 Comments

e Mutual Support Of Security Operations — I have volunteered to participate in the
TORCH re-visits programme, and have been allocated 6 x branches to visit by the
end of March. Due to annual leave, I assisted the South Team Leader in covering
him for a period of two weeks. This involved a meeting discussing current issues,
cases, workloads, etc and then managing the team in terms of engagement, point of
contact, case allocation, authority requests, etc. I have also demonstrated continued
flexibility and support for colleagues during this quarter, especially those still new to
the business and their remit. Examples include primarily casework assistance — 2"¢
officer at interview under caution, advising on a rejected label case progression,
proofreading reports, and gathering evidence. I have also been instrumental in
supporting Fl coleagues who are new to their role — 2 x team meetings held,
progression of pnn emails, JARD accounts, confiscation course, NCALT SARs
training, Restraint applications and a number of other areas associated with the Fl’s
role. The Fl monthly updates have been consistently submitted on time and with
enough detail to assist recipients. I have also checked South Team members case
file submissions, to ensure improved scope for compliance scores. These
compliance scores are exceeding the 90% target across the team.

* Impacting Behaviours — Business and Security requirements continue to be
adhered to e.g. T&S submissions, PDR submissions, out of office text, new email
signatures, etc. I have also demonstrated support to inter strand e.g latest round of
TORCH visits, training and development. Supporting the programmatic approach has
been evidenced by considering and promulgating the do’s and don’ts associated with

Version 1
6 of 7
POL00126734
POL00126734

Objectives April 2012 — March 2013

Fraud Risk Programmes and presenting examples of programmes to colleagues and
including this area in presentations to Grapevine and FSC.

e Fraud Activity ROI -— Current recovery figures unknown due to lack of Performance
Pack since December. However, from personal Fl cases closed I can state that
recoveries amount to £573k from losses totalling £755k, equating to a 76% recovery
rate. Engagement with Sec Ops team has continued, both generically and on a case
by case basis. Training plan for Sec Ops team meetings is currently being drafted for
the new year. In respect of other avenues, I have decided to attend more
Confiscation Hearings, even if they appear to be uncontested. This approach has
already reaped benefits e.g. £40k confiscation order awarded in a case where both
defence and prosecuting barristers wanted a nominal order, compensation awarded
when a barrister wasn’t going to ask for it and advice/information being provided to
the court to facilitate smoother hearing which resulted in a £11k confiscation order
being made. I have also drafted and utilised a SARs request process, which has
provided information to assist in a number of cases. Re-training and access to the
Altia Financial Investigation tool is also in hand.

e People Plan - Induction — I have continued to play a part in the new Induction Focus
area, attending meetings and agreeing and acting on designated requirements. This
has mainly included drafting presentations relating to the business, directorate and
strands, to be used once a new member of staff commences work at the Post Office.

e Training & Development — Following the postponement of the Courtroom
Confidence Course, it was held at Chesterfield Magistrates Court on 1 March. The
feedback from the course has been overwhelmingly positive, in terms of venue,
content and delivery by an appointed Barrister. Arrangements are currently being
made to cascade a similar event to FSCs/auditors (in house) who may be required to
attend court and give evidence. A training event was organised with Cartwright King,
whereby the Sec Ops Team attended their offices for a day and trainming was
delivered on PACE legislation, cautions and streamlining prosecutions. A further
event is currently being organised. In readiness for 2013/2014, a training calendar is
being drafted to ensure all colleagues receive appropriate and relevant training. This
will include a mock trial, conflict management and situational crime prevention.
Generic and ad hoc training is also provided for newer members of the team, moreso
on a case by case basis, where I have stressed that I am more than willing to be a
point of contact for advice, questions, etc.

e Managing Crime Risk — Due to increased incidents of security breaches which have
contributed to robbery and burglary losses, I have again participated in TORCH
visits. These visits are re-visits focussing on a number of branches where failings
were identified earlier in the year. I have been allocated 6 branches and am making
inroads into visiting them all and performing the required data capture on the
designated Sharepoint site.

Version 1
7 of7
