POL00249553
POL00249553

From: Parsons, Andrew‘,

Sent: Wed 28/06/2017 7:30:03 PM (UTC)

To: Rodric William:

Ce:

Subject: Draft Defence

Attachment: Protocol for Second Sight 14 06 17 (CsI suggested amends)-1.docx
Attachment: 100 Bates draft Defence.docx

Rodric, Mark

Please find attached the draft defence from Tony.
There are lots of minor points chase down - many of which are already with Kath / Shirley and FJ.
The key ones that would be good to discuss tomorrow are:

1. Paras 28, 35 and 55 - these relate to the process for disputing shortfalls. We're struggling to get to the bottom
of those processes and how those disputes are resolved.

2. Para 50(2) - do we say that POL previously relied on incorrect statements from FJ in relation to remote
access? This is basically dropping FJ in it.

The other points I have on my mini agenda for tomorrow are:

1. Prep needed for the GE meeting.

2. Comms lines around the defence and addition of more claimants.

3. Second Sight protocol. We've had a proposal (attached) from Freeths that I can explain tomorrow.
4. Debt team protocol - next steps.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson

www.bonddickinson.com
POL00249553
POL00249553

A new-breed of Cond Diclcingen.

transatlantic law firm

Fite dus ro

WOMBLE
CARLYLE

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

only is authorised to access

legally privileged and protected by law. rodric.will 3
Soon'as possible and delete any copies.

“please notify andrew parsons

‘of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rodric.williamsé
Unauthorised use. dissemination, distribution, publication or copy

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
‘which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office is 4 More

a fist of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP. or an employee or consultant
93627.

London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, whe
‘ho is of equivalent standing. Our VAT

tration number is GB12:

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

