POL00122774

POL00122774

Security Investigations Manager’s Data Handling Process — Fujitsu Horizon Data Request

When information from Horizon required supporting conduct of criminal investigations and

prosecutions as per the Conduct of Criminal Investigations Policy:

1.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

A request for information is sent to Fujitsu via the Case Work Team. The request is emailed
to the Post Office Security email inbox (Case Work Team’s email) by the Security
Investigation Manager (SIM) from a Post Office email address.

The request is contained in an MS Word document, which is protected using password.
The password is email to the Case Work Team in a separate email.

When encrypted CD’s are received from the Casework Team, they are sent to the SIM by
Special Delivery Mail. The password is emailed to the SIM.

When the SM receives the Disc and email with the password information required for
evidence is downloaded to on to the SIM’s laptop. Extracts maybe printed off for use during
an interview. This extract would be placed in Appendix ‘B’ (evidence Appendix) in the Case
files (“Green Jackets” (GJ)). Printing of the full data maybe required for a trial. pan

Encrypted CD is retained by the investigator manager and stored in their locked personal
pedestals, which they only have keys for. Passwords are not written down or kept with the
CDs.

The Green Jacket (Case File) are then sent including Appendix B — Contains evidence
(possibly encrypted / not full credit card information from the CD)

GJ Sent back to the Case Work Team by RMG Special Delivery tracked.
Email is sent to Casework Team confirming despatch.

Require acknowledgment of receipt via email to the relevant SIM.

Case Work team log receipt of the Green Jacket in there ARQ spread sheet

GJ is then sent to the Post Office lawyers, Cartwright King by the Case Work team.

. Lawyers will review evidence and may take copy of the evidence, which may contain Credit

Card information.

If decision is made to prosecute, the file (Green Jacket) copied (copies retained) and the
original is sent back to the Case Work Team.

Casework team then send it to Post Office Head of Security to review and decide to whether
to proceed to prosecution.

The Green Jacket is then sent back to Case Work Team. Will log the decision to whether
prosecute or not.
POL00122774
POL00122774

Page 1 Comments

MU1 Where are the GJs kept before despatching to CWT?

How are the printed evidence secure, which potential could contain Credit Card

info.
Moyn Uddin, 13/09/2013 01:57 PM
17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

POL00122774

POL00122774

The Green Jacket is then sent back to the Investigation Manager. To review advice from
Lawyers and the Post Office Head of Security.

If the decision is not to prosecute, then SIM will complete a closure form and send file
(Green Jacket) back to Case Work team for archiving. The ARQ database will updated to
reflect the decision.

If decision to prosecute then SIM will retain Green Jackets until the whole process is
completed which could be months or years. CD will be retained by the SIM in their pedestal
until completion or sent for storage to Chesterfield Exhibit Store. (Process attached)

If the case results in conviction, sentence being imposed, the CD is retained for minimum 6

on or the length of the sentence, whichever period is greater. CD remains with the

Once the process is complete the CD is sent back to the Case Work Team to be destroyed. CD
sent back to Casework Team as soon as possible.

The Green Jackets are archived for 3 years for non-conviction cases and 5 years for cases
resulting in prosecutions.

The Green Jackets are destroyed after the retention period and confirmation of destruction
provided to the Case Work team to be tracked in the Case Work destruction reconciliation
spread sheet.

Copies of Files Retained by Lawyers

Copies of files retained by the lawyers are tracked by the Security Investigation Manager, who
have been_made aware of the PCI-DSS requirements to keep information secure in their

mus)

possession.

Evidence shared with defence lawyers in advance and 9 copies of file shared with the court.
Copies for jury members (one shared between two), one for the judge, one for each of the
barrister’s prosecution and defence and one for the witnesses. This is a legal requirement under
the jurisdiction of courts “

Cartwright King recoup copies of the files as far as possible and destroy them. Confirmation of

U5
destruction is provided to Post Office investigation manager via email.

POL00122774
POL00122774

Page 2 Comments

MU2 In the Exhibit store or Archive?

If so then is the GJ destroyed by the archive team Chris Knight and the CD sent

back to CW team to destroy?
Moyn Uddin, 13/09/2013 04:44 PM

MU3 Action on Security Investigations Team to inform Cartwright King formally of this

requirement and retain evidence of doing this.
Moyn Uddin, 13/09/2013 04:45 PM

MU4 Action on Security Investigations Team to approve this statement.
Moyn Uddin, 13/09/2013 04:45 PM

MU5 Action on Security Investigations Team to implement this control formally with CK.
Please keep records of instruction and any subsequent record from CK on

destruction.
Moyn Uddin, 13/09/2013 04:45 PM
