POL00002918
POL00002918

To: Jason Black’, GRO a
Subject: RE: Drop & Go - Checkpoint Approval to release for Pilot
Date: Fri, 28 Apr 2017 1 }0 +0100
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png; image004.png

Jason,
This is a really simple solution which AtoS are complicating
Regards

David Randall
Programme Director
Business and Application Services (Post Office)

Fujitsu
/BBANLowplace Aad, Arachne, R12 ASN...

“Web BTR TTSD CIR

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

From: Jason Black’.
Sent: 28 April 2017 09:58
To: Randall, David (IREO2)"
Subject: FW: Drop & Go - Checkpoint Approval to release for Pilot

This looks like the simple tactical ref date solution isn’t yet confirmed?

From: Owsley, Meyri
Sent: 28 April 2017 09:33

To: Andy Garner; Jeff Smyth; Ajay Patel; Jason Black

Cc: Tom Fitzgerald; Kelay, Nin

Subject: RE: Drop & Go - Checkpoint Approval to release for Pilot

Ok Andy am working on it. Sians note was a little confusing but she has now clarified it. Of your points below 1,3 and 4 are what the team is currently investigating,
Question 2 relies on Fujitsu and to some extent some further investigation we can do in reference data (I mention it as it won’t just be a function of the regression test
output that Fujitsu will provide). Will come back to you with an update/answers as soon as I have further information.

Meyrick
From: Andy Garner{.
Sent: Thursday, April 27, 2017 3:52 PM.
To: Owsley, Meyrick”

“p; Ajay Patelt GRO ; Jason Black

t; Kelay, Ninf
‘Checkpoint Approval to Télease for Pilot

Ce: Tom Fitzgeral
Subject: RE: Drop & Go

Thanks Meyrick. Based on the due diligence below, I would agree that option 2 is the correct approach. However this comes with a couple of asks;

1. Confirmation of the impact to Telco and other products i.e. is it just the Horizon option list which now appears on 2 not 1 line OR is it more seriot
cannot be sold in branch

2. Clarification is provided as to the output of the original regression tests and any impact to other products/services

3. Confirmation of the target timeline for the reference data fix to be scoped and deployed

4

f

nd the product

Confirmation, subject to 2., when D&G can Model and pilot will commence ? I am assuming days
this is substantially longer then serious consideration needs to be provided to option 2 i.e. release 15.92 and hot fix Telco with 16.24

‘That said I have
confirmation,
Andy

st seen another email from Sian ... I assume the above is Option 1 however Meyrick please can you confirm. ! woutd like Atos to provide this final

From: Owsley, Meyri
Sent: 27 April 2017 13:32

GRO.

Subject: RE: Drop &' Go Chackpoint Approval to release for Pilot

We've now run through this in more detail ~ Atos and Fujitsu. The issue has been caused by a PEAK fix arising from Transaction Simplification activity on Postage labels.
This fix is being implemented in the 15.92 release alongside Drop and Go (not as a result of Drop and Go development itself). The impact of this is that list options are
truncated from the current 2 lines to 1 — we have seen this in the Telephony response which cuts off the payment method on the Horizon screen during the Home Phone

F/1640/1
POL00002918
POL00002918

and Broadband sign-up process. This list function is used in a number of other places within Horizon and these need to be reviewed to see if any further products are
affected by the issue. I would stress that these are potential impacts as the uses of the function identified (210 of them noted by James) could be inactive or not requiring
the 2 lines on the screen. Any products that are impacted out of this list can then be reviewed to see if the reference data fix proposed by James will resolve the issue. On
that note the reference data mentioned yesterday looks like it will resolve the issue for Home Phone and Broadband, although James is still running through scenarios.

Underlying issue is whether the testing for the PEAK fix should have picked up this defect. Fujitsu are investigating this and will come back to us asap with details of the
testing conducted for the PEAK fix (for transaction simplification) and its extent. However to resolve the immediate problem there are 3 clear options:

1. Fujitsu to undertake emergency hotfix. This would take resources from other projects and result in a ripple effect of additional testing for subsequent code
releases, which are built on top of release 15.92 (which is why impacts were identified on HNGA and HDCR as well as Drop and Go); or
2. Release 15.92 to go live as is (either for 28"” April for 53 pilot branches and/or subsequent network release on 16"" May) and the Fujitsu hotfix to be included in
next counter code release (16.24) due 27" June in Model Office; or
3. Reference data fix to be investigated and deployed for any affected products (extent of development and timings to be agreed). This could involve delay to pilot
depending on time required to develop and deploy reference data fix. To be absolutely clear there are 2 scenarios for this option:
a. Send release 15.92 live into the network and then deploy a reference data fix into live: or
b. Delay release of 15.92, develop the reference data fix and then deploy together to minimise impact on the network

Our recommendation is to postpone the pilot of Drop and Go to the 53 pilot branches to allow investigation to take place and a decision either way to be made. Aside from
2 delay to the Drop and Go pilot there is no further impact beyond Model Office for Horizon functionality of the current code. However deploying beyond Model Office
definitely impacts on Telephony and potentially on other activity as well as per points above. Postponing the pilot therefore gives breathing space to give you further details
in order to make your final decision of the 3 above (or any combination thereof). So our initial actions are:

* Confirmation from Post Office of the go/no go decision on Drop and Go pilot

© Fujtisu to investigate regression testing for Peak Fix~ Cameron is taking this forward with the Fujitsu testing team now ~ and report back

© POL to confirm that Atos can investigate further instances of the option list functionality within 15.92 code (and determine cost impact of investigation and
resolution).

© James Brett to finalise investigation re hotfix for Telephony

Happy to discuss but hope this helps clarify the position.

Meyrick

From: Andy Garne
Sent: Thursday, April 27, 2017 12:28 PM
To: Jeff Smyth
Ce: Tom Fitzgerald ¢
Subject: RE: Drop & Go -

Ajay Patel,
kelay, Ninf”
ieckpoint Approval to release for Pilot

Owsley, Meyrick’

Jeff

This is not how this was explained at all yesterday on the call. ifI read correctly the position is now D&G MO has broken Telco as opposed to Telco NGA change has broken
Telco BAU which requires a hot fix !

When can we talk ?
Andrew Garner

From: Jeff Smyth

Sent: 27/04/2017 12:08

To: Ajay Patell; Andy Garner

Ce: Tom Fitzgerald; Kelay, Nin; Owsley, Meyrick

Subject: RE: Drop & Go - Checkpoint Approval to release for Pilot

tate. we

My understanding is that the live code that is deployed in the MO HAS broken the existing live code for Telecoms that is already live in the rest of the network
were to deploy it (beyond MO} we will create a P1/P2 issue in the live network estate which is a crazy thing to do.

have asked (Nin and Meyrick) for the following questions to be answered before we deploy the MO code out any further:

Why didn’t regression testing pick up this issue (principally because Atos think that the impact for Telecoms may also be felt by other products Le. the risk of
joyment is correctly quantified and isolated

b) What is the hot fix solution for Telecoms - what can be done
ie. testable in MO.

ms Cash/D0 transa

o restore the existing functionality for the Telec prior to deployment wider

ve already checked in with Rob H and Mick M on this one - we
bank holiday.

annot consciously put code five if we know it will break the bigger network, especially on the run up toa

exe

up soon to understand how

et this issue solved today.

Thanks
jeff

From: Ajay Patel
Sent: 27 April 2017 11:32

F/1640/2
POL00002918
POL00002918

To: Jeff Smyth; Andy Garner
Subject: FW: Drop & Go - Checkpoint Approval to release for Pilot
Importance: High

Andy / Jeff,

After having had a conversation between yourselves on the below impact of OnG and Telecoms Project it now transpires that the code cannot be rele:
the agreement yesterday.

id for OnG as per

Can you please have a discussion and fet me know what has been decided and as a result the retraspective action be taken in the next 36 mins. Note the code has gone into
MO and we are planning to move ahead to Pilot tomorrow unless someone lets me know in the next 30 mins.

Alay

From: Kelay, Nin’
Sent: 27 April 20:
To: Ajay Patel _
Ce: ‘luke.a.bailey,
Subject: RE: Drop & Go - Checkpoint Approval to release for Pilot
Importance: High

Brett, James; Thompson, Jon; Robson, Suzanne; Henk Bakker

Ajay

From discussions with Jeff Smyth, due to the negative impacts of 15.92 on other projects the POL recommendation is that the Reference data for Pilot is NOT to be released
on Friday.

Please confirm this urgently so Suzanne's team can take the necessary steps.
Thanks

Nin

---Original Appointment
From: Kelay, Nin

Sent: Wednesday, April 26, 2017
To: Brett, James:

GRO }

Where: Skype Meeting
Importance: High

Hi

We have received positive feedback from Model Office from POL, with a minor fix required which is currently in progress for the Pilot.
Following the confirmation from POL, see attached, the Pilot will be going ahead as scheduled on Friday 28 April

Many thanks

Nin

Hi

This is to get feedback from Model Office and for POL to confirm the release of to the 54 Pilot branches, with the pilot to commence on Friday 28.04.
Please forward this email to anyone else who you think should attend.

Thanks

Nin

> Join Skype Meeting
This is an online meeting for Skype for Business, the professional
meetings and communications app formerly known as Lync.

Join by phone

{All Regions) English (United Kingdom)

F/1640/3
POL00002918
POL00002918

ct your dial-in PIN? I

Atos, Atos Consulting, Worldline and Canopy The Open Cloud Company are trading names used by the Atos group. The following trading
entities are registered in England and Wales: Atos IT Services UK Limited (registered number 01245534), Atos Consulting Limited
(registered number 04312380), Atos Worldline UK Limited (registered number 08514184) and Canopy The Open Cloud Company Limited
(registration number 08011902). The registered office for each is at 4 Triton Square, Regent's Place, London, NW1 3HG.The VAT No. for
each is: GB232327983.

This e-mail and the documents attached are confidential and intended solely for the addressee, and may contain confidential or privileged
information. If you receive this e-mail in error, you are not authorised to copy, disclose, use or retain it. Please notify the sender
immediately and delete this email from your systems. As emails may be intercepted, amended or lost, they are not secure. Atos therefore
can accept no liability for any errors or their content. Although Atos endeavours to maintain a virus-free network, we do not warrant that
this transmission is virus-free and can accept no liability for any damages resulting from any virus transmitted. The risks are deemed to
be accepted by everyone who communicates with Atos by email.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not
use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London
EC2Y 9AQ.

Atos, Atos Consulting, Worldline and Canopy The Open Cloud Company are trading names used by the Atos group. The following trading
entities are registered in England and Wales: Atos IT Services UK Limited (registered number 01245534), Atos Consulting Limited
(registered number 04312380), Atos Worldline UK Limited (registered number 08514184) and Canopy The Open Cloud Company Limited
(registration number 08011902). The registered office for each is at 4 Triton Square, Regent's Place, London, NW1 3HG.The VAT No. for
each is: GB232327983.

This e-mail and the documents attached are confidential and intended solely for the addressee, and may contain confidential or privileged
information. If you receive this e-mail in error, you are not authorised to copy, disclose, use or retain it. Please notify the sender
immediately and delete this email from your systems. As emails may be intercepted, amended or lost, they are not secure. Atos therefore
can accept no liability for any errors or their content. Although Atos endeavours to maintain a virus-free network, we do not warrant that
this transmission is virus-free and can accept no liability for any damages resulting from any virus transmitted. The risks are deemed to
be accepted by everyone who communicates with Atos by email.

Atos, Atos Consulting, Worldline and Canopy The Open Cloud Company are trading names used by the Atos group. The following trading
entities are registered in England and Wales: Atos IT Services UK Limited (registered number 01245534), Atos Consulting Limited
(registered number 04312380), Atos Worldline UK Limited (registered number 08514184) and Canopy The Open Cloud Company Limited
(registration number 08011902). The registered office for each is at 4 Triton Square, Regent's Place, London, NW1 3HG.The VAT No. for
each is: GB232327983.

This e-mail and the documents attached are confidential and intended solely for the addressee, and may contain confidential or privileged
information. If you receive this e-mail in error, you are not authorised to copy, disclose, use or retain it. Please notify the sender
immediately and delete this email from your systems. As emails may be intercepted, amended or lost, they are not secure. Atos therefore
can accept no liability for any errors or their content. Although Atos endeavours to maintain a virus-free network, we do not warrant that
this transmission is virus-free and can accept no liability for any damages resulting from any virus transmitted. The risks are deemed to
be accepted by everyone who communicates with Atos by email.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No 96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC
(registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered
in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at:
Hayes Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does
not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

F/1640/4
