POL00448735

POL00448735
POST OFFICE LIMITED
BOARD REPORT
Title: Grant Thornton Corporate Meeting Date: I 8 July 2024
Governance Recommendations
Author: Rachel Scarrabelotti, Group Sponsor: Chair
Company Secretary
Input Sought: Noting, Discussion and Approval
Board is asked to:
(i) Note the Corporate Governance recommendations made by Grant Thornton
(GT) in the GT Governance Review and the GT Board Effectiveness Review;
(ii) Note the draft Actions Tracker prepared in respect of the recommendations,
contained at Appendix 1;
(iii) Discuss which of the recommendations the Board proposes for adoption along
with how these will be prioritised and timeframes for implementation; and
(iv) Approve the recommendations the Board wishes to adopt along with delegating

certain of these to the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and the
Nominations Committee for oversight.

Report

1.

GT issued final versions of the GT Governance Review and the GT Board Effectiveness
Review on 25 June 2024 (together ‘the Reports’). The Reports assess the effectiveness
of POL’s Enterprise and Operational Governance structures and processes.

The report contains a number of strategic recommendations designed to enable POL to
continue its journey towards creating value rather than merely preserving it. Some
recommendations are within POL’s control, while others are subject to Shareholder
approval / buy-in. The Board is asked to consider which of these recommendations can /
should be taken forward now, at a more appropriate time in the future, or are
recommendations the Board does not support the adoption of. In summary, the
recommendations contained in the Reports relate to:

e Resetting the relationship with the Shareholder regarding roles, responsibilities
and authority, in order to provide greater clarity on accountability and improve the
pace of decision-making.

e Producing a long-term vision and strategy for POL which goes beyond the funding
period, is understood and supported by all stakeholders, and has unifying financial
and non-financial metrics which define the ambition and allow the strategy
realisation to be tracked.

e With this strategy settled (which would include a long-term ownership model
ambition), that POL explores with its Shareholder the optimal corporate
governance structure to enable effective strategic execution.

GT believes that addressing the lack of clear vision on the purpose of POL, objectives
and relationship with the Shareholder, and its influence over the day to day running of
the business, are the most fundamental issues which influence the effectiveness of
governance, clarity on roles and responsibilities and pace of decision-making within POL.
The report also includes a series of more tactical recommendations which sit below
Board to take forward. Some are dependant upon the Strategic Review conclusions but
others do not have dependencies and can be taken forward now.

Internal
POL00448735
POL00448735

@

5. Appendix 1 includes a table which sets out GT’s Corporate Governance recommendations
taken from the Reports along with an initial assessment of actions already in train, and a
view of where ownership may sit.

A session is scheduled with GT as part of the Board Away Day on 8 July 2024. It may be that
the Board wishes to have the benefit of the recommendations being presented to the
Board by GT at that session, ahead of making any decisions as to which
recommendations are adopted. The session with GT could also be used to explore
actions that could be taken as against the recommendations and or obtain GT’s view on
the effectiveness of actions already taken.

Internal
POL00448735
POL00448735

@

Appendix 1

Confidential
