POL00150551
POL00150551

Ce:

Subject:
Attachment:

___} Rodric
ngela Van-Den-Bogerd[é.

Jessica Barkerff._
RE: The "dossier"
POST OFFICE RESPONSE TO WESTMINSTER HALL DEBATE v2.docx

Thank you Tom, Mel and Belinda. It looks really good to me.

I’ve tracked some cha

inges, including shortening the introductory para so it’s a bit punchier:

During the WH debate on 17" December a number of statements and allegations were made by MPs,
many of which were serious in nature, incorrect or did not provide the full context. This note sets out
the Post Office response.

Let me know if you have any concerns about this — or any other changes.

Best wishes

Jane

Jane Hill I Head of Pul

blic Affairs

1 Floor, Banner Wing,
Mobex

148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

ee

From: Patrick Bourke

Sent: 08 January 2015 15:43

To: Mark R Davies

Cc: Tom Wechsler; Rodric Williams; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; 'andrew.parsons(

; Jarnail Singh;

Jane Hill; Belinda Crowe; Melanie Corfield; Chris Aujard; Georgia Barker; Jessica Barker
Subject: Re: The "dossier"

Thanks Mark - understood.

Best wishes

Patrick
From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Thursday, January 08, 2015 03:38 PM

To: Patrick Bourke

Cc:_Tom Wechsler; Rodric Williams; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Parsons, Andrew

a

Georgia Barker; Jessica Barker

Subject: Re: The "dossier"

POL00150551
POL00150551

+; Jarnail Singh; Jane Hill; Belinda Crowe; Melanie Corfield; Chris Aujard;

It would be great to get this to the minister and the MPs letters out next week before the JFSA meeting and the BBC

prog.

M

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Mobile: GRO:

Sent from my iPhone

On 8 Jan 2015, at 15:36, "Patrick Bourke" <{"

wrote:

Thanks Tom

From a quick scan, it's already looking good - could you just tell me what sort of deadline is being
worked towards ?

Best wishes
Patrick

From: Tom Wechsler

Sent: 08 January 2015 15:33

To: Patrick Bourke; Rodric Williams; Mark R Davies; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Parsons, Andrew; Jarnail
Singh; Jane Hill

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Melanie Corfield; Chris Aujard; Georgia Barker; Jessica Barker

Subject: The "dossier"

All
With thanks to Belinda and Mel for their input so far, please find a first draft dossier attached. This
would be for the us to offer to the Minister to place in Parliament and for us to use with MPs etc /

publicly.

Please note: As colleagues are still commenting on the "short version" there will need to be a
reconciliation of the two documents mostly for style / language rather than substance.

All comments welcome.
Thanks

Tom
