POL00294803

POL00294803

INTERNAL AUDIT & RISK MANAGEMENT - ROVAL MAIL CONFIDENTIAL

From: Stephen A Collins, To: Rod Ismay
Risk & Assurance Manager,
Post Line!” Lesley Sewell
Ref: AR10/nnn cc: Martin Knights Derek K Foster
Mike Young Ernst Young
Date: 12 January 2011
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE

Post Office Ltd — Review of Horizon Electronic Point of Sale System
Background

The Post Office Limited network of some 11,000 branches processes client and business transactions
in excess of £100 billion annually. The majority of transactions are conducted on behalf of other
parties, for example, receiving payment for domestic utility bills and paying out National Savings.
Customer transactions are captured through the Horizon electronic point of sale system in branches
and transmitted to central systems (utility payment, external banking and Post Office finance
systems) throughout the day. On a nightly basis, daily summaries are transferred into the central
accounting system, POL SAP (a SAP package). The translation process between the two systems is
enabled by the Reference Data System (RDS).

Objectives & Scope

The overall objective of the review is to provide assurance that suitable internal controls operate over
Horizon transactions, the extraction of these for central systems and that appropriate IT management
disciplines provide a stable IT platform.

To assess the adequacy of internal controls over transactions, we will map processes, identify
specific processing risks and associated key controls, and conduct a walkthrough of some
transactions to corroborate the accuracy of this analysis. Specifically:

e Transaction data input to the Horizon system at branches is validated for product, volume and
value and confirmed by customer where appropriate.

e The rules in SAP Middleware for processing branch summary financial transactions are reviewed
regularly to ensure that they incorporate and provide for all combinations of data; and that the
Middleware software is monitored during processing to detect blockages in queues in order that
transactions are not discarded and that appropriate data is uploaded into POL SAP.

e Batch updates are completed timely and accurately for interfaces to other systems (RDS, utility
and banking systems).

To assess the suitability of IT management disciplines we will review processes that ensure:

e Access to software (Horizon, translation and Middleware) is restricted to relevant staff, i.e.
genuine branch staff, central Post Office and Fujitsu technical support staff.

e Functional changes are initiated through an agreed process and thoroughly tested before
approval and migration into the live environment.

e Capacity for processing is monitored and adequate resources are provided for future processing.

e There are suitable application support arrangements to ensure its ongoing availability and for
disaster recovery.

Timescales

Assignment fieldwork is due to commence in [Date] and be completed in [Date]. A draft report will be
agreed with stakeholders, prior to final publication, in [Date]. The final report will be distributed to
relevant stakeholders in the business and will contain an IA&RM overall level of assurance rating for
the areas audited.
