POST OFFICE LTD

ADVICE ON PAPERS FOR POST OFFICE LTD BOARD

Introduction

N

At the end of January, I was asked to consider two papers and appendices
that were sent to me titled Project Sparrow — Paper on Stacked Cases and
Project Sparrow — Paper on Prosecutions Going Forward. In essence I
was asked to conduct a fatal flaw analysis of the proposals and propositions

contained in both papers.

On 5 February I was sent a third paper titled POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK
AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE - Prosecutions Policy dated
February 2014 that supersedes Project Sparrow — Paper on Prosecutions
Going Forward. I understand that EXCO clearance is required for the paper
to be amended and circulated to the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee
(“ARC”) in time for a meeting on 11 February. As regards this paper, I am
asked in particular to advise on whether any of the proposals, if adopted and
embodied in a POL Prosecution Policy document, might lead to difficulty for

future POL prosecutions.

At the same time, I was informed that my views on Project Sparrow —
Paper on Stacked Cases were inessential at this stage. However I had
already written in draft that part of this Advice dealing with that paper, and I
note that at paragraphs 4.5 and 5.4 of the new paper direct reference is made
to that work, so for those reasons my comments about it are included in this

Advice.

POL00105068
POL00105068
Finally, by way of introduction, I hope I may be forgiven if anything below
appears to be nit picking or trivial or technical. I have commented only
where I have considered I should do so. Whether, and to the extent, any of

my remarks are adopted will be a matter for the authors of the papers.

Project Sparrow — Paper on Stacked Cases

This paper seeks decision from the Board on the future of so-called
“stacked” cases. Attached to it are Appendix A and Appendix 2. I have also
been provided with a further document prepared by Cartwright King (“CK”)
which lists in two parts a series of 29 cases that have been “stacked”, 22 of

which require a Horizon report, the remainder of which do not.

Paragraph 1

Appendix A, which is attached to the paper, and referred to at paragraph 1.a,
lists some 40 stacked cases divided under three separate heads (I deal with

these below).

I note that the paper states (at paragraph I.c and d) that POL is currently
progressing the appointment of, and working with, Horizon experts and
Fujitsu to agree the scope of their remit. Although beyond the scope of this
Advice, I would impress that whoever is being appointed (I note the paper
speaks of experts (plural)), that any remit is supervised by CK, and that they
understand their duties as experts in criminal proceedings (for which see the
Criminal Procedure Rules 2013 (S.1. 2013 No. 1554), Pt. 33, in particular
rule 33.2 and 33.3)."

" http://www. justice. gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/criminal/rulesmenu#general

N

POL00105068
POL00105068
ll.

12.

Paragraph 2

Whilst I realise the paper is designed to be easily digestible for Board
directors whose time is limited, to be candid I am not comfortable with the

term “stacked”.

It must be borne in mind that if there is any delay built into the prosecution
of its cases, and an issue arises about the delay in a given case, then
disclosure on that issue might involve consideration of the policy underlying

it, which may arguably involve disclosure of the papers to the Board.

The term “stacking” in such a context is not one I have heard before.
Although used as a coded term to mean cases, which are yet to be proceeded
with, it implies an element of deliberation in piling them up, and in my view

should be avoided as it creates the wrong impression.

I take the term “in motion” to mean proceedings that have been initiated or

commenced.

Paragraph 3

The full title for the full Code test cited at paragraph 3.e of the paper is the
Code for Crown Prosecutors. The first sentence of the paragraph provides an
adequate summary of the two-stage test for Board purposes. However, I
would be surprised and concemed if any prosecution had been stopped on
evidential or public interest grounds due simply to the frailty of an elderly
witness. In the kind of cases POL prosecutes, the elderly witness is likely
also to be the victim, and the public interest in favour of prosecution is even

stronger where the victim is vulnerable.’

? Paragraph 4.12(c) of the Code for Crown Prosecutors:

https:/Avww

.gov.uk/publications/docs/code_2013_accessible_english.pdf,; this is also reflected in

the 2013 draft policy document that CK has been developing at paragraph 4.5.vi

POL00105068
POL00105068
13.

16.

Whether or not in the given example the elderly witness is also the victim,
without wishing to become over-technical about it, these days obstacles such
as infirmity, which in the past might have given rise to evidential problems,
no longer do so, because an application to adduce the evidence as hearsay

under the Criminal Justice Act 2003 may be made.

Of course if prosecution is likely to impact adversely on a victim’s health
then that may make prosecution less likely but the seriousness of the offence
would need considering, and the victim’s views would have to be canvassed

first.

The defendant’s illness may be considered but even ill defendants can be

tried after a suitable postponement.

Paragraph 4

As to paragraph I.c, again I understand that the paragraph is written for

Board purposes and is not a legal opinion.

There are two bases on which delay may form a basis for an abuse of process
argument to stay the proceedings in the Magistrates or Crown Court: (1) (as
is correctly stated at paragraph 4.c.3 of the paper) where the delay
compromises a fair trial and (2) where the delay is such that it breaches the

reasonable time requirement under Art. 6(1) ECHR.

As for the first sub-category, the effect of delay can normally be
accommodated within the trial process by, for instance, the exclusion of
evidence, directions to the jury about the effect of delay on memory ete. All
other things being equal, in POL cases the effect of delay will be less marked
as many such prosecutions rely on Horizon records, and at all events the time
between summons/charge and trial should be relatively short. There is no
tule of thumb to the measurement of delay that may lead to a successful

abuse of process argument. The kind of delay that tends to find its way into

POL00105068
POL00105068
20.

21.

the reports is of far longer duration, ordinarily measured in years. But the

cases are fact-specific, and a stay is an exceptional remedy.

As for the second sub-category of abuse grounded in delay, the period is
measured between the time the defendant was officially alerted to the
likelihood of charge (usually by summons or formal charging) and the time
of trial. In light of the fact that summonses are not being issued, and for the
reasons I have already given, it is hardly likely that any POL cases should

fall within this sub-category.

However, I note in paragraph 4.c.5 that CK has advised that a 6 month delay
should not stop a prosecution, but (absent good reason) a delay of over a year
runs that risk. POL should be very cautious before adopting or relying on any
such prescriptive approach. At all events it seems to me that CK has limited
that advice to abuse on the grounds of the impossibility of a fair trial on

grounds of delay.

The category of abuse of process I had in mind when in early January 2014 I
was first apprised of the fact that POL was considering the possibility of
postponing cases while it sought a new expert was not the compromising
effect of delay on the fairness of the trial, but on the misuse or manipulation
by the prosecution of the process by taking a deliberate policy decision to
build delay into the initiation of proceedings in order to shore up its cases.
This category does not rely on the impossibility of providing a fair trial
where there has been delay but on balancing the competing public interests
of permitting the prosecution of serious crimes against the public interest in

not allowing the prosecution to use any means to justify the end.

At a time when the integrity of Horizon is under the spotlight, to decide
deliberately to “stack” cases — i.e. to delay cases awaiting summons or
charge — in order to improve the chances of conviction is a legal if not a PR

disaster waiting to happen.

POL00105068
POL00105068
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

For this reason, it is incorrect to represent to the Board that “The law does

not allow us to stack prosecution cases indefinitely.” This is because the
sentence implies that the law does permit a prosecution authority to postpone
cases (albeit not indefinitely). If that is the implied representation then it is
incorrect.

Such an implication would run contrary to the

expressed in the Criminal Procedure Rules 2013 (S.I. 2013 No. 1554), Pt. 1,

overriding objective”

to deal with cases “justly”, in particular rule 1.1(2)(e) (to deal with the case
efficiently and expeditiously) and rule 1.2(1) (obliging each participant in the
conduct of each case to prepare and conduct the case in accordance with the
overriding objective); in-built delay also offends Pt. 3, where, by rule
3.2(2)(f), the court has, among other duties, a duty to discourage delay, and
where, by rule 3.3(a), each party must actively assist the court to fulfil its

duty under rule 3.2.

In early January, 1 was asked to consider the question how long POL could
hold off charging SPMRs whilst it was looking for an expert witness, and
whether there is a point when the delay (between offence and charge) is so

great that the prosecution may not proceed.

As I advised at the time by email, in most POL cases this will still mean a
decision has to be taken once the investigation is complete and after all the
available information has been reviewed. It is not open to a prosecutor to sit
on the evidence and make no decision to prosecute if the evidence meets the

full Code test, and then come back to it later.

If in the absence of an expert no decision can be taken whether or not the test
is met then that might well justify a delay in the individual case, assuming it
could not be said the delay was a capricious or improper exercise of
prosecutorial discretion and that the decision could have been taken far

sooner on the then available evidence.

6

POL00105068
POL00105068
28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

As I have said, it would be an exceptional case that would meet with a stay
of the indictment as an abuse of the process based solely on grounds of
delay, but if POL took a general across-the-board policy decision to delay all
prosecution decisions to get an expert in place - not to meet evidential
insufficiency in the individual case - but to replace Mr Jenkins for all cases,

then it is taking a risk of exposure and the failure of its cases for that reason.

As I also said, and repeat, there is no rule of thumb at all, and, on the
information I was provided with in early January, delay in terms of weeks or
months is not the real issue here. The real issue is the taking of a global
approach to delaying decisions to prosecute for want of an expert to support
later prosecutions. Thus my advice was and remains there should be no such

approach and each case has to be looked at on its own facts.

For the sake of absolute clarity, my advice is that any decision to adopt any
wholesale postponement of cases without individual consideration is to court

an unacceptable risk of a finding of abuse.

By paragraph 7, the paper retains the option for consideration by the Board

that delay might be built into POL prosecutions. I return to this below.

Paragraph 5

Appendix A to the paper lists the 8 “prosecute now cases” mentioned in
paragraph 5.b.2. Confusingly, CK’s Appendix suggests there are 7 cases in
which an Horizon expert is not required, which I assume are cases capable of
being prosecuted now. Closer analysis of both lists shows however there are

only 3 common cases between them: Cottingham, Coventry and Redman.

Brown, Jadega, McVeigh and Armajit appear within the “Horizon-
dependent” category on Appendix A, but are located in CK’s document in
the “stacked cases for which no Horizon expert report is required” category. I
note that Brown appears in both the “Horizon-dependent” and the “no further

action” categories in Appendix A.

POL00105068
POL00105068
34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

Carter, James, Powar, Purohit and Smith appear in Appendix A within the
“prosecute now” category whereas these cases appear in the “Horizon-

dependent” category on CK’s list.

One case (Rees) does not appear at all on CK’s list. Appendix 2 sets out the
cases that require no further action and replicates the third part of Appendix

A with reasons for decision where available.

There is therefore a statistical mismatch on the material I have seen between
CK’s Appendix and the Appendix attached to the paper, which may have
been resolved in a further iteration of Appendix A which I do not have. If

they have not been resolved, they do need urgent resolution.

Paragraphs 7 and 8

This paragraph seeks decisions on three possible options for stacked cases;
they are (1) initiation of proceedings (setting them in motion), (2) keeping
some or all of them stacked or (3) sending out notices that they will not be

prosecuted.

While it may be that the Board makes decisions about prosecution policy,
nonetheless, corporately POL will be accountable for such decisions if they

are later found to be wrong.

Option (3) (and recommendation paragraph 8.a) merits a little discussion. If
POL gives notice to individual defendants that, having considered the full
Code test, they are not to be prosecuted then that will be regarded as a
binding promise to which POL will be held should it later seek to renege on
it. A breach of promise whereby the defendant has acted to his detriment
may itself amount to an abuse of the process. The finding of detriment is not
an indispensable factor. Thus an abuse may be found even where there has

been no detrimental reliance on the promise.

POL00105068
POL00105068
40.

Al.

In light of my advice above, adoption of decision paragraph 7.b and
recommendation paragraph 8.b courts some risk for POL in that a global
policy approach to cases without individual justification by case specific and
documented review may, if subsequently challenged, lead to a stay of the
proceedings, which, if it failed because of the global policy approach, would

inevitably impact upon all other stacked cases.

T agree with recommendation paragraph 8.c.

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE -

Prosecutions Policy

42.

43.

44.

45.

Attached to the paper Project Sparrow — Paper on Prosecutions Going
Forward was Appendices A-H. Attached to the paper superseding it is one
Appendix, Appendix A. The new paper speaks of a paper that went to the

committee in November. I have not seen it.

Paragraph 4.1-4.5

This paragraph focuses on three options, two of which ((a) and (c)) are not
addressed in detail for the reasons given. The focus of attention is therefore
option (b) — “pursuing a prosecutions policy more focused on more egregious
conduct” and the possible “filters” that might be applied to POL prosecution
policy to ensure that only cases displaying what is called an appropriate “fact

pattern” are prosecuted.

Paragraph 4.3 discusses a financial filter set at various threshold levels
between £15,000 and £100,000, which might be used to reduce the number
of cases handled annually by POL.

The paragraph recommends there be a financial threshold set into policy (as
a “guide” figure) as a factor to be taken into account when deciding whether
or not to commence proceedings. What is envisaged is that below that figure

(i.e. cases involving losses of less than that figure) they would typically not

POL00105068
POL00105068
46.

47,

48.

49.

be prosecuted except where there were special circumstances (e.g. the

vulnerability of the victim).

The paper’s proposal is to fix the figure at £20,000 but the figure would not

be made public at any point.

At paragraph 4.4 the paper lists the kind of non-financial factors that might
be introduced into any revised policy. I deal only with those factors that

require comment.

The financial threshold

It is important to observe that if POL is exercising its decision to prosecute
under the CPS Code for Crown Prosecutors then its approach to prosecution
is whether the evidential test is satisfied and if so whether it is in the public
interest to prosecute. Many cases may pass the evidential test (whether the
evidence provides a realistic prospect of conviction) whatever the financial
loss. It would be illogical to suggest that any guideline financial threshold
goes in support of or against meeting the evidential test. But it can be a

public interest factor.

Currently POL has no financial threshold before prosecuting. Of interest, the

draft policy document thus far developed by CK for POL provides:

1.1. In applying the provisions of the Public Interest Stage of the Full Code Test
the prosecutor will have regard both to the matters set out in the Public
Interest Stage of the Full Code Test and, additionally, to the following
factors:

i. The quantum of any loss or shortage arising out of the alleged
criminal conduct. Post Office Ltd. regard this as an important factor
and accordingly consideration will be given to the following matters:

(a) The value in monetary terms of the loss or
shortage. Whilst a lesser value may militate
against prosecution it does not follow that any
particular value will be determinative. A

10

POL00105068
POL00105068
SI.

52.

53.

substantial or significant loss or shortage will usually
result in prosecution even where other factors tend to
militate against that outcome.

(b) Whether or not some or all of the loss or shortage has
been repaid to Post Office Ltd. Again repayment may
militate against prosecution but it does not follow
that in all cases of repayment we will not prosecute.

A footnote to paragraph 4.5i.(a) adds, “In general and subject to the other
matters set out in this paragraph, a loss or shortage of less than £5,000 might
indicate that we will not prosecute. This does not mean that we will always
prosecute where the loss or shortage is greater than that sum, or that we will
never prosecute where the loss or shortage is less than that sum, the value of
the loss or shortage being but one factor to be considered. In appropriate cases

we will prosecute where a loss or shortage is well-below that figure.”

In principle there is no difficulty about a guide figure. POL is a commercial
organisation and has to protect public money. Paragraph 4.12(f) was a fairly
recent addition to the CPS Code for Crown Prosecutors. It invites prosecutors
considering the public interest stage of the test to consider, among other
things, “the cost to the CPS and the wider criminal justice system, especially
where it could be regarded as excessive when weighed against any likely

3

penalty.

But it then guards against deciding the public interest on the basis of that
factor alone, adding, “It is essential that regard is also given to the public
interest factors identified when considering the other questions in paragraphs
4.12 a) to g), but cost is a relevant factor when making an overall assessment

of the public interest.”

Thus the commerciality of a prosecution is a legitimate factor but it should
never be the sole factor when considering the public interest stage of the test,
and would have somehow to be reflected in any POL policy. This is how I

understand paragraph 4.3 of the paper, which regards the financial limit to be

s is reflected in CK’s draft document at paragraph 4.5.ix

POL00105068
POL00105068
5S.

introduced into policy as a matter to be taken into account when deciding
whether to initiate proceedings, i.e. it is not the only factor to be taken into

account, which I think is entirely the correct approach to adopt.

CK had alighted upon £5,000, possibly for historic reasons. The draft paper
for the Committee suggests £20,000. The important thing is that the figure is
not set in stone and that the new POL prosecution policy document provides
POL with a sufficient degree of discretion to ensure that deserving cases do

not slip through the net on financial grounds alone.
Publication of the guide figure

I have noted the suggestion that the figure should not be made public at any
point. I have grave reservations about that. If a policy is to be published on
POL’s website it must be transparent* Publication would indicate POL intends
taking a consistency of approach to its cases. Any later revelation that POL
was working to a guide figure that was not published is storing up potentially
disastrous if not embarrassing problems. If, for instance, after a time, it were
discovered that POL was applying an unpublished guide figure of £20,000 but
had decided to prosecute an individual where the loss fell under that figure
that may open up the decision to later challenge or criticism, and in my view
can and should be avoided. As another example, what if there were an FOIA
request about it, and POL was obliged to publish the guide figure it had been

applying (on the assumption it was not exempt under the FOIA)?

In my judgment, there really is no good reason why the guide figure should
not be published with an appropriately worded reserved wide discretion (such
as CK have devised), allowing of the possibility also that it may be revised

down or up in the future.

* Publication is recommended at paragraph 6.1.b)

POL00105068
POL00105068
57.

58.

59.

60.

Assessing the loss

Although beyond the immediate remit of the paper for the Committee and this
Advice, I simply add that assessing the loss or shortage below which POL will
not as a matter of policy, subject to special circumstances, typically prosecute,
may prove quite difficult to apply in practice. This is not a question of policy
or definition but goes really to the practicality of applying a guide figure. One
example will suffice: if POL’s policy were not to prosecute for losses under
£20,000, and in a given case POL claimed the loss was £21,000, whereas the
putative defendant argues that POL is unable to prove any loss over £20,000
by reference, say, to a privately commissioned accountant’s report, what then?
How is the quantum of the loss resolved without getting embroiled in
argument about whether the person should or should not be prosecuted and the
decision subject to challenge on the basis that POL is not following its own

policy?

This is not an argument to suggest that the guide figure being applied should
not be adopted in principle or should not be published. I think the answer will
be to have sufficient escape clauses in place in the published policy so that no
challenge can be made to the decision-making process based on financial

factors alone.

Non-financial factors

I make the following observations about the bullet pointed factors, which by
the use of the word “include” in the introductory part of paragraph 4.4 are, I
take it, clearly not intended to be exhaustive.

* The nature of the alleged misconduct

I think this is too widely drawn as a factor to form policy. At all events the

nature of the misconduct will tend to determine whether or not the evidence

provides a realistic prospect of conviction.

POL00105068
POL00105068
61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

¢ Whether there is evidence that the defendant took money directly from

us/others

Again, I think this factor might be difficult to apply in practice. The offence of
false accounting is often charged in the alternative to theft to avoid proving

what, if anything, was in fact taken.

Indeed, even more significantly, to establish as policy that cases where there is
evidence of the taking of money directly from POL or others might tend to
favour prosecution could send out a message that the more sophisticated and
successful the concealment of the loss the less chance there is of prosecution. I
can see that this was regarded as a factor in favour of prosecution in light of
the fact that it is ultimately taxpayers’ money that is being protected, but I

think it should be reconsidered.

¢ Whether the facts disclose a pattern of deliberate conduct designed to
materially benefit him/her or whether the fact pattern discloses

inadvertence/poor book-keeping skill or “muddle-headedness”
These are not really public interest factors but would are facets of the alleged
offending, which would determine whether or not the evidence provides a
realistic prospect of conviction.
* The cost of bringing the prosecution

This is considered above.

¢ Whether there are any alternative, more suitable, remedies available to

POL

I take it this must mean civil remedies as out of court disposals such as
cautions can only be administered by the police and therefore would not

normally be available to POL without police cooperation.

POL00105068
POL00105068
66.

67.

68.

69.

70.

71.

Paragraph 4.6

I can add here a little more to the debate on other commercial organisations

that prosecute.

Private prosecutions have recently reached the Court of Appeal again in the
Virgin Media case.° The appeal itself focused on the lawfulness of
compensation and confiscation applications by a private prosecutor under the

Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.

At paragraph 10 of the judgment, the court commented on the “increase in
private prosecutions at a time of retrenchment of state activity in many areas
where the state had previously provided sufficient funds to enable state bodies to

conduct such prosecutions.”

At paragraph 15-16, he added:

It is evident that private prosecutions by charitable or public interest bodies such as
the RSPCA are common. Furthermore public bodies such as the Financial Services
Authority also rely for their authority to prosecute on the general power of a private
individual to prosecute: see R v Rollins [2010] UKSC 39 at paragraphs 7-14 [ ... I.

It is now also evident that commercial organisations regularly undertake private
prosecutions. This type of private prosecution is undertaken not only by trade
organisations such the Federation Against Copyright Theft (principally the visual
media) and the British Music Industry (“BPI’) (the music industry) but also ordinary
commercial companies [ ...].

Interestingly, it has been recently reported that the RSPCA is to be stripped of

its ability to prosecute following concerns about its approach to prosecution.®

I was asked to consider which other commercial organisations do prosecute
privately. The court in the Virgin Media case did not actually name any. It

must be the case that many commercial organisations will prosecute

° Regina (Virgin Media ltd) v Zinga [2014] EWCA Crim 52
® http:/Avww..telegraph.co.uk/earth/wildlife/10612063/RSPCA-risks-losing-power-to-prosecute. html

POL00105068
POL00105068
72.

73.

74.

75.

76.

77.

Avww.tfl.gov.uk/assets/downloads/t
/svww.northernrail. org/pdfs/Protection_E

periodically such as Virgin Media on this occasion, or at least consider it.
Banks and credit card companies tend to have in-house investigations
capability, but prosecutions arising from fraud are conducted by public
prosecuting authorities such as the CPS, or in extreme cases, the SFO, but

with evidential support from the in-house investigations teams.

The research I have done has revealed that Transport for London (“TfL”) has
a prosecuting function whereby it will prosecute disparate offences, not just

fare evasion, as set out in section 3.0 of its prosecution policy.”

Northern Rail prosecutes privately. Its Protection, Enforcement and
Prosecutions Policy document seems to share common features with that of
TEL’ although which one, if either, was derivate of the other is impossible to
discern. I daresay other rail and transport companies occasionally prosecute

fare evasion and other offences falling within their business compass.

By way of important contrast, as I have said before, albeit it may be
anachronistic, for historical reasons POL has developed a highly sophisticated

investigations and prosecution function.

Paragraph 6

This paragraph sets out the proposals. The only three points I feel I should

address are a), d) and e).

As to a), I am unclear how or why the proposals in paragraph 4.5 should be
written in policy as an “over-rider” if that is what is intended. I have

commented about the stacked cases above.

As to d), while I do not advise that a person within POL ought not to be

appointed to take overall responsibility for prosecution policy and consistency

ickets/tfl-revenue-enforcement-and-prosecutions-policy.pdf
forcement_& Prosecutions Policy pdf

16

POL00105068
POL00105068
78.

79.

80.

of approach, that is a different thing to taking responsibility for decisions that

the full Code test is met in individual cases.

Therefore, a hierarchy of the casework decision-making function within POL,
and POL’s interrelationship with its external lawyers, and the advice they
give, should be transparent and form part of POL’s policy by the formulation
of a decision-tree, which might be incorporated by reference into the final

policy document if not also published with the publishable policy document.

The Security Team’s investigations policy document” might also be
considered in the light of a new prosecution policy, as security and compliance
and legal are interrelated aspects of POL’s prosecution function, and this

document might be considered for publication too.

Finally, as to e), while this may be a very sensitive area (and there is
absolutely no criticism of CK), there may be an argument for considering
regular reviews of the employment of the external law firm prosecuting for
POL, unless of course this is done informally or under some arrangement

already existing between POL and its external advisors.

Brian Altman Q.C.
2 Bedford Row
London WC1R 4BU

6 February 2014

° 2013 Conduct of Criminal Investigations Policy

POL00105068
POL00105068
POL00105068
POL00105068
