POL00138821

POL00138821

From: Matthews, Gavin:
Sent: Sun 18/01/2015 7:50:
To: Rodric William:

PM (UTC)

Ce: Chris Aujardf 7
Subject: RE: Criminal Cases Review Commission / Brian Altman QC [BD-4A.F1D20472253]
Attachment: POST OFFICE LTD REVIEW DOCUMENT [1]v.2.pdf

Rodric

As discussed on Friday I am writing to record our initial discussions relating to the latest letter from the CCRC dated 14
January 2015 addressed to Chris. I have copied in Chris so he is aware.

We agreed that POL's approach should be as follows:

1. Clearly POL should engage positively with the CCRC and acknowledge receipt of their letter in the next few
days.

2. We need to carefully review Brian Altman's Review (attached) and the correspondence with the CCRC to date
3. We need to analyse whether or not POL is or can be a "public body" under s17 Criminal Appeal Act 1995 — the
approach is not to be obstructive but to assess whether or not POL could object to the notice on the ground

that it is not a "public body" if it should need to.

4. The extent of the documentation sought by the CCRC is relatively vague (and wide) so we need to be very
clear in our reply to ensure that POL stays in control of what is disclosed ~ not that POL has anything to hide,
but the extent of the disclosure may become unreasonable if POL does not clearly explain itself.

5. We need to carefully consider the position of the legal confidentiality of Brian's report and not waiving that
confidentiality - we noted that s 17(4) gives the CCRC quite wide powers to "trump" obligations of secrecy or
other limitations on disclosure.

6. Brian Altman and CK will of course need to be involved in the process of response and Brian will need to
endorse the response.

7. I suggest that once we have carried out steps 1-3 above, we set up a conference with Brian Altman to discuss
the approach. His diary is likely to be busy so I can start to look for free dates tomorrow and liaise with you on
these.

As an aside, Brian's review did anticipate future cooperation with the CCRC which will I believe reflect well on how
POL has handled this matter to date (see Executive Summary para 5 (xi) of the attached report)

Gavin Matthews
Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin)

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Rodric Williams [mailto:
Sent: 16 January 2015 14:52
To: Matthews, Gavin

Subject: RE: Criminal Cases Review Commission / Brian Altman QC

POL00138821
POL00138821

Apologies — now attached.

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 16 January 2015,

To: Matthews, Gavin I GRO. a i)

Subject: Criminal Cases Review Commission / Brian Altman QC

Gavin — we've just had a letter in from the Criminal Cases Review Commission (attached).
Could you please give me a call asap to agree next steps.

Thanks, Rod

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

S 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

® Post Office stories

®
®© @postofficenews

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

coeeeeees soe os ereeenees Jobeniinioe

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential an ced by law ‘only is authorised to

access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rodric.williams/

copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or cop yi

fas soon as possible and delete any
be uniawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before tra
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

on, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
POL00138821
POL00138821

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
