POL00078267

POL00078267
Message
From: Jane Hill [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP (FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=JANE
HILL3CAC1F62-1AED-475D-B993-541503D25432EA7]
Sent: 04/08/2015 15:
To: luciana.berger.mpi_
cc: denise.morrisroe!
Subject: Post Office Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme Update

Attachments: CEDR Review Letter 31072015.pdf; M100.pdf

Dear Ms Berger
Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme (the “Scheme”)

As you are aware, your constituent Ms Joanne Foulger applied to the Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme,
established by the Post Office. The case has been put forward for mediation and the independent mediator, the Centre
for Effective Dispute Resolution (CEDR) has contacted your constituent to arrange a date for mediation.

We have also written to your constituent to underline our willingness to take part in mediation and to encourage them
to engage with CEDR.

Regrettably, the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance (JFSA), an organisation advising a number of postmasters in the
Scheme, is recommending people not to engage in mediation or in meetings we are offering with individual MPs. This is
unfortunate since not engaging will simply result in losing an entirely additional and cost-free opportunity to resolve the
complaint they have lodged with us.

We have stressed to your constituent that agreeing to mediate in no way prevents people from taking further action at a
later stage. If they find they cannot reach an agreement with Post Office, their position remains unchanged and they
remain free to explore all other avenues open to them.

We appreciate that some people will not be familiar with mediation and what it involves, so want to ensure that people
are able to make an informed choice about whether or not they wish to take part. In addition to offering funding to
obtain independent advice on mediation, we will also be sending your constituent the attached report from CEDR on
the mediations that have taken place to date, which we hope will reassure them about the way in which they are being
conducted. The Post Office has resolved a number of cases through mediation and we believe it offers both parties with
the best opportunity to reach agreement.

We have already provided significant time for people to reflect on whether or not they wish to proceed. We requested
in July that people who have been offered mediation engage with CEDR within six weeks to agree suitable dates. This
means if they do not respond by 4 September 2015 we will, regrettably, consider their case as withdrawn from the
Scheme and any outstanding issues will be taken forward in accordance with normal business practices.

Just to be crystal clear, all we are asking them to do is agree a date for mediation by 4 September 2015, and not for the
mediation itself to have been completed by that date. If however they refuse, none of their existing rights will be

compromised.

I attach a copy of the letter sent to your constituent which I hope provides useful background. If you would like any
further information please let me know.

Kind Regards
Jane

Jane Hill I Head of Public Affairs

POL-0074830
POL00078267
POL00078267

Post Office Ltd,

Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ

POL-0074830
