POL00423559

POSTMASTER SUPPORT
POLICIES

Postmaster Onboarding Policy
Version - V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374
POL00423559
POL00423559

[ TOC \o "1-3" \h \z \u ]

INTERNAL Page 2 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0001
POL00423559

POL00423559

1. Overview

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner

The Postmaster Effectiveness Director has overall accountability to the Board of Directors
for the design and implementation of controls and supporting protocols to ensure
postmasters are onboarded in line with applicable regulatory requirements and contractual
obligations, creating an overall positive onboarding experience for potential new
postmasters (PNP)

This policy is a non-contractual document provided for information. It does not form part
of the contract between postmasters and Post Office.

1.2. Purpose

This policy is part of a framework that has been established to capture the minimum
operations onboarding standards required relating to the initial onboarding of postmasters
and their teams

It is one of a set of policies which provide a clear framework for Postmaster Onboarding.
Compliance with these policies supports the Post Office in meeting its business objectives
and responsibilities to postmasters.

1.3. Core Principles

Post Office intends to provide a postmaster onboarding process that attracts and appoints
the best possible potential new postmasters to reduce network churn, attrition and enables
Post Office to maintain a stable and sustainable network. It therefore supports the long-
term commercial viability of the Post Office.

Post Office will deliver postmaster onboarding in good faith with fairness, transparency,
and professionalism (being the underpinning behaviours of Post Office).

It is essential that potential new postmasters are given the right levels of support
throughout the onboarding journey. This will help Post Office lay the foundations for a
sustainable, collaborative and transparent future partnership.

Post Office will evaluate all onboarding feedback received from postmasters and take
relevant corrective actions agreed.

1.4. Application

This Policy is applicable to all postmasters who are onboarded and appointed as a
postmaster (regardless of what contract type they will have with Post Office and what Post
Office model type they will operate) from when the postmaster submits an initial
application through to appointment.

INTERNAL Page 3 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0002
POL00423559

POL00423559

1.5. The Risk

Post Office is committed to provide a supportive and straightforward onboarding journey,
with the view to ensuring the right appointment decision for both Post Office and the
prospective postmaster. Failure to do so could create risks to both the Post Office and
postmaster, including:

the risk that Post Office is not assured of the overall suitability of the postmaster,
once appointed, to be able to operate the branch effectively and provide high levels
of customer experience.

the risk that the branch’s business model is not sufficient to continue trading,
leading to closure and impact on customer service within the area.

the risk that contractual or regulatory breaches may be made by the postmaster.

1.6. Legislation

The Group seeks to comply with all relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements
including (but not limited to):

Sections 15 to 25 of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 (the 2006
Act), section 24B of the Immigration Act 1971, and Schedule 6 of the Immigration
Act 2016. Legislation to prevent illegal working.

Section 122 of the Police Act 1997. Ensuring potential new postmasters who have
a criminal record are treated fairly and not discriminated against automatically
because of a conviction or other information revealed.

The Data Protection Act 2018. Provision for the regulation of the processing of
information relating to individuals.

Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the
Payer) Regulations 2017 (the "MLR 2017").

INTERNAL Page 4o0f 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0003
POL00423559

POL00423559

2. Risk Appetite and Minimum Control
Standards

2.1. Risk Appetite

Risk appetite is the extent to which the Post Office will accept that a risk might happen in
pursuit of day-to-day businesses transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of
activity and levels of exposure that the Post Office are willing and able to tolerate.

The Post Office takes its legal, regulatory and contractual responsibilities seriously and
consequently has:

« verse risk appetite to corporate non-compliance with legal and statutory
obligations.

« Cautious risk appetite for inefficient or ineffective processes that result in: lost
time, duplicated effort, and increased risk of financial loss or errors in any part of
its business or core processes.

The Post Office acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive
controls have been implemented a product or transaction may still sit outside the agreed
Risk Appetite. In this situation, a risk exception waiver will be required.

2.2. Policy Framework

This policy is part of a framework of postmaster support policies that has been established
to set the minimum operating standards relating to the management of our postmaster
contract risks throughout the business in line with Post Office’s risk appetite. These are
subject to an annual review. The framework includes the following policies:

« Postmaster Onboarding (this policy)

e Postmaster Training

* Postmaster Contractual Performance

e Postmaster Contract Suspension

« Postmaster Contract Termination

« Postmaster Termination Decision Review
e Network Monitoring and Audit Support

* Postmaster Account Support

« Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution
e Network Cash and Stock Management

« Network Transaction Corrections

e Postmaster Complaint Handling

INTERNAL Page 5 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0004
POL00423559

POL00423559

2.3. Who must comply?

Compliance with this policy is mandatory for all Post Office employees! that manage
postmaster onboarding processes.

Where non-compliance with this policy is identified by Post Office personnel, Post Office
will carry out an investigation, following our Investigations Policy. Where it is identified that
an instance of non-compliance is caused through wilful disregard or negligence, this may
be treated as a disciplinary offence.

2.4. Roles & Responsibilities jointly responsible for onboarding

Postmaster Effectiveness Director - is the policy owner.

Head of Postmaster Onboarding - is accountable for the deployment of this
policy. This role is also responsible for regularly reviewing the standards and
processes set out in this policy and for drafting any amendments that may be
required.

Onboarding Manager - is accountable for the deployment of procedures and
decisions required in this policy and supporting Onboarding Support Advisors who
onboard postmasters.

Onboarding Support Advisor(s) - carries out onboarding processes and checks
and should be fully conversant with this policy and linked policies.

Financial Analysts - carries out the financial analysis behind Financial
Assessments which are submitted as part of the postmaster onboarding process.

Business Support Managers - carries out suitability assessments along with
Area Managers. They are accountable for providing basic training and building the
confidence of postmasters so that they understand the commercial opportunities
available to them.

Area Managers - the primary contact point for postmasters. They provide tailored
support for an individual branch’s needs and share performance data and discuss
operational issues with postmasters.

Smart ID Lead - part of the onboarding team is accountable for the deployment
of this policy and is responsible for supporting the team that vets Assistants and
manages the annual fit & proper declaration checks.

Vetting Team - part of the Onboarding Support Advisors team carry out vetting
checks on Assistants and should be fully conversant with this policy and linked
policies.

Fit & Proper Advisor(s) -carry out annual fit & proper checks in relation to
postmasters or the relevant partner in a partnership contractual scenario and
should be fully conversant with this policy and linked policies.

* In this Policy “employee” means permanent staff, temporary including agency staff, contractors, consultants and anyone else
working for or on behalf of Post Office

INTERNAL Page 6 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0005
POL00423559
POL00423559

e Network Provision and Property Manager - helps to maintain the network by
sourcing new possible postmasters and premises from which Post Office services
can be provided.

e Network Provision and Property Lead - owns and develops the relationship
with all potential new postmasters in advance of them submitting an application for
a Post Office and entering the onboarding journey.

INTERNAL Page 7 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0006
2.5. Minimum Control Standards

POL00423559

POL00423559

A minimum control standard is an activity that must be in place in order to manage the risks, so they remain within the defined Risk
Appetite statements. There must be mechanisms in place within each business unit to demonstrate compliance. The minimum control
standards can cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive that are required to ensure risks are
managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required minimum control standards in consideration of the stated
risk appetite. The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards Who is responsible I When
Postmaster A complex process or Continual analysis undertaken by _ the I Postmaster Weekly
Onboarding aggressive timelines Onboarding Management Information team to I Effectiveness Director I analysis
discourage suitable potential I understand the following: - each stage of the
new postmasters from onboarding journey from application to
submitting an application or I appointment, barriers to progression, and
progressing and therefore, prospective new postmaster dropout rates.
creates a risk in terms of
Post Office’ ability to replace
a vacancy in the Post Office
network Programme of colleague multiskilling Postmaster Monthly
currently underway to ensure competence in I Effectiveness reviews of
delivering multiple elements of the Director/Head of training skills
onboarding journey. Postmaster matrix
Onboarding
INTERNAL Page 8 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0007
POL00423559

POL00423559

Financial assessment fails to I Full review and update of all onboarding I Postmaster Financial
flag appropriate risk processes, including the financial assessment I Effectiveness assessment
weighting process which currently takes approximately I Director/Head of currently
6 months to reduce to 4 months. Postmaster under review
Onboarding and expected
Where a potential new postmaster does not to be
satisfy the financial assessment, criteria set completed in
by the Finance team, Post Office will consider Q1, with
a resubmission of the financial assessment annual reviews
from the potential new postmaster subject to thereafter
and in accordance with the scoring criteria Annual review
owned by Finance. of policy
Vetting fails to highlight All potential new postmasters must undergo I Postmaster Daily
undue risk. pre-engagement vetting. See separate Effectiveness
Postmaster Vetting Policy February 2021, Director/Head of
version 2.2. Postmaster
Onboarding
Incorrect agreement being Agreement tracker with all current I Postmaster Daily
issued to postmasters agreements and scenarios in place, held in a I Effectiveness
central location on the knowledge centre. I Director/Head of
Buddy checks in place prior to issue and I Postmaster
countersigning by managers from a list of I Onboarding
authorised signatories to minimise error.
Handover to other Post Casework management triggers notifications I Postmaster Daily
Office teams (suitability to relevant Post Office teams, ensuring Effectiveness
assessment, finance, collaborative working, appropriate scheduling I Director/Head of
vetting, smartID, training) is I and timely updates. Postmaster
disjointed, ineffective or Onboarding
discouraging experience for
the postmaster.

INTERNAL

Page 9 of 14

Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0008
POL00423559

POL00423559
Onboarding Dealing with onboarding I Any onboarding failure is escalated to the Postmaster As required
Failures failures inconsistently Head of Postmaster Onboarding who Effectiveness Director
analyses the root cause of such failure
revises future processes as required.
Policy non- I Non adherence to the policy I The Policy will be trained out to all members I Postmaster Once approved
adherence could result in legal and I of the Onboarding Team, Smart ID Team, Fit Effectiveness Director I and annually
regulatory risk as well as I and Proper Team and Vetting Team thereafter
reputational damage to Post
Office and the relationship I The Policy should be reviewed, and if
with postmasters. necessary updated. Annually
INTERNAL Page 10 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0009
3.

POL00423559

POL00423559

Procedures

3.1. Postmaster Onboarding Requirements

It is imperative that all onboarding activities are completed in a supported, transparent
and fully engaged manner. This will ensure that Post Office and postmasters work together
to achieve a confident and trustworthy relationship. In support of this, Post Office will
provide comprehensive supporting documents and telephone calls to offer substantial
support throughout the onboarding journey.

The type of onboarding differs depending upon the Post Office branch type - please see
internal processes, which are version and dated controlled and located centrally on the
onboarding knowledge centre.

The list below details the high-level activities required in respect of onboarding: -

The prospective new postmaster submits their application which is tracked by the
Onboarding Support Advisor

The prospective new postmaster is invited to submit a detailed Financial
Assessment

Post Office Finance team makes a financial decision as to the ongoing sustainability
of the operation based on the Financial Assessment; they notify the Onboarding
Support Advisor who updates the potential new postmaster

If unsuccessful, the potential new postmaster can resubmit the Financial
Assessment. If there is a further unsuccessful submission of the Financial
Assessment, the potential new postmaster will not be able to reapply for a further
6-month period.

The Suitability Assessment is conducted by the Business Support Manager/Area
Manager; they confirm the outcome of the assessment with the potential new
postmaster

Onboarding Support Advisor is notified of the suitability assessment outcome

If successful, agreement is created by the Onboarding Support Advisor and sent to
the potential new postmaster for signature

The agreement is signed by the postmaster, checked, countersigned by a Post
Office Limited representative and a copy is returned to the postmaster

INTERNAL Page 11 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0010
POL00423559

POL00423559

4. Where to go for help

4.1. Additional Policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found on the SharePoint
Hub under [ HYPERLINK
"https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/thehub/SitePages/Key%20policies.aspx?web=1" ]

4.2. How to raise a concern

Any postmaster (whether a limited company, partnership, limited liability partnership or
an individual) or any Post Office Employee who suspects that there is a breach of this
Policy should report this without any undue delay.

If the postmaster is unable to raise the matter with the area manager of the relevant
branch or if a Post Office Employee is unable to speak to her or his line manager, you can
bring it to Post Office’s attention independently of management and you can use the
Whistleblowing channels for this purpose. You can raise your concerns anonymously,
although disclosing as much information as possible helps ensure Post Office can conduct
a thorough investigation.

For more details about how and where to raise your concerns, please refer to the current
Whistleblowing Policy which can be found on The Hub under Post Office Key Policies, [
HYPERLINK
"https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/thehub/SitePages/Key%20policies.aspx?web=1" ]

4.3. Who to contact for more information?

If you need further information about this policy or wish to report an issue in relation to
this policy, please contact the Postmaster Effectiveness Director at [ HYPERLINK

INTERNAL Page 12 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0011
POL00423559
POL00423559

5. Governance

5.1. Governance Responsibilities

The policy sponsor, responsible for overseeing this policy is the Retail and Franchise
Network Director.

The policy owner is the Postmaster Effectiveness Director who is responsible for ensuring
that the Head of Postmaster Onboarding conducts an annual review of this policy and tests
compliance across the Post Office network. Additionally, the Postmaster Effectiveness
Director is responsible for providing appropriate and timely reporting to the Risk and
Compliance Committee.

The Audit and Risk Committee are responsible for approving the policy and overseeing
compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting the Post Office’s risk appetite.

INTERNAL Page 13 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0012
POL00423559

POL00423559
6. Control
6.1. Policy Version
Date Version I Updated by I Change Details
17% August 2020 0.1 Marie Pyatt Draft Version
18" February 2021 I 1.0 Jayne Pardoe I Updated Draft Version
18% March 2021 LL Jo Milton Amendments to align with postmaster
support policies
30% March 2021 1.2 Jayne Pardoe I Addition of non-compliance minimum
control standard
Final approved by ARC

6.2. Policy Approval

Oversight Committee: Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit and Risk Committee

Committee Date Approved

POL R&CC 16" March 2021

POL ARC 30 March 2021

Policy Sponsor: Retail and Franchise Network Director
Policy Owner: Postmaster Effectiveness Director
Policy Author: Head of Postmaster Onboarding

Next review: 31 MAR 2022

Company Details

Post Office Limited and Post Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers
2154540 and 08459718 respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its
Information Commissioners Office registration number is ZAOSO585.

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is 24866081.

INTERNAL Page 14 of 14 Postmaster Onboarding Policy V1.2

POL-BSFF-0238374_0013
