POL00151046
POL00151046

From: Davidson James ~~ GRO
Sent: Fri 30/01/2015

To: Kevin Lenihan}
Underwood1}

Melanie

Ce: Dave Hulbert
; Dave M King
Subject: RE: URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon
Hi Kevin,

I have just seen this as was working in another mail to you which I have posted below.

Having looked again at the request from Paula, it appears that the fundamentals around this question (remote
access) are not understood. I suggest that Paula is briefed along the lines of the following.

1) No transaction data is held locally in any branch. Transactions are completed and stored in a central
database and copies of all data is sent to a secure audit database.

2) Sub-postmasters directly manage user access and password setting locally so system access (to create
transactions) are limited to approved local personnel only who are responsible for setting their own
passwords. Users are only created following an approval process which requires authorisation by the sub-
postmaster. All subsequent transactions are recorded against the id used to log on to the system.

3) Once a transaction has been completed, there is no functionality (by design) for transactions to be edited or
amended. Each transaction is given a unique number and ‘wrapped’ in a digital encryption seal to protect its
integrity. All transactions are then posted to a secure and segregated audit server.

4) Onapproval, there is the functionality to add additional transactions which will be visible and have a unique
identifier in the audit trail. This is extremely rare and only been used once since go live of the system in 2010
(March 2010)

5) Support staff have the ability to review event logs and monitor, in real time, the availability of the system
infrastructure as part of standard service management processes.

6) Overall system access is tightly controlled via industry standard ‘role based access’ protocols and assured
independently in annual audits for ISO 27001, Ernst and Young for IAS 3402 and as part of PCI audits.

Happy to clarify any points further.

Regards,

James Davidson
Post Office

Fujitsu
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 8SN

Web: http://uk. fujitsu.com

Fujitsu is proud to partner with

the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com
POL00151046
POL00151046

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Kevin Leniha
Sent: 30 January 2015 16:59
To: Mark Underwood1; Davidson James; Melanie Corfield

Cc: Newsome Pete; Dave Hulbert; Lesley J Sewell; Dave M King; Julie George
Subject: RE: URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon

Mark,

I have the bullets that James provided earlier in relation to Q2 :-

Q. "you have said this is such a vital system to the Post Office, what testing do you do and how often? When was the
last time?”

Answer:-
e = There is a Joint permanent test team
Permanent test facilities are in place
In constant use to test enhancements and maintenance releases (software upgrades, patching etc)
All code regression tested to ensure stability of the environment
All change approved formally by change process
Processes (change, release etc) audited annually by Ernst and Young as part of IAS 3402 standard
All access and system segregation, security audited by external PCI auditors for PCI accreditation
Consequently system stability is high and availability has run consistently above target over many years

I suggest that any words in association to the above are primarily to make the above flow, and they are the facts. I
am happy to reconstruct the above into sentences but don’t want to dilute the facts provided.

I propose that we provide Mel with the answer to Q.1) as you have stated below (I have already agreed that content
with Dave King, Info. Security. AND the bullets provided by James to Q2. so that the final article is crafted by a
Comms expert.

Mel / James / Mark — are you all okay with this or do you need me to do anything else ?

Thanks,
Kevin

Kevin Lenihan I Senior Information Services Manager

2 Floor, 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ

“4

From: Mark Underwood1

Sent: 30 January 2015 15:50

To: Davidson James

Cc: Kevin Lenihan

Subject: RE: URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon

Hi Kevin my proposed answer to the first question below (it can be sent in its entirety to Mel and she can pick and
choose). Though this will need to be signed off by James as accurate,
POL00151046
POL00151046

In terms of the second question, I cannot find anything on the testing carried out. It could very well have been sent to
one of my predecessors but I cannot find it anywhere. James are you able to put something together based upon the
email you sent Kevin?

Mark

In terms of Q1

This question often phrased by Applicants and Second Sight is:
“Can Post Office remotely access Horizon?"

Phrasing the question in this way does not address the issue that is of concern to Second Sight and
Applicants. It refers generically to "Horizon" but more particularly is about the transaction data recorded by
Horizon. Also, the word "access" means the ability to read transaction data without editing it — Post Office /
Fujitsu has always been able to access transaction data however it is the alleged capacity of Post Office /
Fujitsu to edit transaction data that appears to be of concern. Finally, it has always been known that Post
Office can post additional, correcting transactions to a branch's accounts but only in ways that are visible to
Subpostmasters (i.e. Transaction Corrections and Transaction Acknowledgements) — it is the potential for
any hidden method of editing data that is of concern.

Can Post Office or Fujitsu edit transaction data without the knowledge of a Subpostmaster?”

Post Office confirms that neither it nor Fujitsu can edit transaction data without the knowledge of a
Subpostmaster.

There is no functionality in Horizon for either a branch, Post Office or Fujitsu to edit, manipulate or remove
a transaction once it has been recorded in a branch's accounts.

The following safeguards are in place to prevent such occurrences:

. Transmission of baskets of transaction data between Horizon terminals in branches and the Post
Office data centre is cryptographically protected through the use of digital signatures.

. Baskets must net to nil before transmission. This means that the total value of the basket is nil
and therefore the correct amount of payments, goods and services has been recorded in the
basket. Baskets that do not net to nil will be rejected by the Horizon terminal before transmission to
the Post Office data centre.

. Baskets of transactions are either recorded in full or discarded in full — no partial baskets can be
recorded to the Audit Store.
. All baskets are given sequential numbers (known as Journal Sequence Numbers or JSNs) when

sent from a Horizon terminal. This allows Horizon to run a check at the Data Centre for missing
baskets (which triggers a recovery process) or additional baskets that would cause duplicate
numbers (which would trigger an exception error report to Post Office / Fujitsu).

. All transaction data in the Audit Store is digitally sealed — these seals would show evidence of
tampering if anyone, either inadvertently, intentionally or maliciously, tried to change the data within
a sealed record.

. Automated daily checks are undertaken on JSNs (looking for missing / duplicate baskets) and on
the digital seals (looking for evidence of tampering).

From: Davidson James
POL00151046
POL00151046

Sent: 30 January 2015 12:42

To: Mark Underwood1

Cc: Kevin Lenihan

Subject: FW: URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon

James Davidson
Post Office

Fujitsu
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 8SN

http://uk fujitsucom
I FS

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Web:

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

vA Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
Mark,

As discussed, can you hook up with Kevin to review what answers have already been provided to second sight as this
should form the Post Office response.

Thanks,

James.

From: Kevin Lenihani_
Sent: 30 January 2015 09:28

To: Newsome Pete

Subject: URGENT ACTION : Accessing Horizon

Pete,
My phone call earlier today refers.

I need some urgent information as per Paula’s note please. Apologies if you’ve had this before but I’m not aware of
the history on this — just point me in the direction of who has that answer and I'll pursue accordingly.

Cheers,
Kevin

Kevin Lenihan I Senior Information Services Manager

2° Floor, 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ.

GRO I

POL00151046
POL00151046

From: Paula Vennells I

, Lesley J Sewell

Dear both, your help please in answers and in phrasing those answers, in prep for the SC:

1) "is it possible to access the system remotely? We are told it is."

What is the true answer? I hope it is that we know this is not possible and that we are able to
explain why that is. I need to say no it is not possible and that we are sure of this because of xxx
and that we know this because we have had the system assured.

2) "you have said this is such a vital system to the Post Office, what testing do you do and how
often? When was the last time?

Lesley, I need the facts on these - I know we have discussed before but I haven't got the answer
front of mind - too many facts to hold in my head! But this is an important one and I want to be
sure I do have it. And then Mark, to phrase the facts into answers, plus a line to take the
conversation back up a level - ie., to one of our narrative boxes/rocks.

Thanks, Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

JES IB ID IIHS III IIS IIS IODA III III III III III IIE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.
POL00151046
POL00151046

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U.
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
