POL00458682
POL00458682

To: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester)f
From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 2014-06-04T09:25:51Z
Importance: Normal

Subject: RE: v11

Received: 2014-06-04T09:25:53Z

Hi-I’m putting this together now, and will get it over to you to discuss over the phone for when you surface from
your meeting around noon.

In the meantime, can we show v11 to Lesley (hard copy only, no forwarding)? We have not done so yet, but Chris
would like her to see it asap as she is co-sponsoring the Briefing.

Thanks, Rod

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

®

Post Office stories

@postofficenews

©®®@eO0

From: James, Gareth (UK - Manchester,
Sent: 04 June 2014 09:32

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Whitton, Andrew J (UK - London); Chris Aujard
Subject: vi1

Hi Rod — just a quick note as not heard anything further yet.

I’m heading into another meeting now until noon — are you comfortable with the report? (as if so, I think we are good
to issue (couple of typos changed only ourside, so will just need to trip you another clean version, in PDF)).

Best regards

Gareth

Gareth James
Partner

Deloit
Teo

POL00458682
POL00458682

Mobile, GRO i
Data Analytics Website I Finance Analytics Website

UK Futures

How can UK business drive growth?
http://www .deloitte.co.uk/ukfutures

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C30367S. Its registered office is 2, New
Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), a UK private company
limited by guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal
structure of DTTL and its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipient(s), please (1) notify it.security.uk GRO iy forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying
or use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a
Deloitte UK email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s)
to the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.
