POL00099179
POL00099179

Message

From: Susan Crichton [IMCEAEX-
_O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMI
DC28-49AB-8FOF-BE4237A4AD4F

on Susan Crichton <IMCEAEX-

behalf _O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20AD!

of DC28-49AB-8FOF-BE4237A4AD4I

UP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONCE

UP +20+28FYDIBOHF 23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONCE
[IMCEAEX-
P+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONCE

DC28-49AB-8FOF-BE4237A4AD4F¢
Sent: 12/07/2013 0

To: Paula Vennells Kevin Gillilan
ce: Mark R Davies { iMartin Edwards} G RO

Subject:Re: Fwd: The case for independence in the Post Office appeals system

Thanks Paula I will organise someone from Chris' area. Take a look at the case and we can discuss at 2

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: Friday, July 12, 2013 07:29 AM

To: Kevin Gilliland; Susan Crichton

Cc: Mark R Davies; Martin Edwards

Subject: Fwd: The case for independence in the Post Office appeals system

Hi both/all, please see below and read the attachment.

I would like to take this as an example of how we can begin to turn the SS situation around. And I am taking it
very seriously - there are many interested MPs copied and a letter direct to our minister, but irrespective of that
(which is clearly important) I want the business to respond willingly and with transparency and pace.

Whatever the rights and wrongs of the case and there will be views on both sides, if this Spmr has had an
unblemished record for 33 years, (which I would want us to verify), why are we suspending him while we
investigate around £2000?

That is the optic.

It was already a complicated case (ATM rates related) compounded by a further and totally separate issue,
which appears to be caused by the fact that our accounting procedures do not allow for cheque acceptance for
stamp purchases over a certain value.n the case in point.

To be very very clear, I am not saying we should abandon disciplinary action. But his note repeats some of what
we hear in the SS review: an overbearing/impersonal process, one that is not proportionate to the record or the
case in hand, and one that penalises the cashflow/costs of a small business less able to bear those in the short-
term. In a case like this, perhaps a formal written warning might have been better as an initial stake in the
ground, while we explored the issues - it would be more understanding of Spmr colleagues situations, it would
diffuse any angst on the part of PO colleagues trying to understand the confusion, and certainly would be less
costly for us: the cost of public funds deployed this case already outweighs the cost of the error/missing funds,
which if I have understood correctly are/will not be missing at all.

I would like an answer by this pm as to whether there is any good reason why we cannot just clear this up now.

This is a chance for us to move at pace, email Mr Woodrow and the MPs and show that the new PO has
common sense and can act quickly but not ignore the risks to the business.

POL-0098762
POL00099179
POL00099179

We will then need quickly to work out guidelines for colleagues involved in such cases, to allow for more
flexibility, better understanding and reaction to cases/ £ thresholds, as well as impacts on manager support to
guide staff.

Susan and I have a 121 this afternoon, Kevin can you join please for the first 15 minutes, I want to understand
firstly what we can do about this and secondly, what we might need to think about to be able to respond
responsibly going forwards. (Someone should call in from Chris' area - please could Susan decide.)

Mark/Martin can you liaise with Will. I will send this onto Alice, it may well reach her in some way and I know
she would want to be aware.

Many thanks, I realise this is not easy but it is the best response so that we are seen to be true to our word, and it
is absolutely a chance for a ‘triumph’ as JA would say.

Paula

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: DAVID WOODROW < GRO if
Date: 11 July 2013 15:29:32 B
To: "jo.swinson.mp,

Ce: "paula.vennells¢

imSheridan

ndrew.bridgen.m)
cathy jamieson.my

david. mowat.mp;
"phillip.hollobon

<john.woodcock.mp}
<jim.shannon.mg
Subject: The case fo:
Reply-To: DAVID WOODROW {

Dear Jo.

I write to you as the minister dealing with the inquiry into the Horizon system and I watched
with interest the debate on Monday as a constituent in your neighbouring constituency

You seemed to make quite an issue of the fact that there was only 47 cases that have come to
light. As a currently suspended subpostmaster after 33 years service I can assure you that the 47
are only the tip of the iceberg. I personally paid out £1900 last year as our office could not
resolve a horizon issue to do with reversing M.V.L.transactions.

POL-0098762
POL00099179
POL00099179

Only two weeks ago P.O.C.L. issued a very complicated procedure to resolve such matters but
because it involves a separate government agency the procedure is fraught with problems and
that would be confirmed by helpline operators.

Why I am currently suspended is because I broke the terms of my contract by retaining £2000 in
lieu of a rates issue which is exclusive to Scotland and is partly due to poor support for current
Sub Postmasters from P.O.C.L

I attach a document which I submitted to my first interview at the end of which I was given the
option of resigning ot take my case to appeal.

I chose to appeal, but in light of the debate on Monday, the fact that the appeal is to be heard by a
Post Office Manager seems a bit contrary to one of the accepted outcomes of the inquiry that
there should be some form of independence in any appeal process.

My office has now been closed for nearly 8 weeks and I will attend my appeal on Tuesday 16th
in the hope that I and my staff can get back to serving our community.

Tam copying this to all the M.P.s who took part in the debate as they all had issues that need to
be resolved. There was however a common denominator in that P.O.C.L. has been lacking in
their support and training for Sub Postmasters.

Yours sincerely
David Woodrow (Sub postmaster in limbo Bishopton)

POL-0098762
