POL00448355

POL00448355
Post Office Limited
POST OFFICE JOB DESCRIPTION
Job Title Speak Up and Intelligence Team Manager
Grade: TBC (3A?)
Post Reports to: Head of Central Investigations Unit
Division: Central Investigations Unit
Business Unit: Legal, Compliance and Governance
Budget Accountability: _ For Convercent, for analytical software provision. CE90k
Number of Direct / Three - 2x Compliance & Integrity Investigators and 1x
Indirect Reports: Intelligence Analyst
Location: Homebased
Fit & Proper NO
Requirements
Unique Position Per SF org structure (added after evaluation)
Number:

Purpose of the role

To manage three distinct but linked high-profile areas within the investigation
function: to ensure that the right investigations are selected based on the best
information available and allocate to the appropriate investigation team; to oversee
and be accountable for the Speak Up function including all whistleblowing
investigations; and that investigative MI and strategic risk assessments are produced
to inform the business, GE, and the Board.

Where does this role fit in within Post Office?

1& Integrity InvestigatorsI
[ The JOB

1x B 2A Intelligence
Analyst
Senior Investigators
Lo 2x investigators

Principal accountabilities

e Provide advice on, and actively promote, Speak Up reporting and processes to key stakeholder groups
ranging from Post Office staff to the Board ensuring that issues, incidents and complaints that are
considered ‘whistleblowing’ are identified and confidentiality is maintained; provide recommendations
POL00448355
POL00448355

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

on appropriate controls to mitigate Speak Up risks through design and process improvements, and
deployment of appropriate internal and external communications and awareness

e Oversee production of regular MI, root cause analysis, and risk assessments from Speak Up, Central
Investigations, and business-wide investigative data and other sources of information relating to
conduct, criminality, processes, policies, products, services, locations, or other themes; preparation
and presentation of reports for Senior Management, GE, Board, and Risk and Audit Committees.

e Responsible for reviewing, assessing and reporting on regulatory or legislative changes and industry
best practice, and ensuring the Speak Up and other policies are kept up to date and reviewed annually

e Delivering training, awareness and communications to encourage reporting of issues and create a
culture of confidence that issues will be taken seriously and properly investigated and for assuring
compliance with any specific legislative, regulatory, or contractual requirements arising from Post
Office Ltd business, including liaising with third party service providers and management of contracts

e Responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective Triage process by being responsible and
accountable for assessing the portfolio of Post Office-wide investigations to identify appropriate cases
for Speak Up and CIU investigators as well as providing assurance of the business-based triage
activities.

e Responsible for developing and maintaining effective working relationships with a variety of key
stakeholders within Post Office Group to secure a partnership-based approach.

e Coach, mentor, and develop staff, including overseeing new employee on-boarding and providing
career development planning and opportunities.

« Empower employees to take responsibility for their role, objectives and own development. Delegate
responsibility and expect accountability and regular feedback.

Knowledge, experience and skills

« Significant experience (10+ years in either or a combination of the two) in intelligence
analysis or whistleblowing management

« Leadership and management experience (5+ years) essential
« Relationship management experience (5+ years) essential

« Experience of managing a triage process either in an investigatory or intelligence
environment essential

« Experience of working in both public and private sectors an advantage

Key Working Relationships

Who? When? To achieve what?

Head of CIU As required To obtain oversight, discuss policy
improvements, report progress, agree
sensitive enquiries.

Compliance & Daily To allocate work, provide advice and
Integrity guidance, and to quality assure their work.
Investigators

Intelligence Daily To allocate work, provide advice and

Analyst guidance, and to quality assure their work.

Post Office Limited - Document Classification:

INTERNAL

business units

Senior CIU As required but I To agree carriage of investigations, pass

Investigators likely daily intelligence and information, and to
mitigate risks.

GE members, As required but I For stakeholder management and also as

Directors and likely weekly part of the Triage and Assessments

Heads of process of risk identification and

mitigation. Will need to negotiate with
these colleagues over Speak Up
investigations, investigation _ findings,
process failures, and improvements to
operational effectiveness

Legal Director
and General
Counsel

As required but
likely weekly

To discuss sensitive Speak Up issues
including advocating protection for
statutory whistleblowers

Speak Up At
Champion: Non I monthly
Exec Director

least

Providing briefing on case up-dates;
discussing confidentiality and protection
issues; providing guidance t the NED on
the role and duties of the Champion.

POL00448355
POL00448355
