POLO0088885
POL00088885

Message
From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To:

ce:

Subject: RE: Policies

Attachments: Audit Opening Script.pdf; A short guide to the Audit Reporting Tool.pdf; Audit Closing Script.pdf; Postmaster
Contract Suspension Policy v3.0.pdf; Postmaster Contract Termination Policy v3.0.pdf; Postmaster Guide to Policies
V1.2.pdf; Postmaster Onboarding Policy 1.4.pdf; Postmaster Termination Decision Review Policy V2.3.pdf;
Postmaster Training Policy 1.5.pdf; Network Cash and Stock Management Policy V1.4.pdf; Network Monitoring and
Audit Support Policy V1.5.pdf; Network Transaction Corrections Policy V1.4.pdf; Postmaster Account Support Policy
V1.5.pdf; Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution Policy V1.4.pdf; Postmaster Complaint Handling Policy V1.3.pdf;
Postmaster Contract Performance Policy v3.0.pdf; Responses to Policy Questions.docx

Hi Keith,
I hope both you and Calum are well.

I had spoken to David after he met with you and we said we’d wait until the policies were final before sending through.
I’ve just finished updating them, so here they are. All 12 postmaster support policies and the Postmaster Guide to
Policies.

The 12 policies are intended for internal Post Office use, but the Postmaster Guide to Policies, which summarises them
all, will be released to postmasters in the next couple of months.

We have also gone through your questions and answered them. I’ve attached a table to show the questions and
answers. I’ve also attached, as requested:

1. Audit Opening (Reason for Audit) Script (amended to include asking the postmaster to contact NFSP)

2. Audit Closing Script

3. Ashort Guide to the Audit Reporting Tool

Outstanding actions:

e The questions you had on the Complaint Handling policy will be answered by Mel Fischer and Bella Liu when
they attend an NFSP session on 8" June. Calum is already an attendee and I believe they will send out
documentation in advance.

e Your request for audit data - I am going to try and get a dashboard created to give you the data.

I hope this response helps you, but you might well have follow up questions - if so, please let us know.

Thanks
Jo

From: Keith Richard:
Sent: 07 May 2021 1
To: Jo Milton =
Cc: Calum Greenhow/
Subject: RE: Policies

Thankyou all

POL-0085943
POLO0088885
POL00088885

Regards

Keith Richards

Compliance and Network Support Advisor
The National Federation of SubPostmasters

ly privileged and is intended for the address
have received it in ervor plea: on us immediately by email responding to the sender and then delete this

Please do not copy it, di it for any purpose. Thank you for your
cooperation

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been scanned for sof
mol t accept lia ity & for any damage susiained as a result of software viruses and would advise you
attachment.

to carry

You can view our privacy policy online at wwww.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

ral Federation of SubPostmast

a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company numb:

From: Jo Milto!

To: Keith Richards +
Ce: Calum Greenhow,
Subject: RE: Policies ~

David Southall
im Perkin

Hi Keith,

've attached the Onboarding policy which was just finalised on Tuesday this week. Tracy Marshall said she’s happy to
answer any questions you might have on that one.

In fact, most of the policies we sent you have been through various reviews since. We should be able to send you the
final versions next week.

Thanks
Jo

From: Keith Richards.
Sent: 07 May 2021 0:

GRO 7

POL-0085943
POLO0088885
POL00088885

To: David Southall

Cc: Calum Greenhow } “ F Jo Milton

Subje Policies

Thanks David

Regards

Keith Richards
Compliance and Network Support Advisor
‘The National Federation of SubPostmasters

ivileged and is intended for the addressee only.
diately b onding to the sender and then delete th
alemts 10 any other person or use il for any purpose. Thank yo

attachment) is
error please inforr
: do not copy it, ¢

cooperation.

ve hav ble pr

chments have b

ions to ensur

for any dam! would advise y

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

ubPostmast

$ is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company number

From: David Southall c

Sent: 06 May 2021 2.
To: Keith Richards
Cc: Calum Greenhow}

Subje ‘W: Policies
Hi Keith

Thanks for your email and your observations. Tim is on leave this week but I’m sure will be happy to set
up a call when he is back.

It may be that we can answer some of your questions without a call. Let Jo and I tale a look through your
Q&A and see what we can address. We'll also get a copy of the onboarding policy sent across.

Thanks,

POL-0085943
POLO0088885
POL00088885

David

David Southall
-Head.of Contract Management.& Deployment

GRO >

WE'RE STRONGER TOGETHER

From: Keith Richards) GRO
Sent: 06 May 2021 16:11

To: Tim Perkin:
Cc: Calum Greenho

Subject: Policies

avid Southall! GRO i

Good afternoon both

Calum and myself have had a couple of meetings to discuss the policies you sent us, (we are still waiting for the
Onboarding policy). As a result we have set out in the attachment a number of observations, questions and also need
some clarifications on a number of points. Is it possible to set up a team meeting in the near future to discuss these
further?

Many thanks

Regards

Keith Richards
Compliance and Network Support Advisor
The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Ling + £)

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended for the addressee only. If you
have received it in error please i i i Yy il responding to the sender and then delete this
5 Please do not copy it, disclose its contents to any other person or use it for any purpose. Thank you for your

ately by er

canned for soft
would advise y

ions to ensure that this email and any attachments have been
es. We cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of s
‘our own virus checks before opening ttachment

ware V

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy

POL-0085943
POLO0088885
POL00088885

National Federation of SubPosumast a company limited by guarantee (incorporated in England, company number

TECHIE SHOES OE ISOS CHOOSE SESH IS HOO HORSES EC RaorooRo rb
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials;

FEES ESE GCSI SEES ISG HEI ESCH SHO ESSE HE aGCb or nore

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our
website at www.postoffice. uk/privacy”

POL-0085943
