POL00006709
POL00006709

Minutes of Meeting Confidential / Legally Privileged/ Do not Share

®

GLO CONTINGENCY PLANNING GOVERNANCE
Finsbury Dials / Telephone Conference
[16 May 2019 ; 10am]

Attendees: Ben Foat (BF), Rodric Williams (RW), Zoe Brauer (ZB), Mark Underwood (MU), Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
(AVB), Rawa Hussain (RH)
Apologies: None

Agenda
1 I Governance of Group Litigation
2 Litigation Focused Updates
3 Operational Focused Updates
4 Horizon Contingency Claim
5 AOB

1 Governance of Group Litigation
* BFsent a table/ chart of the structure of the company with external working groups — HSF are

drawing the table out and RW will send it out once it’s finished being marked up.

© BF reassured that HSF are not pushing out WBD but their role is more of a sense-check one.

© Ways of working discussed/ established with HSF — takes time when new people come on board.
RW has been focussed on this.

¢ Possibility of setting up a new email address with everyone that is involved in this including with
WBD and HSF. That way, no one is missed out.

¢ BF would like to see steerco reinstated with HSF and WBD being there to make sure we are
providing the proper governance. It should be at least fortnightly.

¢ RW- Tom needs to speak to BF and MU today.

2 Litigation Focused Updates

Discussion around the appeal process.

¢ 23 May —in front of Managing Judge for permission to appeal. Paperwork for that filed today at
4pm.

¢ Also will deal with costs of Common Issues trial and recusal. Costs of Recusal is £454,000 which
we will negotiate. Common Issues costs should be reserved.

© Horizon trial resumes on 4 June — prep work continues. Our expert will file additional report. The
report does not support our case but some parts are helpful. Claimants are saying this should be
around general issues, not the Claimant’s case. BF would like a briefing note on this report — RW
to get this from WBD.

¢ BF-Rob has said he is doing an independent investigation into Horizon, it might get shut down
but be aware of this. MU- lawyers did this same exercise last year. What is he trying to achieve?
BF- timing is wrong but we will pick this up, address and manage it.

3 Operational Focused Updates
¢ ZB provided a helpful board paper — we have kept templates, have a covering notice, getting at

looking at 2 implied terms covered, gone thorough guidance and policies about losses,
terminations and suspensions.

e BF has feedback/ comments on the paper — e.g. guidance is being used but what are the
answers? ZB to update paper in line with BF’s comments.

In July, the board expect to see what has been delivered.

POL00006709
POL00006709

Minutes of Meeting Confidential / Legally Privileged/ Do not Share

BF comfortable with what has been done.

Workshops critical — usual problems around availability. Losses will happen next week either on
a Tuesday or Friday.

Meeting with HSF this afternoon to continue discussions from earlier this week.

Julie’s NTP kicked off — introductory session — will be interesting to see this unfold.

MU — £22million to be invested in delivering processes, this is a good opportunity for the
business.

Horizon contingency claim — MU comments

Meeting with Deloitte yesterday — they are providing a draft proposal today.

We have paid Fujitsu £300,000 for their support in the trial — we shouldn’t be paying them to do
this. Have a meeting with their relationship manager today.

BF — link into Ken.

Rob owns contract for Fujitsu.

BF- Al asked when Horizon Judgment will come out — advised him by September. Al said if
Horizon Judgment comes out bad, he wants contingency planning for worst case scenario.

4 AOB
¢ AVB working with employees as witnesses and working with WBD. Making sure they can talk in
court and reached out to former employees, 1 is willing to help us.
Actions
No Description Owner Status
1 Advice Note on the options available for POL in relation to whether HSF
any changes should be made to existing and new contracts both with
agents and commercial partners
2 Engagement letter to be provided to HSF RW
3 Comms piece RW
4 All relevant documents to be provided to HSF ZB
5 Papers on settlement options WBD
6 Chart of the structure of the company with external working groups RW
to be sent to everyone once HSF finish mark up.
7 Steerco to be set up
8 Briefing Note on the expert’s new report to be provided to BF RW/ WBD
9 ZB’s board paper to be updated in line with BF’s comments ZB

Author of Minutes: RH
Date: 16 May 2019
