POL0034 1624
POL00341624

Message

From: George Thomson‘.
Sent: 10/07/2013 19:13:52

To: Susan Barton

Subject:

Hi Folks

This is the type of mess we have created with the Horizon debacle.
Our tactics were totally misguided.

George

Begin forwarded message:

From: Robert Fife
Date: 9 July 2013 12:
To: "George. Thomson¢ GRO
Ce: Chris Dickson _
Subject: Post Office dispute: URGENT 9 July 2013

George

I lead Commercial Litigation within Anderson Strathern.

Chris Dickson is currently out of the office for 3 months working for the Crown as a prosecutor.
I have seen/heard/read the detail of the computer system fall out.

Do you need any advice on the legals here? I would be pleased to assist/advise as appropriate.
Let me know.

Kind regards

Robert

Robert Fife
Partner, Dispute Resolution

for and on behalf of Anderson Strathern LLP

direct dial; “ge ge

fax:
POL00341624

POL00341624

GRO i

web: www.andersonstrathern.co.uk

Financial Conduct Authority-regulated business is solely carried out by Anderson Strathern Asset Management Limited.
Anderson Strathern LLP is licensed by the Law Society of Scotland for incidental financial business

This email has been sent from Anderson Strathern LLP, Anderson Strathern Business Services Limited or Anderson Strathern Asset
Management Limited, together "Anderson Strathern". Anderson Strathern has offices in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen and
Haddington. For further information on the services we provide, our staff, current legal developments, events, career opportunities
and a full list of partners, visit our website at www.andersonstrathern.co.uk Please note that the contents of this email are privileged
and/or confidential. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender and ensure that this email is deleted and not read,
copied or disclosed to anyone else. Itis your responsibilty to scan this email and any attachments for computer viruses or other
defects. We do not accept liability for any loss or damage which may result from this email or any file attached. Email is not secure
and can be intercepted, corrupted or amended. We do not accept liability for errors or omissions arising as a result of interrupted or
defective transmission. Email entering or leaving Anderson Strathern's system is subject to random monitoring and recording by the
firm. Telephone calls may be recorded for compliance and training purposes. All business is transacted for and on behalf of
Anderson Strathern LLP or Anderson Strathern Business Services Limited or Anderson Strathern Asset Management Limited

Anderson Strathern LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in Scotland (0301485) and having its registered office at 1
Rutland Court, Edinburgh, EH3 8EY. 'Partner’ denotes a member of, and all business is transacted for and on behalf of, Anderson
Strathemn LLP. A list of members’ names is open to inspection at each of our offices.

Anderson Strathern Business Services Limited is registered in Scotland (SC138174) and has its registered office at 1 Rutland Court,
Edinburgh, EH3 8EY.

Anderson Strathern Asset Management Limited is registered in Scotland (SC376947) and has its registered office at 1 Rutland
Court, Edinburgh, EH3 8EY.

This email message has been scanned for viruses by Mimecast.
Mimecast delivers a complete managed email solution from a single web based platform
For more information please visit http:/www.mimecast.com

