In Confidence

POST OFFICE LIMITED INTERNAL INVESTIGATION TEAM

Terms of Reference: Criminal Investigation

1. Office 2. Source
Office affected I Gaerwen
Address Holyhead Road, Gaerwen,
Anglesey,
Postcode LL60 6DB
FAD Code 160604
SIMS ref: POLTD/0506/0401
2. Customer 1
Name Emlyn Hughes
Position Service and Contracts Manager
Contact Tel: i GRO
3. Customer 2 (Where appropriate)
Name
Position
Contact Tel:

4. Investigator

Name Diane Matthews
Address Capstan House, Salford Quays, M5 2YY
Contact Tel: i GRO i

5. Details of Incident
(Include any known dates, amounts and background information)

Audit took place on 13/10/2005. Result of which was a loss of £48,454.87. The
majority of the loss was in cash.

Subpostmaster, Mr Thomas, was arrested on suspicion of theft of post Office
funds.

Cash Accounts do not show any loss/gains so their is also false accounting.
Mr Thomas has blamed the loss on the Horizon system saying on line banking
transactions are producing nil totals when he has given cash out over the
counter to customers.

Mr Thomas insists that only he has access to the office whilst the only other
user on the system is his wife.

Mr Thomas has a buyer for the Post Office and expects to reimburse the Post
Office with the proceeds of the sale.

It is believed the office was the subject of a giro suppression enquiry a few
years earlier that resulted in Mr Thomas repaying approx £11k

In Confidence

POL00047748
POL00047748
POL00047748
POL00047748

In Confidence

6. Initial activity)

As a result of an initial scoping exercise (and in accordance with Post Office
Limited Investigation policy) In this section the investigator has identified the
initial activities to be undertaken in dealing with this incident.

Objective To collate information regarding the background for £48k
loss at branch.
Action To interview Spmr Mr Thomas and seek reasons for the

audit loss at the office. Gather facts surrounding
problems at branch

Anticipated Obtain relevant information. Look to recover the audit
outcome (benefits) I loss of £48k
Anticipated 25" Oct 05

completion date

Potential risks

Should you wish to discuss/clarify the objective/s of the activity proposed and
the methods to be employed in the execution of this enquiry. Please complete
this section of the form and return it to the investigator named on page one
(for non electronic copies, please use a separate sheet).

8. Customer Comments

9. Project Update Options:
In order to ensure that you are kept fully informed of progress in this case on
a regular basis, it is proposed that you will be contacted as described below.

a) Frequency (please indicate) Weekly ( in major enquiries only, as
appropriate) Monthly or Following Significant Development

b) Method (please indicate) Tel: E.mail

c) Customer Update Preference (if different to above please specify)

If you would prefer an alternative, please indicate your changes by amending
the second option as appropriate

e Iam happy with the communication proposal

e Iwould prefer updates Monthly Following Significant Development
by Tel: E-mail Post Fax Meeting

In Confidence
