POL00448257
POL00448257

KA- 3404

L1 - BSC Back Office

L2 - BSC Balancing

L3 - Select from dropdown
L4 - Select from dropdown

V Investigation Form

L3 - BSC Discrepancy
L4 - Select From dropdown

V Investigation Form - BP
L4 - BSC Investigation Form - BP
Please can you include the below information within your description:

Best Contact Number & Email Address:

When did you last balance to nil or with a known discrepancy:

If balancing with a known discrepancy (eg a miskey) what does it relate to and what is the
value:

Do you have CCTV:

If the branch calls to report any discrepancy it is really important that we have accurate figures.
Therefore as per current process, please ask the Branch to complete a Trial Balance and then call us
back if they do have a true discrepancy. If we have asked for a Trial Balance to be completed, please
leave the case open 48 hours and close only if the Branch do not call back within this period.

Going forward irrelevant of whether it is a BP or TP or just a Trial Balance all
discrepancies will be logged and investigated by you as the BSC advisor. The
below, tier 1 checklist, form will need to be completed when branch call in
regarding any discrepancy that shows on a BP or TP.

To do this open the review dispute form on Dynamics and capture the loss or gain value within the
form.

Please see below on how to open the Review Dispute form -

Please select ‘Review Dispute’ once your case is classified and a reference number is generated.

a

CASEFORM TRANSACTION DETAILS {/REVIEW'DISPUTE”

Please open the Review Dispute form by selecting 'New Review Dispute’
POL00448257

POL00448257

ersten Sr te 9) 8 tw et er Ament cae 2a fas
FORM TRANSACTION DEALS REVIEW DISPUTE. CASESUMMARY SLADeta LOSSFREVENTION Hatesal Matters ASSOCATED KNOWLIDGLIASE RILATED RECORDS. RISOWTION DETALS CASE RELATIONSHIP

Please do not complete the part highlighted within the red box below,
this is for the Review Dispute data to be entered.

ew Review Dupe

ome Omnis

Please then select the 'Tier 1" header.

New Review Dispute - unsaved

General TC Disputes

PAST PreChecks Tier2 Tier3 PAST Post Investigation Review Committer

Please complete the ‘T1 Checklist section’ with the branch, make sure all fields are completed and
include as much detail as possible.

Ther 1 Checklist

E

Have you pressed

mad adress
Review and Dispute?

tured =

Aedated Procct = Tier t Outcome ~
I weedy Curent Dacreponcy

balance period has Goin Wahoo ~

been done

Current Dascrepency

TH Checks

CCheck for any Te's

Check if there are any
zero transactions

Checked reversals new
existing

‘Checked miskeys

POL00448257
POL00448257

check for any TA's

Checked stock & cash
rems

Checked stock
adjustments

Then go through the relevant checks with the branch. It is important that you are completing the

checklist with full and accurate notes. For example, "Checked Outstanding TC's with the branch, The

branch has no outstanding TC's to be accepted”

*® Checked for any TCs - Where have they checked?

® Check for any TAs - Where have they checked?

® Checked transaction log for any zero value transaction?

@ Checked all stock and cash rems have been done correctly?

© Checked reversals (new and existing) and make sure all have been completed correctly.

© Checked stock adjustments? (Why have these been done if any have been done?)
© Checked banking transactions to see if they have done any miskeys?

Please Note - It is important that you do the relevant checks on your case, as Review Dispute

will use this information as a starting point in their investigation.

It’s no longer appropriate just to give the Branch a list of areas to check as we would have previously. If
the branch still has a discrepancy after going through these checks, we will need to advise the Branch

the discrepancy can be investigated at TP but only if they press Review Dispute.

Please assign your case to Account Balancing Support.

Investigation Form - TP

L4 - BSC Investigation Form - TP

V Assign Nominee

If a branch only have the option to assign nominee then please follow the process and

complete the form below.

Please Note - Your case must be assigned over to the Review Dispute Team for review.

To do this open the review dispute form on Dynamics and capture the loss or gain value within

the form.
POL00448257
POL00448257

Please see below on how to open the Review Dispute form -

Please select ‘Review Dispute’ once your case is classified and a reference number is
generated.

a id

CASE FORM TRANSACTION DETAILS {REVIEW DISPUTE”

Please open the Review Dispute form by selecting 'New Review Dispute’

tpi rt Oe 20 8 we oct Te Agr ‘

CASEFORM TRANSACTION DETALS REVIEW DISPUTE CASE SUMMARY SLADetais LOSSREVENTION  Hitoncal Matters ASSOCATED ENOWLEDGREASE RELATED RECORDS RESOWTIONDETALS CASE

Please do not complete the part highlighted within the red box
below, this is for the Review Dispute data to be entered.

‘Wow Review Dapute

Please then select the 'Tier 1" header.

New Review Dispute - unsaved

General TC Disputes PAST Pre Checks Tier2 Tier3 PAST Post Investigation Review Coi

Please complete the ‘Ti Checklist section’ with the branch, make sure all fields are completed
and include as much detail as possible.

Ter ¥ Checklist

ia)

imal adress

aptured!

balance period has - Sain ioe
been done
POL00448257

POL00448257
Ti Checks
Check for any Te's ~ check for a
Check ifthere are any -— Checked st
zero transactions rems
Checked reversalsnew Checked st
& existing adjustment

Checked miskeys =

Then go through the relevant checks with the branch. It is important that you are completing the
checklist with full and accurate notes. For example, "Checked Outstanding TC's with the branch,
The branch has no outstanding TC's to be accepted".

® Checked for any TCs - Where have they checked?

© Check for any TAs - Where have they checked?

© Checked transaction log for any zero value transaction?

® Checked all stock and cash rems have been done correctly?

® Checked reversals (new and existing) and make sure all have been completed correctly.
®@ Checked stock adjustments? (Why have these been done if any have been done?)

® Checked banking transactions to see if they have done any miskeys?

Please Note - It is important that you do the relevant checks on your case, as Review

Dispute use this information as a starting point in their investigation.

It’s no longer appropriate just to give the Branch a list of areas to check as we would have
previously. If the branch still has a discrepancy after going through these checks, we will need to
advise the Branch the discrepancy can be investigated at TP.

Please Note - Your case must be assigned over to Review Dispute Team for review.
(You do not have to complete the 'work flow’ across the top of your case. Just assign
as below)

© cf ESave G Saveaciose ©) Refresh + New  CreateBranch Contact EB AddtoQueue [ Queveltem Details @ Rese

And then enter 'Review Dispute’ and then 'Save & Close’

©  Wsae GF svemciose D How

New Assignment - usoved

General
Subject -0 EEE Reason For Assignment
Assign To . p

case © 9 psceomity

Activity Status © open

Activity Completed On
POL00448257
POL00448257

\ Settled to Cash or Cheque

If a branch call advising they have rolled over TP and have settled to cash please fill out the form
and close your case. Next TP the discrepancy need to be settled to "Review Dispute’ so this can
be reviewed.

If a branch call advising they have settled their discrepancy to cheque and would like it reviewing
they will need to adjust the cheque line and show the discrepancy in their cash. Please fill out the
form, close your case and advise to settle the discrepancy to "Review Dispute’ at next TP.

Please Note - The form can be filled out at BP or TP and your case closed.
Advise the discrepancy can be reviewed once the discrepancy has been
settled to 'Review Dispute’ at next TP.

If the branch calls to report any discrepancy it is really important that we have accurate figures.
Therefore as per current process, please ask the Branch to complete a Trial Balance and then call us
back if they do have a true discrepancy. If we have asked for a Trial Balance to be completed, please
leave the case open 48 hours and close only if the Branch do not call back within this period.

Going forward irrelevant of whether it is a BP or TP or just a Trial Balance all
discrepancies will be logged and investigated by you as the BSC advisor. The
below, tier 1 checklist, form will need to be completed when branch call in
regarding any discrepancy that shows on a BP or TP.

To do this open the review dispute form on Dynamics and capture the loss or gain value within the
form.

Please see below on how to open the Review Dispute form -

Please select ‘Review Dispute’ once your case is classified and a reference number is generated.

— ees

CASE FORM TRANSACTION DETAILS {UREVIEW DISPUTE!"

Please open the Review Dispute form by selecting "New Review Dispute’

tnroiton rt ute 9s 8 tw et Te 1A cae a tae

‘CASEFORM TRANSACTION DETALS REVIEW DISPUTE. CASESUMMARY SLADetns LOSS PREVENTION, Hatecal tte ASSOCATED KNOWLEDGEBASE RELATED RECORDS RESOLUTION DETALS CASE RELATIONSHIP

Please do not complete the part highlighted within the red box below,
this is for the Review Dispute data to be entered.
POL00448257
POL00448257

Please then select the "Tier 1° header.

New Review Dispute - Unsaved

General TC Disputes PAST PreChecks Tier2 Tier3 PAST Post Investigation Review Committer

Please complete the ‘T1 Checklist section’ with the branch, make sure all fields are completed and
include as much detail as possible.

Ther 1 Checklist

a
Ema aches
Ti Checks
CCheck for any Te's _ check for any TA's
Check if there are any =~ Checked stock & cash
zero transactions rems
Checked reversals new — Checked stock
&existing adjustments
Checked miskeys as

Then go through the relevant checks with the branch. It is important that you are completing the
checklist with full and accurate notes. For example, "Checked Outstanding TC's with the branch, The
branch has no outstanding TC's to be accepted”

* Checked for any TCs - Where have they checked?

® Check for any TAs - Where have they checked?

® Checked transaction log for any zero value transaction?

® Checked all stock and cash rems have been done correctly?

® Checked reversals (new and existing) and make sure all have been completed correctly.
POL00448257
POL00448257

® Checked stock adjustments? (Why have these been done if any have been done?)

* Checked banking transactions to see if they have done any miskeys?

Please Note - It is important that you do the relevant checks on your case, as Review Dispute
will use this information as a starting point in their investigation.

It’s no longer appropriate just to give the Branch a list of areas to check as we would have previously. If
the branch still has a discrepancy after going through these checks, we will need to advise the Branch
the discrepancy can be investigated at TP but only if they press Review Dispute.

Once the Review Form has been completed and checks have been done please make sure you fill in the
discrepancy value in the Estimated Value (at risk) box. This is found to the right of the description box
of your case.

Payment Method =.

Reason for Goodwill
payment

Goodwill -~
Case Outcome —

Compensation _

Estimated value (at
Risk)

Cash Returned -

At this stage you can resolve your case (TP).

\ TP Settlement

Below are the different settlement options branch have to settle any discrepancy they have at their monthly
balance:

\ Assign Nominee

L3 - BSC Monthly Procedures TP
POL00448257
POL00448257

L4 - BSC Assign Nominee

What does Assign Nominee Mean?

This option is listed for branches who are part of a National Multiple (E.G Tesco, McColl’s) who as part of
their agreement with Post Office Ltd have requested that all discrepancy’s at their branches are
transferred to their Head Office.

If a branch queries what happens next with these discrepancies advise them to speak with their Head
Office, via their store manager.

Who can select Assign Nominee?
National multiple branches are the only branches that will be given this option for settlement of a
discrepancy and they must use this as no other option is listed.

WH Smiths DMB Branches
WHSmith DMB Branches will only get the option to Assign Nominee (even though they are listed as
DMB they are considered a National Multiple for Account)

Settle to Cash

L3 - BSC Monthly Procedures TP
L4 - BSC Settle to Cash

What does Settle to Cash Mean?

This option means that the branch is agreeing to either put in or take out the value of the discrepancy.
If the discrepancy shows the branch to have a shortage the Postmaster is agreeing to put the amount in
from their own money. If the discrepancy shows the branch to have an overage the Postmaster is
agreeing to take the money out of the counter till.

Please Note: most branches who have an overage keep the amount to one side presuming it is an error
that will come back to them. This is not enforced but it is advisable, it is also advisable to keep some
record which can be looked over at each TP so a branch could notice any pattern (E.G. over 1 month
short the next). If the overage is reported to BSC we can advise them to add/log the Dynamics case

reference number to help with any future conversations related to the overage.

If you do not take physical action after selecting this settlement method the discrepancy will remain in
the branch.

Who can select settle to Cash?
All Branches except DMB Offices and National Multiples.

Settle to Cheque

L3 - BSC Monthly Procedures TP
L4 - BSC Settle to Cheque

What does Settle To Cheque Mean?
POL00448257
POL00448257

This option means that the branch is agreeing put in the value of the discrepancy as a cheque. If the
discrepancy shows the branch to have a shortage the Postmaster is agreeing to pay that amount as a
cheque payment.

Please Note: Cheques should be made payable to Post Office Ltd, cut off and despatched with your
next daily despatch. If you do not take physical action after selecting this settlement method the
discrepancy will remain in the branch as part of your cheques.

Who can select Settle To Cheque?

All Branches except DMB Branches (the option may still be shown) and National Multiples.
If a branch selects settle to cheque when rolling over with a loss. The system will add a cheque on to
their Stock Line but this will not appear on their cheque listing.

In order to rem the cheque out they will need to go into;

© Back Office (F14)
© Monthly Accounting (F3)
© Stock adjust (55) to confirm the cheque is showing in their stock.

They will then need to go in to

© Back Office (F14)

®@ Rems and Transfer (F5)

© NBSC Instruction (F8)

© Rem Out Cheques (24)

© Enter the Value of the cheque and settled the basket.
© This will print a rem out slip

This will put them back in the Back Office screen so they then need to go back in to:-

© Rems and Transfer (F5)

® NBSC Instruction (F8)

@ Cheque Report (22)

© Print (22)

© This will print a cheque listing showing a minus value
© Cut Off (26)

Settle Cheque Slips

Review Dispute

L3 - BSC Monthly Procedures TP
L4 - BSC Review & Dispute

What does Review Dispute Mean?
Review or Dispute triggers a full investigation in BSC/Network Support and Resolution. If a discrepancy

is established and agreed by the PM, we then move to a repayment conversation via the PAST team.
POL00448257
POL00448257

Branch also have the option to settle transaction corrections to Review Dispute . If they take this option

Branch should call BSC to discuss.

1. Branch Discrepancy at trading period end: When the Branch have a discrepancy at TP they
have the option of settling it in branch (by cash or cheque) or settling it by using the review or
dispute option. Selecting the review or dispute option will highlight that the branch need POL’s
help to investigate and potentially resolve the discrepancy. We ask the Branch to call BSC to
discuss the discrepancy once they have used review or dispute and this is prompted to call BSC
by the fact the icon is called Review or Dispute Call BSC. At no point is this discrepancy assumed
to be the liability of the postmaster until it is fully investigated and that is the outcome agreed by
both POL and the Postmaster. A branch can settle any value of discrepancy to review or dispute.

. Investigating or disputing a Transaction correction: A branch can also settle a transaction
correction to review or dispute if they either disagree with the reason that a TC has been issued,

N

or they have not had time to investigate and agree to the reason for the discrepancy . As a
Branch cannot roll TP with a discrepancy if they don’t want to settle it in branch the review or
dispute option should be selected . Selecting the review or dispute option at this stage will also
trigger an POL investigation . As well as selecting the review or dispute option again we would
ask the Branch to call BSC to discuss the discrepancy and reason that review or dispute was
chosen.

Who can select Review Dispute?
All Branches except DMB Branches and National Multiples. They can choose to review dispute

discrepancies of any amount .

Previous settlement to Review Dispute

When branches, who have previously selected Review & Dispute due to a loss at TP, contact BSC to
advise they have located the error and it has been resolved and now have a corresponding gain to
settle. Please advise branch that when they next complete the monthly balance (TP) this discrepancy
also needs to be settled to Review & Dispute.

If a Branch has settled a corresponding gain to review or dispute at next TP the case must

remain open and be assigned to the PAST team.

Write off P&L

L3 - BSC Monthly Procedures TP
L4 - BSC Write off to P&L

What does Write Off to P&L mean?
Write off to Profit and Loss means that the discrepancy will be part of the Post Office final Profit and
Loss figures. The discrepancy is not accountable by the branch staff.

Who can Write Off to P&L?
Only DMB Branches get this option, it is also the only option they have for settling a Discrepancy.
Please Note: this is not the case for WH Smith DMB Branches who are listed as National

Multiple for Accounting.
POL00448257
POL00448257

\ Chasing a discrepancy

L3 - BSC Monthly Procedures TP
L4 - BSC Chasing a Discrepancy

If a branch is chasing a case:
¢ Adviser to take the information from branch in relation to the call.
* Check if an open Review dispute case exists in the related case View

« Send a teams message to the R/D case owner with the details. Email the R/D case owner if they're
offline.

« Add an activity to the case to say they have called.
