To Mark Davies, Post Office

Date 12 October 2018
From Portland Communications
Subject Communications support RE Horizon

This short note sets out an indicative programme of communications (corporate and litigation) and public
affairs support around the forthcoming Horizon group litigation, following briefings with Mark, Melanie
and the Post Office leadership team. The precise content of the below will be tailored based on existing
materials and where you would most value our support.

You have clearly recognised the reputational risks posed by the litigation and have begun detailed
preparations, which is exactly the right approach to take. We want to work with your communications and
leadership team to ensure you have the right strategic approach, narrative and tactical support to ensure
your side of the story is heard.

Based on this week’s briefings, there are three main communications pillars which we want to work with
you to address;

The Post Office is one of the best-known institutions in the UK and the ongoing litigation will
inevitably generate significant media coverage. However, we believe that this media attention is an
opportunity as well as a threat, and we must not be solely reactive. It is vital that we tell our side of
the story to avoid the claimants setting the tone for the coming six months. They will do everything
possible to capture the attention of stakeholders as quickly as possible: equally, we must robustly but
compassionately dial down the temperature with factual briefings to cut through the hyperbole. You
must use the opportunity to quickly set out why the Post Office is a compassionate and modern
employer, and that no employer takes its obligations to a front-line workforce more seriously.

Offering no commentary on the ongoing litigation risks creating a vacuum of information that will be
filled by the postmasters and third-party commentators. It is important to recognise that the claimants
will be proactive in painting the Post Office as cruel and uncompassionate, threatening your narrative
of modernisation, so you must be appropriately proactive to ensure our arguments are heard. You have
a strong story to tell and being entirely reactive misses important opportunities to set out your side of
the argument.

Coordination between the legal strategy and corporate communications. Media coverage will be
heavily influenced by the briefings given to legal correspondents before and in the early phases of the
hearing. Using all available legal and publicly available information, our communications strategy will

reinforce both your commercial and legal objectives.

POL00111228
POL00111228

[ DATE \@ "dd MMMM yyyy" ] Portland
Memo

iii. It is vital that we proactively engage with political stakeholders to set out our arguments and ensure
they are fully briefed on the facts of the case, including the steps that you have taken to rectify the issue
to date. There will be negative coverage at some point, and a lack of political forewarning risks
undermining your broader modernisation agenda.

Meanwhile, we continue to believe it is vital to secure positive coverage in advance of the first hearing
and help set the tone for how the PO is perceived. You have a range of smaller financial services news
items which — together with senior engagement from the CEO or Chairperson — should secure a positive
feature from the FT or Telegraph. You are already in conversation with Michael Pooler and we will work
with you to help shape the story or seek an alternative if needed.

As set out in our previous proposal, we have extensive experience of working with clients to support their
litigation and corporate communications functions around such legal actions. This work requires an intense
period of support until afier the first hearing concludes, during which we will take stock and refine our
approach where needed.

Over the coming eight weeks, we recommend a focus on senior strategic support acting as a challenge
function to refine our narrative, positioning and collaterals. After this point, our support will evolve
dependent on media appetite, coverage and the level of reputational risk. As such, we recommend the
following three workstreams:

1) Ongoing strategic counsel

Ongoing support from George Pascoe-Watson, Philip Hall and Simon Hamer, as well as Portland’s senior
team, to act as a ‘challenge’ function and offer senior strategic advice whenever it is needed. This will
include: narrative development; journalist briefing as required: strategic direction, as well as regular
meetings and calls,

2) Litigation communications support

We strongly recommend that Portland’s Disputes team meets with your General Counsel and law firm as

quickly as possible to offer advice on litigation communications. The Disputes team have extensive

experience of supporting legal strategies, including group litigation. Our recommended steps to ensure that
your legal objective is supported by our communications strategy include: reviewing all legal documents
to ensure that our key messages reinforce the legal strategy: attending court for opening statements and
legal milestones: creating litigation-specific media collateral; briefing target journalists using public court
documents and skeleton arguments; and round-the-clock monitoring and rebuttals of factual inaccuracies
as needed.

3) Day to day support

POL00111228
POL00111228

[ DATE \@ "dd MMMM yyyy" ] Portland
Memo

Your day-to-day account team, led by Matt Pollard (who has worked on a range of different projects with
the Post Office for several years), will offer the full suite of communications support. This includes: drafting
or reviewing all collateral material, including press releases, briefing documents, Q and A, and ‘lines to
take’; ongoing monitoring; background research to either map stakeholders (e.g. legal correspondents) or
issues (e.g. previous coverage of “Gig Economy’ legal hearings): and calls, briefings and meetings as
required.

While we can estimate the work required to support your communications during the first trial in November
2018, the work around the judgement and second trial is less predictable and will depend on the coverage
and interest we sec in the next couple of months.

As such, we propose splitting the project into two phases. The first phase will cover the initial eight weeks
of activity, including the preparation and the first trial. We can deliver phase one of this work at a cost
of £35,000 + VAT per calendar month, for two months. We suggest that the contract starts on the 15"
October 2018. This price reflects the senior time dedicated to the account, given its prominence and the
degree of expertise required.

For phase two, we review the reaction to the first trial in December and determine what level of support is
required to manage the communication around both the first judgement and the second court case.

POL00111228
POL00111228

[ DATE \@ "dd MMMM yyyy" ] Portland
