Message

POL00099418
POL00099418

Subject:
Attachments: image003.gif; image004.png; image00S.png; image006.png

Yep!

Neil Wilkinson I Independence and Separation

@postofficenews

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: 11 August 2013 19:25

To: Neil Wilkinson

Subject: FW: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

Neil

Have you picked up the first point to report back to the TB?

Lesley J Sewell

Chief Information Officer

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any

unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Gina Gould On Behalf Of Lesley J Sewell
Sent: 23 July 2013 08:28

To: Lesley J Sewell

Subject: FW: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

Passed to Neil Wilkinson for his attention.

POL-0099001
POL00099418
POL00099418

Gina Gould I PA to Lesley Sewell Chief Information Officer

2" Moor Old

treet Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON, ECLV 9HQ

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. [f you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Chris M Day

Sent: 22 July 2013 19:59

To: Neil McCausland; ‘Tim Franklin 1 Lyor
Cc: ‘Alice Perkins’; virginia.hoime¢_ GRO} susannah.storey” GRO. ‘Alasdair Marnoch’; Paula Vennells;
Alwen Lyons; Susan Barton; Lesley J Sewell; Charles Colquhoun; Nicholas Kennett

Subject: RE: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

n Lyons

Neil, Tim,
Thanks for the feedback, builds and challenges.

On the use of contingency point I agree that it’s far from ideal to allocate a material proportion so soon after its
creation, and to Tim’s specific question yes, I will ask Procurement to look again at all major IT contracts and prioritise
opportunities for renegotiation whilst ensuring there aren’t any more nasty surprises lurking, and report back to the
Transformation Board in short order.

Neil — take the point that we should seek to stretch the plan to accommodate this new cost without recourse to the
contingency if at all possible. I continue to review the shape and balance of risks & opportunities to the forward P/L.
though the top line clearly remains very challenging; ExCo will be working through ways we can find to mitigate the soft
first quarter on Mails whilst allocating the additional £5m of ‘CFO revenue stretch’ in the next week or so, together with
agreeing actions to contain current year costs in order to hit the £102m FY PBIT. I'll revert on the progress of this (and
the consequences for the longer term revenue growth and cost reduction trajectories) when that process and the
resultant Q1 full year forecast is complete — likely to be at the beginning of August. instinctively I would expect
acceleration of the strategic cost reduction agenda rather than applying additional stretch to the top line to be the most
likely route to rebuilding the contingency, however.

Best,
Chris

Chris Day I Chief Fimancial Officer

Old Street, LONDON, ECTV 9HQ

POL-0099001
POL00099418

POL00099418
From: Neil McCausland.
Sent: 22 July 2013 14:55
To: ‘Tim Franklin’; Alwen Lyons — .
Ce: ‘Alice Perkins’; virginia.holmes GRO. usannah.storey GRO ‘Alasdair Marnoch’; Paula Vennells;

Chris M Day; Alwen Lyons; Susan Barton; ley J Sewell; Charles Colquhoun Nicholas Kennett
Subject: RE: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

Hi all ~ Greetings from sunny France.
Please forgive me if you already covered this at the Board meeting.

l agree with Tim’s comments above, and support the papers.

But I am unhappy about using our contingency up like this.

More bad things will happen — that’s just the way life is!

So I would like to rebuild our contingency from somewhere else — either revenue or costs — over and above the plan, so
we can retain a decent buffer to give us some headroom. if not I fear that our bottom line becomes more difficult to
deliver, and that is not something that I would like to see.

Is that going to be possible Chris?
Cheers
Neil

From: Tim Franklin:
Sent: 22 July 2013 12:55
To: Alwen Lyons
Cc: Alice Perkins;
susannah.storey. _
Sewell; Charles Colquhoun; Nicholas Kennett

Subject: Re: Update after Tuesday's Board meeting

i virginia.holmes!

; Chris M Day; Alwe isan Barton; Lesley J

Chris,

Many thanks for the updated information relating to the IT Transitional Services Agreement. I am in agreement with the
proposal as I don't see we have any choice. Horizon is a complex Fujitsu proprietary system and any move other than
renewal would present unacceptable risk. I agree with Lesley's future review and the potential to mitigate our Fujitsu
dependency in the future. I do feel like they have us over a barrel, and that they know it. I'm not clear how much we
have tried to play hardball with them, but I would hope that these numbers represent our maximum financial exposure,
and that we will seek to negotiate below this. If they want a future role in our IT estate, they should want to be less
exploitative of us now.

The deviation from our original plan is a big chunk of our headroom used up. Have we looked at other large contracts to
test that our assumptions are realistic and that there are no other surprises lurking? This might be a good thing for
procurement to look at independently of the budget holders. The IT market is highly competitive at the moment and in
my experience costs are coming down, not going up. We may be able to enter into negotiation to extend contracts mid
term at lower costs. The vendor will see this extension as advantageous and might be prepared to trade lower annual
costs for longer contractual certainty. IT procurement is highly specialised, and I'm assuming we have people negotiating
who have the requisite scars!

POL-0099001
POL00099418
POL00099418

Regards.

Tim

Tim Franklin

Sent from my iPad

On 19 Jul 2013, at 17:35, Alwen Lyons

Dear All
On Tuesday the Board asked for information on three things this week:

¢ A paper on Transitional Support Services with Fujitsu which we agreed would be considered by
corresponded

e The impact of the Financial Services Junction insurance changes, and the continued Transitional
Support from Fujitsu, on the strategic plan and bottom line (including the P&L and cashflow
changes)

e The impact on Horizon/Second Sight on our insurance cover.

The first two points are covered by the attached and the final one is explained by Chris below

Insurance

We discussed what impact the current Horizon issues might have on our insurance on which we are
advised by our insurance broker, Miller. Their view is that whilst other insurance policies may be
impacted the most likely one is D&O — this has the added complication as it is the only policy we share
with RM and was placed by their broker, JLT. The excess on this policy varies under different criteria but
the main one is £25k on each and every claim. A meeting is being set up with JLT and Miller to ensure
they are fully briefed on the issues before JLT engage with the insurer.

Chris Day

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POL-0099001
POL00099418
POL00099418

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Seer neice ttre eter etree terre retreat tt crrc erste rec trr ttt}

<TSS BOARD PAPER_13_07_18_v6 0.doc>
<Implications of update on Financial Services and IT Transitional Support.doc>

<New File Strategic Plan_2013_to_2020 190713 v2.doc>

POL-0099001
