POL00102069

POL00102069

Meeting with Sir Anthony Hooper re: complaint review and mediation scheme — 27/1/15

You are meeting with Tony Hooper to discuss the complaint review and mediation scheme. This is
the first time you have met with him since the Working Group started its work.

Key point to raise

Along with thanking Tony for his work thus far, it was particularly helpful that he was prepared to.
write to Jo Swinson ahead of the Westminster Hall debate on 17 December, including a table of
statistics demonstrating the progress the Working Group had made with discussing cases and
passing them for mediation (or not).

Would he be prepared to update that table ahead of Post Office’s Select Committee appearance
next week as it would provide very helpful context for their inquiry?

NB We do not know if Tony was asked to appear before the Select Committee although we do know
he would have declined if so. He may not know that Second Sight are appearing to give evidence.

Other Points that could be raised
The Future of the Scheme

The recent Parliamentary debate and media coverage of the Scheme has been both unhelpful
and (at least from our perspective) highly inaccurate. What is Tony’s view of how that has / will
impact on the role of the Working Group.

e Similarly, we know JFSA are preparing legal action against Post Office. What is Tony’s view of
how that has / will impact on the role of the Working Group.

The Working Group

e  Itis unsatisfactory for Post Office, and places significant burden on Tony, that JFSA are refusing
to play a full role on the Working Group. In his view, is their more we could do to bring them
back to full working membership?

© Post Office is concerned that there is external pressure to expand the scope of the scheme,
beyond Horizon and associated issues, and indeed beyond the consideration of individual cases
(notably via Second Sight’s very wide requests for information) as no issue has been found. It is
very important that the Scheme stays within its terms of reference and that cases are dealt with
as quickly as possible in ordere that applicants may find some form of resolution. Does Tony see
a role for the Working Group and him in particular in avoiding some form of scope creep?

Support

* Does Tony feel he is getting sufficient support from the Secretariat and is there any more we can
do?
