POL00021916
POL00021916

Message

From:

Sent: 11/08/2014 12:

To: Belinda Crowe (O=BOND PEARCE/OU=First Administrative
Group/cn=Recipients/c! 6]; matthew. fielden!

Subject: { will print hard copies =~

Opening Points

Having read over the Weekend I was so concern I felt obliged to contact Chris Aujard in Australia

The Part two report needs to help applicants at mediation — currently does not — in fact adversely impacts
Timing — The report was originally due on 26 March (MPs and WG commitment) — arrived 5 August

Process has been difficult — repeatedly sought meetings no substantive face to face meetings, no discussion of
draft

¢ Comments in context of trying to work with Second Sight to help you deliver a document that helps applicants

eee

Generic Points

Timescales — have slipped

Scope — has crept

Evidence — needs to be more clearly referenced

Do you understand the response that POL will be forced to take to the current form

PwWNPR

Contracts

Why are contracts in scope?

v Where receiving legal advice from?

v If no legal advice — need to make this clear

¥Y What do if applicant relies on this and it is struck down
Y Out of scope

<

ATM

Why did you disregard the content provided by AP and AVDB

In 3.18 are SS trying to say that there are cicumstances where they would support False accounting — which is a
criminal offence

NaN

MVL
Y Scale?
Y Raised with POL previously?

National Lottery
¥ What progress have you made since your spot review?

Y What is the conclusion that helps the applicant here?

Training and Support
Y What is the overarching/thematic issue in this section?

Helpline
Y Allegations not findings. All very case specific so how does this assist an applicants?

Limitations in the audit trail
v Which products do you think there is a problem with the audit trail?

POL-0018395
POL00021916
POL00021916

Transactions not entered by SPMRs or staff
Y How has your thinking on this matter evolved from your spot review?
¥Y Howis this thematically applicable?
v How many cases does this apply to (we are aware of two)?

Automatic transaction reversals
v How has your investigations progressed and what are your findings since spot review one?
Y What is the outstanding issue given that this was addressed in Spot Review One?

Cash and Stock remittances
¥ What question do you want us to address?
Y If issues resolved what is your finding?

Missing Cheques
Y Post Office currently working on following meeting two weeks ago?
vY Why not quoted the Spot Review finding that missing cheques are not bourn by SPMRs

Pensions and Allowances
Y How does this assist the applicant
v Dropped prosecutions — out of scope.

Post Office Retention Policy
v What is the point?
Y Do you think POL should change the period?
v If so need to have considered legal and regulatory requirements?

Surpluses
v What evidence that POL does not investigate surpluses?

Section 16
Y Howis this discrete and different from Sections 18 and 19
¥ How many cases?

Error and Fraud repellency
Y  Approached on a general basis (except for lottery and giros)
v What evidence have you found?
¥ What other products do you think there is a problem with?

Giros
Y Addressed in spot review — what further question do you have?

Hardware issues

How do you link hardware issues to actual losses?
What evidence of hardware causing losses?

Is there a specific issue or a thematic issue?

What is your finding?

Is 20.4 the same issue as a spot review?

How does this assist the applicant?

LLL RARS

Post Office audit procedures
¥ Whatis the finding?

POL-0018395
POL00021916
POL00021916

Post Office Investigations
¥ Out of Scope

CLOSE POINTS — dependant on call

A. Letter

B. Comments

C. Mark up copy

D. Meeting to discuss comments.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0018395
