POL00398154
POL00398154

Horizon
System
Controls

Report: AR12/050

 _

Follow Up Review of Key
System Controls in Horizon

Post Office Limited

Assurance Review

December 2012

Internal Audit & Risk Management _—Te—

POL-BSFF-0224824
POL00398154
POL00398154

a EE

The Post Office Limited (POL) network of some 11,000 branches processes client and business transactions in excess of £100 billion annually. The
majority of transactions are conducted on behalf of other parties, for example, receiving payment for domestic utility bills and paying out National
Savings. Customer transactions are captured through the Horizon electronic point of sale system in branches and transmitted to central systems (ut
payment, external banking and POL finance systems) throughout the day.

The overall objective of the review was to assess the degree to which the issues raised in the 2011/12 Ernst & Young (E&Y) Management Letter regarding.
the Horizon control environment have been addressed by management. Where actions have not been completed, or were completed part way through
the financial year 2012/13 any existing compensating controls were also assessed.

EE

‘The 2011/12 ERY Management Letter identified a number of areas for improving Horizon system controls. This Internal Audit & Risk Management
(IA&RM) review assessed the degree to which management action plans have progressed to address the issues which related to Horizon only. Overall,
the majority of the areas for improvement identified by E&Y have been completed by POL and third party supplier management. There remain a few
items that require further input from management to ensure that all controls have either been designed and implemented or that the risks have been
accepted by POL, specifically:

1. Generic privileged accounts: Generic privileged accounts remain in use on Horizon by Fujitsu. A paper was presented to the November POL Risk and
Compliance Committee where any residual business risks associated with this control were accepted by IT and Change on behalf of the business.

Implication: Accountability in the application may not be fully controlled, leading to a risk of inappropriate activities being undertaken within the system.

2. Password parameters: E&Y recommended that POL operate a single Information Security Policy, however POL management use two separate policies,
one for Horizon and one for POLSAP respectively. Any residual business risks associated with this control were accepted by IT and Change on behalf of
the business at the November POL Risk and Compliance Committee meeting.

In addition, POL management have not completed the E&Y recommendation to review key password parameters, as these have not been defined.
jed two password parameters configured in the Horizon application that did not comply with the Horizon Security Policy.

Testing also ide

Implication: Unauthorised access may occur, leading to a risk of inappropriate activities being undertaken within the system.

Internal Audit & Risk Management
Confidential Page 2 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824 0001
POL00398154
POL00398154

EEE TOT

Conclusion: POL management have made progress against the areas for improvement identified by E&Y. Where areas that have been improved had not
been addressed from the beginning of the year testing has demonstrated that compensating controls have been in operation for the financial year
starting in April 2012. There remain, as noted above, some areas where POL management should either accept the risk of not implementing the E&Y
recommendations in full, or where further work is required to strengthen the control environment. The findings, summarised on pages 4 ~8 have been
shared with E&Y and reflect the IA&RM assessment as at the end of November 2012.

Control Environment Rating: Recommended Actions Partially Implemented.

a

We agree with this report and its findings, and we have already begun to progress the agreed action plan within the agreed timescales — Lesley J Sewell

(Cone Internal Audit & Risk Management
Confide Page 3 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824 0002
POL00398154
POL00398154

IT Management

mens Remediation
E&Y Recommendation Summary brie
Change management - Retain
ee Inspected the testing and release
a April I management processes and performed
1 I involved in authorisation, testing
Involved in authowsarien, RestiNB I 2012 I walkthroughs and sample testing of
in face ‘lecunatts fn neues completed changes on Horizon.
from 3rd party suppliers.
Generic privileged accounts -
Consider a review of generic
2 I privileged accounts to determine I Nov2012 I Inspected the review of generic
if these accounts can be replaced privileged accounts performed by POL
by individual user accounts. management for both POL and third
party users.
Due to the completion of this
recommendation part way through the
year, inspected the review of
Generic privileged accounts - privileged Horizon activity at the
‘Conaide? niorioring) controls ta Information Security Management
elo ‘ereure tobi security Forum (ISMF) from 1% April to 2"
3 I practices are in place, particularly I N°¥201? I November 2012.
those operated by third party
service providers.

ciplines and Transaction Controls Summary Findings

‘The summary findings from the review are noted below and represent the status of controls at 30 November 2012. Testing has been performed from
the control remediation date. Where actions have not been completed, or were completed part way through the financial year 2012/13 any existing
‘compensating controls have been assessed from 1° April 2012.

‘What was found

Documentation forthe change
‘management procedure was in place for
a sample of changes tested from 1*
April to 30" November 2012. Controls
were found to be operating effectively.

Through consultation with Fujitsu, POL
management have confirmed that
privileged generic accounts are
controlled and will not be replaced with
individual accounts.
The residual business risk associated
with this control was accepted by IT and
Change at the November POL Risk &
Compliance Committee on behalf of the
business

A review of generic privileged accounts
on a monthly basis, including those
operated by third parties, commenced
in November 2012 at the ISMF.
Accounts with privileged access in the
application have been reviewed at the
ISME since April 2012 and consequently

mitigating controls were found to have
been operating effectively since the
startof the financial year.

Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

Page 4 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824_ 0003
POL00398154
POL00398154

Y Recommendation Summary

Logical security settings ~ Set an
encrypted password for the
USTENER.ORA file on all Oracle
databases supporting Horizon.

Remediation
date

Ast April
2012

Inspected the password policy for the
USTENER.ORA file and reviewed the
recommendation status.

What

All Oracle databases supporting
Horizon were upgraded to Oracle
version 10gR2 prior to April 2012. This
upgrade enabled the encryption of
passwords on this file.

Logical Security Settings -
Consider monitoring controls to
help ensure robust security
settings are in place, particularly
those operated by third party
service providers.

N/A

Inspected the review of privileged
Horizon activity at the ISMF from 1*
April to 2"! November 2012.

Tested the recommendation status
with POL and Fujitsu management.

POL management confirmed that key
password parameters will be reviewed
on an annual basis. Presently, a review
of key password parameters on the
Horizon application has not been
performed. Password parameters on
Windows Active Directory were mainly
found to meet those defined in the
Horizon Security Policy. However two
exceptions were noted and are listed
in Appendix A.

Password Parameters - Review
and update the ‘RMG Information
Security Policy’ to meet the
recommended generally-accepted
practice password settings
outlined below. Management
should also consider having only
‘one policy document outlining the
password guidelines that apply to
both Horizon and POLSAP.

N/A

Inspected the password policy covering
Horizon used by POL users and third
party users and reviewed the
recommendation status.

POL management have presented a
requirement to have one security
policy covering Horizon and another
covering another application, POLSAP.
Security policies are maintained and
reviewed through periodic reviews and
POL management confirmed the
appropriateness of the security policies
during this review.

The residual business risk associated
with this control was accepted by IT
and Change at the November POL Risk
& Compliance Committee.

Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

Page 5 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824 0004
POL00398154
POL00398154

E&Y Recommendation Summary

Password Parameters - Configure
all network, application and
supporting infrastructure
‘components in line with the policy
requirements. For infrastructure
supporting the applications in
scope, where the critical
7 I authentication level is at the
POLSAP application layer or Active
Directory, management should
consider the risk of unauthorised
access to the financial data by
privileged accounts on the Oracle
database and Linux operating
system.

Remediation

date

N/A

Vhat was done

Inspected password parameters for
the Oracle, Linux and Windows
environments supporting the Horizon
application used by POL and third party
users and reviewed the E&Y
recommendation status.

What was

Password parameters are set in the
Windows Active Directory Group
Policy. The Group Policy overrides
password configurations on the local
Oracle and Linux systems that make up
‘the Horizon environment. Password
parameters on Windows Active
Directory were mainly found to meet
those defined in the Horizon Security
Policy. However two exceptions were
noted and are listed in Appendix A.

Passwords for privileged accounts on
the Oracle database and Linux
‘operating systems conform with the
Horizon Security Policy and are
restricted to a small number of system
administrators in Belfast. Passwords
are enforced manually in line with the
Horizon Security Policy. However the
process for manually — changii

privileged passwords on the Oracle
and Linux operating systems needs to

be documented within the policy.

Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

Page 6 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824 0005
POL00398154
POL00398154

E&Y Recommendation Summary

Parameters -
should consider

Password
Management
implementing monitoring controls
8 I to help ensure robust security
settings are in place, particularly
those operated by third party
service providers,

Remedetog What was done

Inspected the review of privileged
Horizon activity at the ISMF from 1
N/A I April to 2" November 2012 and
reviewed the recommendation status
with POL and Fujitsu management.

POL management cor
password parameters will be reviewed
on an annual basis. Presently, a review
of key password parameters on the
Horizon application has not been
performed. Password parameters on
Windows Active Directory were mainly
found to meet those defined in the
Horizon Security Policy. However two
exceptions were noted and are listed
in Appendix A.

Periodic User Access Reviews and
Monitoring Controls - Consider a
POL owned periodic review of
appropriateness of access to in-
scope applications and their
supporting infrastructure. The
implementation of this review will
9 I assist in the identification of
inappropriate access and potential
segregation of duties conflicts. In
addition, this will act as an
additional control to help detect
users that no longer require
financial

access tothe
applications.

Inspected the review of user access
performed by management for both
POL and third party users on Horizon,

Nov

Jorz I Due to the completion of this

recommendation during the year,
IA&RM inspected the review of
privileged Horizon activity at the IMF
from 1* April to 2"! November 2012.

A review of privileged and generic user
accounts on the Horizon application
was carried out in October 2012 and
was signed off on 8" November at the
ISMF as completed. Accounts with
privileged access in the application
have been reviewed at the ISMF since
April 2012 and consequently mitigating
controls were found to have been
operating effectively since the start of
‘the financial year.

Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

Page 7 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824 0006
POL00398154
POL00398154

ry ons Remediation wi 4
E&Y Recommendation Summary bam What was done
User Administration - Strengthen
the existing user administration
processes within Fujitsu so that
10I documentation supporting the
request, approval and set-up of
access to the Horizon estate is
retained.

Inspected user administration
arrangements for new and modified
Fujitsu technical support staff.

1 April
2012

User Administration Process -
Strengthen the revocation of
access process such that IT Is
notified in a timely manner when
2 terminated employee no longer
requires access to the Horizon
estate. Consideration should be
given to the HR department Inspected user __ administration
11} sending a list of terminated I TAP I arrangements for Fujitsu technical
6 2012 bd i

employees to the IT department support staff.
‘on a periodic basis, eg, weekly or
fortnightly. This is in addition to
the line manager notifying the IT
department of the terminated
employee. All documentation
supporting this process should be
retained.

lines and Transaction Controls Summary Findings

What was found

Documentation for the user
administration procedure for new and
modified access on the Horizon
application was in place for a sample of
Fujitsu technical support staff tested
from 1* April to 30 November 2012.
Controls were found to be operating
effectively.

Documentation for the user
administration procedure for leavers
on the Horizon application was in place
for a sample of Fujitsu technical
support staff tested from 1* April to
30" November 2012. Fujitsu
administrators were notified on a
timely basis and user accounts were
removed on or before the leave date
on the request. Controls were found
to be operating effectively.

(Cone Internal Audit & Risk Management
‘onfidential

Page 8 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824 0007
POL00398154
POL00398154

‘The following actions have been agreed with management against the observations made in this report.

Generic privileged accounts

1. Management should set out the reasons for having generic privileged accounts on Horizon and present this to the Risk & Compliance
Committee for review. Priority 2 (Andy Jones - Completed)

Password parameters

2. Management should set out the reasons for operating two Information Security Policies, covering Horizon and POLSAP, and present this to
the Risk & Compliance Committee for review. Priority 2 (Andy Jones - Completed)

3. Ensure that the Horizon Security Policy is reviewed and changed to reflect the configuration of the password parameters detailed within
Appendix A. Priority 2 (Mark Pearce ~ January 2013)

4, Ensure that the process for manually changing pri

ged account passwords on the Oracle databases and Linux operating systems is
documented within the Horizon Security Policy. Priority 2 (Mark Pearce — January 2013)

5. _ Define key password parameters to be reviewed on a periodic basis. Once defined, management should perform a review of key password
parameters to ensure that the third party supplier is implementing the Horizon Security Policy. Priority 2 (Mark Pearce — January 2013)

No of Implementation
importance __actions_ Completed _by Mar 13
Priority 1 - - -
Priority 2 5 2 3

Internal Audit & Risk Management
Confidential Page 9 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824 0008
POL00398154
POL00398154

Appendi

‘The following password parameters in the Windows Active Directory Group Policy were observed to not meet the requirements set out

Horizon Security Policy.

findows Active Director

ssword Parameters

d I MiBeriskfatet!loginatzanyits before After 3 to§ failed attempts After 6 failed attempts
account lockout
2 ‘Account lockout counter Reset by an Administrator 30 minutes

Fujitsu have stated that they do not have the resource available to have the account lockout counter reset by an administrator, which is why it
automatically resets after 30 minutes. The Horizon Security Policy should be reviewed and changed to reflect the configuration of the password

parameters detailed above,

Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management
Page 10 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824 0009
POL00398154
POL00398154

i  _ EEE

Susan Barton, Strategy Director Derek K Foster, Internal Audit & Risk Management Director
‘Susan Crichton, Legal and Compliance Director Justin Thornton, Head of Risk and Assurance
Christopher Day, Chief Financial Officer Ernst & Young, External Auditors

Kevin Gilliand, Network and Sales Director
‘Andy J Jones, Quality and Standards Manager
Mark R Pearce, Head of Information Security
Lesley J Sewell, Chief Information Officer
Paula Vennells, Chief Executive

Malcolm Zack, Head of Internal Audit

(Cone Internal Audit & Risk Management
Confidential Page 11 of 11

POL-BSFF-0224824 0010
