POL00144687
POL00144687

From: Ron WarmingtonI
Sent: Wed 22/05/2013 9:

To: Simon Bakerf.

Ce: ‘lan Henderson'i Alwen Lyons{
Susan Crichton{} mad

Subject: RE: Confirm points for Paula meeting

Simon

I'm surprised at the questions you have raised as these include matters that are outside our
scope of work.

Dealing with each point in turn.
1. The investigation reports on 2-3 MPs cases by Summer Recess (or more)

This was suggested by us shortly after the 25 March meeting. We explained that in order to do
this we would need about 3 months to pull together outstanding matters. We were not
authorised to do this and instead were asked to concentrate on progressing as many of the 29
MP cases as possible. That is what we have been doing since early April.

If we are now asked to finalise 2 or 3 MP cases, our time estimate remains the same, i.e. the
work will take about 3 months from now and will have an adverse impact on current work ona
wider number of MP and JFSA cases

2. By using the 2-3 cases you will answer the question: have systemic defects in the
Horizon system resulted in the wrongful conviction or suspension of sub postmasters.

Our role is to establish the facts relating to specific MP or JFSA nominated cases.
We are not qualified to answer a legal question about what may or may not be an unsafe
conviction or suspension.
3. In addition to answering this question you will also identify areas of improvement.

In addition to reporting the facts we have found in individual cases, we will also
identify areas of improvement. We have already discussed with you a number of areas

of possible improvement.

4. From the investigation work done to date, if question 2 was posed to you today, you
would answer “no”

Please see my response to question 2 above.
POL00144687
POL00144687

On a practical note, it would be helpful if a policy decision would now be made, with input from
James Arbuthnot and the JFSA, as to what should be done about those cases, two of which
came in this week, where no meaningful documentation has yet been provided to 2nd Sight. By
agreeing not to progress those, the population would be reduced by 15 cases.

With best regards,

Ron Warmington, CFE, FCA
Director

2nd Sight Support Services Ltd
Tythe Farm

Maugersbury

Cheltenham

Gloucestershire

GL54 1HR

From: Simon Baker I
Sent: Tuesday, May 2:
To: Ron Warmington
Cc: Ian Henderson; Alwen Lyons
Subject: Confirm points for Paula meeting

Ron

Just to ensure we are on the same page, Paula would like to say we have agreed the following with Second Sight, can you
confirm you agree:

1. The investigation reports on 2-3 MPs cases by Summer Recess (or more)

2. By using the 2-3 cases you will answer the question: have systemic defects in the Horizon system resulted in the
wrongful conviction or suspension of sub postmasters.

3. In addition to answering this question you will also identify areas of improvement.

4. From the investigation work done to date, if question 2 was posed to you today, you would answer “no”

Regards, Simon

Simon Baker Head of Business Change and Assurance

-2".Floor..148.Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

@postofficenews
POL00144687
POL00144687

—————— I

coneaas eeeeenees sone Jobe eieeeeeaeeted

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Jenn iS I IIHS DIS IIS IID IID ISIS IDI III IOI IOI IIE
