POL00065538
POL00065538

® Post Office Limited
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2Y 9AQ i

For the attention of Mr I Henderson
Second Sight Support Services Ltd
Tythe Farm

Maugersbury

Cheltenham

Gloucestershire

GLS54 1HR

By post and e-mail to:

19” June 2015

Dear lan

M035 — Josephine Hamilton

I refer to your email of 3 June 2015 and write to ensure that there is clarity around the status of i
Post Office's security reports. i

Security reports, like the one you have referred to in the above case, are privileged documents for
many reasons but principally because they are the basis on which Post Office investigators seek
Jegal advice on the merits of and possible approaches to a possible prosecution. As can be seen
in the penultimate paragraph of the security report for Ms Hamilton, the Post Office Investigation
Manager was seeking legal advice from the Post Office Criminal Law Team.

disclose them or their contents. It is highly regrettable that you only chose to refer to Ms
Hamilton's security report in your Final CRR, and not at the Draft stage which would have enabled
Post Office to object to the inappropriate disclosure of its privileged material.

i
i
All security reports of this nature are therefore privileged and subject to your undertaking not to I
i

For the avoidance of doubt, Post Office has not improperly withheld any material from Second
Sight and has carefully considered any application of privilege to any documents. In any event,
any assessment of the basis on which Post Office may have prosecuted an individual is beyond
Second Sight's scope of work as you are not experts in matters of criminal law and procedure.

Yours sincerely

GRO

Rodric Williams
Solicitor
For and on behalf of Post Office Limited

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. .
Registered Office Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ PostOffice.co.uk i
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited I

