POL00040230

POL00040230

Confidential and legally privileged draft

EMAIL TO TONY HOOPER RE PART 2 REPORT

To: Tony
From: Rodric
Cc. Belinda, David, Chris and Angela

Subject: Second Sight Part Two Report

Dear Sir Anthony

Further to my email yesterday, we have now received the "final" version of Second Sight's Part 2
Report ("the Report").

Regrettably, but in line with their previous course of dealing, Second Sight has not improved the
Report to an acceptable standard. Although large parts of the Report appear to have been re-
drafted, the revisions are superficial, with little change to the substance.

The Report still includes matters that are beyond the Scheme's scope of "Horizon and associated
issues" and, most worryingly, Second Sight continues to offer its inexpert views on both civil and
criminal legal matters.

Despite repeated requests by Post Office, most of the Report remains unsupported by any evidence
or source documents, which undermines its credibility and severely limits an Applicant's (or a
mediator's) ability to rely on its content.

Second Sight has attempted to more accurately distinguish between reciting complaints from
Applicants and making established findings of fact. However, this has come at the cost of the Report
containing even less analysis than before. It is now a mere compendium of Applicant's untested
allegations, with few findings that actually advance either Post Office's or an Applicant's thinking on
a particular topic.

In short, Post Office struggles to see how this Report is adding any value to the Scheme or will assist
in the resolution of cases. In fact, Post Office remains genuinely concerned that the Report will only
confuse matters by making Applicants believe that some form of thematic issue exists when none
does. This potentially jeopardises the success of the Scheme which is premised on the idea of
bringing clarity and closure.

For the sake of good order, Post Office would like to record in writing the fact that it does not agree
to the release of the Report in its current form. If released in its current state, Post Office will need
to write to Applicants to ensure that their expectations are not misled by the Report. This letter will
necessarily include an unequivocal statement that (1) Post Office does not accept the Report's
findings and that (2) the Report is defective for the reasons stated above. This is not Post Office's
preferred course of action as it will inevitably damage the credibility of Second Sight and the
Scheme.
POL00040230
POL00040230

Confidential and legally privileged draft

Notwithstanding Post Office's position, it does not wish to act contrary to the Working Group's
authority. Like with all other previously contentious issues, Post Office would prefer to be able to
discuss these matters with the Working Group and seek the Working Group's acknowledgement of
our plan of action rather than take the above steps unilaterally.

I therefore ask your consent to defer release of the Report until after next Thursday's Working
Group call so that Post Office may explain its position and, if appropriate, explore with the Working
Group any alternative options there may be. If no alternative course of action can be found, then
Post Office would like to table the following resolutions:

1. That there be a formal vote on whether to release the Report;

2. If the Report is to be released, an acknowledgement by the Working Group that Post Office
may, as a party not a member of the Working Group, write to each Applicant who receives
the Report in the terms set out above.

3. That as the Report is a “living document", Second Sight be directed to meet with Post Office
to discuss each aspect of its Report in detail.

You may disclose this email to other members of the Working Group.
Regards

Rodric Williams
