POL00448246
POL00448246

Postmaster Account Support
No. 1 Future Walk
Chesterfield

THIS IS NOT A DEMAND FOR PAYMENT

Private and Confidential
Name
Address

Branch Code: XXXXXX
Customer Account: XXXXXXX

Dear XXXXXXXXXX,

Discrepancy for XXXXbranch nameXXxX Post Office® branch

I’ve previously written to you to see if we can help you resolve a discrepancy of £xxxx which
you have asked us to review. We enclosed a statement which we believe is an accurate
reflection of your account with Post Office.

Please get in touch with us by calling my team on! We'll start by giving you
more information about the entries on your statement and should you require further help
and support we'll make sure that this is made available to you.

Investigating the discrepancy
If you decide to investigate the discrepancy further yourself, please remember that we
publish updates about known Horizon and transaction issues. These can be found on
Branch Hub under, ‘Help and support’.
If you don’t understand the reason for this discrepancy, we can help you to establish the
likely cause of it.
Please follow either of the options below, depending on whether we believe it is a Branch
Discrepancy or a Transaction Correction.

a. Investigating or disputing a branch discrepancy

Your Branch Support Centre, on f
identify how the discrepancy happened.

can help you to investigate further to

If, between us, we can’t agree on the reason why this discrepancy happened, your Branch
Support Centre will be able to raise a dispute for you.

b. Investigating or disputing a transaction correction

When you received your transaction correction, the team that sent it will have provided
you with their telephone number. If you have a query about the transaction correction,
please contact that number.

If you havealready done this, and wish to dispute the transaction correction, the
Transaction Corrections Disputes Team will Please contact them at
disputesteam! or call them oni.

Accepting the discrepancy
If, however, you understand and accept the discrepancy, please contact my team on
or at postmasteraccoun' to discuss the best course of action for

you
*® arranging payment, or a refund, of the amount;
Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Regd. No. 2154540. Regd. Office: Wood Street,

London E17 3HX . The Post Office and Post Office Symbol are registered trademarks of Post Office Limited in the
UK and other countries.
POL00448246
POL00448246

* arranging a deduction from your remuneration/fees to cover the amount;
* arranging an instalment plan.

Remember, we’re here to help. Contacting us as soon as possible makes it much easier for
us to support you with your discrepancy, so please get in touch as soon as you can, and

ideally within the next seven days.
Yours sincerely,

Susan Burke

Postmaster Account Support Manager

Post Office Ltd

AC_160482922_2 2
