POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

Fraud and Non-conformance in
the Post Office; Challenges and
Recommendations

G-119 Fraud Analysis

Detica NetReveal®

By JL Ferrari, S Coyle
1 October 2013

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50

51 pages including cover

Detica

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence

Draft
Version history
Version Date Author Action
0.10 27 Aug 2013 sc Outline draft
0.20 04 Sep 2013 sc Full draft for initial review
0.30 17 Sept 2013 sc Updates following internal review
0.40 18 Sept 2013 sc Draft release for external review
05 27 September sc Iteration following review by the Post Office

Copyright statement
© BAE Systems plc 2013. All Rights reserved.
BAE SYSTEMS and DETICA are trade marks of BAE Systems plc.

Other company names, trade marks or products referenced herein are the property of
their respective owners and are used only to describe such companies, trade marks or
products.

Detica Limited, trading as ‘BAE Systems Detica’, is registered in England & Wales under
company number 01337451 and has its registered office at Surrey Research Park,
Guildford, England, GU2 7YP.

Document control

This section is optional and is used to describe any specific handling and deliverability
requirements for the document and to whom the document has been distributed. This is
usually only needed for a classified document.

Page 2 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

1 Executive summary

tA Overview

Detica NetReveal has conducted a six month pilot study, referred to as the “Pilot”, into the
fraud and non-compliance issues faced by the Post Office. The Pilot evaluated the data
available to security teams relating to branch activities and transactions and the quality of
information and processes shared by central teams. The study also conducted a detailed
data analysis of branch behaviour using transactional and branch metadata. Following
these activities the Pilot has made recommendations into how the Post Office should
address the issues highlighted.

The project has taken place against a backdrop of wide-ranging changes within the Post
Office including the Network and Crown Transformation Programmes, reducing
Government network subsidy, transformation of IT following Royal Mail Separation,
launch of the Post Office Current Account, public discontent amongst Sub-Postmasters
relating to the Horizon system, review of the Horizon system by Second Sight and strikes
by Crown branch staff. Many of the issues encountered during this study underline the
urgency with which the Post Office needs to adapt its business practices and technology
to respond to these changes.

1.2 Key findings

The Pilot reviewed the policy, processes and information used by the Post Office to track
and manage the compliance of branches. The short-comings identified within these areas
pose serious risks to the financial performance of the business:

¢ The Post Office is unable to automatically check that stock sent to a branch has
been sold nor the stock levels of each branch.

. The Post Office is not able to account fully for the whereabouts of significant values
of cash in the network, particularly in the case of cash left in open transfers or
moved to ATMs.

. The Post Office does not know how many branches are currently under suspicion,
how many are a risk or how many have been passed fit by the security team.

. The Post Office is unable to quantify the financial impacts either direct losses or
operational costs created by these risks.

We have identified four areas which contribute to these risks;

. Widespread non-conformance to Post Office policy and processes by branches,
with an institutionalised acceptance that errors, workarounds and non-conformance
exists;

° Complexity and fragmentation of information systems which hamper efforts both to
gain an insight into branch behaviour and root causes;

. Ineffective process, policy and working practice in the central operational teams to
gather information, prioritise and act in a co-ordinated manner;

. Technology available to central operational teams are not fit for purpose; analysis
of large data sets is performed on an ad-hoc basis of data subsets copied into
Excel and tasking of teams is initiated and managed through email.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 3 of 51
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

1.3 Recommendations

We have made 39 recommendations, see section 7.3, as to how the Post Office should
tackle the issues identified in the report. These are based on observations of the working
practices of the Post Office, discussions with Post Office staff and experience of fraud
operations teams in both the Public and Private sectors. Many of the issues identified by
the report impact teams outside of Post Office Security as well as those inside. Similarly,
many of the recommendations can only be implemented through sharing the burden and
responsibility for change across the Post Office.

Page 4 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677

POL00029677
Commercial in Confidence
Draft
References

Mnemonic Document Details

[REF 01] Title: Post Office Fraud Solution Report
Doc Ref: NRRA1207.01 D001
Version: 1.0
Date: 18 May 2012

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 5 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677

POL00029677
Commercial in Confidence
Draft

List of contents

1 Executive summary 3
14 Overview .3
1.2 Key findings 3
1.3 Recommendations. -3

References.... 5

2 Fraud and Non-compliance pilot............ mor 4
21 Introduction.......... sere of
2.2 Findings from previous project. 7
23 Project scope, approach and timeline 8

3 Business context and challenges 10
3.1 Approach............. 10
3.2 Business landscape. 10
3.3 Business risks .....

3.4 Operating environment
3.5 Post Office Fraud Analysis security team.

4 Post Office data sources ..

41 Difficulties extracting data. 19
42 Alternative sources of data 19
43 Other important data sources 20
44 Data quality assessment...

5 Data analysis — insight into branch behavioui 23
5.1 Observations on branch activity 23
5.2 Identifying high risk branches .. 25
5.3 Investigations into what causes branches to become risky 28

6 Case studies
6.1 Non-conformance
6.2 Ineffective training
6.3 Ineffective auditing of branches

7 Report conclusions and recommendations
7A Overview ....

7.2 Report conclusion:

7.3 The case for change

74 Recommendations...

75 Roadmap for the security team

A Data used in the Pilot
Al Data sources ....

A2 Data quality assessment
Key Risk indicators.... a: 52
Branch list and risk.... . 53
Page 6 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

2 Fraud and Non-compliance pilot
2.1 Introduction

This report details the work undertaken by Detica NetReveal over a six-month period

commencing in March 2013 into fraud and non-compliance in the Post Office branch

network. The Pilot followed a previous study into the use of information by the Post

Office security team [Ref 01] which identified a number of weaknesses degrading the

teams’ ability to adapt and respond to the challenges posed by the branch network. The

purpose of the Pilot was t to investigate and demonstrate how Post Office security should
change to meet these challenges.
2.1.1 Report Structure

The report is structured as follows:

. Chapter 2 (this chapter) outlines the background to the project, its scope, the
principal activities and timeline.

. Chapter 3 describes the business context to the pilot, the teams involved in
managing branches and the working practices of the Fraud Analysis team who are
principally responsible for detecting and preventing financial loss.

. Chapter 4 evaluates the data quality of data sources made available during the
study.

. Chapter 5 presents the results of our analytical studies on the behaviour of
branches.

. Chapter 6 provides a set of case studies identified during the Pilot which highlight
the challenges faced day-to-day in managing the branch network.

. Chapter 7 provides the key findings of the Pilot, recommendations on how the Post
Office can improve and a road map for the security team.

. Appendix A describes the approach to risk scoring branches outlines.

2.2 Findings from previous project
The review into the use of information by Post Office security [REF 01] made a number of
key observations regarding the factors hindering Post Office operations, including:
e Gaps in understanding of the Credence (transactions) database;
¢ Day-to-day operations reliant on bespoke (Excel spread sheets) databases;
e Unclear data ownership across the business;
e Fraud detection based on a short-term, summary data, rather than transactional
level data over an appropriate time frame;
¢ Employee data for agency branches was reliant on Sub-Postmasters, ‘SPMR’s,
and was difficult to access; and
¢ There is only a query based model for data access so only known problems can
be verified.

The report made three recommendations:

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 7 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

2.3
2.001

2.3.2

25:24

¢ Consolidate data access: to reduce inefficiencies and duplication of data;
e Enhance available data: to enhance profiling ability;

e Automate fraud detection: to reduce manual interrogation and improve returns.

Project scope, approach and timeline
Scope

The Pilot started from the recommendations from the security review as the basis on
which to conduct further investigation. The Pilot’s goals were to:

« Understand where the Post Office loses money due to fraud and non-compliance;
e Develop fraud rules to identify unwarranted or risky branch activity;

e Demonstrate how the Post Office can extract more value from its data;

¢ Demonstrate how technology can be used to enhance team productivity;

e Develop a target operating model for the security team;

« Develop a roadmap to modernise the security team:

¢ Detail the return on investment or business case drivers for implementing a
solution.

Approach

An agile methodology using monthly sprints was adopted to ensure the project could re-
prioritise activities based on availability of data from target source systems and improved
understanding of the exact scale and nature of operational losses impacting the Post
Office. The project was organised into three complementary work streams; business
analysis, data analysis and technology.

Business analysis

The business analysis work stream was tasked with documenting the current processes
employed by the Post Office to detect losses, identifying the systems used and
understanding the context in which losses occurred. Primary information gathering was
undertaken through focus interviews with Post Office staff from teams identified to be
involved with branch performance, support or supply. Where possible, evidence to
support assertions made in these interviews, was sought by the team in the guise of data
extracts, templates for processes, or management information.

The review evaluated the Post Office response with regard to:

. Business landscape; the wider changes to the Post Office beyond the Security
teams which will impact how the Post Office operates;

. Business risks; known fraud risks and non-compliance issues posed by branches;

. Operating environment; the teams and processes used to detect and investigate
suspected instances of fraud or non-conformance;

. Fraud Analysis team; processes, technology and data used by the Fraud Analysis
team to detect and investigate branches.

Page 8 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

2322 Data analysis

The data analysis work stream was first tasked with identifying and evaluating data
sources for use in the analysis of calculating the risk of each branch. The data sources
were analysed with reference to ease of access and quality, including how well the data
was understood by users, how up-to-date and how well it could be incorporated with
associated data sources.

The second task was to use the data source to evaluate the behaviour of branches to
identify unwarranted or risky behaviour. The team developed a set of Key Risk Indicators
or “KRI’s, to model risky activity and then used these measures to develop a model to
rank branch behaviour by their propensity to fail audits using historic records of passed
and failed audits.

2.3.2.3 Technology development

The third work stream concentrated on configuring the NetReveal toolset to demonstrate
how data and processes could be provided to the Fraud Analysis team to enhance
productivity through greater insight into branch behaviour.

2.3.3 Timeline

The project committed to delivering three deliverables to be produced iteratively over the
six month duration:

1. A project report including roadmap for Post Office security (this document);

2. A model to rank level of risk of each branch’s behaviour;

3.  Aconfiguration of NetReveal toolsets:
Workbench — to prioritise and record the investigation of branch behaviour
Analyzer — to provide a central repository of important Post Office data sets
previously interrogated in isolation from each other.

Work streams

POL Fraud Forlim

Workshops

The project activities and their timelines are provided in Figure 2-1, below.

Figure 2-1: Pilot project timeline; numbers 1-3 denote approximate dates of delivery of deliverables
described in 2.3.3; numbers 0-iv denote approximate dates of end of sprint workshops

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 9 of 51
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

3.1
3.2

3.2.1

3.2.2

Business context and challenges

Approach

Business landscape

The Post Office is unique in the number and variety of products and services it offers, the
breadth and diversity of its branch network, and the geographical diversity of its central
functions. These factors have strongly influenced the current Post Office response to
manage fraud within the network.

The Post Office with the support of HMG is engaged in a series of wide-ranging and
ambitious changes to make the branch network financially stable. Beyond the desire to
reduce the exposure of the public purse is the recognition that the Post Office remains
one of the few viable organisations to serve communities with the retrenchment of
Government agencies and departments. The impacts are felt across its network and
teams, exposing both new areas for fraud and non-conformance losses but also offering
the opportunity to improve and enhance performance. Below we have reviewed the
changes likely to impact the Post Office’s exposure to fraud losses.

The Network Transformation programme

The Network Transformation Programme, (“NTP”), will change the way the Post Office
does business, with modernised shop designs and layouts, different payment structures
for SPMRs and extended opening hours.

The primary concern of the security team in the Post Office relating to NTP was the
reduction in parachute payments for SPMRs. Financial stress has been identified as the
main reason behind thefts by SPMRs; any reduction in payment by the Post Office
without corresponding increase in retail revenues will likely increase the risks to the Post
Office.

The adaptation of branches under NTP is costly; a branch shut for fraud soon after it has
been remodelled represents a higher cost to the Post Office than normal and the risk of
damage to the programme. There are some, so far un-corroborated, reports that this has
led in a small number of cases to increased leniency.

The expansion of financial services products

The Post Office has a stated interest in expanding the range of financial services offered
into retail banking and insurance sectors. These are highly competitive industries and
well-established targets for fraudsters. Institutions in these sectors invest considerable
sums in protecting them and their customers from increasingly sophisticated attacks.
Typical controls in place involve tight control of staff activities, monitoring of customer
interactions in real time, and social network analysis to identify customers with suspicious
activities. In contrast, the existing fraud detection capability of the Post Office is far less
well-developed; improvements in the security capability and preparedness will be a
necessary step in the development of any additional financial services products.

Whilst the underlying product provider (e.g. Bank of Ireland) will be responsible for
monitoring accounts for fraudulent purposes, without robust monitoring capabilities and
near real-time communications between the Post Office and provider both organisations
will struggle to detect if the Post Office is being used as the application point for the Post
Office.

Page 10 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

3.2.3 Second Sight

The initial findings of Second Sight were published during the Pilot. The review was
prompted by a public campaign by SPMRs who felt they had been wrongly traduced by
the Post Office following losses at their branches. Several of Second Sight’s observations
resonate strongly, notably the disjointed response by the Post Office and the habitual
desire to assign responsibility to an individual rather than to conduct root cause analysis
to close gaps persisting across the branch network. In order to have a consistent
approach across the SPMR estate, it is vital that Post Office has the ability to robustly
identify and monitor anomalous behaviour, so that the appropriate corrective action can
be taken (whether this is tactical education, enhanced training, process or system re-
design, or audit/investigation).

3.2.4 IT refresh

As part of separation from Royal Mail Group, the Post Office is relocating, and in some
cases redesigning, a number of core systems. Of particular interest to the Pilot was the
refresh of the Horizon hardware and application, given its importance as both a sales
channel and a source of transactional data. The re-design offers the Post Office an
important opportunity to rectify gaps which have previously exposed them to loss, and put
in place a more robust monitoring process.

3.3 Business risks

The Post Office branch network presents a challenging picture for fraud detection and
analysis. Throughout the Pilot, the assumption that activities should be performed in the
same way as they have always been done has been prevalent. Despite this the Post
Office has changed radically over the past 20 years, and in some cases the disconnect
between current practice and what is required is striking. As made clear in this report the
Post Office cannot adequately tackle fraud until the scale of the Post Office non-
conformance problem is reduced.

3.3.1 High levels of non-conformance

Within the branch network, business practices are known to differ between branches.
Whether through lack of knowledge, poor system design, or wilful disinterest in
compliance, a significant number of SPMRs do not comply with official business practice.

Examples raised during the Pilot include:

. Not declaring cash on hand accurately or at all, or before the close of business.
The cash management team use this figure to generate part of their cash delivery
to the branch network, therefore declarations that are missing or at a drastically
different time, can result in an inappropriate cash flow to the branch.

. Declaring a ‘16:30’ ATM balance, at a time other than 16:30 will affect the branch
balance and create errors and the inability to defend fraudulent retract transactions.

. Cash kept in open transfers overnight; especially prevalent in Crown branches.
Currently cash management do not have open transfers included in their cash
holding figure, It is thought Crowns keep cash in open transfers overnight to meet
their ‘target holdings’, This pilot calculated that on average £900,000 was kept in
open transfers overnight, representing a cost of approximately £30,000 a year.

. Activating all scratch card packs when new stock received

. Selling non-Post Office products through the Post Office till. Many Post Offices offer
3" party products for sale; which should not be sold through the Post Office till. In

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 11 of 54
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

3.3.2

3.3.2.1

practice SPMRs will usually sell the item as ‘Postage other’ then reverse the
transaction at the end of the day. Furthermore, if these purchases use debit or
credit cards the Post Office bears the additional acquiring charges to process the
transaction without any remuneration. In addition to the financial loss, the Post
Office is also in breach of its contract with its acquirer as this allows the processing
only of transactions relating to Post Office business.

The widespread instances of non-conformance expose both the Post Office and SPMRs
to the risk of financial loss. Instances of non-conformance also generate operational
noise which hides deliberate attempts to defraud it. This has resulted in a large number of
false positives when looking for fraud, and inhibits Post Office’s ability to detect fraud
early, resulting in larger losses. For the SPMR, the risks are that poor practice will lead to
a failed audit, theft by employees or indeed increased temptation.

Insecure systems and processes

A number of systems have been designed without sufficient attention paid to the security
implications. This has produced gaps through which poor practice, non-conformant or
fraudulent behaviour has arisen. Below we provide several of the most important cases
identified.

Stock management and reconciliation

There is a currently no central reconciliation between the stock ordering system, Galaxy,
and Horizon with stock delivered to a store manually entered into the Horizon system.
Figure 3-1 illustrates how the lack of reconciliation or verification could be exploited to
hide losses. A stock order by a branch is not automatically checked to confirm the branch
requires stock, nor that when dispatched the stock is correctly accounted for in the
Horizon system.

A branch experiencing a shortfall can cover the shortfall either through not entering the
stock in Horizon and selling it outside of the system or adjusting the stock. Stock
adjusting upwards reduces the cash required to balance the branch and subsequent false
over claims of returned stock can bring branch snapshot right.

Stock is not bar-coded so no
verification of stock sent can
be made

Adjustments are monitored
manually and inconsistently

System controls cannot Stock that arrives in branch is ‘Audits provide a 'snap-shot
measure stock held in not automatically accepted — records matching activity,
branch ~ no check branch no system verifies the there is no context ifa branch
requires volume of stock dispatched stock is ready for should be holding the stock it
ordered sale has

Figure 3-1 Example of how weaknesses in the stock management process can be exploited to hide
losses

Page 12 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677

POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

3.3.2.2

3.3.2.3

3.3.3

3.4
3.4.1

No verifiable, centrally controlled user access to the Horizon system.

SPMRs are permitted to set up system logons for staff without referral to a central control
function. Furthermore, there is no limit on the number of logons SPMRs can create
except if uncovered at audit. Protocols mean that Horizon log-ons are not unique
identifiers and some could be common across many branches. It is therefore difficult to
track staff working in one branch and probably impossible to identify users working across
multiple branches.

ATM reversals

Transfers of cash from the till to ATMs involve transferring physical cash from the Horizon
till to the Wincor/Bank of Ireland ATM. The cash transfer transaction should be into a
dedicated ATM stock unit and the cash declared on a separate line of the cash
declaration each day. Any failure to do so accurately or honestly, as highlighted in
section 5.1.1.3, such as reversing ATM payment transactions has been identified as a
potential exploit for deliberate fraud as repeated switching, where cash is recorded
effectively allows deficits to be hidden. However, in addition to this concern, it has also
been observed that the ease in reversing transactions has led to a number of branches
inputting an estimated figure on Saturday’s 16:30 and correcting for accuracy on Monday.
This deviation from the accepted process increases the difficulty in identifying deliberate
malfeasance.

Inconsistent audits

The consistency and rigor of the process was raised several times during the Pilot with
concerns centred on:

. The adequacy of audits; large losses at branches have sometimes been discovered
despite the branch receiving a clean bill of health during a recent audit. This has led
to a lack of trust in the auditing process.

. Due to the lack of data and information available to the teams raising Special
(urgent) audits, these are currently often poorly targeted resulting in high false
positive rates and therefore poor utilisation of resource,

« The apparent leniency towards discrepancies; a discrepancy between expected
and audited cash and stock of less than £1000 does not result in an escalation for
SPMRs. This does not appear to be an official policy but does appear to be
accepted business practice.

. The level of follow up after an audit; it is not clear that on finding a loss and
requiring payment from the SPMR’s own funds, the Post Office checks that the loss
has been made good and not simply reversed by the SPMR in the following month.

. The seemingly opaque nature of suspension decision making. Suspending SPMRs
is a commercial as well as an ethical decision at the discretion of the contract
manager. Whilst expecting and empowering staff to exercise their judgement is an
important principle, the absence of clear and fair disciplinary guidelines leaves the
Post Office open to criticism of prejudice and sending mixed messages on
toleration of poor business practice.

Operating environment
Teams interviewed

Interviews with representatives from the fraud team and from the teams with which they
work were used to establish a picture of how the Post Office manages and responds to

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 13 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
Commercial in Confidence

Draft

POL00029677
POL00029677

issues detected in the branch network. Table 3-1 lists the teams with whom interviewees

were selected and the topics explored with each.

Team name Responsi ies Location Topics
Customer care_I Handle in-coming calls Team activities and scope, causes of
centre from Post Office Bamsley customer complaints, ‘make-good"
customers thresholds, monitoring processes
Handi in-comningiqueries Team scope, calls volume, trainin:
NsBC from Sub-Postmasters Bamsley von oe on cinta 9
and their staff quel Pe
cash Ensure the Post Office Team scope, fraud detection methods,
branches have sufficient Bristol data held, success rates, behavioural
management
cash to operate traits
Stock cents Distribute stock to the Swindon Stock processes, monitoring
branch network procedures, data sets
Noni Call campaigns to reduce Detection processes, team resource
non-conformance within Leeds focus, statistical models, conformance
conformance
the branch network rules
Pseiuens) Manage payments to the I O.  tacraiq I Royal Mail costs and processes, fraud
Royal Mail for accuracy types detected
Fraud Analysis i
/ lysis Detect fraud Chesterfield Team role, focus, fraud MOs, business
(Security) processes,
Field support Audit volumes and processes, outputs,
advisor Organise audits to occur Manchester data sets, structure and logic of audit
scheduling programme
. Role profile, case studies, fraud MOs,
Field support . ,
. Undertake audits UK wide experience based information and
advisors
detection ‘tells’
—_— Investigate branches Processes, constraints, case studies,
Investigations London
suspected of fraud or theft successes, priorities
Distribute cash to the 22 nal
Cash centre istribute casi to regiol Cash handling process
network hubs

3.4.2

Roles and respon

Table 3-1: Teams interviewed by this study

ities

The organisational roles and responsibilities of the teams were documented with
particular focus on:

¢ fraud and conformance detection;

¢ what information and systems teams use; and

. the key teams they interacted with.

The output of these interviews is shown in Figure 3-2, in the form of an organigraph,

showing how teams interact rather than their formal organisation structure. This picture

may not be complete as formal understanding and processes do not exist between

teams, therefore other individuals may contribute to fraud detection on an ad hoc basis.

Page 14 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

Raises cases to

{alls to docuss cash hong

Provide spect ,
aon loc queries Send stock via

Biman!
Hem
Hempsiead

cieeecnl«

Hover ase
ce x: f
vetigators oe 7
Londor

Deliver cash 0

iso any Call fr support

‘and aden on
Honzon seus,

HR
London
Rete seucompianis BR

; aoe

Contract
Managers Conducts

ecipnary work

‘Area Managers

Rotor issues ofa
consti ale

Send closed eas for
response customer

Bangor

Non
nformance
Lee

Flow up en falee compliance basecausts

Branch Network People
Call Centres HH ronitoring mes ‘Supply chain

intervention

Figure 3-2 Branch supervision organigraph; it shows how teams interact rather than their formal
organisation structure

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 15 of 51
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

The Post Office suffers from three short-comings in the absence of a formal business
process and single data repository to manage branches;

. Detecting poor behaviour is highly inefficient; the picture of branch behaviour is a
mosaic constructed by teams only once a concern has been raised during
investigations.

. Strategic decision making is difficult; it is not possible to trace or track which
branches are of concern to the organisation as a whole.

. The process is brittle; information is dependent on key individuals with specialist
knowledge; if these are absent the organisation is less able to respond.

3.5 Post Office Fraud Analysis Security team

Following a restructure in October 2012, the Fraud Analysis team was transferred to
Security from Finance Service Centre. Since that time, the team has been re-engineered
and it has switched attention from fraud and non-conformance to exclusively fraud
detection and changed the division of labour to focus on branches in a region, rather than
on specific product and services. However, a number of weaknesses in the team setup
were identified which limits its effectiveness. These have been listed below under one of
four categories

. Business process;
. Knowledge;

. Technology;

. Data.

3.5.1 Business process

The weaknesses within the process of fraud detection within the Fraud Analysis team
limit its capacity to develop a strong detection and prevention programme.

3.5.1.1 Lack of robust controls and records

Probably the most significant area of weakness is the lack of documentation on the
expected role of the analyst, the business process to be followed when reviewing and
recording a case or the MOs observed.

3.5.1.2 No centralised branch record

The only thoroughly maintained records on branch investigations are the spread sheet of
audit outcomes, which, as discussed in 3.3.3, suffers from inconsistency of approach. It is
not possible to discern how many branches have been investigated by the team, why
they were not referred or whether they should remain on a watch list.

3.5.1.3. Inadequate process and documentation

The team does not have a documented approach and checklist whilst reviewing a branch.
Ideally, this should be based both on best practice, what the best performing branches
do, and the circumstances of the SPMR. Although the circumstances of each SPMR will
be unique they will share features in common with other SPMRs at the same point in the
SPMR lifecycle (including; recruitment, induction, training, audit, nine-month review
contract exit, etc.) Understanding where in this lifecycle the SPMR is and what is
expected of them would enable the Post Office to take assess whether further action was
required and what action would be most appropriate. For example, the installation of
ATMs is known to change both the cash requirements and the assurance activities of the

Page 16 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

3.5.1.4

3.5.1.5

3.5.1.6

3.5.2

3.5.3

3.5.4

SPMR. Currently, no advice exists in how to respond to cash anomalies observed in
branches with new ATMs.

No concept of risk rating or prioritisation (‘Analysts instinct’)

Whilst triggers are used to initiate an investigation, such as tipoffs or a targeted
programme to reduce known instance of non-conformance, a large number of leads are
still generated from manual inspection. High level reports generated on particular
transaction types or behaviour are frequently used, some of which contain up to 500,000
results. The effect is to reduce significantly the effectiveness of the analysis performed
and its efficiency.

Lack of quality control

The combination of lack of process, documentation, and knowledge share means that the
quality control both in terms of value and volume of output by the team are weak.

Lack of targets or tracking framework

Metrics on the output of the team are neither robust nor conducive to incentivising optimal
performance. The principal benchmark used is for the team to raise 50 audits per month,
in conjunction with Cash Inventory; the number of branches reviewed to generate these
audits is not recorded. Team success is measured by the number of failed audits out of
the number raised. Leaving aside the issue of failed audits often being at the discretion of
contract managers, this measure does not incentivise the team to act preventatively;
rewarding interventions solely based on the failure of a SPMRs career, home and
livelihood is likely to be a contributory factor behind the blame culture identified by
Second Sight.

Knowledge

The knowledge of the organisation and fraud MOs within the Post Office team is of a high
standard. However, due to weaknesses within the team’s processes (discussed above)
much knowledge of fraud MOs and branch intelligence resides with just one individual.
Should an individual be unexpectedly unavailable, as was the case during the study,
important information was lost, in the case in point, the ability to review transaction
corrections.

Technology

The Fraud Analysis team currently has no dedicated fraud detection technology. The
team has developed the ‘Fraud checker’ to perform automated checks. This is a spread
sheet with data drawn from Credence that applies a set of rules to an individual branch's
transaction data. This team rely on this tool to initiate the majority of their investigations
which has been proven to identify anomalous branch behaviour. However, the tool is also
time-consuming to use, provides no historical record, cannot provide trend analysis
across branches and cannot track and record outcomes to feedback into a rule-based
solution.

Case management is performed using Microsoft desktop applications, including email,
word documents or spread sheets. This is far from ideal, especially the absence of a
robust audit trail of checks or decisions, document management or case workflow.

Data

The data available to the Fraud Analysis Analysts is limited, degrading the performance
of the team. The majority of analysis performed using monthly extracts of Credence data.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 17 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

However, the team do not have full access rights to all the data required and rely on
supplementary data in the form of spread sheets provided by other teams. Where a
branch raises concerns, the team will revert to directly accessing source systems, such
as POLSAP to review in-balances in the office cash snapshot, or reviewing the IPSL
database to ascertain the whereabouts of a cheque, all of which are time-consuming.

Improving team productivity in this regard is a matter of providing better access to the
Post Office’ data:

¢  Alarger time window than currently provided by Credence, through a more robust
and accessible tool;

¢ Access to declared cash values; in the case of money missing in branch, it is often
the false declaration which constitutes false accounting.

Additionally the team lack access to data sources that can be used to risk score;

. Remedy. The Remedy system is used by the Post Office to record calls in the cash
management team, where branches can call in and request additional cash, as well
as the complaints from the public. In an advanced analytical solution, these would
be of interest as warning signs for there being challenges in the branch. To note
there is a case in for replacement to a CRM and also a separate compatible one for
all FSC.

. EFC. At present two members of the Fraud Analysis team have access to EFC
which is a record of the contact between the each SPMR and the

, and the history of previous concerns. This holds enormous value as an
indicator of potential issues within branches. During the course of the Pilot, a loss in
the region of £45,000 discovered in a branch was subsequently revealed to be
managed by a SPMR who had already resigned twice.

Page 18 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

4 Post Office data sources

The Pilot was arranged on the assumption that the core data sources below would be
made available at the start of the project;

° Branch Database: all transaction data from the Horizon system

. Credence: The Post Office wide Management Information system
. Galaxy: The stock monitoring system

. HRSAP: The HR system

4.1 Difficulties extracting data

Unfortunately these core data sources were not available until the beginning of the third
sprint. The Pilot encountered a number of challenges in receiving the data, indicating that
the Post Office will struggle to extract more value from its data until the issues
encountered by the Pilot are tackled.

. Data managed by several third parties; four procurement and change requests had
to be raised. The time taken to respond to these change requests and subsequently
to provide the data suggested that making data available to the business was not a
key concern when the contracts were agreed.

. Lack of up-to-date data dictionaries. Data dictionaries created when the systems
went live had not been kept up to date either on the Post Office or Supplier side. As
a result full extracts of each data set had to be obtained, and significant work
undertaken to understand the data provided.

. No SLAs for data extracts. The delivery of data was delayed by the lack of SLA
provision in the Post Office contracts; the project was therefore required to use a
change request process which added further delay to receiving the data

. Prohibitive cost and timescales. In the case of HRSAP and Galaxy it was
determined that for a six month project the cost (HRSAP) or the timescales
(Galaxy) of delivery were not cost effective, and therefore manual workarounds
reliant on individuals within the Post Office had to be found.

° No comprehensive documentation could be identified for customer/supplier/client
data captured within the Reference Data Tables (‘X Data’) in Branch Database. As
a result the project was unable to ascertain the rights of Post Office to process and
analyse this data under the Data Protection Act, and therefore this data could not
be used.

4.2 Alternative sources of data

In order to minimise delay, the Pilot team sought alternative data sources from teams in
the organisation to profile with. A complete list of all data sources encountered during the
Pilot is provided in Appendix A. Below we discuss the principal proxies used for the core
data sources.

4.2.1 The Branch Database and Credence

One of the key limitations of analysis within the Post Office is the main MI system, holds
transaction level data for only 90 days before it is summarised. The network team has set
up an automatic download of the Credence data available, which now has approximately
seven years of data for use in profiling branch behaviour. The Pilot team were able to use
this store to take a copy of transaction data of all branches from January 2012 onwards.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 19 of 54
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

4.2.2

4.2.3

4.3

4.3.1

4.3.2

Whilst this was extremely valuable as it gave a much longer view than the hosting
provider was able to provide, it also was limited in scope.

Some data fields are over-written each day (e.g. cash declarations), and therefore there
is no historical data available.

Credence has a number of ‘universes’. A universe is a control on what data is available to
view by a specific user. Therefore a limited number of data fields were not available in the
extract, for example cash declarations by SPMRs.

Galaxy

Data was extracted through the Galaxy user interface. However, this was challenging as
the computers which had access to the system were sufficiently antiquated that they
could not accept a USB port device. Furthermore, the lack of a data dictionary prohibited
investigations into the data.

The Galaxy system is due to be retired; this represents a major opportunity for the Post
Office to improve its monitoring as the Pilot team was unable to find a mapping between
product records in Horizon and Galaxy so was unable to match what was dispatched to a
branch and what it sold.

HRSAP

It was not feasible to extract the HR database via the supplier and therefore was
manually extracted through the User Interface after repeated attempts. This was a time-
consuming process.

Other important data sources

The review in [REF 01] identified that much rich intelligence on employees and branches
was stored in disparate sources in the Post Office infrastructure. The Pilot was able to
identify data sources which could have a significant impact in improving risk profiling.

Electronic Filing System (EFC) held on Lotus Notes

This records interactions between a branch and some teams within the Post Office. This
is of particular interest from the perspective of disciplinary notices, rolling debt,
resignations and other possible indicators of issues with a branch. Such intelligence
would be invaluable in enabling the Post Office to take preventative action. However
during the Pilot, the owner of the application could not be identified and how to extract the
data was not determined. It has been indicated that the Post Office is moving to a
Microsoft SharePoint system, which would allow for easier access. However no migration
of historical context will be undertaken, losing the history of a branch.

ATM data

ATM withdrawal data is collected by Wincor, manually manipulated and provided to the
Post Office where it is merged in POLSAP to cross-check submitted 16:30. This
information should be supplied as an automated feed and made available beyond just the
Financial Services Centre, whose responsibility is to account for ATM payments and
settle with Bank of Ireland rather than detect error. Such a feed combined with the
Horizon data could account for all cash leaving a branch to provide a complete view of
each branch’s cash management. Additionally a direct data feed would negate the need
to cross-check data, and for branch staff to manually obtain and input this data on a daily
basis.

Page 20 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

4.3.3

44

Definition

Accuracy

Declared cash figures

Currently declared figures, entered by branch staff, are used as the basis for cash
dispatch. This information has to be extracted daily from Horizon as it only stores the last
entry. Currently the process is relies on manual intervention, given the value to the Post
Office in identifying discrepancies within branches it should be automatically stored as an
historical record and made more widely available.

Data quality assessment

The principal data sources identified in 4.2 above were evaluated for data quality in order
to identify likely impacts on profiling the data. Table 4-1 below summaries the high level
findings of the pilot; a more detailed version is provided in Appendix A.2.The data was
assessed along eight quality dimensions:

. Definiti
. Validity: Does the data conform to valid data ranges?

. Accuracy: Does the data accurately reflect the real world?

. Integrity: Does the data structurally link together?

* Consistency: Is the same data consistent across all applications?
* Completeness: Is all the data present?

« Timeliness: Can the data be made available when required?

¢ Accessibility: Is the data accessible to all who require it?

n: Is the meaning of the data defined and understood?

Credence
Lotus notes
Flexible
planning
ATM data

€
>
Zz
>
€
>

Integrity

Consistency

Completeness

Timeliness

Accessibility

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 21 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

Table 4-1 Data quality summary of principal sources of data identified during the Pilot

Page 22 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

5 Data analysis — insight into branch behaviour

It is universally accepted within the organisation that the Post Office is complex. Whilst
this does not prevent analysis, it has historically hindered efforts to identify risky
branches. The data analysis work stream investigated how data held by the Post Office
could be used to identify and prioritise potential fraud, theft or non-conformance within
branches. This chapter is divided into two; the first part discusses the observations made
about branch behaviour and the second describes the approach used to build a branch

risk model
5.1 Observations on branch activity
5.1.1 Complexity and wide-spread non-conformance

The team was directed to two areas of particular concern for the Post Office; the
management and tracking of cash throughout the network, and the level of discrepancy
between the stock provided to branches and that sold through the tills. The pilot
concentrated on analysing cash through the branch network and sales made in branch;
analysing stock movements is discussed in 5.1.2.

Below is one example which illustrates how complexity and non-conformance in the
network related to cash management not only degrades the performance of the Post
Office, but also represents a real and on-going risk of financial loss.

Sala Discrepancy between Cash on hand and declarations

One hundred days of transaction data for all branches was analysed to compare the
Cash on Hand, “COH”, amount and the daily cash declaration which are made by the
branch manager or SPMR. In theory the two numbers should always balance, whilst in
practice some deviation would be expected to account for errors or refunds.

Of 11,235 branches which had made COH declaration, 6,000 had 10 or fewer days when
these two numbers were the same, with 2,000 branches having no days when the two
matched, Figure 5-1(a). Analysing the average discrepancy for each branch over the 100
days revealed that the average discrepancy between the two figures for 70% of the
branches was between +/- £1000, Figure 5-1(b). However, the remaining branches showed
much larger deviations with more than 1000 branches showing deviations greater than
£10,000 or less than -£10,000.

These discrepancies cannot be attributed to purely fraud and non-compliance. Instead
they illustrate the considerable challenge faced by Post Office staff in discerning signal
from noise. Subsequent investigations into potential reasons for discrepancies identified
the following issues:

. difficulties in balancing the till;
. discrepancies caused by ATMs,

. difference in terminology and definition amongst Post Office staff of how to measure
COH (whether to include cash in pouches or not);

. branches producing significant numbers of reversals or transaction corrections;
. SPMRs and Crown Branches either fabricating the figure or reducing the figure.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 23 of 51
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence

DAZ

5.1.1.3

Draft
(a) Distribution of branches by (b) Distribution of branches by average
number of days where cash difference between declaration and cash
declaration matched cash on hand on hand

5000

4000 4619
4500

3500 3386
4000

3000 ean

2500 3000

po72 2126 aoe

2000 om
2000

1500

1070 500 5
14
1000 I Bf s05 1000 781 9 708
592 587
500 293 800
I 219 449 493 114 135 151 110 eae I
0 Bounnn OSS RSSEESRREO
0 14 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 sssessssesse
Number of Matching Days gessqgggeray

Average difference between declaration and cash on
hand (£)

Figure 5-1 (a) Histogram showing the number of days over a 100 day period and 11,235 branches
when the manual declaration by the SPMR matched the calculated COH figure; b) Histogram showing
the average discrepancy between the declared and COH figure

For the Fraud Analysis team, the last reason is clearly of most concern. Distinguishing
between the merely lazy, those leaving cash in open transfer to meet cash holdings
targets (a known issue particularly with Crown branches), errors and deliberate
malfeasance is too difficult just using this key measure. Furthermore, the Fraud Analysis
team had previously identified that some of the branches of most concern were actually
the ones with near perfect agreement between the two figures.

Cash tracking hindered by process and technology gaps

Discrepancies of such frequency and magnitude as revealed above suggest that multiple
gaps in the transactional systems exist where cash goes “missing”. Many of the most
significant gaps in the system occur when cash is removed from the Horizon till, either to
be transferred back to the cash centre, or when a transaction is reversed or corrected (as
a transaction correction). Whilst many of these actions are legitimate, the presence of
system gaps has led to multiple instances of these types of transactions has historically
been linked to losses being uncovered during audits. Below are two types identified
during the Pilot.

ATM reversals

ATM reversals are a particular form of payment reversal where cash taken out of the
Horizon system to fill the ATM is reversed back in by the SPMR. As noted previously it is
easy to reconcile Horizon transactions and reversals with ATM transactions as the two
systems are not linked. Reversals are a concern as they can enable the branch to
regularly switch money between two systems. In one high-profile case this MO was used
to hide large losses.

The transaction of 2,523 branches with an ATM were analysed, finding that 883 had
made at least one or more reversal, with 121 having 3 or more reversals over a 12-month
period in 2012. The presence of an ATM reversal is not in itself risky, although multiple

Page 24 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

5.1.1.4

5.2

5.2.1

§.2.1.1

instances at least indicate a low level of care and attention so the analysis was extended
to investigate whether reversals could be matched by value to a REM out to the ATM.
This would indicate that money was being cycled between the two systems.

The Pilot identified 33 branches where money appeared to have been systematically
transferred between the two. The most systematic was identified as a branch where the
SPMR was suspended following large losses being hidden using the ATM.

Overstocking
The Post Office faces a number of problems with scratch cards;

«They are a temptation for staff to tamper with them in the hope of winning;

« They can be sold through the retail business rather than the Post Office, with the
cash proceeds going to the retail business rather than the Post Office;

° Scratch cards have a sell by date imposed by the lottery operator; any scratch card
entered by the branch into Horizon is effectively owned by the Post Office and
cannot be returned to the operator. Once the sell by date has been exceeded the
lottery cards cannot be sold with the Post Office effectively sitting on a loss.

Sales data for 6,521 branches which show scratch card transactions were analysed over

a 15 month period from January 2012. The data was analysed to identify the excess

stock that had been entered in Horizon compared with what has been sold. Nearly a third,

2101, had activated at least £1000 more than they have sold over a 15 month period from

January 2012. This compares with only an average of £300 excess cards for the majority

4,419 branches. The potential cost to the Post Office of excess stocking was estimated to

be £3m.

Untraceable stock

A key issue raised to the pilot team was the lack of tracking between the Post Office’s
stock dispatch system, Galaxy, and the Horizon sales system. Unfortunately attempts by
the Pilot to investigate potential discrepancies between stock provided to branches and
that sold were unsuccessful. It was not possible to match stock items between Galaxy
and Horizon as the product codes in Horizon had become truncated. The Pilot was not
able to ascertain whether a fix for this defect had been found by the Post Office. The Pilot
findings suggest it is not possible to check that the stock sent to a branch has been sold.

Identifying high risk branches

The analysis presented in Section 5.1.1 confirmed that although there are outliers of
behaviour, the operational complexity of the Post Office can obscure these. In order to
identify risky branches the Pilot attempted to build and refine a model to identify branches
likely to be most at risk of encountering losses using previous suspensions as a guide.

Constructing a branch risk model

Generating a risk model requires four concepts discussed below; KRIs, a scorecard, a
source data set and a target data set.

Key Risk indicators — codifying risk

KRIs are defined as an attribute of an entity which indicates the presence or absence of
risk. Making accurate predictions of possible fraudulent activity relies on identifying what
KRIs are most closely correlated with fraud. The Pilot trialled a selection of approximately
twenty KRIs, to expose non-conformant or fraudulent behaviour.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 25 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

S212 Scorecards

Scorecards apply a weighting to each KRI based on a measure of its importance in
identifying fraud. They can also often include additional conditionality based on whether
the KRI is triggered in tandem with others. In general, there are two approaches to
developing a scorecard; supervised analytics which uses an algorithm to build the
scorecard using a known set of outcomes and input data; and the manual approach,
where the weightings are decided and adjusted by experiment. Manual scorecards are
used when the risk is very well understood and it is relatively simple to identify high risk
inputs.

In this case, the number of variables, data volumes and noise is too large so identifying
which rules or rule combinations are high risk is complex such that a supervised
approach was adopted. Generating the scorecard requires the use of an algorithm-based
technique which uses two sets of data; a source set which are used as inputs to the
model and the target data set which are used as the outcome, the algorithm effectively
works out an equation to link input data to the outcomes.

5.2.1.3 Source data sets

The source data sets included the transaction data (see 4.2.1), transaction corrections
(also 4.2.1) and cash declarations (4.3.3). Both discussions with the business and
preliminary investigations had shown that transaction corrections were strongly correlated
with suspensions.

These data sets were manipulated as follows for inclusion in the model:

Transactions — aggregated and turned into branch-level measures, and used to
calculate values attributed to the candidate KRIs for the model and the result
standardised to per-million transactions values.

Cash declarations —used to measure the discrepancy between the reported and the
values generated by the Post Office.

Transaction corrections - each type is aggregated to produce a set of statistics
including the average amount, maximum amount, minimum amount, total amount, total
number of positive transactions and total number of negative transactions.

Non Crown branches - the years in service of the SPMR is calculated.
5.2.1.4 Target data set

The Audit outcome spread sheet discussed in 3.3.3 was used as the target data set.
Although not without its faults it does represent the best data set available to identify
branches found to be of greatest risk to the business. This data set is also used to identify
the date when the audit takes place; only source data from before this point is used in the
modelling process

5.2.2 Model performance measurement

Once a model had been generated which passed a preliminary statistical test (simply how
well the model using the input data could predict the outcome data) it was used to score
all branches using data from after they were audited. The performance of the model was
tested in two ways:

. historic back testing, where the new model is tested on audits not used to build the
model, whose results are shown below;

. user validation, where highly-scored branches are presented to members of the
Fraud Analysis team who investigate the branches in turn and subsequently decide
whether or not to raise an audit against the branch.

Page 26 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

At the time of writing user validation was on-going, however, the results of historic back
testing are available.

5224 Historic back testing

The results presented here used a model generated from audit data from April 2012 —
March 2013. All branches were scored based on their transaction history for the period
April 2013 — June 2013 for which it was possible to obtain actual audit results. This
enables comparison between the model and actual events. The model was also used to
score the branches for the user validation exercise mentioned above.

The comparison between the model and actual events is shown in Error! Reference
source not found., below, as two superimposed graphs:

. a histogram showing the distribution of branches by probability of failing an audit, in
discrete ranges from 0-100% (left hand axis);

. a line graph shows the cumulative percentage of audit failures from the three month
period against the risk score of each failed branch (right hand axis).

The histogram is divided into two parts; branches below 5% probability of failing an audit

is classified as “low risk” (light coloured bars), whilst those above have been classified as

“high risk” (dark bars). A value of 5% value was used as this is currently the average audit

failure rate across all audits performed by the Post Office; branches with a risk greater

than this are therefore of more concern to the security team.

Together the two graphs indicate:

. the efficacy of the model in identifying high risk branches, by indicating how many
of the suspended branches were classified as high risk; and

. the model efficiency, the number of branches in the high risk sections that require

investigation.
mmm High risk branches vs Risk Weightings
mmm Low risk branches vs Risk Weightings
cumulative % of Suspensions vs Risk weighting
10000 +- — 120%
ora] + 100% #
8 1000 :
5 80% 8
3 100 cox 82
3 Se
B 40%
a 10 3
5
+ 20% &
8
a 0%
saesseesgggggegsege"
ssessssas

Calculated probability of a falled audit

Figure 5-2 Performance of new model in (a) (bars, left axis) distributing the branches across a

spectrum of probability scores with low risk branches (with less than 5% chance of failing an audit)

and high risk branches (darker bars), note the scale is logarithmic; b) (line, right axis) fraud score of
failed branches as a cumulative percentage

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 27 of 51
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

5.3

The model classifies approximately 50% of the failed audits are correctly classified as
high risk with approximately 39% of the branches overall categorised as high risk.

To improve the model the Pilot investigated the false negatives (low scoring branches
which failed an audit) and false positives (high scoring branches which passed audits).

. False negatives — reasons for incorrect low scores
o Some branches fail due to on concerns raised by other parts of the Post
Office, e.g. poor financial health of the retail business, suspicion of mails
fraud and removal of cash from the safe;
o Some failed due to issues not currently captured by the KRIs, e.g. non
return of unusable notes which would require data on denominations
which is not currently captured

. False positives -reasons incorrect high scores
o Incorrect data supplied to the Pilot

o Many of the top scoring branches were BFPO which have not been
audited but which show some of the high risk characteristics of failed
branches (as the model does not have any audits for BFPOs it does not
adjust for the different business characteristics).

Investigations into what causes branches to become risky

Whilst the model above has been shown to risk score branches, it is difficult to discern
from the model whether there is any underlying pattern of behaviour. For example, whilst
the model identifies the weighting to be applied to each Key Risk Indicator and what
transaction corrections were most closely correlated with failed audits, it does not explain
help to explain whether there is a correlation with type of branch or products sold.

In order to cast light on the factors which drive good or poor behaviour a number of
modelling techniques were used to categorise and separate branches into groups of
similar behaviour. In contrast to the techniques employed above in these exercises there
is no target data set; there is no right answer. These techniques are sometimes used to
segment customer behaviour in a retail environment. Two separate techniques were
used:

. Kohonen clustering — which was used on all branches

. Hierarchical clustering — which were used on sub sets of the data to provide greater
clarity

For the purposes of both studies the definition of a failed audit was adjusted to take

account of the difficulties encountered with regard to recording outcomes and the

commercial decisions of contract managers, and the fact that only Sub Post Offices are

likely to record a failed audit as a suspension. The definition of a failed audit was

therefore deemed to be one or more of:

¢ Record of SPMR being suspended;
¢ Record of audit escalation;

. A financial discrepancy at audit of more than £3,000 for all branches except Crown
branches;

. A financial discrepancy at audit of more than £5,000 for Crown branches.

Page 28 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

5.3.1

Kohonen clustering: how similar branches are to each other

Kohonen clustering uses an algorithm to group items by their characteristics into one of a
predetermined number of groups. The groups are arranged as a square matrix of groups,
where groups nearest each other are most similar. The algorithm will then further cluster
the groups together to show the major boundaries in the data set.

In the case here, after some experimentation the branches were sorted into 81 different
groups. The data used to sort the branches included Key Risk Indicators, audit results,

and transaction corrections. The results for this are shown in Figure 5-3 and Figure 5-4
which represent the data in two different ways.

Figure 5-3 plots the branches in their original Kohonen map positions to show how the
different clusters relate to each other. The data for this map is also provided in Table 5-1
on pages 32 and 33. The map shows that as expected the Sub Post Offices dominate the
map with the Crown offices and Multiples and Chain branches interspersed between
them. There are a small number of branches at the bottom left of the matrix which are
quite different in character from the other branches.

I @-@ © @

7 a7 48 @49 52) 54 o)

40

20

) 20 40 60 80 100 120

Figure 5-3: Kohonen map for all branches, where size of circle indicates the number of branches in
each group and the distance between two groups indicates how similar they are to each other. The
colour of the circle denotes the type of the majority of the branches in that group. The number on
each circle denotes its grouping for reference which are provided in Table 5-1

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 29 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
Commercial in Confidence

Draft

POL00029677
POL00029677

The data from the previous graphs is provided in Table 5-1, showing the size of the
group, the number of branches in the group, the percentage of branches that failed an
audit and the percentages of branches which did not have an audit record. A list of all
branches and the group they have been assigned to is provided in Appendix C.

Group Grand Total Percentage ‘% unaudited Average annual transaction
reference failures

1 492 0% 100% £ 143,144.32
2 15 0% 100% & 122,198.81
4 461 0% 100% & 7,066.38
5 2 0% 0% &, 29,446.21
6 99 14% 58% £ 550,713.11
7 233 5% 64% £ 371,726.00
9 1446 17% 69% £ 1,290,398.86
10 118 5% 0% £ 198,242.66
15 72 24% 49% é. 2,353,864.81
18 15 8% 20% £ 1,647,039.00
19 64 2% 0% £ 398,329.52
21 130 12% 75% & 80,985.23
23 278 21% 60% £ 887,476.71
25 129 12% 0% £ 1,561,858.83
26 61 12% 3% £ 1,942,776.11
27 247 19% 60% £ 1,408,621.75
37 217 21% 60% £ 918,648.46
39 90 14% 77% a 270,857.79
41 1708 8% 68% £ 1,115,070.47
43 160 12% 0% £ 818,921.88
44 52 12% 0% & 885,128.35
45 309 14% 59% £ 1,056,670.74
46 671 23% 64% £ 3,041,499.14
47 1 0% 0% £ 1,302,210.62
48 29 6% 41% £ 4,116,284.83
49 96 5% 55% £ 1,040,878.10
52 95 10% 2% £ 882,487.55
54 3 33% 0% £ 308,427.50
56 79 12% 38% £ 4,726,164.75
58 295 20% 71% £ 3,376,949.24
60 831 7% 67% £ 720,754.12
62 27 5% 19% & 3,931,162.15

Page 30 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft

Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677

POL00029677
Commercial in Confidence
Draft
63 106 5% 47% £ 2,494,114.34
64 146 9% 62% £ 1,183,185.90
65 125 34% 42% 3 2,946,084.57
66 27 0% 33% £ 4,572,482.61
71 194 16% 55% £ 1,836,392.42
73 743 22% 64% £ — 3,255,674.10
74 17 22% AT% £ — 3,235,428.94
75 82 4% 37% £ — 2,808,862.71
76 421 24% 64% £ — 2,704,644.67
78 246 12% 66% £ 444,340.02
80 105 8% 1% £  1,362,792.76
81 893 12% 69% £ 1,265,018.29

Table 5-1 Summary of branch clusters, with clusters with a failure rate greater than 20% highlighted

Figure 5-4 shows a second way to represent the data in Table 5-1 by plotting each
branch group along an axis of average annual transaction value processed by branches
in the group and the percentage audit failure rate. This is a way of showing the risk profile
of the branch groupings. In this configuration it becomes more apparent that the different
types of branch types represent very different levels of risk to the Post Office.

The graph is split into four quadrants divided by the average transaction value for all
branches and the average audit failure rate for all branches. Groups in the top right
quadrant therefore represent high risk, high volume branches, where the most money is
at risk.

Most of the Crown branches are in the top left quadrant, transacting far more than any
other branches and experiencing far less audit failure far less than any other type.
However, a small group of Crowns (Group 74) does show a similar risk profile to the high
risk SPMR groups in the top right quadrant.

The SPMR groups are effectively split into two; a low risk, low transacting set of branches
and a higher risk and higher transacting set of branches. Of most concern to the Post
Office is Group 65, a mix of Sub Post Offices, Multiple and Chain branches which appear
to be extremely high risk.

Of most concern to the Post Office is that the graph appears to show that Sub Post
Offices substantially increase in likelihood of audit failure as the number of transactions
increase. This relationship is not seen for Crown branches. It appears that the Crown
branches are much stronger performers in terms of conformance than the Sub Post
Offices. This analysis indicates that selling Crown branches to franchises, whilst
appearing to represent good value for money for the Post Office, could lead to the Post
Office increasing its risk of financial loss and non-conformance.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 31 of 54
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

5.3.2

5.3.2.1

6,000
Average failure
rate of audits

a 5,000
3 56 a
g 66 Branch type
E} .
2, 48
gq 4000 *e
rs
2 I
gS 4
£ 3,000 6s
£ 7s e
= 76\
S @«3
E @is
w 2,000 26
2 n@ ene deoes
< transactions

1,000
5% & 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 40%

Historic audit failure rate

1,000

Figure 5-4: The same Kohonen groupings as before but plotted by the average value of transactions
over one year for the group and the historic failure rate of audits. The size of the circle again indicates
the relative numbers of branches in each group. Grouping in this way indicates the relative risk and
the relative amounts of capital at risk for each group.

Hierarchal clustering: how different branch types fail audits

Hierarchal clustering is a more computational intensive technique and therefore more
suited to smaller groups of entities. Separate computational tests were run for different
types of branches, using transaction corrections, presence of ATMs, Key Risk Indicators
and audit results to investigate what the key discriminating factors in grouping branches
together. For each result the team observed which measures were most important in
determining the behavioural characteristics of each segment

Crown branch behaviour

Crown branches were found to be split into four segments as shown in Table 5-2 below.

In contrast to the other segments, the absence of an ATM did not lead to an improvement
in the branch conformance. High non-conformance appears to be correlated with Scratch
card Transaction Corrections and Foreign exchange TCs. Please note the cluster name is

for reference to the underlying analysis only. The table is ordered in decreasing audit
failure rate

Page 32 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677

POL00029677
Commercial in Confidence
Draft
Cluster name No. of % of failed
branches audits

Crown_3 No ATM, 36 11%

Foreign Exchange TC

Scratch card TCs
Crown_1 Average profile for Crowns 82 6%
Crown_4 High spoilage, 64 5%

Low Online Banking

Low “Other” TC
Crown_2 High ATM Retracts, 44 0%

Low on other ATM TCs,
High Cash Rems To Branch,

High Stock Discrepancies

Table 5-2 Crown branch segments

5.3.2.2 Sub Post Office branch behaviour

SPMR failure rates appear to be very much determined by which services they do not
offer. Removing the ATM reduces the risk of SPMR being suspended, as does the
presence of Lottery tickets, Santander services and DVLA processing.

Cluster name Description of key characteri: No. of % of failed
branches audits
SPSO_7 No DVLA 322 23%
SPSO_8 All products and services 308 19%
SPSO_1 No Camelot sales 238 17%
SPSO_2 No ATM, No DVLA 566 14%
SPSO_5 No ATM, No Santander, 216 11%
50/50 Camelot 50/50 DVLA

SPSO_3 No ATM No DVLA. 849 10%
SPSO_6 No ATM, No Camelot, No DVLA 441 9%
SPSO_4 No ATM, No Camelot, No DVLA, No Automated 121 1%

payments, No Government, No Pay Station, No
Santander, No NSI, No Fx Longest Serving
SPMRS

Table 5-3 Sub Post Office branch segments

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50

Draft
Commercial in Confidence

Page 33 of 51
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

5.3.2.3 Multiple Sub Post Office behaviour

Multiple Sub Post Offices are by far the weakest performers in terms of conformance.
Once again, the absence of the ATM appears to reduce the risk, however, the failure rate
is still considerably above the average, which is about 14%.

Cluster name Description of key characteristics No. of % of failed
branches _—audits
MSPO_3 High stock discrepancy, 24 50%

Unpaid cheque TC
MSPO_1 Does everything 58 36%

MSPO_2 No ATM 112 21%

Table 5-4 Multiple Sub Post Office branch segments

5.3.2.4 Chain Franchise behaviour

CFPO performance is markedly lower than SPSOs, with only the absence of an ATM
appearing to reduce branch risk.

Cluster name Description of key characteristics No. of % of failed
branches audits

CFPO_1 Lower TCs than CFPO_3 but high out of hours 79 33%

CFPO_3 High Santander TCs 28 32%

FX corrections

CFPO_2 No ATM 76 9%

Table 5-5 Chain Franchise Post Office branch segments

$.3:25 Key factors in determining risk

Apart from the Crown branches, the most important factor in determining which cluster is
high risk appears to be the presence of the ATM, Santander processing and Lottery
tickets. Furthermore, the high level of failure amongst CFPO and MSPO is an important
risk, especially when compared against the performance of similar sized branches such
as Crown Post Offices.

Page 34 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

6.1

6.2

6.3

Case studies

This chapter presents some select case studies encountered during the Pilot to highlight
the need for change across the Post Office in policy and process, system design,
monitoring and team performance.

Non-conformance

Detica has encountered multiple examples of non-conformance across the network;
whilst in all cases there is a measure of culpability on behalf of the SPMR or branch
manager, many times the underlying reasons driving the behaviour are compelling.

Non-conformance to serve business customers

During the initial stage of validation, three high scoring branches were observed with very
similar profiles. All had long serving SPMRs, in large urban areas (Bristol, Birmingham
and Glasgow). All three were identified for concern due to regularly adjusting high
amounts of cash to cheques. All three were closely investigated, including viewing
cheques scanned by IPSL to verify they were legitimate and not paid in from the SPMR s’
personal accounts which would have indicated the SPMR was surreptitiously borrowing
money from the Post Office and paying back.

In all three cases the cheques were paid by car rental firms. It appears all three had
unofficial arrangements with car rental firms. The Post Office would process the
transactions as cash throughout the month, and then settle at the end of the month with
the car rental firm. Once the cheque was paid, the cash transactions were reversed. This
arrangement is very profitable for the Post Office and SPMR. However an audit during the
month would have exposed a large loss in branch, potentially resulting in a suspension.

Non-conformance related to un-tracked stock

At the end of February Christmas stamps should be moved from special stamp stock unit
to be sold as regular stamp units. After an audit showed one branch with approximately
£12,000 in Christmas stamps in stock in August, it was identified that approximately 1000
branches were still holding Christmas stamps six months after their withdrawal date.

Ineffective training

Losses from ATMs have been one of the major concerns of the Post Office during 2012-
2013. The Post Office has experienced high losses from both SPMRs or branch staff
hiding losses through repeated reversals between the Horizon till and the ATM, or via
malicious retractions. It is therefore critical that the Post Office ensures all Post Office
staff are fully aware of all issues and workings of ATMs.

Two branches recently audited as part of the Pilot referrals showed shortfalls where in
each case the cause was attributed to not understanding how the ATM operates. Both
SPMRs claimed that the only training received in how to use the ATM was provided by
the installation engineer.

Ineffective auditing of branches

The variability and potential unreliability of audits has been a theme repeated during the
Pilot. One branch raised for unusual behaviour during the Pilot validation was not audited
as it had been audited in the previous few weeks, receiving a clean bill of health. Rather
than perform another audit, a follow up call was arranged with the branch manager. No

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 35 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

further action was taken. However, towards the end of the Pilot we were informed that yet
more concerns had been raised at the branch, and another audit was being arranged.

Page 36 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

7 Report conclusions and recommendations

TA Overview

This chapter lists the key conclusions of the Pilot, makes recommendations to tackle the
challenges facing the Post Office and provides a roadmap of change for the security team
to implement the recommendations.

72 Report conclusions
We have identified four broad areas of particular concern:

. Widespread non-conformance to Post Office policy and processes by branches
together with an institutionalised acceptance that errors and non-conformance
exists;

. Complexity and fragmentation of information systems which hamper efforts both to
gain an insight into branch behaviour and take effective and efficient action;

. Ineffective process, policy and working practice across the various Post Office
central teams to gather information, prioritise and act in a co-ordinated manner.

. Technology available to central teams are not fit for purpose; analysis of large data
sets is performed on an ad-hoc basis of data subsets copied into Excel and tasking
of teams is initiated and managed through email.

7.2.4 Widespread non-conformance

Post Office staff are aware that non-conformance and deviation from expected business
practice amongst branches exists and is widespread. What is not visible is the extent and
frequency, and therefore the appropriate business priority to address the underlying
issues cannot be articulated.

The root causes of incidents of non-conformance appear to be the complex and
fragmented systems (described below), exacerbated by a culture which has accepted that
workarounds are inevitable. Whilst in isolation non-conformant transactions may appear
to branch staff to be insignificant, when multiplied across a network with some two billion
transactions per year and 11,700 branches, the impact on the security team is to obscure
non-compliance and fraud amongst operational noise.

122 Complex and fragmented systems

Post Office systems are not fit for purpose in a modern retail and financial environment.
Our primary concern here relates to difficulty in reconciling information from multiple
transaction systems both in terms of timeliness, structure and access. Several examples
highlight our case:

. Product codes for items in Galaxy and Horizon are different in each system, with
many to one mapping of products from Swindon to Horizon meaning it is not
possible to identify all products individually end to end. During the Pilot it was not
possible to either match the two systems or ascertain whether any team in the Post
Office had been tasked with or had succeeded in doing this.

. Cash declarations which are manually entered by branch staff and Cash on Hand,
calculations automatically generated in Horizon should match. These differ
frequently and in a significant minority of cases these differences are extreme. Of
11,235 branches analysed over a three-month period, 6,000 had 10 or fewer days
when these numbers were the same, and for 2,000 branches, these figures never

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 37 of 51
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

matched. Failure on this scale indicates that there is a fundamental issue with the
process or controls in place around cash balancing. As if to underline the point, a
Key Risk Indicator recognised by both the Fraud Analysis team and the Pilot, is that
of a branch that is too good at matching these numbers; rather than branches that
balance perfectly every time being seen as ‘good’, this is seen as an indicator of
branches that are ‘bad’, with several cases of perfectly balancing branches found to
be fraudulent.

7.2.3
7.2.4 Ineffective process, policy and business practice in central functions

Efficient and high-performing central teams are the cornerstone of a well-run franchise

network, enabling the centre to monitor and control its branches. Although Pilot

investigations were pre-dominantly focused on the Fraud Analysis team, several other
teams within the Post Office were also observed to fall short of industry standard practice.

In particular it was observed that;

¢ There is no process for centrally managing information or tasks across branches
except in relation to organising audits.

. Records of branches investigated or targeted that did not warrant an audit are not
kept, or are not kept in an accessible manner; it is simply not possible to discern
how many branches had been passed as operating correctly by teams across the
business, nor how many had not been subject to no checks, concerns or outbound
calls in any given month.

. The Fraud Analysis team does not have a fit for purpose tracking framework;
progress is only measured by the number of audits raised by the team resulting in
suspension; there is no incentive to operate preventatively.

725 Technology available to central teams are not fit for purpose

The technology available to the central teams is not fit for purpose and inhibits the

execution of their activities in three key areas:

. Investigation into a branch's behaviour using all data sources is time-consuming
and can only be performed manually into individual branches.

. No tool exists to share tasks or collate case files either between members of the
Fraud Analysis team or with the teams with whom they work. Teams do not know
which branch is of concern and cannot share information easily.

. Knowledge management on branches is widely dispersed with useful information
held in hard to reach data stores where ownership is not commonly known. By way
of example, although an owner was located, and read only access could be
obtained, in six months neither Detica NetReveal nor Post Office staff were able to
find a way to extract all the data in bulk from the Electronic Filing Cabinet (which
some teams use to collate information on the interactions they have with branches)
so that it could be integrated into an easily searchable format.

7.3 The case for change

The findings of this report suggest that the existing Security team’s approach is not

sustainable. Most pertinently, the team already struggles to identify and manage non-

conformance in the network and this on the evidence above will only get worse; some of

the best performing branches for conformance, Crown branches, are being sold off to

become part of what is currently the most non-conformant — multiples or chain franchises.
Page 38 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

Furthermore, in order to become profitable, the Post Office has made a strategic decision
to sell more products and services. From the evidence of the Pilot it is the addition of
more products and services which trigger failed audits. Perhaps many in the Post Office
will feel this is self-evident and inevitable; more products inevitably means more
applications and equipment for Post Office staff to manage and the more of these there
are the easier it is for those staff to make mistakes. However, there is no reason why this
should be so; the Post Office may be unique, but it is not uniquely complex. The Post
Office needs to adapt it approach to enable more products and services profitably and
correctly, with rigorous oversight of branches and stronger support for Post Office staff.

7.4 Recommendations
In light of the Post Office’s strategy to achieve transformation in terms of modernisation,
growth and customer excellence, the aim to achieve profitability across the Crown
network from 2015/16 and the reduction of the Government Network Subsidy payment
from the current financial year, it is vital that Post Office implements a robust strategy and
solution to reduce non-conformance and fraud opportunity across it’s complex network.
We have devised these recommendations to enable the Post Office to tackle the
challenges it faces today and adapt to the future, particularly the introduction of more
financial services and Front Office if Government products which will pose a greater fraud
risk.
The report recommendations have been divided up by the section of the report to which
the issues they address are raised.
7.41 Business Context
See Chapter 3
74.1.1 Business practice
1. The following recommendations illustrate that some re-design of the Horizon
system is of critical importance for the Post Office in particular:
i. The engagement of users from the branch network in the design to simplify
the design to reduce the number of mis-keys;
ii. A re-design of system or process where data illustrates that it is too difficult
for users to get it right
iii. The removal as far as possible of multiple paths to process the same
transaction or function;
iv. Remove the ability to keep cash or stock as open transfers;
v. Active warnings to inform users when cash has been put in pouches but has
not been delivered to the cash centre;
vi. Automatic scanning in of stock and stock volumes as is the case with cash;
vii. ATM transactions should be integrated fully with Horizon;
viii. Cash declarations require greater granularity to track note and coin
denominations;
ix. Cash declarations are currently over-written daily, and therefore there is a
lack of audit trail for the business. A daily data extract exists from Fujitsu for
Cash Inventory and is loaded into Flexible Planning, but is not available
elsewhere - individuals across the business extract the data daily, but there
are gaps on non-working days (i.e. weekends)
x. Bureau de change should be managed fully in Horizon, including tracking
note and coin denominations.
NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 39 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

2. Within branches, a number of devices exist that process transactional and payment
activity (e.g. Post & Go, Camelot, utility key top-ups), which are not fully integrated
into Horizon, and where cash has to be manually brought to account over the
Horizon terminals.

3. Review and re-publish policies on non-conformance to establish a clear set of
business practice guidelines:

i. Define what should be corrected by education/training and what constitutes
non-conformance and fraud and what the subsequent penalties for
infractions are, particularly for the most prevalent issues i.e.:

a) Cash kept in open transfers overnight;

b) Declaring a ‘1630’ ATM figure at a time other than 16:30;

c) Not accounting for Santander business by 7pm each Wednesday;

d) Inaccurate cash declarations;

e) Not returning excess cash

f) Not dispatching cash by the next available pick up date;

g) Lack of security around logons

h) Not dispatching cheques on the day they are accepted.

ii. Work with the branch network users to identify areas of existing “work around”

which are performed to help customers e.g.

a) Abuse of ‘other postage sales’ to accept card payments (for instance for
retail products or to avoid the requirement to take photo ID for Bureau
transactions).

b) Serving EBay customers as though through other postage then
reversing and issuing postage labels later.

c) Serving car fleet business customers who appear to pay on account by
reversing individual cash transactions and later processing one bulk
cheque payment.

4. Review, clarify and re-publish policies and processes on audits particularly with
regard to losses and the trigger for suspensions:

a) Recording the complete audit process not just the outcome, particularly
in relation to where no suspension was enacted but where additional
actions before the audit was passed;

b) Increase the number of audit outcomes to include those where a
contract manager was involved.

c) Record additional audit outcomes where risk or non-conformance is
found, for example excessive cash held, personal cheques on hand,
values in suspense.

Verify and check all staff who will work in the Post Office branch network
Institute a centrally controlled logon system for Horizon users.

Ensure that each Horizon user across the network has a unique log on ID

enon

Review with the SPMR and Crown communities the training, personal support and
technology available to branches in order to identify pain points.

9. Benchmark Post Office security and monitoring procedures against other retail and
financial business particularly with respect to:

a) Stock ordering, tracking and management;

Page 40 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

b) Cash management and monitoring of transactions made at tills;
c) Management of ATMs;
d) Use of CCTV to monitor till activity.

The Post Office should undertake a review of its stock distribution and management
system including a cost benefit analysis of using a commercial partner to distribute
stock on its behalf, including the value in tracking stock from receipt at the
distribution depot to the point of sale.

741.2 Operational teams

11.

The central team structure and operating model requires an overhaul to make it
less reactive, including reducing the number of teams through merging closely-
related functions. This will prevent gaps in knowledge between teams and re-work
across the Post Office and prevent multiple contacts to the same SPMR by
ensuring that decisions re. contact are made with the ‘whole picture’.

Provide the central teams with one workflow tool and one knowledge-capture tool to
coordinate activity across all teams in relation to branches.

In the short term, open up access to Remedy to all Fraud Analysis team members
and allow the team to take a complete extract of Lotus notes (also known as
Electronic Filing Cabinet (EFC) rather than just single files as is the case currently.

74.1.3 Fraud Analysis team

14. Document the role of an analyst and define the business process to be followed
during an investigation, including case decision and issue escalation processes.

15. Refine the team structure and expand training to take advantage of the knowledge
of the whole team and reduce the dependency on single points of failure.

16. Introduce a concept of quality control and rigour in the investigation process,
including a review of staff decisions.

17. Introduce a process for managing branches by risk and business profile.

18. Introduce a target and benefit tracking system based on both the number of
branches worked and the number of correct referrals.

19. Change the concept of a correct referral to include cases preventative outcomes
not just suspensions.

20. Audit, cash management and Fraud Analysis teams should be encouraged to work
more closely together, preferably ahead of the roll-out of a combined case
management system across all central teams.

21. Implement a robust autopsy process for cases where significant loss or significant
operational deficiencies have been identified that includes key stakeholders from
across the business, to ensure that preventative controls across the business can
be improved

22. Introduce a new reporting structure for the team to track progress.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 41 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

741.4

7.4.2

7.4.3

Technology to combat fraud

23. The fraud team require a dedicated fraud detection system to automate the
detection of fraud across all branches in order to eliminate much of the time staff
currently spend manually scanning through and manipulating data.

24. The fraud detection system should build on the success of the fraud checker spread
sheet in particular it should:

a) Provide a longer time window into transaction data;

b) Provide access to declared cash values;

c) Automatically ingest data from multiple sources to reduce the overhead
of loading individual branches;

d) Prioritises branches by level of risk;

e) Provide an audit trail of previous investigation activity

f) Enable teams to manage cases.

25. The fraud detection system will need to be expanded to cover analysis of customer
behaviour, particularly if the proposed expansion into offering more financial
services and Front Office of Government products goes ahead.

Data sources and data quality
See Chapter 4

26. Undertake a review of data requirements across the central business functions and
re-design MI with a focus on providing access to the right information in a timely
fashion.

27. Ensure new contracts for data sources explicitly include requirements relating to
data access and MI for users.

28. Undertake a review of the governance of data sources across the Post Office; each
system should have a designated owner who is responsible for data quality
including ensuring data entries across systems can be matched (e.g. Galaxy and
Horizon).

29. Ensure data from the Remedy and Lotus systems is migrated and not lost when a
new system is procured.

Detecting branch behaviour
See Chapter 5

30. Wherever possible the acquisition, aggregation and manipulation of data should be
automated.

31. Introduce technology to automatically track stock between stock management and
till system.

32. Introduce an automated feed between Horizon and Wincor to enable monitoring of
both sides of the ATM cash dispense and transfer process, and negate the need for
branch staff to access the ATM daily to extract dispense figures and then manually
input into Horizon (and thereby eliminating failure to perform process and mis-
keys).

Page 42 of 51

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

7.5

7.5.1

GoAA

33. Introduce automated same-day reconciliation between ATM and Horizon
transactions at the end of each day to ensure cash can be tracked. Branches
should be immediately informed if cash moved from the Horizon till for use in the
ATM is not available for use by the ATM.

34. Introduce a robust process for capturing and acting on reversals and transaction
corrections where behaviour is above normal.

35. Investigate and reduce instances of discrepancies of cash on hand and
declarations.

36. Introduce a system to automatically track over stocking of items, particularly scratch
cards, including those branches that activate all scratch card packs on receipt,
rather than as required.

37. Introduce a system to automatically profile and risk-score branch activity.

38. Introduce a system that can track and profile anomalous individual activity, e.g. log
on to Horizon/transaction processing outside branch trading hours, log on activity
that indicates shared passwords, anomalous transaction activity by one individual

39. Introduce a system that detects fraudulent behaviour at the earliest opportunity and
allows Post Office to implement preventative measures and controls, rather than
requiring resource deployment and costs in respect of investigation and recovery

Roadmap for the security team

The purpose of the roadmap is to provide a potential route forward for the Post Office to
modernise its response to fraud and non-conformance to be comparable to related
industries such as insurance and retail banks.

The Security team will support the Post Office’s goal of being cost neutral during 2016
through:

. Joined up working with audit, cash, stock, investigators and contract managers to
support branch network in their day-to-day business;

° Risk-based targeting of branches to identify and intervene more rapidly in branches
which are deviating from accepted business practice;

. Providing one place to access to data, aggregated at the right level, to enable staff
to make rapid decisions;

. Improved working practices and higher expectations for the Security team.
Timeline for key changes

Figure 7-1 highlights the key changes the Post Office will undergo over the next three
years. The challenge for the Security team is to develop its capabilities in parallel with
these to ensure the Post Office can respond appropriately. The key milestones and the
implications for the security team are described below.

Second Sight Review

An interim report by Second Sight, and the accompanying commentary by unions and
parliamentarians, suggests that the Post Office will be challenged to respond
comprehensively and openly about the changes to be enacted when the final report is
published. The Post Office will be required to demonstrate the changes it will make to
improve the working relationship with SPMRs, including adequate training, support and
guidance, and a consistent approach across the business.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 43 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

Key Post Office events

I Security

Industry

Proposed Security milestones

Figure 7-1 Key milestones for the Post Office (top) and corresponding milestones for the security
roadmap (bottom)

7.5.1.2 IT platform migration

The Pilot has identified multiple gaps within the systems currently used by the Post
Office. New IT procurement frameworks established post Royal Mail separation, mean
that the number of IT suppliers that Post Office currently uses could increase and
therefore data sources could further fragment. Additionally, the added layer of an
outsourced system integrator, could complicate the availability of data to the Post Office.
The completion of the move to a new Data Centre platform for the major systems could
be used by the Post Office to demonstrate that security considerations are being included
in system designs and requirements. This will not mark the point at which systems are
secure, but it will represent when gaps in systems are fixed.

75.1.3. Network Transformation Programme

As SPMRs are migrated onto the new Local and Main operating models remuneration
packages the automatic payments under the old contracts will be removed. Although
SPMRs minimum income will be guaranteed for the first 3 years, the Post Office will need
a robust system to monitor transactional profiles over this grace period to ensure that
SPMRs who are struggling financially do not undertake activity that artificially inflates their
remuneration. Some SPMRs are also moving to a self-funding model, which needs to be
closely monitored as there have already been some cases of loss/theft seen in this
model.

7.5.1.4 Crown outsourcing complete

The completion of outsourcing of some loss making Crowns will represent an important
milestone in the Post Office’s evolution. The initiative has been difficult for the Post Office,
with a determined campaign of industrial action. Once completed, the Post Office will be
faced with ensuring the existing Crown branches become \ remain profitable and, that the
new outsourced branches operate effectively. A key positive message to the network is a
fit for purpose Process and Policy approach to ensure staff are treated fairly and that non-
conformance is being addressed to reduce losses.

7.5.1.5 Cost neutral

To become cost neutral the Post Office will need to sell more profitable products and
services. These are likely to be increasingly aimed at the financial services market. The

Page 44 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence
Draft

Security team will ultimately need to expand and expend more time on focussing on the
threat of external fraud MOs.

7.5.2 Proposed transformation map for the security team
Figure 7-2 shows the proposed transformation map for the security team. The activities
were identified with Post Office representatives along five work streams:
. Policy and processes;
. Technology;
. Data and Analytics;
. Central teams;
° Branch network.

75.2.1 Policy and processes
The activities identified here address the lack of consistency and shared understanding of
security processes and policy as is apparent in the organisation. These are designed to
first define and agree policies and processes across the core security teams, Fraud
Analysis and Audit, and to deliver to training and associated change processes to embed
the new approach in the organisation.

752.2 Technology
The technology work stream concentrates on both delivering new technology to the core
security teams and inputting requirements into the re-design of the Post Office systems.

7.5.2.3 Data and analytics
These activities are focussed on improving access to and exploitation of data within the
Post Office, including increasing the number of days of transaction data security teams
have access to, improving the picture of branch activity and then starting work to access
and exploit data on Post Office customers

7.5.2.4 Central teams
This work stream focuses on identifying ways to rationalise the proliferation of teams in
the Post Office that do similar jobs but which work in silos. This rationalisation could not
only save money but substantially enhance working practices and the management of
branches

7.5.2.5 Branch network
The branch network work stream is perhaps, after the policy and process work stream,
the most important set of activities, aiming to improve the engagement with staff and
SPMR in the branch network. Changing their behaviour and improving their experience of
working for the Post Office will reap large benefits, both in terms of improving security and
customer satisfaction.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50 Page 45 of 51

Draft
Commercial in Confidence
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence - Draft

Crown NTP

Outsource
platform complete complete

”
ry
®
3
is)
a
]
=
&
>
=
rc)
a

Technology

Data and Analytics Central Teams Branch network

Figure 7-2: Proposed transformation map for Security road map; the blue boxes identifies activities which are currently in the process of being addressed; the
green boxes represent activities which have yet to be progressed

Page 46 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Draft
Commercial in Confidence
Commercial in Confidence - Draft

POL00029677
POL00029677

Data used in the Pilot

A‘ Data sources

The embedded spread sheet contains a list of all the data sources encountered during the Pilot

#)

Data Sources used in
Pilot 2013. xisx

A.2 Data quality assessment

Credence

Reason for Core transactional
inclusion data set

Definition

Transactional data
yes, for concerns on
reference data
please refer to
‘consistency’

Accuracy

Needed for Post
Office employees

Lotus Notes/
Electronic Filing
Cabinet

Required to monitor Potential indicators of
stock troubled behaviour

Not used Not available

Complaints

Required to indicate
issues occurring in
branch

Included in Analyzer
for analysis, but
content was not
validated

Flexible ATM data
planning

Cash holdings in
branch

Out payments of ATM
to close cash exit loop

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50

Commercial in Confidence - Draft

Page 47 of 51
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence - Draft

multiple of Sub-
Postmasters in post
simultaneously,

Validity Not available

Not available

Consistency Concerns have Concerns have been Not accessed Centralised to one Not accessed
been raised about raised about the system only — some

Integrity

the quality of the quality of the MDM manipulation
MDM data, which is I data, which is the required to link
the reference data. I reference data. Complaints to other

References to References to historic data sources
historic opening opening hours not
hours not being being amended to

amended to reflect reflect reality.

reality. Additionally I Additionally Detica
Detica received 75 I received 75 more
more start dates for I start dates for Sub-
Sub-Postmasters in I Postmasters in
Credence than in Credence than in HR
HR SAP. SAP.

Completeness The over writing of I There were Not used Not available
declared branch approximately 150.
figures daily and branches where there
only being able to was no start date for
access the data for I a Sub-Postmaster

62 days limits this

data.

Not accessed Not accessed Not accessed

Page 48 of 51 NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Commercial in Confidence - Draft
Commercial in Confidence - Draft

POL00029677
POL00029677

Timeliness

Accessibility

It would appear that
the system from a
timing perspective
is fit for purpose

Table 7-1: Data quality assessment of principal sources of data identified

It would appear
that the system
from a timing
perspective is fit
for purpose

Some of the

constituting data
would be of value
to Security but is
not currently
directly
accessible.

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50

Commercial in Confidence - Draft

Page 49 of 51
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence - Draft

Key Risk indicators

The attached spread sheet contains a list of all the Key Risk Indicators identified during
the Pilot and the ones which have been used in the modelling exercise.

a)

KRI list for final
report. xIsx

Page 50 of 51

Commercial in Confidence - Draft
POL00029677
POL00029677

Commercial in Confidence - Draft

Cc Branch list and risk

The attached spread sheet contains the list of all branches included in section 5.3

#)

Kohonen
clusters.xIsx

NRRA1207.10D007-0.50
Commercial in Confidence - Draft
