POL00230470

POL00230470
I
Criminal « Cases » Review» Commission i
PROTECT
Mr Chris Aujard I
Post Office Limited
148 Old Street
London Your ref: I
EC1V 9QH Our ref: I
14 January 2015 I
Dear Mr Aujard

Horizon Computer System

Requirement to Produce Materials

I write in relation to the ongoing correspondence between Post Office Limited I
and the Criminal Cases Review Commission regarding the Horizon computer

system. Your most recent letter to the Commission was dated 5" June 2014,

and addressed to the Director of Casework, Mrs Sally Berlin.

As you are aware, the Commission is an independent public body responsible
for investigating potential miscarriages of justice and is now considering the
situation regarding the Horizon system, and the associated criminal
proceedings.

As part of this process, the Commission requires you to identify all documents I
and other materials in your possession relating to this matter and to produce
them.

Specifically, the Commission requests:
« Acopy of Brian Altman QC’s report;

e Either an updated summary of the decisions and actions taken by the
Post Office as a result of Brian Altman QC’s report or copies of the
documents recording those decisions and actions;

e The preservation of any materials associated with the affected cases

I have enclosed a formal notice, issued under section 17 of the Criminal Appeal
Act 1995, which requires you to do this. Please provide copies of all the
documents and other materials relating to this case together with the attached
receipt within 28 days.
5 St Philip's Place, Birmingham B3 2PW, DX 715466 Birmingham 41
e:infd, . W: WWW.CCIC.g0V.Uk
The independent public body i ce in England, Wales and Northern Ireland

POL00230470

POL00230470
i

I

We realise that this may cause you some inconvenience and are grateful for
your co-operation, however you are under a legal obligation to comply with this
notice.

If for any reason you are unable to do so, please contact us immediately.

Yours aincerelv..
GRO
Ffazbr Stuart “—

Legal advisor to the Criminal Cases Review Commission i

POL00230470
POL00230470

, CCRC

Criminal « Cases « Reviews Commission

PROTECT

CCRC Ref: Post Office Limited (Horizon)

Name of Public Body: Post Office Limited

I confirm that:
e copies of all documents and other materials are enclosed.

The appropriate contact person regarding this material is:

Contact Name? ..........ccccccceseeceeceesnnteeeeeeeeene I

Contact No. ..........00c cece eeeeeeessseeeeeeee
Signed oe. cee ee eeceeeeeeeeeee eee

Print Name... Le I

Date

Please return this form to:

Frazer Stuart

Criminal Cases Review Commission, 5 St Philip’s Place, Birmingham, B3 2PW.

Birmingham 41
Www.ccrc.gov.uk
e in England, Wales and Northern treland

exinfot
The independent public body
POL00230470
POL00230470

Criminal ¢ Cases « Review * Commission

PROTECT

Legal requirement to produce material for the
Criminal Cases Review Commission

To: Ms Paula Vennels
Chief Executive
Post Office Limited

The Commission believes that you are the “appropriate person” for the
purposes of section 17 Criminal Appeal Act 1995 who has possession or control I
of documents or other materials which may assist the Commission in the I
exercise of its functions.

This notice now imposes a requirement upon you in respect of the following: I

A copy of Brian Altman QC’s report;

Either an updated summary of the decisions and actions taken by the Post
Office as a result of Brian Altman QC’s report or copies of the documents
recording those decisions and actions;

The preservation of any materials associated with the affected cases

The Commission makes a direction under section 17(2) Criminal Appeal Act
1995 that the documents and/or other materials must not be destroyed,
damaged or altered. This direction takes priority over any weeding/destruction
policies until this direction is withdrawn by the Commission. I

You now have a statutory duty to provide copies of all documents and other
materials specified above.

Your duty to comply with this requirement is not affected by any obligation of
secrecy or other limitation on disclosure (including any such obligation or
limitation imposed by or by virtue of an enactment) which would otherwise
prevent the production of the document or other material to the Commission or
the giving of access to it to the Commission. You may however notify us, in
accordance with section 25 of the Criminal Appeal Act, that information
contained in the material is not to be disclosed by the Commission without your
prior consent....a_..._.

GRO

nr pena or trie Commission

Dated: 14 January 2015
5 St Philip's Pla mingham B3 2PW, DX 715466 Birmingham 41
w: www.ccrc.gov.uk

The independent public body which investigates possible miscarriages of justice in England, Wales and Northern Ireland

