POL00378170
POL00378170

From: CN=Lee S James/OU=e/O=POSTOFFICE
Sent: Tue 21/04/2009 2:46:31 PM (UTC)
To: jayne.I.harrisory

steve.z.foxt

Subject: Fw: Questions from the monthly board pack
Attachment: March 2009 report for Network Director v2.doc
FYI

Functional reports sent this am didn't include the network report

Lee

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose,

reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error please contact the sender and then delete

this email from your system.

_ Forwarded by Lee S James/e/POSTOFFICE on 21/04/2009 15:45 -----

Mark S Wright
15/04/2009 14:57
To: Paula Vennells/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
cc: Sue Huggins/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, NCLT, Angela D
Johnston/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
Subject: Questions from the monthly board pack

Paula,

Thank you for the questions relating to the board pack - Sue has asked that I
send the response below to you (along with a slightly amended pack) and Sue
will call you once our meeting has finished:

Ludgate Circus - POL's 1st unmanned Post Office service scheduled to go live on
Monday 20th April, work is continuing this week to install Signage, Post & Go
terminal and stamp vending machines. Although a few snags hit last week and the
hand-over of the premises has been delayed until Friday 17th April due to
unforeseen building works all are confident that we will open as scheduled.

The operation will be managed by our franchisee at Southwark in a similar way
to our existing core & outreach models. Support has been planned for the 1st
four weeks of operation where we will have field change advisors permanently
on-site as customer hosts and to gather essential data including issues with
terminals. Leaflets have been handed to customers over the past three weeks
from the existing Crown branch, these explain the new service and the opening
hours (09:00 - 17:30 Mon - Fri).

Royal Mail have been fully engaged and will continue with the existing
collection pattern as per the Crown branch, our data collection will determine
future pattern for visits from the operator & Royal Mail.

Force Majeure - as each of the area plan concludes,we are seeing an increase in
the levels of force majeure closures. Due to the phasing of the plans over the
life of the program, the full effect of this will not be fully realised until
the programme is complete and our subpostmasters intentions understood. It is
worth noting that we are now much better placed to effect interim arrangements
in order to maintain service. However, we are not currently seeing a

significant increase in the level of force majeure closures, but given the
current economic climate will keep this under close scrutiny.

840 live Network Cases - this covers relocations, refurbishments, closures,
requests for additional Horizon equipment etc.

Local Funding - both of the following were closures under the NCP are likely to
open on locally funded basis during the next quarter:

Tytherington - this is being "driven" by the MP Prof Steve Webb (Lib Dem shadow
secretary for work and pensions) and in part is being funded by an increase in

the parish precept following a local referendum.

New Covent Garden - we have been working with the New Covent Garden Market
Traders to establish a locally funded service

Horizon Integrity - this involves cases where a small number of MP's (3) have
sought to challenge on behalf of suspended subpostmasters the integrity of
Horizon on the back of losses / accounting issues.

Consultation - the majority of the 46% increase in bau cases is due to the
increase in the level of branches that we are re-opening following a period of
closure.

Regards,

Mark

Regional Development Manager

POL00378170
POL00378170
