POL00098159
POL00098159

Message

From: Paula Vennel

on behalf of — Paula Vennells

Sent: 08/05/2013 14

To: Alwen Lyons Jark R Davies I GRO
Subject: Fwd: JA meetin: Srommneernrnene

Hi there, thanks for the briefing. You'll see below I updated Alice.

Can we
various

see when we can get in James' diary - and try for next week? That does mean some fast work on the
aspects of the briefing we discussed.

Also, as Alice and I are not together again until next Wednesday, she will need more than the heads up (thx

Alwen).

. Therefore, can Alwen and Mark arrange to brief her please, when more of our planning work is

completed.

Cheers,

Paula

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alice Perkins <
Date: 8 May 2013 15:

To: "paula. vennells(
Subject: Re: JA meeting

Thanks v much, Paula. Alwen gave me a heads-up. This sounds like a useful approach.
lam happy to be briefed more fully when the work you describe has been done.

And as you'd expect!, I agree we need to crack on with it.

Alice

----- Original Message
From: Paula Vennells ! GRO

Sent: Wednesday, May U8; 2013 01235 PM rrr
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: JA meeting

Alice,
Alwen, Mark, Susan and Simon have just finished briefing me.

I'm happy the team have a suggestion that could wrap this up for us and for James. (Based on
something he wrote to Alan Bates of the JFSA, which is helpful.)

That's the good news.

The not so good is that it will not be popular with the JFSA, nor with Second Sight and possibly
not with some MPs.

Top line thoughts:

SS being wary of a different approach is not unhelpful or unexpected as they were employed as
independent investigators. James' authority should be sufficient for their reputation and integrity,

POL-0097742
POL00098159
POL00098159

and ours.

James is also crucial for the other stakeholders. And so Mark is going to do some detailed plans
for stakeholder engagement, to help James think through what he might say to which group. We
will have plans for ourselves as well.

The team are now going to prepare a detailed brief for the JA meeting, inc., stakeholder plans,
internal actions, his original concerns, training and improvements, etc. And I think it will work.

We shall try to go for next week.

It will be important to have your backing too for the suggested approach. Our next 121 is
Wednesday. As I am out for a couple of days, I will ask Alwen and Mark to brief you.

T hope that's ok?

Paula

Sent from my iPad.

2 RR A A RR I ARR AR A AR RR A AC FR RR A AR RR A ER

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

HACE 2K 2 ff 2K RR 2 RR 2 2 2 A a 2 28 2 2 RR a a

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0097742
