Agenda

Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Agenda

[Date] Monday 25 March 2019

[ime] 12.30-14.40 hrs [[loeationII 1.19 Wakefield

© Tim Franklin
Tom Cooper

Ken McCall

Alisdair Cameron

(Group CFOO)

Shirine Khoury-Haq
(Non-Executive Director)
Andrew Paynter, PwC
(External Audit Partner)

Lucy Mason, PwC

(Senior Manager)

Amanda Bowe (item 2) — by
telephone

(Chair, ARC PO Insurance)

« Liz Robson

(Change and IT Director ~ Retail)

Johann Appel

(Head of Internal Audit)
Jenny Ellwood

(Risk Director)
Jonathan Hill

(Compliance Director)
Veronica Branton

(Head of Secretariat)
Rob Houghton

(Group C10) (items 6. & 7.)

= Mick Mitchell
(IT Security and Service Director) (item 6.)

POL00423454
POL00423454

(item 6.)
Welcome and Conflicts of Interest Noting
2. Update from Subsidiaries:
Post Office Management Services Noting & Input Amanda Bowe 12.30-12.35
ARC (Verbal)
3. Minutes and Matters Arising
3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk and Compliance I Approval Chair 12.35 - 12.40
meeting held on 29 January 2019
3.2 Actions List Noting & Input
33 Draft Minutes of the Risk and Compliance I Noting
Committee held on 14 March 2019
4. Risk
4a. Risk Report Noting & Input I Jenny Ellwood 12.40 - 13.10
5. Compliance 13.10 - 13.35
5.1 Compliance Report Noting & Input I Jonathan Hill
Including an update on Fit & Proper
52 The Fin11 issue and Telecoms Controls Noting & Input I Colin Stuart
6. Information Security Update Noting & Input I Rob Houghton / 13.35 — 13.55
- Cyber Security Mick Mitchell/ Liz
- Password exposure Robson
- PCI Compliance
-  Payzone
EA Back Office Transformation Noting & Input I Ben Cooke/ Rob 13.55 — 14.05
Houghton/ Al
Cameron

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

1 of 176
Agenda

2 0f 176

POL00423454

POL00423454
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Agenda @&

8. Internal Audit Johann Appel 14.05 — 14.30
8.1 Internal Audit Report Noting & Input
8.2 Internal Audit Plan 2019/20 Approval
9. Policy Review

Treasury Policy Approval Mark Dixon 14.30 - 14.35
10. Any other Business Noting Chair 14.35 - 14.40

Note: Date of next meeting 21 May 2019,

09.30 — 11.30 hrs

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
Tab 3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 29 January 2019

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE OF POST OFFICE LIMITED HELD ON
TUESDAY 29 JANUARY 2019 AT 20 FINSBURY STREET, LONDON EC2Y 9AQ AT 08.30 AM

Present: Carla Stent Chair (CS)
Tim Franklin Non-Executive Director (TF)
Tom Cooper Non-Executive Director (TC)
Ken McCall Senior Independent Director (KM)

In Attendance: Paula Vennells Group Chief Executive (PV)

Alisdair Cameron Group Chief Financial and Operating Officer (AC)

Tim Parker Chairman, PO Limited (TP)

Shirine Khoury-Haq Non-Executive Director (SK) (items 5. — 10.)

Andrew Paynter Group Audit Partner, PwC (AP)

Lucy Mason Group Audit Senior Manager, PwC (LM)

Chris Neale Group Audit Director, PwC (CN)

Stewart Light Systems and Controls Director, PwC (by telephone)
(st)

Jane MacLeod Group Director, Legal, Risk and Governance (JM)

Johann Appel Head of Internal Audit (JA)

Jenny Ellwood Risk Director (JE)

Jonathan Hill Compliance Director (JH)

Veronica Branton Head of Secretariat (VB)

Sally Smith MLRO (SM) (item 6.)

Rob Houghton CIO (RH) (item 7.)

Mick Mitchell IT Security & Service Director (MM) (item 7.)

Apologies: Amanda Bowe Chair, ARC PO Insurance

1. WELCOME AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

1.1 The Chair welcomed PwC to the meeting and especially Chris Neale who was attending his first
meeting and would be joining two ARC meetings a year to provide an additional perspective,
particularly on IT change.

1.2 The Directors declared that they had no conflicts of interest in the matters to be considered at
the meeting in accordance with the requirements of section 177 of the Companies Act 2006 and
the Company’s Articles of Association.

2. UPDATE FROM SUBSIDIARIES.

Tim Franklin provided an overview of the key issues from recent PO Insurance ARC meetings:

PO Insurance had commissioned a review of TIF, its travel insurance underwriter, following
reports alleging instances of poor treatment of customers. The initial findings of the review
were being analysed but the PO Insurance Board wished to look at alternative providers

‘the Competition and Markets Authority’s (CMA) response to the super complaint lodged by
Citizens Advice created a less stable environment for both PO Insurance and Telecoms. It
was hard to gauge what the industry’s response would need to be but we were monitoring
the situation.

It was AGREED that the CMA’s response to the super complaint should be shown as a potential
strategic risk on the risk register. PO Limited had a significant volume of vulnerable customers
and customers who were over 65 and these groups were a focus for the regulator. It was
confirmed that we had information on the pricing differentials for Telco.

It was noted that we remained 20% out of tolerance for the quality of sales of financial services
products in the branch network. The situation had been notably problematic with some of the
multiples like WH Smiths. It was asked whether we should we be taking a different approach in
light of this and a request was made for ARC to look at the issue in more depth. It was also
suggested that we needed a marginal contribution analysis for the multiples and it was reported

Page 1of 7

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

ACTION

JE

JE

3 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 29 January 2019

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

that this would be included as part of the Retail Strategy paper to the March Board. JH reported
that PO was working with Bol on how we engaged with multiples like WH Smiths.

3. MINUTES OF PREVIOUS BOARD AND MATTERS ARISING

The minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Risk Committee held on 30 October 2018 were
APPROVED and AUTHORISED for signature by the Chairman.

4. RISK REPORT

41 Jenny Ellwood provided an overview of the key issues from the report and updates since the

report had been issued:

* Back Office transformation had gone live on 24 January 2019, when we had migrated from
POLSAP onto the new system. AC reported that manual working had been instituted in half
a dozen areas, one fix had been implemented and others were in train. The manual
interventions required in Supply Chain were manageable. 200 RM Special Deliveries had not
been collected on 28 January 2019 but measures were in place to make sure this error was
not repeated. Until we starting receiving the cash reconciliations we could not be confident
about the success of the migration but the issues identified to date were resolvable

¢ Brexit and a “no deal” scenario. A range of mitigations had been put in place and since the
report had been issued we had spoken with the Bank of England about whether they
wanted us to stock more cash in our distribution centres. They did not think this was
necessary currently but we had staff ready in the week before and after the exit date
should this be required

we were maintaining a close watching brief on PCI compliance

© emerging risks were going to be a regular section of the Risk Report

the risk appetite was still in development but a heat map had been included in the Report
for the first time

« JE had arranged a meeting with the insurers to identify the risks we were insured against
and those we were not.

4.2 Anumber of points were raised, including:

. whether the Security Strategy Plan was mitigating the risks? JE reported that the residual
risk had decreased but that we would be bringing metrics on progress to the March ARC
meeting

what interaction there was with the business when assigning risk ratings? It was reported
that the Risk Team assigned a risk rating initially but then discussed this with the business
area. CS noted that she wanted to be sure that ARC was getting the view of the second line
of defence

* whether Anti Money Laundering (AML) should be listed as a principal risk? It was reported
that there was going to be a deep dive on financial crime in February 2019 and the severity
of the risk would be considered further at this point. The whole network was required to
undertake a number of pieces of training that linked to our AML obligations but the need
for further work to strengthen against the AML risk was acknowledged

our view of the financial stability of multiple partners from a risk perspective? It was
reported that we did not have a rating for that presently. TC offered to put JE in touch with t¢
colleagues at UKGI/ BEIS who had a watching brief on potential insolvencies

«It was AGREED that an update would be provided on the EUM project. Exec

JE was commended on the good progress that had been make in developing the Report.

5. COMPLIANCE UPDATE
5.1 Compliance Report
Jonathan Hill introduced the report and highlighted the key items:

Page 2 of 7

4 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 29 January 2019

5.2

5.3

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

«that we had decided to self-report to Ofcom our non-compliance over a four year period with
the requirement to discount calls for customers using Text relay (this related to hearing
impaired customers). Since November 2018, customers using Text relay had been able to
make these calls free of charge. 53 customers had used Text relay over the four year period,
though only 17 were impacted negatively from a financial perspective. We had not yet heard
back from Ofcom formally but anticipated a potential fine in the region of £200k and £400k

Ofcom complaints for Post Office Home Phone were at their lowest levels to date?

© the Security Strategy Plan and the work of the Compliance Team would be coordinated. We
were focussed on raising personal accountability and awareness of security issues and
expected to see significant improvements in this area.

Anumber of points were raised, including:

* why we had not reported the Text relay breach to Ofcom earlier and whether the anticipated
fine level was high given the small number of customers affected and its limited impact?
While this non-compliance had been known by the Telco team for some time, it had been
escalated following the change of leadership and appointment of a Telco compliance
manager. Asa result of escalation, specialist regulatory advice was sought and the decision
taken to self-report. CS noted that she wanted assurance that late reporting or failure to
report compliance breaches was not a cultural issue. JH confirmed that there was increasing
engagement of the Compliance team with change functions as well as more dedicated
compliance resources. Oversight of outsourcers required a different approach and work was
underway to embed this from a regulatory perspective

© concerns were expressed about the Compliance Team being overstretched and the difficulty
that had been experienced in recruiting suitable candidates. JH reported that one offer had
just been made and that an additional compliance professional had recently joined the
business. Our Data Protection Officer (DPO) was on long-term sick leave but we had
appointed a deputy DPO. PV asked how much funding and how much salary levels were
affecting recruitment? JH reported that it had been driven by both factors. It was noted that
budget conversations were taking place at the moment and ARC members were keen that
sufficient compliance officers were in place

what planning was in place to prepare for the Senior Managers and Certification Regime
(SMCR) for the insurance business? It was reported that the PO Insurance team had its own
programme in place for SMCR as they were the Principal. CS would ask Amanda Bowe to
touch on SMCR arrangements in her next report. It was reported that PO Limited liabilities for
SMCR were being considered as part of the Legal Enterprise Optimisation work. It was noted
that the FCA was very focussed on SMCR and group responsibilities in relation to this.

Todo:

Information Security Policies Annual Review

The ARC noted the papers and APPROVED the three updated Information Security policies on:
Cyber and Information Security Policy

e Acceptable Use Policy

* Protecting Personal Data Policy.

Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) ANNUAL REPORT

Sally Smith joined the meeting and provided an overview of the key points from her MLRO

Annual Report:

there had been an increase in regulatory scrutiny from HMRC and we were receiving more
information requests. Our HMRC relationship partner would be visiting the Chesterfield
Office the following week to view our data and had recently visited 50 of our branches

* as more transaction data became available, more issues were identified resulting in more
investigations activity. The data tool was currently sub-optimal and options were being
considered

*In the middle of the Ofcom table.

Page 3 of 7

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 5 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 29 January 2019

6 of 176

6.2

6.3

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

«there had been three risk exceptions for products/ transactions over the period:
= aminor risk exception in relation to the savings account journey on Horizon which had
now been resolved
- reliance on a paper mandate in the Deferred Checking Pilot for Banking Framework
Services, for which we were seeking an automated solution
- for the existing location exercise process.

Anumber of points were raised, including:

« whether we were set to achieve the June 2019 deadline for providing complete Fit & Proper
data to HMRC? Timely responses from agents was challenging and significant work was
underway to ensure data was received in time. Ultimately we had the option to revoke
branches’ ability to sell financial services products if they failed to respond. We were taking a
targeted approach to get the branches with the highest volume of transactions and the new
retail structure would assist this focus. Committee Members stressed the importance of
enforcing the revocation sanction and it was reported that this had already been applied in
some cases. Regular updates were requested on how on-track we were to meet the June ss
HMRC deadline

«if registration costs doubled what impact would that have? It was reported that we had to
make a decision in May 2019 about which branches would be registered to sell financial
services products

«the PO Insurance MLRO report would be circulated to the Committee for information SS/ VB

© were we reporting in paragraph 36 of the report that we were going to be non-compliant
throughout this year? It was reported that we were completing the 90 day regulatory
transactions. What we had not been able to do was a holistic pattern analysis that would
show particular pockets of issues but we were working to be able to introduce this reporting
over the next few months

MoneyGram compliance with Department of Justice (DoJ) Regulations. It was noted that we
had obtained external legal advice on this issue and had met with MoneyGram’s global head
of fraud to gain a better understanding. The DoJ regulations related predominantly to
transactions to and from the US. We would confirm that these responsibilities rested with SS
MoneyGram and that they were now compliant with the DOJ regulations.

The ARC REVIEWED the report and the progress in addressing Bureau de Change controls and
Fit & Proper requirements.

SECURITY STRATEGY

Rob Houghton and Mick Mitchell joined the meeting. RH reported that a more comprehensive

Security strategy report was being provided to the Committee following the discussions at the

Board meeting in November 2018. The next steps were to carry out a deep dive with Deloitte,

following which it was suggested we provide quarterly reports to the ARC showing how we were RH/MM
performing against the metrics agreed.

The strategy focussed on:

the human element of weak passwords, susceptibility to phishing and so forth. There was
an enhanced communications plan and a tool was being implemented to measure password
strength. We were communicating with staff about these issues as well as testing password
strength. We were making clear to people their personal exposure as well as their
professional exposure where basic security requirements were not adhered to. JH would
include regular reports on progress. This would be ongoing activity, not a programme of
communications and training for a period of time

. third party suppliers and their security arrangements

¢ improving detection and incident responses

* mandatory training for new joiners as well as annual mandatory training for all staff,
recognising that additional reinforcement was needed

Page 4 of 7

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
Tab 3.

7.2

8.1

POL00423454
POL00423454

Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 29 January 2019

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

* the recruitment of a Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) was in train and interviews
were taking place the following week.

Anumber of points were raised, including:

« whether the risk appetite would be refined? It was reported that it would and that it would
be helpful for the Board to understand the limits to what we could do

* whether we were looking at our third parties and requiring them to enforce security rules?
It was reported that the ethical hack had demonstrated how important it was for us to
monitor the security arrangements of our third party suppliers. We were setting up
monthly meetings our top suppliers

* whether we would be monitoring sub-contracting by our suppliers? It was agreed that the
whole supply chain would need to be monitored

* whether the CISO would have the “teeth” to be able to carry out their role effectively and

whether reporting into the Group CIO was the right reporting line or if they should be To do:
reporting to someone externally? RH would give this further thought RH

* whether we should be benchmarking ourselves against the financial services sector as well I
as the retail sector? It was AGREED that we would benchmark ourselves against both RH/MM

sectors
* whether PO Insurance was covered by the Security Strategy? It was reported that they
were as they bought our central services.

INTERNAL AUDIT REPORT
Johann Appel introduced the report and highlighted the key issues:

* the Internal Audit Team were now fully staffed and Deloitte had been on-boarded as
Internal Audit co-partner. Five audits had been completed since October 2018 and eight
were in flight. The relationship with Deloitte was developing well and their day-to-day
management was good. We were meeting regularly with senior people at Deloitte

e —adraft Internal Audit Plan for 2019-20 would be brought to the March ARC a more holistic
approach had been taken to some of the audits we had been carrying out in Chesterfield
and this was proving useful.

Anumber of points were raised, including:

* whether we had an agreed timeline for responding to Internal Audit reports and why it had
taken so long for the Expenses Internal Audit report to be issued? AC reported that he had
not been comfortable that enough work had been done to see whether we had any fraud risk
before issuing the report, especially in relation to corporate credit cards. JA reported that the
team had identified a significant number of exceptions to the policy that had needed to be
investigated with receipts requested from credit card holders as well as testing a sample of
employee expenses. It was noted that the team had looked at a large data set and had
followed up the most significant exceptions. KM noted that he would rather that the
Committee receive an initial findings report, setting out the further work which needed to be
done and follow this up with a stage 2 investigation. Such issues and delays needed to be
flagged to the Chair of ARC

« when had we had last reviewed the availability of corporate credit cards? It was reported that
the recent review had led to the number of corporate credit cards being reduced from 96 to
35. We were in the process of on-boarding a new supplier which had better reporting
capability. The expenses policy had been revised to align better with business requirements.
The Selenity expenses system had been in place for a year and we had agreed to do some re-
training for managers not only on checking the validity of expense claims but also ensuring
that these were coded correctly. Committee Members noted that training was vital and
individuals needed to be alerted when they were not adhering to the policy. There also had
to be an onus on managers to check claims and the receipts. JA reported that spot checks
would continue and a follow-up report would be undertaken in about six months.

Page 5 of 7

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 7 of 176
Tab 3.

8 of 176

POL00423454
POL00423454

Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 29 January 2019

9.1

9.2

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

AUDIT STRATEGY MEMORANDUM

Andrew Paynter introduced the Audit Strategy Memorandum. The meeting with EY had not
taken place in October 2018 as planned originally but had now been held and a detailed file
review undertaken.

PwC was hoping to be able to rely on the controls within Horizon. PO Limited was a complex
business and significant systems change work had been taking place. PwC’s approach reflected
that this was a higher risk audit for them. PwC would being providing the same level of
information it would for a listed company even though this was not a requirement for PO
Limited.

EY had finished their final audit reports for PO Limited and these had been signed off; the only
outstanding item was their formal resignation letter [post-meeting note: EY’s formal resignation
letter was received on 13.02.2019].

PwC’s engagement letter had been agreed verbally. The Chair of ARC would be advised once all
the appropriate paperwork had been signed off.

The significant risks for PwC were:

Risk of Management override of control?

Fraud in revenue recognition?

Impairment of intangible assets subject to amortisation
« Impairment of fixed assets.

Postmaster litigation, would continue to be a focus and updates were received from Jane
MacLeod.

The significant risks were prescribed by auditing standards and included data; ledgers with higher
risk characteristics; any significant one-off transactions (e.g. the acquisition of Payzone Bill
Payments); fraudulent revenue recognition.

Increased risk would be signalled by manual intervention requirements and particular attention
would be given to those areas. IRS16, the new leasing accounting standard, had been issued. PO
Limited had a high number of leases so this would have a material impact. Investment spending
would also be a key focus.

The report set out the approach taken to financial processes in 2017/18 and how PwC would
take this forward for 2018/19. PwC was seeking to bring the Horizon system into scope. PwC
was finalising its work on the operation of the controls. The report set out PWC’s proposed audit
approach in 2019/20 as it transitioned from EY.

Anumber of comments were raised, including:

that we had to make sure we were aware of any other work PwC was doing for PO Limited
and that appropriate safeguards were in place

«that cash held in branch was a major risk for us. Andrew Paynter noted that reconciliations
would be a focus for PwC. The move to a new system would not impact on this audit because
it was retrospective. AC reported that we viewed cash as an elevated risk at the moment so
this was a focus of activity for us. CS suggested that the audit tests proceeded as planned but
that if a problem was identified this should be flagged and consideration given to re-
categorising the risk

why Successfactors remained out of scope for 2019/20? PwC reported that this would be an
extensive piece of work but an issue they would continue to revisit. AC noted that we were
starting to look at Successfactors’ long-term strategic position, including considering whether

? Mandatory risk required by auditing standards, applicable to all audits.
3 Mandatory risk required by auditing standards, applicable to all audits.

Page 6 of 7

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.1 Minutes of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee meeting held on 29 January 2019

POST OFFICE LIMITED AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEETING
Strictly Confidential

we were going to impair or depreciate. A deep dive into Successfactors was suggested, given Exec
the cost of the system and the limited functionality the system provided.

10. COMMITTEE EVALUATION REPORT 2018

The recommendations of the Committee Evaluation Report were noted and the actions
proposed were APPROVED as set out in the report.

The RCC would be testing risks to a greater extent with material risks being escalated to the ARC.
The RCC minutes would also be provided to the ARC. There would be Non-Executive time
scheduled with Internal Audit and the Finance Directors for the business areas would be given
agenda slots periodically.

The meeting closed at 10.30 am.

Chairman

Page 7 of 7

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19 9 of 176
QLL 40 OL

GL/CO/SZ-PANIWIWIOD aoUENIWOD g ¥SIY TIPNY - PEIIWI! BUN 1S0q

POL00423454

POL00423454

9. An update on BCP to be provided. Tim Armit I March BCP now included on the agenda for the May ARC meeting. Open
Business 2019
Continuity May 2019
11. Review the risks covered by the suite of Jenny May 2019 Update to be given at the May ARC meeting. Open
Insurance Insurance policies. Ellwood
Policies
2. Updates from Subsidi:
2. (a) Include the CMA’s response to the super Jonathan March 2019 I We are checking that this risk appears on the Risk Registers for FS&T I Open
complaint as a potential strategic risk on the I Hill and PO Insurance.
risk register.
2. (b) ARC to review the quality of sales of financial I Jonathan May 2019 Proposals for deep dives and the sequencing of these will be brought I Open
services products in the branch network in Hill to the May ARC meeting.
more depth.
4. Risk Report
4. (a) TC offered to put JE in touch with colleagues I Tom March 2019 I Done. JE has meet with colleagues at BEIS. To close
at BEIS who had a watching brief on potential I Cooper
insolvencies.
4, (b) To provide an update on the EUM project Exec March 2019 I Done. The update is appended. To close
(Julie
Thomas)
6. Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) Annual Report
6. (a) To provide regular updates on the complete I Nick Ongoing Ongoing until project close. Item included on ARC agenda. Open
fit and proper data to HMRC. Boden/
Sally Smith
6. (b) To confirm responsibilities for complying with I Sally Smith I March 2019 I A verbal update will be provided at the March ARC meeting. Open
the Department of Justice Regulations rested
with MoneyGram and that they were
compliant with these Regulations.
6. (c) To circulate the PO Insurance MLRO Report. I Sally March 2019 I Done. The report is appended. To close
Smith/
Veronica
Branton

1817 suonoy Z'€ GeL
GL/S0/Gz-2ANIWUWIOD aoueTdWOD *g ¥SIY PNY - PAIILUIT BOUL 1S0q

QLLIOLL

POL00423454

POL00423454
a
iv
g
Post Office Limited — Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Actions List s
Updated 22.02.19 &
7. Security Strategy ~
7. (a) To provide quarterly reports to the ARC Rob May 2019 I Ongoing. Item included on ARC forward agenda. Open
showing how we were performing against theI Houghton
metrics agreed to implement the Security / Mick
Strategy once the deep dive with Deloitte hadI Mitchell
taken place.
9. Audit To consider a deep dive on Successfactors _I Exec May 2019 I Proposals for deep dives and the sequencing of these will be brought I Open
Strategy given the cost of the system and its limited to the May ARC meeting.
Memorandum I functionality.

Tab 3.2.1 Appendix 1

12 of 176

POST OFFICE LIMITED PAGE 1 OF 5
AUDIT, RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE PROJECT UPDATE

EUM Programme update

Author: Julie Thomas Programme Manager: Esther Harvey

Executive Summary

Context

The Enhanced User Management (EUM) Programme was first started in October 2016
in the FS & T area to ensure branches could continue to trade Financial Services
products. A Smart ID would be issued to Horizon users only once they had passed
vetting, and this was to be linked to their Success Factors learning records to prevent
them transacting any product for which they were not fully trained. The solution would
additionally cover all products where mandatary training was required to cover Post
Offices regulatory obligations across a range of areas.

The original case expected all c.60,000 Horizon users to provide an individual email
address and that they would use Success Factors to complete their training.

In August 2017, the programme had stalled due to operators and their assistants
proving unwilling to supply individual email addresses or use Success Factors for their
training. Historically, branches had been used to using Horizon for all training.
Following a short review, a revised design and new business case was developed and
approved by POL Board in January 2018.

This paper gives an update vs the revised case which, although represented a 12 month
delay to roll-out and a £2.7m overspend to the original case, gave a solution which has
succeeded in fully delivering the original desired outcome whilst minimising operational
impact in our branches and for operators.

As the programme moves towards closure, a post implementation review has been
instigated by the risk team to capture the key lessons learned during the entire duration
of this programme.

Questions this paper addresses

1. What is the status and outlook?
2. What are the next steps?

Conclusion
1. The EUM programme remains on track for roll-out with 11,400 branches now live.

7,500 branches are now under training controls and demonstrating c.90%
conformance with minimal reminder activity required. The rest of the network is

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454

POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.2.1 Appendix 1

POST OFFICE PAGE 2 OF 5

planned to enter full training controls by the end of February 2019 in time for the
Insurance Distribution Directive becoming effective.

2. There are a number of remaining issues currently being worked through, including
the 180 straggler branches who have yet to sign up and 2973 branches where full
vetting is being pursued, but these issues are not expected to impact the
programme’s ability to deliver the full roll-out within budget.

Input Sought

The Committee was asked to note the current status of the EUM Programme.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 13 of 176
Tab 3.2.1 Appendix 1

14 of 176

POST OFFICE PAGE 3 OF 5

The Report

What are we trying to achieve?

1.

The EUM programme will enable Post Office to be confident that all Horizon users
have been appropriately vetted, are up to date with mandatory training
requirements, and we will be able to demonstrate this to our regulators across
mainly Mails and Financial Services products.

. In order to achieve this, a combination of EUM and Common Services Programme

has collated detailed user data for every one of Post Office’s c.60,000 front line
colleagues. This data is stored in the SuccessFactors database, supported by SAP.
The data holds verification of each user’s vetting record and is accessed by Success
Factors LMS and Forgerock to enable a Horizon user’s Smart ID to govern the
products they are able to transact on Horizon.

. A significant barrier to overcome in the new design was the operational need for

single operators to use 2 or more Horizon terminals so that they can process Drop
and Go mail, serve Travel customers or prepare Mails despatches in between serving
other customers. To achieve this, a ‘suspend’ function was introduced so that,
although Horizon users can only use one terminal at a time, they don’t need to
complete the transaction in one basket to be able to start serving in the second.

. Another requirement was to allow users to continue to use Horizon for their

mandatory training, but to also give an option for them to use Success Factors since
the long term goal will be to deliver all training via a purpose built LMS system. The
design with SuccessFactors learning acting as the master for LMS and Horizon
compliance data has allowed this flexibility.

What is the status and outlook?

Is the project on time?

5.

The programme had been extended by 12 months, but is expected to complete roll-
out to the entire fixed network by 28 February 2019, this is in line with the revised
business case submitted in January 2018.

. The main constraint on roll-out speed has been the Common Services Programme’s

ability to collect user data. Branches typically don’t respond first time to requests
for data and then the data provided is often incomplete. Contributory factors include
absentee Postmasters where the Manager in charge does not wish to get involved in
dealing with Assistant’s personal data, and a large element of Postmasters who have
simply not provided data because they did not wish to accept the controls this
system introduces.

. Close working with the NFSP has resulted in a greater acceptance for the change

and this has been supported by a comprehensive communication plan which explains
the benefits to operators and customers, in particular, Post Office’s ability to win and
retain new business as a result of this change.

There are c. 800 users in 180 branches yet to provide data to allow us to issue Smart
IDs. These branches are currently being pursued in using an increasingly hardline

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.2.1 Appendix 1

POST OFFICE PAGE 4 OF 5

approach, starting with targeted communications, followed by a field team visit to
assist the switch, and eventually the old Horizon ID will be disabled. This approach
has been used so far on 700 branches with 95% success rate . Whilst this is
incredibly resource hungry, the effort is not expected to have to be repeated as the
JML process has been updated to ensure that all new joiners only have Smart IDs
going forward.There are a further c.3700 users in 2973 branches who had never
been vetted despite working in Post Offices for several years. These users are being
chased continuously to provide data to allow us to complete the vetting checks. Any
outstanding population will be reported at the end of the programme and, depending
on numbers and the perceived risk they pose, a way forward will be proposed and a
risk acceptance note prepared.

9. There is a current Change Request being progressed within Fujitsu which will prevent
users logged on to two terminals from completing final balancing operations in one
terminal while a second terminal is still in use. This has happened on 21 occasions
over 6 months and is being closely managed by Fujitsu. As soon as an instance is
reported, the branch is contacted to explain the balancing mis-match issues they
may create and any issue is immediately corrected by the Transaction Correction
team. A network wide communication was sent in early January. The change is
expected to become effective from May / June 2019 and will not exceed the
programme budget or require an extension of the programme team.

Is the project on budget?

10.The project is expected to complete with a £400k underspend vs the refreshed
business case of £10.5m and this has been handed back as part of the recent
forecasting process.

Is the project on track to deliver the planned benefits?

11.The key outcome of the project is to ensure POL is compliant with various
regulations, mainly through ensuring 100% training conformance and locking users
out of Horizon through training controls if they fail to complete training on time.

12.The latest training conformance rating was over 90% for SmartID users selling FS
products. This performance has been achieved with minimal intervention by Branch
Standards and the 7 FTEs in that team funded by EUM will come to an end at the
end of March 19 as the programme closes.

13.Training controls are already in place for 7,500 users, and the rest of the network
will be activated in February 2019, meaning all branches will be under training
controls for future mandatory training modules from then on.

What are the implications?

Overall, how confident do you feel in the outlook?

14.EUM Programme is in its final stages of delivery with a high confidence level of
effective completion.

15.The outstanding non-vetted population is now identified with a view to continuing to
correct this anomaly. At the start of the programme, it was expected up to 10,000
users had not been vetted. This number was actually c.6000 and 3700 remain with
clear follow-up actions in place.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 15 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.2.1 Appendix 1

POST OFFICE PAGE 5 OF 5

Should we alter our plans or expectations?
16. N/A

What are the implications or lessons for any other part of the business?

17.The original EUM design had to be completely reviewed as a result of the early
implementation issues. It has been documented and agreed that there was
insufficient Retail or Network Operations input into the solution and this is the reason
the sponsorship was moved to Julie Thomas who has extensive Network experience.

18.A Post Implementation Review has been started, led by Mark Baldock, Head of Risk.
This review will be incorporated into programme closure documentation.

Strictly Confidential

16 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 1 OF 11

AUDIT, RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Financial Crime Risk Update

Author: Sally Smith Sponsor: Ian Holloway Meeting date: 20 September 2018

Executive Summary

Context

Post Office Limited provides second line financial crime services to POMS under the
Master Services Agreement. This paper updates the Audit and Risk Committee on
financial crime risks relating to Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Counter Terrorist
Financing (CTF), and incorporates the Money Laundering Reporting Officer’s (MLRO)
annual report on compliance with The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and
Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 and The Terrorism Act
2000.

Questions this paper addresses

e What are the key AML and CTF risks within Post Office Managed Services Insurance
products and are there any significant gaps or weaknesses in compliance with its
regulatory obligations under the Money Laundering Regulations (MLRs)?

e Are the minimum control standards in the Post Office’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Policy being effectively applied?

Conclusion

1. Money laundering risks within the Post Office Management Services business are
relatively low, and generally there are adequate controls in place to mitigate any
AML risks that the business is exposed to.

2. Policies and procedures, monitoring and controls to mitigate Post Office
Management Services exposure to financial crime are in place and communicated
effectively to Third Parties.

3. Financial Crime Risk Assessments undertaken in May 2017 concluded that
insurance products within Post Office Management Services remit were within the
risk appetite set by the business. Although there have been no regulatory
changes, and no issues or incidents reported or identified, these require annual
re-assessment to ensure that this position remains.

4. We have not identified any instances indicative of Bribery or Corruption or failure
to report and approve gifts and hospitality.

Recommendations for Action

5. Product managers must ensure that there is an up to date product information
pack, which includes the treatment of PEPs and Sanctions checks to ensure that
financial crime risk assessments are maintained.

Strictly Confidential Financial Crime Risk Update

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 17 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 2 OF 11

6. POMS holds a detailed question set as a template for annual attestations for third
parties to complete. At present, there are instances where the questions are not
answered by third parties to evidence controls. POMS should ensure that the
annual attestations are completed in their entirety by third party providers.

Input Sought

The Committee is asked to note the contents the MLRO report and endorse the
recommendations.

Strictly Confidential Financial Crime Risk Update

18 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 3 OF 11

Appendix A

The Annual Report of the Money Laundering Reporting
Officer for the Post Office Managed Services Limited for
the period 1st September 2017 - 30‘ August 2018

Table of Contents
A. Purpose and Scope of Report

B. Background
C. Governance Framework

D. Operation and Effectiveness of the Control Framework

i. Senior management oversight

Staff awareness and training
Risk assessment, policies, controls and procedures
New products and services
High risk products and services
Customer due diligence requirements
Reporting suspicious activity
Record keeping

Incidents and Investigations

External Threats/Landscape

i. Business areas

ji. The 5‘* Money Laundering Directive
iii. The Criminal Finances Act 2017
“. The Policing and Crime Act 2017

Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce

G. Conclusions and Recommendations

Annex A: Product and Service Risk Assessment Summary

am

A. Purpose and Scope of Report

1. The Money Laundering Regulations (MLRs) require that the Money Laundering
Reporting Officer (MLRO) produces an annual report to appraise senior
management on the effectiveness of key Anti-Money Laundering and Counter
Terrorist Financing (AML/CTF) controls, and make appropriate recommendations
for improvement in the management of risks and priorities, including resources
where appropriate.

2. The MLRs and the 2017 National Risk Assessment clearly identify a requirement
for organisations to adopt a risk-based approach to prevent money laundering and
terrorist financing. Risk assessment must be documented and evidence the
decisions that senior management have made in the context of the particular risks
facing the business.

B. Background

Strictly Confidential Financial Crime Risk Update

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 19 of 176
Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 4 OF 11

3. Post Office Limited provides second line financial crime services, including AML/CTF

oversight, to POMS under the Master Services Agreement.

4. General insurance products are not subject to the Money Laundering Regulations

but firms operating within this sector remain subject to the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002 and are required by the Financial Conduct Authority to have systems and
controls in place to prevent financial crime. Without these controls, firms are at
risk of committing money-laundering offences. Therefore, most insurance
businesses implement controls adopted by firms subject to the Money Laundering
Regulations and AML rules.

5. There are a number of products and services that are sold or serviced through

branches, the Internet and call centres which are provided on behalf of clients, or
white labelled as Post Office. Whilst these products are regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA), the client or supplier is responsible for the regulatory
activity. Post Office Management Services is required to meet its contractual
obligations to them, but also to report any suspicious activity direct to the NCA, as
required

C. Governance - those responsible for anti-money laundering
systems and controls, and the structure within which they
operate

6. The POMS Head of Risk and Compliance is responsible for oversight of compliance

controls in place for POMS. The POMS Head of Risk and Compliance receives
assistance from the MLRO of its appointed representative Post Office Ltd and the
Financial Crime team to assess Post Office Management Services’ exposure to
financial crime.

7. Post Office Management Services has delegated regulatory training within POMS

to Post Office Ltd. The training in place includes advising on how to proceed once
an internal report and/or SAR has been made and the design and implementation
of internal anti-money laundering systems and procedures.

8. Post Office Management Services’ Appointed Representative, Post Office Limited,

has a wider product and service provision for which it is regulated. Thus, Post
Office Ltd is subject to further regulatory obligations. Following an interim
appointment, the Head of Financial Crime, Sally Smith, took over as MLRO in
September 2017. The MLRO is located in Finsbury Dials, Moorgate, London, where
Post Office Group is situated.

9. The MLRO and Financial Crime Team report regularly on financial crime matters to

the Post Office Risk & Compliance Committee (R&CC) and the Post Office Audit
and Risk Committee (ARC).

10. The MLRO is the focal point of all AML/CTF activities and with the assistance of the

20 of 176

Financial Crime team is responsible for assessing and assuring Post Office Limited's
exposure to financial crime. This responsibility includes setting policies and
standards relating to financial crime, assessing and assuring AML/CTF risks across
Post Office, the provision of training and awareness within Post Office, the design
and implementation of internal anti-money laundering systems and procedures,
and advising on how to proceed once an internal report and/or Suspicious Activity

Strictly Confidential Financial Crime Risk Update

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 5 OF 11

Report (SAR) has been made, submission of SARs to the National Crime Agency
(NCA), liaising with third parties regarding investigations and ensuring information
is appropriately disclosed to clients or third parties.

11. Where Post Office Management Insurance products are white labelled as Post
Office and provided by a third party the responsibility for financial crime monitoring
should be evidenced in the third party contract agreement and management
information reported to Post Office Management Services on an ongoing basis.

12. Irrespective of whether Post Office Management Services owns the management
and maintenance of financial crime risk controls or whether there is a reliance on
third parties at a product or service operational level, Post Office Management
Services should understand the extent of the financial crime risks posed across the
business and the effectiveness and/or deficiencies of the mitigating controls. Both
management and second line should ensure that the controls in place work as
intended.

D. Operation and Effectiveness of Control Framework
i. Senior management oversight
13. See Section C above for summary of governance and oversight.

ii. Staff awareness and training

14. Provision of staff awareness and training is a key control for Post Office. All back
office and customer facing staff are required to complete annual AML/CTF training:
« For back office staff this must be completed within 30 days of joining and
annually
« For customer facing staff this must be completed before they have access to
Horizon and annually

15. Annual training was rolled out in May 2018 to all back office and front office staff
and agents.

16. Weekly monitoring of mandatory training completion levels for back office staff is
provided to relevant HR Directors via Success Factors data for them to chase ,and
where necessary, line managers follow through via performance management with
individuals who have not completed training as required.

17. Directly Managed and Agency Branch Training is delivered via Horizon and
completion is currently tracked by the Branch Standards Team. Smart ID is due
to be rolled out to all branches by the beginning of 2019, and training controls are
due to be implemented from September 2018 for those branches that have already
migrated. These training controls will ensure that no customer facing staff will be
able to transact regulated products on Horizon unless they have completed
mandatory training.

18. An annual Training, Awareness and Communication plan is refreshed each year to
aid the delivery of regular branch and business awareness communications on
AML, Financial Crime and SAR reporting.

Risk assessment, policies, controls and procedures

Strictly Confidential Financial Crime Risk Update

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 21 of 176
Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

22 of 176

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 6 OF 11

19.

20.

21.

22.

23;

24.

25.

Post Office Managed Services have developed a comprehensive set of risk
appetites for their business, which includes ensuring that it develops appropriate
and balanced controls to mitigate its financial crime risk. In conjunction with POL
these controls include measures to combat fraud, bribery and corruption, money
laundering and controls to report effectively against sanctioned individuals. POMS
has no appetite for public censure, fine or other significant regulatory sanction
from any UK regulatory body arising from these financial crime risks.

Financial crime risk assessments are undertaken on all POMS products prior to
launch and re-assessed annually, unless there is a product change or a material
incident, in which case the risks are re-assessed at that time (see Annex A for a
summary of the current assessments). The Financial Crime Team have been
engaged to support risk assessment and risk mitigation for Project Nemesis (Motor
and Household Insurance).

Policies relating to Financial Crime overall and AML/CTF specifically, were updated
during 2017 and approved at the September 2017 Audit and Risk Committee.
These clearly set out the minimum control standards required and who in the
business is responsible for them, and are subject to annual review. Both first and
second line management have responsibility to ensure that the controls in place
work as intended.

The Financial Crime Team undertake assurance activity on the application across
the business of the minimum control standards as set out in the policies, reporting
any issues identified to the Post Office R&CC and ARC.

Additionally, the Financial Crime Committee, chaired by Jane MacLeod has been
established to oversight the principle risk of Financial Crime across Post Office and
is attended by the POMS Head of Risk and Compliance.

Claims handling poses a financial crime risk regarding fraudulent or false claims
which require monitoring. POMS is not directly regulated for claims handling
activities which are undertaken by other regulated intermediaries.

For Travel Insurance, claims handling is contractually outsourced by POMS to
Collinson’s and TIF, and for Life Insurance, claims handling is contractually
outsourced by POMS to Royal London. All claims relating to sales prior to 1%
January 2017 sit with the previous Life Insurance provider, Aviva. Regular reports
are provided to POMS concerning claims handling by the respective intermediaries
and POMS does not hold any direct regulatory responsibility for claims handling
relating to Travel and Life Insurance. The business does remain exposed to
reputational risk which is managed through the collation of management
information and root cause analysis.

iv. Development of new products

26.

There have been no new POMS products and services in the period under review.
However, a Business Readiness Assurance approval process exists which involves
multiple approval points that evaluate the confidence that the business has in
accepting the change into its operational environment and ensures relevant
AML/CTF risk assessment. The Financial Crime team ensure that all new or
amended products and services have been through the financial crime risk
assessment process prior to approval of Business Readiness.

v. High risk products and services

Strictly Confidential Financial Crime Risk Update

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

P

27.

vi

28.

OST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 7 OF 11
No POMS products are designated as high risk for money laundering.
. Customer due diligence (CDD)

POMS products are subject to basic CDD requirements and this includes checks for
Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) and Sanctions. For Travel Insurance, Sanctions
and PEPs checking is undertaken by Post Office Management Services through
Hexaware (due to migrate to Accenture during 2018/19). In respect of its other
general insurance products, POMS relies on their third parties who undertake these
customer checks, and should have in place processes to monitor that they are
fulfilling their contractual obligations with regards to these activities.

vii. Reporting suspicious activity (SARs)

29.

30.

All staff are trained on identifying and reporting suspicious activity. SARs are
reviewed and, where appropriate disclosed by the Fraud Analysis Team in
Chesterfield under oversight by the Head of Financial Crime. The Financial Crime
Team support more detailed investigations via liaison with relevant stakeholders
where required. Where a third party is responsible for financial crime obligations,
suspicious activity is identified and reported by them to the NCA, at which point
Post Office Management Services should be notified by the third party in
concerned.

To date there have been no SARs received relating to POMS products.

viii. Record keeping

31;

32.

33,

34.

35,

36.

37.

Strictly Confidential

All record keeping relating to AML/CTF is electronic (all paper SARs and paperwork
are scanned and saved electronically) and filed within a restricted access AML drive
under the control of the Head of Financial Crime.

All risk assessments and supporting documents are filed in the Financial Crime
team drive, and a log is maintained to ensure annual review and sign-off.

Investigations and Incidents

There have been no investigations or incidents relating to POMS products during
the last 12 moths.

External Threats/Landscape
. Business areas

There have been no significant changes to the POMS regulatory landscape over
the last 12 months. The National Risk Assessment required by the 2017 MLRs was
published in October 2017, and did not identify high risk areas relating to POMS
business.

The Financial Action Task Force review of the UK was undertaken during March
and April 2018, but output is not expected before October 2018.

JMLSG guidance has been updated in the last year however there are no material
impacts on POMS.

FCA in its annual report has said that one of its aims for the following year is to
improve the UK’s deference against money launders.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

Financial Crime Risk Update

POL00423454
POL00423454

23 of 176
Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 8 OF 11

ii. Fifth Anti Money Laundering Directive

38. The Fifth Money Laundering Directive was announced on 30" November 2016 and

its principle aims appear to be tackling the finance of terrorism. On 20" December
2017, EU ambassadors confirmed that agreement had been reached between the
European Parliament and the Council regarding the latest amendments. These now
need to be endorsed by the European Parliament and Council and they will then
need to be transposed into national legislation within 18 months.

39. There are no significant impacts in respect of POMS products.

Criminal Finances Act

40. The Act came into force in September 2017, and a working group was established

by Legal with support from the Financial Crime team to ensure that a documented
risk assessment was produced and measures put in place to establish a defence
for Post Office. The primary risk relates to the criminal facilitation of criminal tax
evasion by a Post Office ‘associated person’, although this is currently deemed to
be low risk.

41. The working group have examined the reasonableness of procedures and controls

relating to postmasters, contractors, employees and suppliers, and actions have
been taken to address any areas of weakness.

iv. Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Bill

42. This bill was introduced on 18th October 2017, and it is designed to:

e enable the UK to continue to implement United Nations (UN) sanctions regimes
and to use sanctions to meet national security and foreign policy objectives
post-Brexit; and

e enable anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing measures to be
kept up to date, helping to protect the security and prosperity of the UK and
continue to align the UK with international standards

43. There are no significant impacts expected for POMS.

v. Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce (JMLIT)

44. Post Office continues to participate in an information sharing agreement with the

National Crime Agency. The Head of Financial Crime regularly attends JMLIT
meetings as a means of ensuring market intelligence and horizon scanning of
issues relevant to Post Office activity can be considered on a proactive basis.

45. The terrorist attacks in the UK in 2017 saw financial investigations being co-

ordinated via the JMLIT members, and c.15 requests for information were
responded to by members (including Post Office) in the hours after each event.

46. Prior to these attacks, the main terrorist finance red flags were to help identify

funding activity for overseas terror groups, funding the outward or inward journeys
of terrorist fighters, and the funding and activities of groups that preach or incite
racial hatred. c.40% of terrorist financing is financed by low level criminality, basic
fraud and robbery.

47. It is anticipated that going forward, security services will require the financial

24 of 176

Strictly Confidential

services industry to be able to do more to review ‘pattern of life’ activity, and focus
more on domestic activity. In the 2017 attacks transactions were small, money
was obtained and used quickly, often in cash or through other instruments like

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

Financial Crime Risk Update

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 9 OF 11

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55;

prepaid cards and gift cards. The transactions are also consistent with normal
activity - hiring vehicles, booking hotel rooms, buying kitchen equipment (knives)
from supermarkets. The NCA have also advised that monitoring activity will be
more about named individuals, and there is an expectation that there will need to
be some regulatory or legislative changes to facilitate this.

Conclusions and Recommendations

Money laundering risks within the POMS business are relatively low, and generally
there are adequate controls in place to mitigate any risks the business is exposed
to.

With the size and complexity of the Post Office Network, one of the key AML/CTF
controls for Post Office is robust training and awareness for all relevant staff. In
2017 there was an improvement in terms of corporate culture and individual
responsibility towards regulatory training and monitoring completion, and the
implementation of SmartID and training controls for Horizon users during 2018/19
will ensure that this is consistently applied across the business.

POMS have a responsibility to ensure that they support and promote effective
training and awareness across product managers and sales teams.

The financial crime risk assessment methodology used for POMS products in May
2017 has been built into a replacement online product and service risk assessment
tool for product managers to use for new products and services and this went live
in April 2018.

All product managers are required to document a detailed product information
pack, to inform this process, and POMS senior management should ensure that
these are completed fully and in a timely manner to enable up to date product
financial crime assessments to be maintained.

These product information packs should include the approach to PEPs and
Sanctions checking for that product and cover the responsibilities of both POMs
and third party suppliers in this regard.

Work has commenced with relevant product managers to produce product
information packs for all existing products that were assessed in May 2017 to assist
with the annual review process which is now due.

As highlighted in last year’s report, POMS should ensure that the annual
attestations are completed in their entirety by third party providers.

Strictly Confidential Financial Crime Risk Update

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

25 of 176
Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

26 of 176

POL00423454
POL00423454

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 10 OF 11

Annex A: Product and Service Risk Assessment

The last annual review of POMS products was completed in May 2017, a table of residual

risk is below:

Service

Travel Insurance

Business Insurance

Home Insurance/Over 50's
Home Insurance

Life Insurance/Over 50's Life

Insurance/Free Parent Life
Cover

Car Insurance/Over 50's Car
Insurance

Motorcycle Insurance

Van Insurance

Inherent Risk

=
Control Strength Residual Risk
I

I I 93.96%
I 74.79% [I

mm
ao

i ae
I
T6866

The Financial Crime Team is at present assisting the POMS product managers to
complete the groups Product Information Packs (PIP) for all POMs products. Once these
have been received the above assessments will be updated.

The recurring theme in the assessments last year related to Post Office Group level
risks, the majority of which have been mitigated during this year, for example,
enhancing policies and SARs processes and ensuring there is a documented corporate
structure. With this in mind we are expecting the above assessments to improve in

these areas.

Strictly Confidential

Financial Crime Risk Update

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
Tab 3.2.2 Appendix 2

POST OFFICE MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED PAGE 11 OF 11

Appendix B

Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance

1.

The ABC Policy was reviewed and updated in July 2018, and has been signed off by
Post Office R&CC and ARC. The updated policy and a brief summary of the minor
amendments is included in papers for POMS ARC for September 2018.

The new Gifts and Hospitality reporting tool was launched in August 2017, and
reports are now provided to all Post Office GE members each quarter which
summarise the reports received for their area and highlight any issues identified.

Since the launch of the new tool, there have been no gifts or hospitality reported for
the Post Office Insurance employees. This is not inconsistent with the business
sector, and all employees are subject to the same training, awareness and
communications as Post Office employees.

Annual ABC training was delivered for completion on 21*t August 2018, and as at the
end of December completion rates across both Post Office and Post Office Insurance
employees was c. 91%. Line Managers and HR Directors receive regular reports of
those who have not completed training for escalation and intervention.

Regular communications are delivered via e-mail and One to relevant audiences to
raise awareness of reporting requirements.

Strictly Confidential Financial Crime Risk Update

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

27 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.3 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance Committee held on 14 March 2019

28 of 176

POST OFFICE LIMITED RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Minutes of a Risk and Compliance (“RCC”) meeting held at
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2¥ 9AQ

on 14 March 2019 at 11.30 am

Present: Jane MacLeod (Chair) (JM) Group Director Legal, Risk and Governance
Catherine Hamilton (CH) Business Performance and IT Transformation Director
(on behalf of Rob Houghton)
Mo Kang Group HR Director
Meredith Sharples (MS) Director Telecoms
(on behalf of Owen Woodley)
Tom Moran (TM) Network Development Director (items 4, - 12.)
(on behalf of Debbie Smith)
In Veronica Branton (VB) Head of Secretariat
Attendance:
Jenny Ellwood (JE) Risk Director
Johann Appel (JA) Head of Internal Audit
Jonathan Hill (JH) Compliance Director
Colin Stuart (CS) Finance Director — FS&T (item 4.)
Russell Hancock (RH) Supply Chain Director (item 5.)
Nick Boden (NB) Senior Product/ Travel Director (Item 6.)
Sally Smith (SM) MLRO & Head of Financial Crime (item 6.)
Liz Robson (LR) ClO - Retail (item 9.)
Mick Mitchell (MM) IT and Security Service Director (item 9.)
Apologies Paula Vennells, Group Chief Executive, Alisdair Cameron, CFOO, Rob Houghton, Group ClO.

1. Welcome and Conflicts of Interest Actions
Jane MacLeod opened the meeting and reminded attendees that the RCC role was developing and the
Committee would be spending more time assessing and testing risk controls so that the ARC could focus its
time on material risks having received assurance on how less material risks were being addressed.

2. Minutes and Action Lists
The minutes of the RCC meeting held 15 January 2019 were APPROVED. Progress on completion of actions
as shown on the action log were NOTED.

Meredith Sharples reported that the ability to recruit to specialist digital roles had been considered further

and was not considered to be a significant risk.

Jonathan Hill reported that an update on tax compliance had not been included in the March Compliance To do:
Report and it was suggested that a separate item on tax compliance be included on the May RCC agenda. VB

3. Internal Audit

3.1 Internal Audit Report

Johann Appel reported that we were on track to complete 24 of the 26 scheduled internal audits (IA) for
2018/19. Two change assurance reviews would not be completed because there had been a delay in the
programmes starting.

Strictly Confidential Page 10f 8

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
Tab 3.3 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance Committee held on 14 March 2019

3.2

Support was sought to expedite the completion of the remaining 14 audits to avoid a high number of
reports having to be presented to the May ARC. It was noted that the Contract management for IT IA was
nearing completion with comments fed back by IT. The Cyber IA would not be ready for the March ARC
papers but there would be an update note from Deloitte including a maturity assessment but not setting
out all of the actions required. The maturity level had increased from phase one. We needed to
understand clearly which items were high priority and which were material and to phase their
implementation correctly. We also needed to understand any links between these actions and obtaining
PCI compliance. The Cyber security paper for ARC would need to reflect the audit actions. The Network IA
needed to be included with the March ARC papers. The IAs on Branch Hub and Agent Remuneration were
almost complete.

A number of others IAs were in the field work stage and should be completed in time for the May ARC.

There were 5 overdue IA actions, all of which were less than 60 days late. These we not items of significant
concern but would be escalated if they remained outstanding by the March ARC.

Anumber of points were raised:

© the PZBP Board would be meeting on 28 March 2019 and it would be helpful to update them on the
PZBP IA and on the PZBP pen testing issue

© whether the Power Bl app was used to produce automated network numbers? That was confirmed to
be the case and it was fit for purpose from an internal audit perspective. JE reported that a review was
underway on the Power BI app in relation to cyber security

© why six IAs had been deferred to 2019/20? It was reported that ARC had approved a re-prioritisation
plan in October 2018 to accommodate new IAs but the 6 deferred IAs remained on the plan to
maintain their visibility.

Draft Internal Audit Plan 2019/20

JA reported the draft IA plan included input from the wider business and Bank of Ireland. It was noted that
the areas of focus for change programmes should be regarded as a placeholder but we had a clear idea of
our 5 governance reviews. We would start to do some deep dives into the governance programmes next
year. The IA timings would depend on the timings for each of the projects. We knew when a new
programme was coming on line and when the funding was approved and could then assess the risks. 28
audits were included on the plan and others were on the watch list as emerging risks. Good feedback had
been received on the watch list items.

Anumber points were raised:

* whether GE Members had commented on the consolidated list set out in paragraph 11? It was
confirmed that comments had been received from all GE members apart from Rob Houghton.
Catherine Hamilton offered to provide comments from IT by the end of the week. It was reported that
the timings proposed had been socialised. Timings had been fixed where this was required, otherwise
timings were agreed nearer to the start date

© that the expenses IA should be jointly sponsored by Mo Kang and Al Cameron because it would cover
the controls for payment of expenses

© whether contract management was a very broad focus for an IA? It was reported that this year’s focus
was on vendor management, focussing on revenue contracts with key material vendors

that we should Include the proposed audit plans for PO Insurance in the ARC papers but note that
these are subject to approval by the PO Insurance Board

* Appendix 2 of the report was discussed. It was agreed it was useful to understand how we were
addressing different risks across a range of IAs but that the presentation could be clearer and a
footnote should be added to explain that the numbers related to IAs. JA reported that for the May
ARC the IA Team would be looking at mapping individual findings from IAs to the risks and thought was
being given to how best do this and linking this to previous discussions about thematic findings.

Strictly Confidential Page 2 0f 8

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

To do:
vB

To do:
JAandJE
to
discuss

To do:
cH

29 of 176
Tab 3.3 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance Committee held on 14 March 2019

4.

4.2

Telco
FIN11 issue and Telecoms Controls

Colin Stuart provided an update on the additional financial controls introduced following from the FIN11
error. He explained that PO Landline and Broadband was provided through a group of suppliers with were
brought together by Fujitsu as a service integrator. There were three financial streams, of which FIN11
related to accruals and payments. An error had been discovered in the accrual report. Fujitsu had
corrected this and PwC had undertaken an independent review of the causes of error, the work required
to resolve the issue, and the reconciliations. PwC had also looked at the FIN15 financial stream.

The error had occurred because there had been a mismatch between the reports run from the Fujitsu
warehouse and the billing system. The over accrual had built up over time. The reconciliations and data
had been corrected. PwC had found no other errors, excepting a small number of minor anomalies with a
low value level.

Anumber of points were raised, including:

whether CS and MS had confidence in the control findings and work done since the identification of
the error and whether the business now worked better? It was reported that the overstatement had
been 1% of revenue. Twice monthly financial interlock conversations were now taking place to test
the trends we were seeing. We now had vi ity of aged accruals? and that report would be moved
into business as usual reporting. The fundamental problem was receiving data from a data warehouse
which introduced an intermediation risk. That risk was being mitigated currently through a higher level
of scrutiny and we also had greater understanding of the risk. Ideally we would get our data from the
source and our current contract with Fujitsu ended in August 2020. We were buying tier 2 billing
systems but there was a risk that the cost of getting data from the source, as was normal for tier 1
billing systems, would turn out to be prohibitive. In that circumstance we would carry our current
intermediation risk into a new contract. The ability to supply data from source would be factored into
the procurement process. The only action not fully completed from the PwC review was the analysis
of aged accruals reporting but as noted this would be moving into BAU reporting. The IA report had
found that balance sheet reconciliations had improved

‘© whether the improved controls in Telco had been extrapolated across the business? It was reported
that there was more verification of finance reviews and standard reporting templates were being used.
Quarterly business reviews took place with the CFOO and the central Finance Team as well as more
testing and review at a business unit level. Grant Thornton was reviewing reliance on third party data.
This review was due to be completed by year end

© whether we were looking at the risk of the security of the systems of third party suppliers? It was
reported that we had a security framework and were testing this. It was suggested that it would be
beneficial to apply this from a contract perspective. CH agreed to consider this further and apply some
systems thinking by looking at a system end to end and how strong it was.

Text Relay

Meredith Sharples reported that Ofcom had not yet given its decision on how it would respond to Post
Office’s non-compliance with text relay requirements over a four year period. We had expected the
decision a few days ago. A Panel would take the decision and if it decided to investigate this decision
would be published on their website. The working relationship with Ofcom had strengthened and we were
also having monthly meetings with Fujitsu to discuss compliance issues.

It was reported that there remained uncertainty about the Telco regulatory horizon. Our approach was to
be a fast follower of regulatory guidance. Vulnerable customers remained a risk for us, although this partly

* Which went down to customer levels.

30 of 176

Strictly Confidential Page 3 of 8

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

To do:
cH

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.3 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance Committee held on 14 March 2019

5.1

5.2

SS

depended on how vulnerable customers were defined’, As the business grew we became more visible and
likely to attract scrutiny. Technical product change risk also existed by this was an industry problem rather
than PO Limited specific.

Risk
Consolidated Risk Report

Jenny Ellwood reported that PCI compliance remained a key risk. Data discovery was still not complete and
other work, such as reviewing the scripts sent out by ATOS, needed to be undertaken. The banks
participating in the banking framework were monitoring our progress in obtaining PCI compliance
carefully. Information Security work was on-track but we had detected a number of incidents, such as
email address breaches and weaknesses discovered in the PZBP device through pen testing.

Updates were included in the report on the top 13 risks. Key person dependency risk was rated amber. JE
had met with BEIS to see how they monitored third party financial stability. An important question for us.
was what we did with the data we collected.

Discussions on Risk appetite had been taking place, including the metrics we should use to assess whether
we were within appetite.

Work had taken place to consider the suppliers on which we depended and what would happen if one of

our multiples went out of business. This was reviewed on a monthly basis. It was AGREED that due To do:
diligence for multiples should be an agenda item for the RCC after next. The impact of litigation outcomes _JE/ VB
and the risks associated with this would be considered at the next RCC meeting.

Brexit Update

JE provided an update on the latest Brexit situation and on PO Limited’s contingency plans, which included
communication plans, having additional people available in branch and looking at the practical impact of
additional requirements such as customs forms. We were also monitoring where there would be any
additional requirements or changed requirements for Data controllers and processors.

JE reported that she had met with the NFSP on 14 March 2019 and they were concerned about the
potential impact of a hard border in Northern Ireland.

Back Office Transformation (BOT) ~ Legacy Risks

Russell Hancock provided an update on the BOT programme. He reported that there had been delays to.
the launch of the programme and moving to the new system. Timelines had become compressed and we
knew that training staff to use the new system and then put this into practice would be challenging. Post
launch, different systems were not interacting as we had expected them to and we had made some errors.
We had since installed cash centre detectors, who had been early adopters of the system, to help identify
and rectify system errors, Reconciliation errors had reduced to 27 last week. In addition, Transtrack had
deployed their best staff on the project and users were better able to deal with system issues. We had
identified super users and would maintain this group to assist other users.

A significant volume of work remained to be done. The wave 1 solution had been managing reconciliations
via spreadsheets. We now had a data solution that was more robust. Planned order messaging had gone
live two weeks ago and we were managing the risk of excess cash being in branches better through the
Power Bl app. The system still required manual interventions which was sub-optimal.

? E.g. a blanket inclusion of older customers.

Strictly Confidential Page 4 of 8

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

31 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.3 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance Committee held on 14 March 2019

32 of 176

6.1

6.2

We had expected a delay of 2 to 3 months before manual interventions could be removed; however, the
Power BI solution may be sufficient as we resolve the reconciliation issues. A Steering Group was taking
decisions on next steps.

JA reported that the Deloitte report on BOT had been sent to the CFOO the previous evening. The main
conclusions were that the Transtrack report on the migration to CWC had been inadequate and that
training had been insufficient. However, the reduction in the number of reconciliation errors had been so
significant in the last week that we did not believe that an IA report would be required.

A number of points were raised, including:

© would we have made the “go live” decision if we had known what we know now? It was reported
that the system was slower than we had hoped but that people not adapting to the new system had
been the primary cause of errors. With hindsight more due diligence should have been done to
ascertain that Transtrack had the required capability to move to CWC. We should also have included
operators on the Steering Group to get better understanding of how the system needed to operate.
A lessons learnt exercise would take place in due course

* whether we had been able to articulate what we needed the system to deliver in a granular enough
fashion for a third party supplier? It was confirmed that we had but that the supplier’s technology
was built around cash centre operations and our requirements had been broader than this

© PO Limited was developing as a technology business. Due diligence and risk assessments were a
prerequisite and we needed joined up and open challenge to enable us to ask the right questions.
We needed to be cautious of reporting too optimistic a picture if there were issues to be addressed
which could impact timing deliveries or the viability of the business.

Compliance
Compliance Report

Jonathan Hill reported that complaints for Telco on landline and fixed broadband were now below the
average for the sector. We had a person dedicated to assessing the root cause of each complaint and the
complaints handling system had improved significantly over the last couple of years. We were also
aligning plans with our suppliers.

The regulator's response to the Competition and Markets Authorities’ findings in relation to the super
complaint was awaited and we did not know yet when their consultation would be issued

The Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) had approached us last year and now wanted a further conversation
on how our systems operated and how we supplied cash around the network. There was a drive to
increase the regulation of PO Limited’s cash supply across the network. However, we were not a
payments system and the PSR would need Government consent to include PO Limited under their
regulations. We were careful about describing what we did and did not want to be considered as a
scheme.

Fit and Proper: Compliance th HMRC June 2019 Deadline

Nick Boden provided an overview of the Fit and Proper requirements and what PO Limited was trying to
achieve through the Fit and Proper programme. HMRC required that we verify that Postmasters who
carried out travel money transactions met the Fit and Proper requirements. The Fit and Proper
programme was focussed on being able to meet the June HMRC deadline of providing data that would
allow them to check our verifications. We were also considering options for annual returns and changes.

All agents and assistants should have been vetted at appointment but the HMRC regulations in relation to
travel money transactions went beyond this and required knowledge of the products being sold,
demonstrated through training undertaken. Where we could not provide evidence of compliance with

Strictly Confidential Page 5 of 8

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.3 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance Committee held on 14 March 2019

HMRC requirements we would “switch off” those branches? until we could provide the required
information. It was noted that it was not easy to re-register branches. Branches with the highest revenue
were being targeted but we were likely to have a tail of small turnover branches. By the next RCC we
could show the impact of turning off some branches.

The programme had been running for over a year. A new programme manager had been appointed 6
weeks ago and had gained traction on programme delivery. Reporting out to the network had improved
and we were receiving more robust reporting. At the end of February 2019, 1,800 full returns and 1,071
partial returns had been received. A backlog of 1,400 responses was being worked through. An integrated
approach was being followed with people visiting branches and follow-up calls being made. The
Programme also covered the multiple agencies. Verification of new branches would be part of the on
boarding process.

A number of points were raised, including that:
the Programme needed to build in the decision process for switching branches off, who would be
taking these decisions and the operational impacts. This process needed to be in place by the end of I NB
March 2019. Nick Boden would produce a decision matrix and ask Julie Thomas and Amanda Jones to
review this. The process needed to include the PO Limited senior contract for each of the multiples so
they could speak with their counterpart where data returns had not been received
there was concern about the potential for branches to be “switched off” from an agent and customer
perspective as well as a revenue perspective. Sally Smith reported that she would be meeting with
regulator in April 2019 and thought that if we could demonstrate robust figures and a clear programme
for achieving full compliance HMRC might be prepared to extend the deadline.

7. Annual Legal Review

The paper was NOTED. Contract risks and framework risks continued to be flagged. Competition law risks
were a focus in financial services and we needed to continue raising awareness about what information
could and could not be shared. CH reported that setting up a community of practice for contract
management was being discussed.

8. GDPR Update

The paper was NOTED. The GDPR programme was coming to an end. The Data Protection Officer (DPO)
was a statutory role. We had asked our DPO to take a view on our level of compliance from a regulatory

risk perspective and to assess whether we had a sustainable position. This assessment would be included To do:
as an item on the next RCC agenda. vB

The GDPR work programme had been handed back from the GDPR team to Legal Team in October 2018.
Since then a further 170 contracts had been identified.

9. Cyber Security Update

Mick Mitchell provided an update on the Cyber Security work programme, the business case for which was
due to be approved today. The focus of the programme was reach, capability and putting in place a boiler
plated quick response to incidents. Improving cultural awareness was a central plank of the work and this
would be supported by the right tools and processes. Focus was also being given to the management of
our third parties. A Chief Information Security Officer was being recruited and we now had a shortlist of
candidates. £750k was being allotted to the first phase of the work with a total of £1.1m allocated in the
change programme budget. We wanted to see the outputs of the Deloitte work in order to assess whether
we should make any changes to our proposed approach but were prioritising work in accordance with an
assessment of our key risks; this approach to prioritisation aligned with Deliotte’s. The ARCHER work
should underpin the Cyber Security work.

3 A vetting failure led an individual not being able to process travel money transactions, a verification failure let toa
branch not being able to process travel money transactions.
Strictly Confidential Page 6 of 8

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 33 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.3 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance Committee held on 14 March 2019

34 of 176

There had been three priority events since December 2018 and we were managing the data exposure risks.
Breaches had been caused primarily by the use of weak passwords or using the same passwords.

A number of points were raised, including:

* what progress had been made with the cultural and educational programme? It was reported that
communications had been issued and were continuing to be issued. There were going to be
roadshows at key PO sites. Keeping the communications fresh and live was discussed. It was noted
that communications would be ongoing. There was no finish point. Disruptive communications and
approaches were being discussed at the next Information Security Committee and messaging was
focussed on how security breaches impacted individuals

* whether we were deploying our best messaging resources? It was reported that we were working
with the Communications Team. It was suggested that we should also be working with the To do:
Marketing Team and considering how we could use Digital Stars to support the messaging. MM/JH

It was reported that there had been a recent instance where an individual had downloaded a significant
amount of PO data. The data was mostly harmless but had included one sensitive item. The incident had
been followed up with the individual but we needed to consider our policy on this issue further and the
lessons learnt. It was noted that some of the Cyber Security investment was targeted at protecting our
data,

PCI Compliance

Liz Robson provided an update on PCI Compliance. There were four work streams. The IT work stream
was currently rated red. This was because while the pin pad devices to which we were applying point-to-
point were supported for a reasonable period of time we had discovered that the current estate was only
accredited until next Spring. We were seeking to align accreditation with the support timeline, working
with Global Payments and INGENICO. It was reported that we had engaged DMW, a PCI specialist, to look
at everything that we were going to need as we moved to the cloud. The IT team was working through the
DMW report.

The PCI Compliance programme carried time and risk costs. Considerable attention was being focussed
on this work but the scope of work had grown and we wanted to be sure that we had a full picture of the
scope as soon as possible. It was unlikely that we would achieve full compliance by the end of the financial
year because PCI compliance was binary and required all pin pad devices in every branch to be compliant.
Work was already underway on point-to-point encryption of the pin pads. Communications had alerted
partners to our non-compliance and progress briefings continued through relationship managers. Barclays
had required a much higher level of information than other clients. We had produced a prioritised work
plan and shared this under a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) with Barclays. We were liaising closely with
Global Payments.

Work streams were underway on remediation, PCI standards and on auditing. It was reported that PO
Limited was now a member of the British Retail Consortium (BRC) and that as retailers bore the increasing
cost of PCI compliance it could be a useful issue to raise with BRC.

PZBP

It was reported that IRM had been involved in pen testing and had been able to breach some PZBP devices.
This testing was part of the PCI remediation work stream. An incident report had been raised and daily
meetings were being held with PZBP to work through a priority order of activities. 201 transactions had
been identified as potentials for fraudulent activity but we were analysing whether there had been any
fraudulent activity in practice. We were looking at how we could secure these devices and working on a
remediation plan. We did not believe there had been any breach at present and there was no impact on
the PO Limited network. We were looking at moving PZBP transactions to the Security Operations Centre
(SOC), the Legal team was exploring contractual remedy, and Andrew Goddard, the MD of PZBP, was.
considering compliance funding requirements for the longer term.

Strictly Confidential Page 7 of 8

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 3.3 Draft Minutes of the Risk & Compliance Committee held on 14 March 2019

10.

10.1

10.2

1.

12.

12.1

12.2

12.3

Committee Members asked whether we could have known about this problem and avoided it, whether we
had assessed IT due diligence at the time of purchase and what the financial implications of a fraud could
be. It was recognised that we needed to be cognisant of the reputational risks.

It was AGREED that a closing report on PZBP pen testing would be included on the agenda for the next To do:
RCC. VB

Noting Papers

Procurement Update: Supplier Contracts out of governance

The paper was NOTED and it was flagged that a strategy for SSKs had now been approved by Rob
Houghton, Group CIO, and a timetable agreed. Documents were with the Legal Team for final review and
we should be able to issue the initial notices in the next week or so.

It was noted that some contracts, especially those for professional services, were not being procured ina
compliant fashion. Non-compliance was going to be flagged in incident reporting on a weekly basis.
People were not recognising contract renewal requirements early enough.

Horizon Scanning

Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda

The draft ARC agenda for 25 March 2019 was NOTED and discussed.

Any other Business

Treasury Policy

The Treasury Policy was APPROVED for submission to the ARC on 25 March 2019.

Contract management

Committee Members noted that improved capability was needed in contract management. Experience
and capability levels were likely to be different in different parts of the business. It was an area for which a
signature process might need to be developed and a theme that should be highlighted from the work
being done by McKinsey.

Meeting dates

It was noted that the next scheduled RCC meeting was on 9 May 2019.

Strictly Confidential Page 8 of 8

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 35 of 176
Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

36 of 176

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 1 of 10

Risk Report

Author: Jenny Ellwood Sponsor: Jane MacLeod Meeting date: 25 March 2019

Executive Summary

Context

This paper provides an update on the key risks the Post Office is managing. The
Central Risk team have also been reviewing the risk appetite statements and
developing a plan on next steps.

Questions this paper addresses

What are the key risks facing the business and what is being done to address
these?

What is the latest on risk exceptions and incidents?

What are the emerging risks we face in both the short and medium term and
what are we doing to address these?

What is the latest position on Brexit and required next steps?

What is the status of the Change Portfolio, its current top portfolio risks,
delivery status and key delivery challenges?

Conclusion

The paper reports 4 key risks: PCI, Information Security, Brexit, Change
Workforce. It also provides an update on the Back Office Transformation
Programme.

Additionally following receipt of the judgement of the first trial work is under
way to assess the impact, risk profile and the changes required.

In terms of emerging risks and themes work is continuing to identify ways to
improve the identification and management of any risks the change may
bring to the existing businesses. We are also maintain a watching brief on
the Loyalty Penalty Super Complaint and the risks this may create from a
pricing and product perspective.

An update on the performance of the Change Portfolio is provided of the Gold
and Platinum programmes. The number of programmes reporting a red
status has increased this reporting period. However, the view of the Central
Portfolio team is that overall performance is good.

The Change Excellence programme continues with the design and
implementation of portfolio improvements and only one key risk is called out
for information this month.

Input Sought
There are no decisions required at this time. The Committee is requested to note
this paper.

Strictly Confidential ARC 25 March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 2 of 10

The Report

What are the key risks facing the business and what is being done to
address these?

i.

There have been few changes to the heatmap status confirmed in January
(see Page 4). However, it has been enhanced to show both this reporting
period status and the previous one following a request from ARC. For red
status, we have also incorporated a date on where we anticipate being back
within appetite. Additionally, a principal risk on third parties has been
incorporated and will be populated ahead of the next ARC. The judgment
of the first trial is under review and the risk profile under both operational
and legal and regulatory is likely to increase.

Appendix 2 shows the latest positon of the top PO Risks; this is held in the
reading room for ease. There has been reduction in the Safety Compliance
risk (Risk 13), which was formerly a red risk. This has been reduced to amber
to reflect improvements in compliance. (Risk 9) regarding the risk of adverse
outcome from the current Group Litigation needs to be reconsidered following
receipt of the judgment of the first trial. It is currently scored as (5:2). The
Key Person Dependency Risk (Risk 11) has been scored as Amber in the last
three quarters. This could be removed from the Top PO risks.

As indicated by the heatmap the principal risk categories which are reported
red and where focus is continuing are under Legal and Regulatory and
Strategic (as per January's report).

Within Legal and Regulatory, PCI remains a key area of focus. The impact
and probability score have remained the same at 16 (4:4). Although
momentum is increasing, scope of our PCI environment is not yet fully
defined. It must also be noted that the Data Discovery element has not
completed and a new date of 31/3/19 has been suggested. DMW (external
consultants) have been brought on board to perform a “root and branch”
assessment of the IT work stream. The headline view is that our PCI scope
has grown and this in turn will drive an increased cost and longer time to
deliver. As such, programme delivery confidence is no more than 50%.

Additionally, IT Security’s 19/20 Security Improvement Plan is in flight.
Current activities to secure Post Office data, such as the implementation of
DLP, Multifactor Authentication, ‘Phishing’ Campaigns and Password strength
work streams are on track.

Within the Strategic category Brexit remains a red risk, although by the date
of the committee we may be clearer on either an agreement on a deal, but
more likely the terms of any extension approved by the EU. Work continues
to mitigate the impact to the Post Office and a full update is shown in
Paragraphs 15-17.

Following a request from ARC in January 2019 to consider whether we have
positioned the Financial Crime Risks correctly, the Central Risk Team
alongside the Financial Crime team will be chairing Workshops with the

Strictly Confidential ARC 25 March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

37 of 176
Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

38 of 176

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 3 of 10

Products Managers. The results of this review will be presented back to RCC
and to ARC in May 2019. A review on the way we manage and monitor key
third parties, particularly around how we monitor their financial stability is
underway, with Retail looking at a process for monitoring our key multiples.
A meeting with UKGI took place to understand the process they follow.

What is the latest on risk exceptions and incidents?

8.

10.

11.

Four risk exception requests have been approved since January RCC, all
relating to IT change activity. The aggregate risk score ranges from low
amber to green reflecting the low likelihood of impact on PO as risks are
anticipated to be returned to within appetite by the latest April. Some have
already been closed.

In two cases the request was to accept minor IT security vulnerabilities in
order to prevent delay to the launch of a Branch Hub pilot. A third exception
relates to system field changes made by MoneyGram which could not be fully
tested prior to it going live. This was immediately tested in model office and
no issues were identified. The fourth related to a potential data security
vulnerabilities introduced by not performing pen-testing prior to the Azure
data migration. The pen test was carried out and some vulnerabilities were
identified and are now under review.

The Central Risk Team also worked with the business to ascertain whether a
risk exception was needed to allow the use of temporary IDs for WH Smith
staff required to work in newly franchised branches. WH Smith flagged they
had been unable to get staff fully vetted due to delays in being unable to
recruit. Activity is planned to raise awareness of the risk exceptions process
and to encourage early engagement with the Central Risk Team.

The number of significant risk incidents reported over the last two months
has remained at similar levels to the previous period. The two most common
incidents reported are data breaches /potential breaches, and gas attacks on
ATMs. An update on the data incidents is covered within the Compliance
Paper.

What are the emerging risks we face in both the short and medium term and what
are we doing to address these?

12.

13.

14.

In terms of key emerging risk themes, work has commenced on identifying
ways of improving how we identify and manage the risks which may arise
from change within the existing PO business. Once this work is complete we
will report back to RCC.

In terms of Insurance risk, an initial meeting has taken place with Locktons,
we ran through the risk registers and themes for the Post Office and no high
impact gaps were identified.

A watching brief remains with the Loyalty Penalty Super Complaint and the
pricing and product proposition risks which this may create if the ruling is not
in favour of Financial Services companies (the Compliance report provides
the latest position on this).

Strictly Confidential ARC 25 March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 4 of 10

Finaneal Finance Legal

incon Wend Rk Server “
Pindeal Ghana Reta and gy kendra comm entty

Risks pected Date Teincom Cosaas Genera

ALL Mar-"19 Comments

‘Red no high concems reported in this area, The highest scoring operational
Fisk in FO reflect concerns about data accuracy and availability. The Data

1W/a Analytics Excellence project is being re-planned and revised draft Business Case
being produced y, Supply Chain capacty to meet future Banking Framework

requirements and BCP (Risk 4. The Safety Compliance Top Risk has been reduced

to Amber to reflect improvements in H&S traning and compliance (Risk 13)

Key Amber points ~ POLSAP migration has taken place, However, manual

workarounds remain with cash centres and this continues to put pressure on

teams. Work continues to resolve the issues,

Red - Whit Info Security not called out red, Cyber Threat remains one of the

highest top risks within IT and LRG (Risk 3)

Key Amber points -A comprehensive Security Improvernent Plan i in place and

will continue throughout 19/20. Ithas been agreed that as Info Security covers al

business areas the reporting ofthis will be amber across the board at this stage.

Jan-"19

JOperational

n/a

Jan-'19

nv

n/a

‘Red no business area i curently reporting high concern inthis area, Retail
continues to hold a key risk atound the failure of IT infrastructure in branch,
reflecting the importance of IT infrastructure in allowing branches to trade. Work
continues with Retail and the BCP team to mitigate this risk. There have been no
significant operational outages or issues since the last RCC report and service has
remained stables overall so the tsk level is unchanged. The Fujitsu campus
failover remains one ofthe highest risks within I.
ya Key Amber points - POLSAP migration has taken place, all data now live on the
‘new systems and tested, Swindon Stock Services performed a successful fallover
test on the weekend of the 23nd February providing assurance of resilience,

va

Jan-'19

nv

[Technology

Jan19r/a_sn/a—snfas Vasant

New risk subcategory to be assessed in Mar/Apr 2019.

Red - PCI remains a red area of focus within Legal & Regulatory category.
Although momentum is increasing, scope of our PCI environment is not yet fully

‘n/a defined. It must ako be noted that the Data Discovery element has not completed
and a new date of 31/3/19 has been suggested. The red status aso relates to a
key risk we hold in relation to Cyber Threat (Risk 4) in LRG and concern over gaps

and changes in agent data, where data provided to HRMC regarding Money
Legal & Re, PCL Service Business is not sent on time or accurate.
Regulatory nya Key Amber points -FS8T Regulation Risk remains a concern (Risk 12)
Intervention from Ofcom remains ongoing where meetings are underway weekly
2s par ofthe Mitigation Plan. Finance and Ops are reporting amber in relation to

potential outcome of litigation in relation to the contract with agents. A watching
brief remains with the Loyalty Penalty Super Complaint and the pricing and
[product proposition risks which this may create if the ruling is notin favour of
Financial Services companies

Jan-20 Jan-20 Jan-20

‘Red no business area i curently reporting high concerns inthis area
Key Amber points ~ In FSA. there is an increasing risk around inadequate

Financial financial controls. Detailed work plans are underway to ensure financial controls
ate in place and improved, targeted for end April 19. IT has missed the budget
target but is delivering to 6 +6, This postion will nt adversely effect POL overall
[Red 3 POL Top Risks (Reta) Proposition (Rsk 2), (FSALT) Market Developments
[Rsk 6} and Brexit Implications (Risk 7). For the Retail Proposition, work continues
}on developing a new seqmented proposition tailored to Agents and provide
areater access to Post Oifice products and services. The Corporate & Market
Developments risk remains Red. Board and GE signoff on strategy has been
‘agreed and being implemented, projects and negotiations underway with BOL
MG and development continues with digitisation for PO. Brexit remains a top risk
actoss the organisation. Very ltl change in terms of understanding the possible
outcome ie: a Deal, No Deal

Red - no business area is curently reporting high concerns inthis area
G Key Amber points - For the Digital Competency Rsk (Risk 5), various streams of
cua work ate underway to support the Digital Workplace Programme (delivered by 1),
this includes development of Talent Acquisition and Talent Development
Programmes introduction of Digital Stars - with ongoing workshops to upskill,
staff on the use of new platforms, engagement sessions with Business Unis
reqular communication of taining programmes and e-learning in place

The IT Controls Framework went lie in January. Self assessment requests are
indicating that controls are operating effectively across the Change environment.
A process of second line assurance of the IT Controls Framework willbe
implemented over the next quarter.

Change portfolio tracking Amber. 8 portfolio risks defined. Top 3 are Portfolio
performance, change workforce and business ownership. "Platinum and Gold
programme/projects are reporting Red RAGS (rom a total of 41). These include
Legal Entity Optimisation, Fit & Proper, Solar (aka Chameleon, HIN) and SF EUM
Common Services. The cutrent status reflects the overall postion of the change:
portfolio considering scale and performance.

Mar-"19

n/a

we prrrenne Stable

Strictly Confidential ARC 25 March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 39 of 176
Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

40 of 176

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 5 of 10

What is the latest position on Brexit and required next steps?

15.

16.

17.

Brexit ‘No Deal’ Contingency plans continue. An Operations Working Group
is in place to ensure we have sufficient communications and training for
branch colleagues. A call has also been made for management to be on
standby for two days branch support during the 25th March and 5th April.
Retail have identified the branches which may require more support.

Additionally, following further guidance from BEIS on Data, and a call Paula
and Rob Houghton had with the MP Richard Harrington, we have expanded
the list of third parties we need to write to. Contacting those that are data
processors and who may be processing the data in an EU Country. So far no
new issues have been identified.

Supply Chain have if required contingency plans they can deploy opening all
depots on the weekends of 23rd and 30th March to provide additional
services. Three reserve vehicles can also be in Portsmouth depot and teams
can be deployed should assist Kent and East Sussex areas should traffic be
heavy.

What is the status of the Change Portfolio, its current top portfolio risks, delivery
status and key delivery challenges?

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

We have established a Change Risk Management Group (CRMG) who set the
change risk strategy and policy. Its purpose is provide a proportionate,
comprehensive and dynamic approach to the management of change risks
across the Post Office.

CRMG is responsible for advising the Risk Director and the Strategic Portfolio
Office Director on all aspects of Post Office change risk management and
making appropriate recommendations to them on all significant matters
relating to the Post Office’s change risk strategy. It ensures all key change
portfolio risks are ranked, responded to, reported on and reviewed. It
ensures such risks have regard to the views of the Investment Committee
and agrees those change portfolio risks (as well as any significant
programme/project risks) which should be escalated to the RCC and ARC.

The overall status of the portfolio remains Amber. This is driven primarily by
the fact that realised benefits for 2018/19 are forecast to be just outside
tolerance (10.4% reduction) but looking to be recovered by the 3 year
position. Investment for 2018-19 is amber. Work continues to improve the
links between Project activities and deliverables and the benefits to be
achieved.

2019/20 portfolio prioritisation has been completed. It delivers the goals of
the 3 year plan. An assessment against delivery constraints, which exist in
our internal and external supply chain, is in progress. However, the
judgement of the first trial, may need us to reconsider our priorities and
focus.

Key risks are around increasing scope, mapping benefits to scope and the
overall capability of the resource pool against the need of the portfolio (see

Strictly Confidential ARC 25 March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 6 of 10

23.

24.

25.

paragraph 26). This is reflected in an amber Resource risk. Changes are
currently being implemented to mitigate these risks supported by a ‘single
source of truth’ tool (Service Now) to ensure consistent quality data is
enhanced. This has commenced incremental deployment.

We also launched, in February 2019, enhanced assurance activity including
improved formal Health Checks on specific ‘Gold’ and ‘Platinum
programme/projects’. The latter has been piloted on Data Analytics and
GDPR. A further seven Health checks have been identified between April-
June 2019 subject to Investment Committee approving the final approach.
These will be undertaken jointly by the Strategic Portfolio Office and the
central Change Risk & Assurance team.

A summary of the current key ‘Platinum and Gold’ change programmes and
their current reporting status is provided at Appendix 3. 8 projects are
reporting Red RAG status. Key ones are:

. Back Office Transformation (Delivery & Risk Red RAG): There is an issue
with cash reconciliation, the root cause of which has not yet been
resolved. The project will not now meet its planned completion date and
there is further risk. Return to green dependent on root cause and
resolution plan (see paragraph 27).

. Data & Analytics (All themes Red RAG): Healthcheck identified concerns
with the link between objectives and delivery approach and requested
a re-baseline of the business case prior to further funding approval.
Return to green dependent on acceptance of new business case
(3/2019).

. SF EUM Common Services (Cost, Delivery & Risk Red RAG): Project was
requested to re-baseline prior to further funding approval. Return to
green dependent on approval of revised budget, scope and timelines
(3/2019).

* Horizon Integration Hub (Solar) (Benefits Red RAG): There is a risk that
the benefits originally stated in the business case will not be achieved.
Return to green dependent on approval of revised business case
(3/2019).

. People Hub (Success factors) Phase 2 (Benefits Red RAG): Forecast
benefits are not believed achievable so project will be brought to a
controlled stop. Return to green dependent on approval of change
request reflecting this (3/2019).

The CRMG consider there is one change related portfolio risk for the RCC/ARC.
to note (Change Workforce). This was initially referenced at the last RCC/ARC
but the planned mitigations have been developed and made more specific.

Shange Workforce

The delivery of the current short-term mitigations (by April 2019) will enable
the scope of the issue to be assessed and the strategic solutions identified
and begin to be implemented to bring the residual risk within appetite. This
will have regard to the emerging Target Operating Model. Such mitigations
include the collation of resource profiles for uploading onto Service Now, the
rolling out of a Change Competency framework and the creation of specific

Strictly Confidential ARC 25 March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

41 of 176
Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

42 of 176

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 7 of 10

Communities of Practices for different change roles (such as project
managers, Agile Scrum masters etc) to provide further professional support.

— Mitigation Plan Due date

Staff biographies are continuing to be Complete
The risk that incorrect collected to build full picture of skills and
resources (lacking the experience across the portfolio
skills and capabilities) The Strategic Portfolio Office Resourcing are I By 3/2019
are assigned to change formalising 30, 60, 90 working day check-ins
programmes. This with hiring managers to gather feedback on
would impact value and individual contractor performance
effective delivery. - Deployment of Service Now-resource
Workforce needs to be management tooling deployment planned for I By 3/2019
upskilled to obtain end of March.
necessary skills and Competency Framework -a key deliverable of
capabilities and costly Centre of Excellence -This will produce a By 4/2019
recruitment will resolve baseline to allow the development of L+D
short term gaps. plans and process standardisation to address

skills. It is planned to revisit these in 6 mths

Programme updates - Back Office Transformation

27.

28.

At the time of go-live manual workarounds had been put in place to support
6 business processes and 1 system fix had been implemented. The business
regarded the Supply Chain manual interventions as manageable but
acknowledged that, at that point, the cash reconciliation process had not yet
been undertaken.

Since then a number of issues are being proactively managed. These
include:

e Forecasting: the business have been using standard cash estimates for
Branches which as expected led to increased cash holdings of around
£50m across the network. An interim forecasting solution was planned
for the beginning of March but has been slightly delayed. Branches are
now reverting to pre-announced sterling values from standard
estimates. This will prevent further increase in cash holdings. From a
business risk perspective we agreed prior to going live that we could
operate with standards for 3 months, and this level of cash in the
network remains well under previous normal levels.

e Reconciliations: We expected the Transtrack CWC to CFS financial
reconciliation problem to deteriorate at go-live as volumes increased and
new processes came on line. What was unexpected was an inability to
fully reconcile the position between systems thereby explaining all
variations. Although the project can now identify every missing
transaction in Transtrack CWC further works is ongoing to identify all
root causes. Over the coming 6-12 weeks the Transtrack development
team are delivering fixes against a priority schedule every 2 weeks to
resolve this problem.

Strictly Confidential ARC 25 March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Target
RAG

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 8 of 10

Appendix 1. Post Office Principal Risks Definition

‘The risk of failed transaction processes or process management that are “externally facing”
provide a service for external customers, including agents, clients.

Failure to successfully design, market, deliver, support and improve our product portfolio in a
‘manner that meets customer needs and delivers desired customer outcomes, may lead to adverse
financial and reputational impact.

The risk that Post Office is unable to manage effectively the payment process. Failure to comply
with contract regulation, manage high volume of payments or record incorrect payments may result
in a reputation damage and financial loss.

Inadequate or insufficient processes and systems for creating, maintaining, retrieving and disposing
of contractual, commercial, legal and intellectual property related documents and records, in line
with legal and business policy requirements.

The potential for failures in a procurement process resulting in loss, disruption, penalties or
reputation damage. The management of the procurement channels is not optimal (reduced
purchase options), and therefore could affect the continuity of the business and expose the
business to incur high costs that could therefore reduce margins of profitability.

The risk to health and safety of colleagues, contractors, customers and third parties (in the
workplace, branches and also affected by business activities e.g. acquisition of a vehicle. Breach of
Health and Safety regulations).

Failure to ensure the physical safety of employees and agents in response to incidents such as theft,
robbery, burglary, terrorism and site safety, could expose Post Office to significant costs for
reimbursement for damages and remediation, operational disruption and reputational damage.
The risk or instances of interruptions (including critical sites, critical and core infrastructure,
suppliers and colleagues), as a consequence of internal or external events due to a lack of defined,
tested and effective continuity plans and recovery strategies, which may lead to financial,
‘operational and reputational damage.

The risk of losing the trusted brand image of Post Office that prevents the business from
successfully operating in its chosen markets and/or achieving its North Star ambitions, The
‘organisation may lose market share, key resources or its ability to compete because of the
perception of its behaviour with customers, agents, suppliers and partners.

‘The risk that business operations do not meet customer expectations due to a reduced focus on
their satisfaction (e.g, vulnerable customers).

Inadequate procedures around the management of IT security resulting in cyber threat (denial of
service, theft/unauthorised disclosure of valuable information) and insider threat
(theft/unauthorised disclosure of valuable information, accidental disclosure, and illegal software
Use), and leading to financial loss, service disruption and reputational damage.

The risk or instances of interruptions to IT infrastructure and systems (including at IT suppliers) as a
consequence of internal or extemal events and due to inadequate recovery strategies and/or
continuity of systems and controls.

Inappropriate, inadequate or unavailable technological infrastructure (e.g. HW, SW) to support
current and future business needs in an efficient and effective way.

The risk that Post Office is unable to effectively manage:

- dependency on 3rd parties to deliver, support and improve services for which they have been.
contracted to the required time, cost or quality; and

= its contracts, including failure to negotiate the favourable commercial terms and conditions in
contracts, ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions. documenting and agreeing any
changes or amendments that may arise during its implementation or execution, which may have an
impact on financial and operational performance.

The risk of acts that create financial loss, and/or are intended to defraud, misappropriate property
or circurnvent the law.

The risk of financial crime (money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption, fraud, etc)
resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events,
leading to regulatory breaches and and/or reputational damage to the Post Office; and financial
and commercial loss to the Post Office and its customers, colleagues and clients.

Inadequate procedures around the management of information and its security results in a breach
of valuable information (customer, colleague, commercial and/or operational) leading to financial
loss and reputational damage.

‘The risk that Post Office faces exposure to losses, penalties and/or reputation damage when it fails
to act in accordance with legal and regulatory obligations.

The risk that legal action will be taken because of an individual's or organisation's actions, inaction,
products, services or other events. Managers and employees, individually or in collusion, commit
illegal acts, exposing the organisation, the management itself and the employees to their
consequences.

Strictly Confidential ARC 25 March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 43 of 176
Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

44 of 176

POL00423454

POL00423454

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Page 9 of 10

Principal Risks Risk Definition

The risk that the administration of tax/VAT may be more costly - or otherwise more burdensome
than foreseen. The risk may arse from existing tax/VAT laws and practice, or from changes in
tax/VAT laws and practice.

The risk that Post Office organisational infrastructure falls to provide robust oversight of decision
‘making and the control mechanisms to ensure strategies and management instructions are
implemented effectively

The risk of customer detriment or censure and/or a reduction in earnings/value, through financial or
reputational loss, from inappropriate or poor customer treatment or business conduct.

‘The risk that Post Office suffers reputational damage, loss of shareholder confidence and /or
financial loss from the adoption of inappropriate accounting polices, ineffective controls over
financial reporting, failure to manage the associated risks in changes to tax, law and failure to
disclose accurate and timely information.

The risk that Post Office is unable to maintain sufficient cash / headroom for the financial and
operational needs of the business.

The risk of not securing a sustainable and profitable growth (e.g, not focusing on the long-term
performance) could reduce revenue and EBITDAS.

Failure to develop and implement an effective, coherent and consistent strategy:

- aimed at establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage, in response to actions adopted
by main competitors, disruptors or new operators; and

- in response to changing markets (including demographic, technological and other external market
events) and customers changing service needs and expectations.

The risk that Post office does not have a Strategic Plan or deliver its North Star strategic priorities
due to insufficient capability to execute it in line with plans or failure to adapt with agility to
respond to changes in the external and internal environment.

Inadequate, inappropriate or ineffective processes relating to recruitment, development,
management, reward, engagement and well-being of Post Office employees could result in adverse
financial, operational or reputational impact.

Inadequate and/or inappropriate capabilites, processes, organisation, data and culture to identity
prioritise, design, deliver and manage the portfolio of change activities resulting in delays, cost
overruns, and non-realisation of benefits and in turn leading to the business not being able to
operate the desire capabilities, processes and systems to support North Star ambitions.

Appendix 2. PO Top Risks

Please see the attached documents in PDF.

Appendix 3. Change Portfolio: Gold & Platinum
programme/projects dashboard!

General Data Protection
Regulation

3~- Build I Compliance/ Regulatory

Legal Entity Optimisation

2- Design Enabler

& Proper

3- Build I Compliance/ Regulatory

Nemesis (Home)

3 - Build Income Generation

Morpheus (Pricing / CVM)

2-Design I Income Generation

‘Agent on-boarding O-Initiate Income Protection
Branch Hub 3-Build Cost Saving
Back Office

Transformation 4-Test Cost Saving

1 Data taken from Change Monthly Executive Summary: February 2019 (P11)

Strictly Confidential

ARC 25 March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

Tab 4.1 Risk Report (inc. Brexit)

POST OFFICE AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Page 10 of 10

POL00423454
POL00423454

Handed to

Case Management need Cost Saving
Handed to

Cash Management nded Cost Saving

Future of Stock 2-Design Cost Saving

Data Analytics, 1-Assess Enabler

Process & Contact Centre I 2-Design Cost Saving
Handed to

Safe Haven Exit Heed Cost Saving

Source to Settle 2-Design Cost Saving

SF EUM Common ServicesI 5-Operate Enabler

Enhanced User s-

eters Operate _I ComPliance/ Regulatory

Mails Multi-Channel

eae 2-Design I Income Protection

Banking Framework 2. I 3- Build I — Income Generation

POCA Implementation I 3 - Build Income Protection
3

Cheque Imaging a Income Protection

PCI Compliance 1-Assess I Cost Avoidance
3

DMB Sperate Cost Saving
5-

Crown Network Shape I Oreste Cost Saving
5-

Network Paddington Sparta Cost Saving
5-

Network Transformation I Oo srate Cost Saving

Network Development I 5~ Income Protection
Operate

Horizon Integration Hub I 3 _ puiig Enabler

(Solar)
3-

SSK Simplification Sparse Enabler

SSK Trial S Income Generation
Operate

SSK Procurement 2- Design Enabler

Digital Identity 2-DesignI Income Generation

People Hub - Phase 2 3 ~ Build Enabler

Travel App (Customer I 5-

ian can Income Generation

Home Phone & BroadbandI 3 - Build Cost Avoidance

P2C Belfast Exit 3 ~ Build Enabler

Fart di aaleliala 4-Test I Compliance/Regulatory

Project Everest 3- Build Cost Saving

Strictly Confidential

ary: Febr

Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee:

ary 2019 (P1

1

ARC 25 March 2019

03/19

of 176

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 9
AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Compliance Report

Author: Jonathan Hill Sponsor: Jane Macleod Meeting date: 25 March 2019

Executive Summary

Context

This paper provides an update on the regulatory and compliance matters in respect of
Post Office’s financial services and telecoms businesses, financial crime and information
protection and assurance.

Questions this paper addresses

e What are the key compliance issues and what is the business doing to address these?
e What is the forward-looking regulatory agenda?
e What are the key policy updates in the period?

Status Update

Current Previous

Assessment I Assessment I COmment/Action

Post Office is subject to an investigation by Ofcom into text relay.
This is due to be completed by July 2019.

Telecoms
Compliance

We are managing, with IT Security, three live data incidents but as
yet, have had no evidence of data loss as a result of these. Where
appropriate, the ICO has been informed

Information
protection
assurance

All agents have now received a F&P letter and response rates/quality
have improved, HMRC may also allow a short extension to the June
deadline, but there is now a challenge from HMRC in respect of
Officers in Charge. Still outstanding issues with the bureau de change
transaction monitoring system but resourcing now in place to resolve
No material issues reported and communications and awareness
actions from Internal Audit commenced

AML/CTF

Whistleblowing

Minor non-conformances re Gifts & Hospitality reporting continue to

Anti-Bribery
and Corruption beildentiried
Supply Chain 11 improvement needs from 4 audits in the 3 months to Feb. No
Compliance material issues - satisfactory overall
Financial Within appetite overall, however,
Services 1. We are working with Bol on strategic product change initiatives
Compliance that need careful conduct and reputational risk management in
and Conduct the coming months
Risk 2. Whilst mystery shopping results improved overall, there is a
concerning hot spot for travel insurance sales and medical
screening
Vulnerable Alternative format literature is still to be resolved for in branch
Customers materials-expected completion Mar 19
1

46 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

KE
HE Material items of concern that require focussed remediation to ensure we stay within our risk appetite

[ET Some items of concern that could breach appetite if they crystallise or are not managed

EE Within overall appetite

Input Sought

The Committee is requested to note this paper

mpliance Committee-25/03/19 47 of 176

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &
Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

48 of 176

Report

Key issues

Telecoms Compliance

Text Relay

4

5

In the last report it was noted that we planned to self-report the Text Relay
issue to Ofcom. This was done on 7‘ January. We responded to Ofcom's
questions on 21°t February. On 14' March we were informed by Ofcom that
it will be opening a formal investigation into our compliance with General
Conditions related to Text Relay.

Ofcom has decided on this action due to the nature and length of time of
the breach rather than its size, while acknowledging our cooperative
approach to date, the new controls we have in place and our plans to refund
customers. The notification has now been placed on the Ofcom Website, as
a Consumer Enforcement Bulletin.

A formal investigation team has been established by Ofcom with an
expectation to aim to reach a provisional view on the next steps in the case by
July. We are establishing our own team to support the investigation (to
include the Telecoms team, Compliance, Legal and Comms). Ofcom has
stated it would be open in principle to a settlement on this case, and we are
reviewing this approach.

As advised to Ofcom we are in the process of compensating customers and
will report back at the next RCC the outcome of how many customers we
have been able to issue the refund to.

We expect to receive closer regulatory scrutiny in the coming year.

Complaints

6

Post Office appeared in Ofcom’s broadband complaints table for the first
time in January and were under the industry average. Post Office is also at
our lowest level in fixed line, again under the industry average. Ofcom’s
complaints enforcement team is happy with our progress. Work still

C.. _ (C
broadband: Lesnar
comolonts per 0000 ih
a + Vedatonet 19
‘TalkTalk 18
a! * Plusnet 17
al = oT 13
iat s Viegin Media 12
Virgin Media: B
Post Office Post Office 9
ra 8 L 6
Sky sky 5
\ fewest amet J [ewes emptts ES

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

ance Report

continues on signposting complaints to ensure we are picking these up
correctly.

Ofcom will publish its Comparing Service Quality Report at the end of April
2019. It is unclear yet whether we will appear in both broadband and fixed
line sections. Work is underway on the $137A data request we received
from Ofcom, which means we have to implement significant system changes
in time to supply Ofcom with data for their report next year. Failure to
implement the changes accurately or on time is subject to a fine.

Early Termination Charges (“ETCs”)

8

10

11

Following Ofcom’s scrutiny of ETCs (and fines applied to large telecoms
firms) we received a letter in January 2019 reminding Post Office of its ETC
transparency obligations on our website. We formally replied to Ofcom and
met with its enforcement team, setting out the changes we are making to
our web pages. Ofcom understood we were in the midst of changing the
website and was satisfied with the new layout.

Also, informally Ofcom asked if we were changing our ETCs. We explained
that we were reviewing our current ETC charging.

We do now expect to change our ETCs slightly in the coming months to
ensure we are charging customers in line with the current sales channel mix
and average tenure and to continue to ensure we are transparent and easy
to understand. This had not been reviewed for a number of years and we
do not have the historical business justification for the old charges, which
may be challenged. The exposure to penalties from Ofcom has been
assessed by our legal and business teams as low for two key reasons:

a. We have not been carrying out the sorts of charging practices (e.g.,
ignoring monthly discounts as part of ETC calculations) that caused EE
and Virgin Media to get fined;

b. Changes in our ETCs will only increase or decrease by a small amount
across our products and we have the same price across a customer's
contract period.

Additionally, since early 2018, we have been trialling waiving ETCs if a
customer challenges the charges in order to help improve customer
satisfaction.

Information Protection & Assurance

Data Protection

12

13:

Since December 2018, we have been the subject of 3 security incidents
which have been actively managed. In addition, IT Security carried a pre-
emptive phishing exercise across the organisation to raise awareness of the
dangers of email phishing attacks. These are set out in detail in the Cyber
Security Update paper. We have notified the ICO, including that we are
working with the NCSC.

At the end of December 2018 we were alerted by the National Cyber Security
Centre (NCSC) to 50 Post Office accounts being available through an Iranian
state exploit of multiple companies. All 50 accounts had very weak

4

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

49 of 176
Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

50 of 176

passwords and upon notification they were all promptly locked down and
forced to use strong passwords.

14 Atthe end of February the NCSC alerted Post Office to inform that an extract
of our Active Directory data is being offered for sale on the internet. The
data for sale includes 10000 employee user names, office location and
department, but not passwords. We have currently discovered no further
breaches. Most of this data is publicly available. We continue to actively
monitor this incident for any breaches.

15 Also at the end February Verizon Cyber Risk Program advised Post Office
that a collection of 29 billion stolen users’ credentials (usernames and
passwords) had been published in the Dark Web in January. From these
stolen users’ credentials there were 40 that appeared to be from the Post
Office. The source of the accounts were not obtained from Post Office
systems. As a precaution those 40 accounts were disabled and their
passwords were changed. A communication was sent to all Post Office
employees to reiterate the importance of strong passwords and not to
register for non-corporate services and applications.

16 In February 2019 we received a customer complaint that indicated we were
using gov.verify customer data for Post Office marketing without consent.
Investigations have shown that over 1 million customer records were
incorrectly loaded into Brands, with a much smaller number having been
marketed to. This was reported to the ICO but we were advised by the
OICO that this was not a reportable incident. Nevertheless we have
removed the customer records from Brands.

17 Bank of Ireland reported a breach in February 2019, which impacted up to
783 Post Office Savings customers who had been assigned recycled account
number, which meant they could potentially see previous account holders
E-Tac Certificates and/or E-Statements in their online account. This is
under investigation. We are seeking clarity from Bol on how long this has
been open, as well as customer communications to date. We are working
with Post Office Savings team.

Compliance

18 We have successfully completed our external ISO027001 audit, conducted by
Lloyds Register, with no major or minor non-conformities and have closed
down the one finding raised during the last review in July 20181.

Financial Crime

Compliance with Money Laundering Regulations

19 Between 01.01.19-25.02.19, 55 new Bureau de Change non-conformance
cases were identified. During the same period 74 open cases were resolved,

1 The IS027001: 2013 is an international standard for Information Security enabling Post Office
to demonstrate ongoing commitment to information and cyber security. It is an operational
requirement to be certified the UKVI service.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

20

of which 34 related to customers who had purchased in excess of €15k in
90 days, which breached the regulatory limit.

In the 6 months following implementation of the new systems in June 2018,
there were c.300 customers with linked transactions over Post Office’s own
lower £10k limit, of which c.80 breached the €15k regulatory limit. This
demonstrates a very small percentage of the overall volume of Bureau de
Change transactions, and is not yet at a level that would require investment
in blocking transactions. Our HMRC supervisor is aware of this and we have
demonstrated that we are taking appropriate action in each case.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) update

21

ABC training completion is at 98%. We continue to see some reporting non-
conformances and have issued a specific communication about not accepting
cash or gift cards and we have also provided detailed process flows on the
Gifts & Hospitality intranet page.

Whistleblowing update

22

No material issues to report. As a result of the audit action in 2018, a
Whistleblowing survey has been conducted via the Intranet to understand
the level of awareness within the business.

Fit and Proper

23

24

25

26

A new Project Manager has been appointed to oversee the Fit & Proper
project. We are now experiencing, with the support of Network Operations,
improved response rates and are hopeful that there will be minimal
outstanding branches in May 2019, when decisions about turning off Travel
Money functionality will need to be taken.

We have engaged with HMRC to see if it is possible to extend the deadline
from June 2019 to September, giving more time to close off outstanding
records.

Following HMRC’s branch audit in October 2018 HMRC has written to us,
requiring us to identify where there are any cases of longer term postmaster
absence/non-attendance, in which case Post Office is obliged to establish
details of Officers in Charge (OIC) or Branch Managers and include this in
our Agent Data submission. If we are unable to identify a suitable
responsible person, we should cease providing over the counter currency
exchange at those premises.

We are reviewing this new requirement with our legal team as an extension
of the F&P requirements to OIC level would give rise to significant cost.

Regulatory updates

27

28

We continue to await information from HMRC of the anticipated fee increase,
although we understand that proposals have been sent to HM Treasury.
Budget provision has been made by the Travel Money team as a precaution.

The Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI) has imposed the
UK’s first monetary penalty (£5K, having been reduce by 50%) for a breach
of financial sanctions regulations on Raphaels Bank in respect of some of its
Egyptian business. Whilst Post Office is not exposed to this type of risk, it
demonstrates that OFSI are starting to apply penalties for non-
conformance.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

51 of 176
Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

52 of 176

External threats

29 Between August ‘18 and February ‘19, 40 cheques totalling c£337K were
deposited in branch into 8 different Post Office Current Accounts, Savings
Accounts and Credit Cards and have been returned unpaid by the issuing
banks. Due to processing delays this has enabled customers to transfer out
funds before Bol was advised of the non-payment. The majority of accounts
were successfully blocked by Bol but c£70K had already been paid. The
Post Office Payments Team is liaising with Barclays (the cheque processor)
to look at ways to prevent repetition and to have them refund Bol.

30 Further to the January 2019 MLRO report, we are awaiting the final legal
opinion on Post Office’s exposure to MLR requirements in relation to Banking
Framework transactions. We believe that customer due diligence and
transaction monitoring remain the responsibility of the banks but this needs
to be confirmed.

Internal threats

31 Financial Crime risk assessments and re-assessments have been completed
for 23 products and services, and a further 13 will be completed by April
2019. No major internal threats have been identified, and the outcomes are
shared with the Risk Team to ensure that any risks are reflected within
functional RACMs.

Supply Chain Compliance

32 Four audits were completed in the three months to February. 11
Improvement Needs identified with a combined audit score of 25, averaging
just under 3 Improvement Needs and an audit score of just over 6, which
mirrors the rolling average for all Supply Chain sites putting them in the
Satisfactory category for both measures. No significant or recurring issues.

Financial Services

Travel Insurance mystery shops

33 Mystery shopping (7 out of 36) continues to identify counter colleagues not
following the pre-existing medical conditions processes.

34 The risk is that customers could be given an inaccurate quote for travel
insurance or potentially sold travel insurance they cannot claim on.
However, we are unaware of any actual cases arising from customer
feedback, attempted claims or complaints.

35 We are working with POI to improve communications on this issue and
strengthening the sales process documentation to support an improvement.
The new Insurance training module also went live in branches in February
and should strengthen awareness.

Introductions of Loans on tablet via CRMs

36 This initiative launched in February and is the first time we have had an
introductory sales process for loans in Post Office branches. FS Compliance
will be overseeing that this process has embedded compliantly and gives
customers a good experience.

Credit Card and Current Account changes

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

37

38

There are two significant changes (Credit Card and Current Account) that
are being worked through with Bol. Both of these have the potential to raise
concerns with customers and need to be handled sensitively.

As part of the Credit Card changes we expect to have another regulatory
Principal and will need to agree working compliance arrangements with it
and a multi Principal agreement with our other Principals, that does not
conflict with existing T&C arrangements in branches and online.

Network management changes

39

We are working with the Network and Network Operations teams on the
changes they are making to their branch management approach, including
CRMs. The aim being to maintain appropriate oversight and conduct
management but reduce the burden on the network teams

Vulnerable Customers

40

41

42

43

A series of ‘One’ communications is being issued to raise awareness and
flag sources of external support.

The graduates are working on a branch check list initiative working with the
Alzheimer’s Society to help provide guidance to make Post Offices more
dementia friendly.

A solution to in-branch alternative format literature for FS&T products
should be implemented by the end of March.

We are working with an external third party to get an independent
assessment on the capabilities of Post Office’s vulnerability approach and
how we can improve.

What is the general forward-looking regulatory agenda?

Citizens’ Advice (CA) Super Complaint to Competition and Markets Authority
(CMA) relating to the ‘loyalty penalty’

a

45

CA raised concerns in November 2018 about long term customers paying
more for goods and services, which it refers to as ‘the loyalty penalty’. CA
had identified five key markets where it has concerns about the loyalty
penalty: broadband, mortgages, cash savings, insurance, and mobile.

Excluding mobile, all of these services are offered through Post Office
channels. The CMA has strongly supported the CA complaint and is pursuing
actions via the different regulators. To a large extent this is already
supporting the direction of travel of the regulators Ofcom and FCA who are
following a more interventionist agenda in their regulatory approach to the
‘loyalty penalty’ including price controls.

Telecoms/Broadband

46

Ofcom had already planned to introduce end of contract notifications and
annual best tariff reminders for customers who are out of contract. At the
same time of the CMA announcement in December, Ofcom also announced
that it is reviewing the pricing differential. Ofcom has expressed concerns

8

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

53 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

ance Report

about vulnerable customers who are out of contract and being charged high
prices, with a particular focus on over 65s. We met with Ofcom in February
as part of our on-going relationship and expressed concerns. Ofcom agreed
that it shouldn’t use such a broad brush to define vulnerability.

47 The telecoms team has reviewed its pricing strategy and analysed
competitors’ responses. The current decision is to maintain the current
approach until the direction of travel from Ofcom becomes clearer.

Mortgages, Cash Savings & General Insurance

48 There have been no further developments from the regulator since the last
report.

Other Telecoms Regulation

49 On 1St March the Broadband Speed Code of Practice came into force. This
is voluntary and Post Office has not signed up to the Code, although we
have already implemented key parts of it.

50 We expect the Automatic Compensation Code of Practice to be announced
by Ofcom in the next few weeks. This again is voluntary and Post Office
has not signed up. The challenge is that customers may expect us to be
subject to the same rules and expect to receive compensation in certain
situations. Conversations with Talk Talk to back off the cost of automatic
compensation are still ongoing.

Access to Cash Review (Natalie Ceeney) and the Payment Systems Regulator

51 We (Martin Kearsley and JH) met with the PSR, at its request, to help them
understand how the Banking Framework operates, how our bill payments
business works and about our ATM business. At this stage it is simply for
research but it is linked to Natalie Ceeney’s Access to Cash Review, the final
report of which was published 5th March 2019.

52 The review recommends increased regulation to preserve cash access,
infrastructure and usage in the UK, calling out Post Office branches, cash in
transit and bill payment capabilities as key to this.

53 We have separately sought external advice as to our existing and potential
future exposure to PSR regulation. Our initial review is that we are not
subject currently but, with Government support, the PSR could extend its
regulatory remit.

Jonathan Hill
Compliance Director
March 2019

54 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

APPENDIX

Post Office Financial Services Regulatory Calendar

10

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 55 of 176
Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

56 of 176

Pe proportion of Arey CM try shop for
[singe rteted on aronshy bse tor thee 6

Pre roporon of gore CAM mstrshons tear
fore reurnceona rot bs fer the os
rors

Pre operon af Cuter alee mystery stops
fotecreinatepesous Smarts

Phe proportion of ranch mystery shop for Over SO:
[nc teal rarree noted on emery bes

[ruber of upek tranche compan per
prose

Pre percertage of Over 5 sles ance within th 30
[sy oan perio

[¥ percerage of iteinsrnce sales crcees whip
[ne50 sy cota pers

Pre percerage of Tre nuances arcs
[stone 12a cargo pros

Pie nurbe oF alleoges who ve competent

Se

ae)

a =

—

asoh 20% 7.60% 0.60922.09916,00%

i gees rom eno Mereinew mace

Haan me I

Ino We se working wth he Tower spins
(ove etn ui

[Avewin brerch pure was itodeet 2 he
“ae n October 201 sneer YS
pormorce hs imgrowe ares Ming 1

‘oleranc. Jour shows 18.2%, hs was party
lost ow ero saps corte

18¢shops were conpledin anny, ofthese

296 hops were comple for Over 50 (115)
eee nstrnen 18) rr

No mien complies have bee erties

‘ond son coins were

{72 poles were ances whine 1 dy
coolngo* peie

Final ences werbook wa competes
urge pros 7/19 2/1/12 39% oF
Eales hove complete eng

naronces wortbook wn orelete tng the

‘Thee are or sir ate ies, 3 ing

work with Seay oe ane wih ry

POL00423454

POL00423454

Fos onimerovedsiargosting' AR fear
resenting Corner Povers
tomplire wth ping p compl

i ne eri ot in Macho go oe

[ends conti toe evened rl feck
proides OCR nd ASPMS te
Irerverers

prr wher CAMs re fling eed bath
ster intl ester

‘One te key ous mest oer
tote provon a Surat Boe ester
festarers Ths metre stoning on
erence aged wth 801/208

etrtonin th aero ete was

ting mecca colons or evel see

PO: Complnce conti tomentose on
fener virgins by 0.

70: Compl caries omental on
tener wr ats #0.

{ancataon sees rosin win ternce

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

Tab 5.1 Compliance Report

remedy Hath aha preview resied

hove been area ton oreacion motoring

isthe rrr of cstres ht Reve beached the
10 in 90 cyl for nbrarch reo de Change oe whe Tice hey manne oe Ofc ey

POL00423454

POL00423454

moi alerare wb ser ncethe
Teen beaches as bee

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

57 of 176
Tab 5.2 The Fin11 Issue & Telecoms Controls

58 of 176

POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 7
ARC NOTING PAPER

The Finii issue and Telecoms Controls

Author: Colin Stuart Meeting date: 25th March 2019

Executive Summary

Context

Post Office’s Telecoms business provides broadband and landline services to customers
through a selection of providers, managed by Fujitsu as the overall service integrator.

Post Office uses reports generated by Fujitsu (known as Fin02; Fini1; and Fin15) to
account for revenue. In May 2018 Post Office identified an error in the Fin11 report
which had the impact of overstating income by £5.2m in 2017/18.

Fujitsu corrected and restated Fin11 and PwC conducted an independent review which
established the cause of the error, reviewed the correctional work, conducted
reconciliations and reviewed the business logic behind the generation of the Fin11 and
Fin15 reports. A satisfactory internal review of the Fin02 report had previously been
carried out.

This paper sets out the causes of the Fin11 issue, its resolution, the conclusions drawn,
and the actions taken to strengthen controls in Telecoms and in the wider Post Office.

Questions addressed in this report
1. What was the Telecoms Fin11 issue and how did it arise?

2. How was the Fin11 issue resolved, what were the conclusions and what are the
recommended actions to prevent a recurrence?

3. How well does the improved Telecoms control environment manage the risks?
4. What are the potential wider control issues and how have these been addressed?

Conclusion

The Fin11 issue arose from a mismatch between the billing system and the Fujitsu data
warehouse which resulted in records being incorrectly treated as live in the Fin11 report,
but correctly treated as on-hold by the billing system.

The issue was resolved by Fujitsu correcting the Fin11 report and refreshing the data
warehouse from the billing system. An external independent review by PwC validated
and reconciled the Fin11 and Fin15 reports, confirmed the business logic behind them
and verified that there were no other significant errors. A list of actions was prepared
to address the control environment in Telecoms and the wider business.

Good progress has been made on the actions, with the majority implemented and the
remainder underway. The improved Telecoms control environment manages the risks,
but the Fujitsu data management and reporting structures mean that risks remain and
these require high levels of verification and review type controls in mitigation. In
September 2018 this improved control environment identified a smaller (£0.4m) issue
with Fin11 relating to old New Call records. The arrangement with Fujitsu is being
retendered in 2020 and clear requirements for data management, controls and
reporting will be included as part of the specification for that.

Input sought

The ARC is asked to note the contents of this report, questioning and challenging as
appropriate.

Strictly Confidential The Fin11 issue and Telecoms Controls

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 5.2 The Fin11 Issue

& Telecoms Controls

POST OFFICE PAGE 2

The Report

dy
11

1.2.

1.3.

2.

2.1

2.2.

2.3.

2.4.

Strictly Confidential The Fin11 issue and Telecoms Controls

What was the Telecoms Fin11 issue and how did it arise?

. Post Office’s Telecoms business provides broadband and landline services to
customers via a selection of technology and service providers, managed by Fujitsu
who act as the overall system integrator to provide a packed service. The business
has revenues of c£155m and direct contribution of cE30m

Fujitsu generates three reports which Post Office uses to account for revenue:
¢ Fin02 - which details customer balances
¢ Fin11 - which calculates deferred and accrued revenue
e Fin15 - which provides summaries of invoiced net value

In May 2018, Post Office reviews identified an error in the generation of the Fin11
report. The issue was caused by the billing system (operated by MDS) correctly
marking records relating to the Line Rental Saver promotion as on-hold, but that
status not being recorded in the Fujitsu data warehouse. The Fin11 report uses
that data warehouse as its source of information. As a result, Fin11 incorrectly
accrued income in respect of c117,000 records over a 15 month period, resulting
in an overstatement of revenue in Post Office’s books totalling £5.2m.

How was the Fin11 issue resolved, what are the conclusions and what
are the recommendations to prevent a recurrence?

. The issue was resolved by Fujitsu correcting the Fin11 report and refreshing the
data warehouse from the MDS billing system.

Independent external reviews by PwC of Fin11 and Fin15 were completed in July
(Fin11) and August 2018 (Fin15). These validated and reconciled the Fin11 and
Fin15 reports, confirmed the business logic behind them and verified that there
were no other significant errors.

The PwC work also considered why the error was not discovered earlier. The
conclusions were:

e Reliance was placed on the incorrect assumption that the Fin11 report
produced by Fujitsu was an accurate reflection of the data in the underlying
billing system.

« The level of rigour and scepticism applied to understanding the reasons for the
increase in the Line Rental revenue accrual was insufficient given the trend in
the balance and the size of the size of the error.

e There was a lack of clarity/understanding of the contract with Fujitsu with
regard to the roles and responsibilities (at both Post Office and Fujitsu) for
ensuring the accuracy of data held within Fujitsu’s data warehouse and how
the billing system data was used to populate the data warehouse.

* Documentation of the monthly balance sheet review did not have sufficient
factual support to validate the comments made. Process documentation to
ensure the robust and consistent application of the review was not in place.

. PwC prepared a list of Telco specific recommendations to address the weakness in
the control environment:

« Ageing assessment: Identification and scrutiny of the Line Rental accrued
revenue balance would have been facilitated by an effective aging analysis. It
was recommended that Post Office work with Fujitsu to create a report.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

59 of 176
Tab 5.2 The Fin11 Issue

& Telecoms Controls

POST OFFICE PAGE 3

2.5

3.

3.1

3.25

3.3.

3.4.

« Independent checks: Post Office should further develop the process of periodic
review of the information within the Fin11 versus other trends and balances.

e Impact on other reports: As PwC’s work focused primarily on the level of
accrued revenue, they also recommended that any other potentially
misleading statements within the regular monthly reporting commentary
should be identified and considered.

« Supplementary Reporting: PwC noted that they were made aware of additional
“drill down” reports that are available but those reports did not appear to be
in regular use. The additional level of detail contained therein may have
assisted in the more timely discovery of the issue.

« Risk Assessment: Post Office should develop formal guidance to support the
risk assessment that takes place as part of the monthly balance sheet review.
This would assist in a more rigorous and consistent approach.

« Data Retention: Post Office should insist on a level of data retention from its
suppliers to ensure that any future errors are identified and preserved to allow
any re-performance where necessary.

« Data integrity: POL should consider the contractual responsibility for
confirming the accuracy of the data within the Fujitsu data warehouse.

The actions developed to address these recommendations and their current
status are set out in Appendix 1.

. Good progress has been made in implementing PwC’s recommendations. The key
outstanding point is the aged analysis reporting from Fujitsu which has taken time
in the scoping and definition phases, and in finding a build slot. A draft report is
available, has successfully passed testing and is moving into production, with
acceptance anticipated in March 2019 for use at the 2018/19 year end.

How well does the improved Telecoms control environment manage
the risks?

. The improved control environment and regular formal interlock between Telecoms
and Finance have increased our ability to manage the risks of the Telecoms
business.

In addition, the general level of scrutiny applied by the Telecoms and Finance team
has increased significantly, with detailed joint review of weekly data. This has
identified small items for correction/follow-up with Fujitsu that might previously
have grown unnoticed.

However, there are inherent risks with the interface between the Fujitsu Data
Warehouse (that is used as source for our financial reporting) and the MDS billing
systems. The ideal would be for reports to be directly derived from and
automatically reconciled to the billing system. However, the Fujitsu contract is
being re-tendered in 2020 and so large scale changes would be expensive and
potentially short term. We will ensure that our requirements for robust reporting,
data integrity and a strong control environment are incorporated in to the re-
tender documentation. In the meantime we will continue to mitigate the risks
using the higher levels of scrutiny described.

In September 2018 the greater scrutiny and stronger controls between Post Office
and Fujitsu highlighted a data issue within the Fujitsu data warehouse. The impact
was relatively small at £0.35m and occurred in relation to the transfer of customers
in the New Call acquisition in 2017:

Strictly Confidential The Fin11 issue and Telecoms Controls

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 5.2 The Fin11 Issue & Telecoms Controls

POST OFFICE

3.5.

« In between the data extract and the actual transfer date around 1,000 New
Call customers indicated that they did not want to transfer.

e Steps were taken at the time to ensure that the accounts were never live on
the network and they were marked as closed on the MDS billing system.

e However, the corresponding records in the Fujitsu data warehouse were not
removed and Fin11 accrued revenue monthly in error.

e The erroneous records have since been removed from the Fujitsu Data
warehouse.

e In their review of Fin11, PwC noted the New Call customer records in the data
warehouse. They estimated their financial impact to be less than £1k and
noted their pending deletion. As a result PwC did not perform or recommend
any more work.

We have also identified that the model currently used for budgeting and
forecasting has become complicated and unwieldy, making it prone to manual
error. We propose to rebuild this in Q1 and are in the process of bringing in a
specialist contractor to assist.

4. What are the potential wider control issues and how have these been

4.2.

4.3.

addressed?
4.1.

The Fin11 issue highlighted some areas of potential improvement across the wider
business:

« Overreliance by Post Office on third party data for revenue recognition

« Inadequacy of processes and controls in place at third parties

« Lack of understanding by Post Office business owners over processes driving
revenue recognition

e Lack of existence and robustness of controls and reviews around third party
data

Previously, the focus in the Post Office control environment was on granularity of
controls - aiming to mitigate all risks, big and small, through detailed controls.

Prompted by the Fin11 work, changes have been made over the past 6 months
which involved creating a more rounded control environment. This has included
establishing an appropriate level of detective and preventative controls for key
risks:

* Good quality balance sheet reconciliations — the old “probity” process was
inadequate. The new process focuses on the user of the reconciliations i.e.
what information would someone require to identify an issue in the balance.
Training has been given across the business and new reconciliation templates
have been implemented.

« Supportable analysis - balance sheet reviews should be less discursive, instead
focussing on agreeing items back to support and performing analytical and
ageing reviews. These are now performed routinely, with quarterly deep dives.

e Appropriate challenge of management - regular formal meetings with
management to understand and challenge trading, balance sheet trends and
balances in the context of business logic and performance. These are in place.

« Review of detailed controls - detailed controls have been reviewed for naivety;
irrelevant controls have been removed; controls have been re-worked to
ensure a risk focused approach; and a detailed review of processes linked to

Strictly Confidential The Fin11 issue and Telecoms Controls

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

PAGE 4

POL00423454
POL00423454

61 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 5.2 The Fin11 Issue & Telecoms Controls

POST OFFICE PAGE 5

Back Office Transformation has been carried out. This has resulted in
numerous changes to controls. An ongoing cycle of deep dive reviews is
planned.

« Assurance where reliance is placed on third parties - an assurance exercise is
underway in areas where Post Office relies on third parties for revenue
recognition. A review of revenue streams identified 13 third party suppliers
for further work. Of these, 7 were deemed significant/complex and requiring
third party support to gain adequate assurance (Grant Thornton have been
engaged), the remaining 6 are being reviewed internally by the Post Offfice
central finance team. The current status and findings are:

o Reviews and discussions have been held with finance managers and
business partners to assess data flows, business understanding.

o For the 6 suppliers reviewed by Post Office, revenue data tied through to
support and understanding was gained over data flows. No data issues
have been identified to date, however some testing is still ongoing
(primarily BGL group). Minimal areas for development have been identified
to date.

o The reviews of the suppliers by Grant Thornton are ongoing. The status
across these is that initial discussions have been held, information requests
have been submitted and field visits for in-depth testing have begun. The
aim is for completion of the work as part of the year end.

Strictly Confidential The Fin11 issue and Telecoms Controls

62 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

POST OFFICE PAGE 6

Appendix 1: Status of Telecoms specific actions (1 of 2)

Status

1. Ageing assessment: Identification and scrutiny of the Line rental accused revenue balance would have been facilitated by an effective aging
analysis. It was recommended that Post Office engage with Fujitsu to provide a regular report

NUD SWIO9aI21 *g aNssI

uD

¢

= laction I Design and implement an ageing analysis for accrued and deferred cs I Mar 19] Report has been successfully tested and is Ju) 5
a 1.1 I balances moving into the production environment

8 for March delivery ahead of year end.

3 2. Independent checks: Post Office should develop a further process of periodic review of the information within the Fin11 report to other trends and
g balances.

a laction I Implement regular minuted meetings, with actions) between Finance I cS/ I a4 Meetings implemented and diarised twice [Renee
a 2.1 I and the Telco business team to review in detail the balances and MS 18/19 I monthly going forward

movements in the Fin11 report (and the Fin2 and Fin 15 reports)

2 versus market, Post Office activity, business logic and P&L

be performance and “proof in total” reconciliations.

9 [Action I Formally implement “proof in total” checks at FJ on the daily updates Cs/ I Closed I Implemented Closed
3 2.2 I to the Data warehouse (e.g. Number of active accounts; total AG

customers). Detail and confirmation to Post Office as part of the

g regular daily confirmation
° 3. Impact on other Reports: As PwC's work focused primarily on the level of accrued revenue, they also recommend that any potentially misleading
gs statements within the regular monthly reporting commentary should be identified and considered.

lAction I Weekly Telco Report to be expanded to include details of ageing, CS/ I Mari9 I Dependency on Ageing report (see 1.1 Amber
I 3.1 I deferred and accrued expenditure and income for review AG above)
8 laction I Follow-up on areas highlighted in PwC's report on Fin15 CS/ I Closed I Minor issued identified and confirmed as [Renee
3 3.2 MS one off
o Action I New balance sheet review procedures to be put in place with a focus Cs/ I Closed I Implemented form P6, with in depth CFO [elect

3.3. I on reconciliation and supportable analysis back to analytics MS reviews at P3, P6, P9 and P12 each year

4. Supplementary Reporting: PwC noted that they were made aware of additional “drill down” reports that are available but those reports did not
appear to be in regular use. The additional level of detail contained therein may have assisted in the timelier discovery of the misstatement

laction I Investigate “drill down” reports to determine if useful cs I Closed ] The information is already in regular use, Jee
44 including the Telephone Rental Drill Down
which was highlighted to by us to PwC.

Strictly Confidential The Fin11 issue and Telecoms Controls

POL00423454
POL00423454

el

4

POST OFFICE PAGE 7

Appendix 1: Status of Telecoms specific actions (2 of 2)

5. Risk Assessment: Post Office should develop guidance to support the risk assessment that takes place as part of the monthly balance sheet @
review. This will help assist in a more rigorous and consistent approach across the business.

3 lAction I Develop and formalise a more rigorous monthly balance sheet review I MP/ I Closed I The monthly balance sheet review has

c 5.1 process that is consistently applied cs evolved, with emphasis moving from
“explanations” to “proofs” particularly in
accruals and prepayments. This has now
been formalised and implemented, with in
depth CFO reviews at P3, P6, PS and P12

frameworks around them. 18/19

a each year

2 laction I Identify all the areas where reliance is placed on third party MP/ I For I Work is underway for completion for year Imeqeeyl
bal 5.2 I information and develop appropriate control and assurance cs y/e_ I end.

ge

6. Data Retention: Post Office should insist on a level of data retention from its suppliers to ensure that any future errors are identified and preserved
to allow any re-performance where necessary.

Action I Determine ways to obtain access to previous versions of the data CS/ I Closed I Discussions with F) indicate that retention

6.1 warehouse MS of old Data warehouse versions is not
feasible. In mitigation we are maintain
our own archives of the key reports

7. Data integrity: POL should consider the contractual responsibility for confirming the accuracy of the data within the Fujitsu data warehouse.

lAction I Review contractual responsibility for accuracy of reporting cs I Closed I Review confirms that F) has no

7A responsibilities for the “FIN” suite of
reports as these were created for Post
Office (which signed them off) post-
contract. Lessons learned will be
incorporated into the for the up-coming
procurement

Strictly Confidential The Fin11 issue and Telecoms Controls

Tab 6.1 Cyber Security

POST OFFICE LIMITED PAGE 1 OF 4
AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Cyber Security Update

Authors: David Meldrum/Mick Mitchell Sponsor: Rob Houghton Meeting date: 25 March 2019

Executive Summary

Context

This report provides a short update on the progress with the Security Strategy that was
shared with ARC in January 2019, and an update on the management of recent security
incidents that have occurred.

Questions this paper addresses

.
.

What progress have we made on implementing the Security strategy?

What is the progress of the implementation of Archer?

What remedial activities have we carried out as a result of the recent security
incidents that have occurred?

Conclusion

1.

We continue to make progress with our Security Strategy. We have prioritised
our investment around 3 key areas — improving the reach and capability of the
SOC, including improving our Computer Security Incident Response Team
(CSIRT); focusing on improving the management around Data Security including
Data Leakage Prevention (DLP); and improving the management and assurance
of compliance of our 3" parties. Solid progress has been made in these 3 areas
already (see below) and an investment case will be presented for further funding
in March. Furthermore, the current Deloitte review of Cyber and Information
Security seems to validate the priorities highlighted in the Security Strategy.

Whilst RSA Archer has been implemented for the Security Operations Centre for
managing security incidents, the rollout of the additional risk modules including
third party assurance has not been agreed or prioritised at present. Further work
is required with the Risk function on the best way forward.

Since December 2018, we have been the subject of 3 security incidents which
have been actively managed. In addition, we have carried a pre-emptive phishing
exercise across the organisation to raise awareness of the dangers of email
phishing attacks. All of the above events have further validated the priorities we
have set for our security strategy, especially around the need to improve our SOC
and CSIRT capability.

Input Sought

The ARC is requested to note the progress made, and provide feedback on the report.

Strictly Confidential Page 1 of 5 RCC Cyber-Security Paper

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454

POL00423454

65 of 176
Tab 6.1 Cyber Security

66 of 176

Report

What progress have we made on implementing the Security
strategy?

1. Since the last ARC, we have prioritised our major strategic efforts into three
themes and we are progressing activities in these areas:

a. Improving the coverage and capability of the new security operations
centre (SOC), including improving our coverage, diagnostics and response
capability (CSIRT). The SOC is initially covering the base use cases from
our 4 major suppliers and we will extend these use cases, and pick up
event logs from other essential suppliers applications. We will also
introduce other areas not currently covered such as Payzone. Recent
incidents have demonstrated that we need to improve our response
process to incidents (CSIRT).

b. Improving our data security protection, which is protecting our data from
leakage through people, processes, and technology/tooling. We have
focussed on understanding our unstructured data assets discovery and
improving governance on password improvements and Phishing
awareness.

c. Improving the governance and assurance of our IT security posture over
our 3 parties to ensure they are not exposing POL to a possible breach.
We have commenced regular Security reviews with our major suppliers to
assure they are governing themselves and their 3 parties. This has
already improved the security posture of the services we receive.

2. The current Deloitte review validates the priorities indicated above, with no
additional headline items being articulated in the review so far. We continue to
keep close to the outputs of this review and will amend our plans accordingly if
this position changes.

3. There remain some activities that require funding, which we have prioritised and
are progressing for investment, which is in italics in the table below.

Initiative Time Line Status ‘Outcome
Recruitment of CISO I January-April 2019 Inflight Recruitment of Group CISO to provide added focus on
end to end security activity
Multi-factor November 2018 Completed Ensuring all remote login’s to Post Office environment
authentication requires a multi-factor authentication code
Security Operations November 2018 Completed Centralised security management into joint Verizon /
Centre Go-Live Post Office Security Operations Centre
Recruitment of SOC January 2019 Completed Recruitment of Post Office SOC Lead to drive continual
lead improvement
Creating Post Office March 2019 Inflight Cyber Security Incident Response Team to manage
CSIRT security incidents and issues
Password Audits December 2018 — Completed Proactive cracking of Post Office password directory to
March 2019 identify scale of issue with weak internal passwords
Disabled all users December 2018- Completed/Ongoing I Disabling all users found to have a weak password.
with weak ‘onwards Being reviewed on a weekly basis.
Passwords
Strictly Confidential Page 2 of 5 RCC Cyber-Security Paper

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 6.1 Cyber Security

Risk Management

Password Strength Go Live March 2019 Inflight Subsequent deployment of password strength tool,

Tool Deployment enforcing use of strong passwords

Microsoft Advanced I Commenced February Inflight Security insight on employee office 365 security —

Threat Analytics 2019 multiple logins in different locations, login whilst on

leave ete

Varonis Data February 2019 Completed Proactive scan of our active directory and share point

Discovery Phase 1 environment to identify scale of unstructured data

Varonis Data March 2019 Inflight ider scan and auto-classification of data based on the

Discovery Phase 2 results of Phase 1

Proactive Phishing February 2019 Continuous Measuring the susceptibility of Post Office user base to

Campaigns simple phishing campaign

Red Teaming October 2018 Completed Proactive Ethical hacking exercise simulating internet-

exercise based attack of Post Office

Deloitte Audit January onwards Completed/Ongoing End-End Security assessment against industry
standards and reviewing progress made in 2016

Deloitte Audit

Symantec Endpoint I Commenced February I _ Inflight/Complete Improving and updating the anti-virus and laptop

Protection Upgrade 2019 End of March 2019 protection suite for Post Office end users

Culture and January 2019 Inflight Regular messaging from Post Office leadership

Communications highlighting expectations around key security themes

Data Security December 2019 Inflight Taunched to deliver holistic data cla

Transformation protection and management

Programme

Third-party January 2019 Inflight Measuring and managing the compliance of our 3%

governance parties to internal security policies and standards

commenced

Security Enterprise February 2019 Completed ‘Quantifying and managing residual risk to report to

ARC

Data Loss Commencing April 2019 Business Case To automatically prevent the egress of confidential or
Prevention Suite Planning sensitive data from Post Office
(DLP)
Data Classification I Commencing April 2019 Business Case Users will be forced to security classify documents
Tool Planning before they can save/print — enabling the DLP tooling
Security Operations I Commencing April 2019 Business Case Ensuring full coverage of all critical systems and
Centre Planning services in the SOC
Enhancement
Mobile Device Commencing April 2019 Business Case Ensuring remote Find / Lock / Wipe for all mobile
Management Planning devices within Post Office
Enhancement
Archer Risk Commencing April 2019 Business Case Expanding the current use of Archer within the SOC into]
Management Planning wider security management like 3% Party assurance
Platform

What is the progress of the implementation of Archer?

4. The initial implementation of Archer as part of the Security Operations Centre
(SOC) has completed and the SOC Analysts are currently using the platform for
managing security incidents that are raised from the Post Office SIEM (Security
Information and Event Management) tool.

5. The expansion of the Archer tool to encompass third party assurance and security
controls assurance across the Post Office environment is currently being
discussed as part of the strategic risk based approach for the implementation of
the security transformation programme. We need to reach an agreed way forward
with the Risk function on whether we roll out Archer for Governance, Risk and
Compliance (GRC) or use another tool for this.

Strictly Confidential

Page 3 of 5

RCC Cyber-Security Paper

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

67 of 176
Tab 6.1 Cyber Security

What remedial activities have we carried out as a result of the
recent security incidents that have occurred?

At the end of December 2018 we were alerted to 50 PO accounts being available
through an Iranian state exploit of multiple companies by the National Cyber
Security Centre (NCSC). All 50 accounts had weak passwords and upon
notification they were all promptly locked down and forced to use strong
passwords.

At the end of February the NCSC alerted Post Office to inform that an extract of
our Active Directory data - in other words the collection of users that access our
email and other systems - is being offered for sale on the internet. The data for
sale includes 10000 employee user names, office location and department, but
not passwords. The exploit would have likely come from one of our accounts being
compromised or a dissatisfied/ fraudulent employee. We have currently
discovered no further breaches. Most of this data is publicly available. We
continue to actively monitor this incident for any breaches.

Also at the end February Verizon Cyber Risk Program advised Post Office that a
collection of 29 billion stolen users’ credentials (usernames and passwords) had
been published in the Dark web in January. From these stolen users’ credentials
there were 40 that appeared to be from the Post Office. Multiple threat actors
claimed to be the source of the data, and were distributing these databases
throughout the dark web. The source of the accounts were not obtained from Post
Office systems rather from users registering for external non-work related
services (e.g. utilities, myfitnesspal etc) and those systems had been
compromised. As a precaution, those 40 accounts were disabled and their
passwords were changed. A note was sent to all Post Office employees to reiterate
the importance of strong passwords and not to register for non-corporate services
and applications.

In parallel to these events we are now running a number of proactive activities in
the Security Operations area to increase our security posture. Examples of these
activities are:

a. We have started to build a strong CSIRT checklist to improve our response
to security incidents.

b. Regular audits of our password database have shown a number of weak
passwords, which have been changed.

c. Regular audits and disabling of administration rights on devices that do
not require administration rights.

d. IT Security ran a phishing campaign in February to determine the level of
awareness to potential malicious emails. During the campaign
approximately 20% of Post Office employees clicked on the malicious link
which in a real phishing campaign could lead to Malware being installed in
the Post Office estate. Those employees who clicked on the link are
required to complete phishing awareness training so that in the future they
are able to detect and report phishing emails.

Strictly Confidential Page 4 of 5 RCC Cyber-Security Paper

68 of 176

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 6.1 Cyber Security

e. We have increased the analytics around the 0365 estate to monitor
unusual user behaviours (e.g. multiple logins from different locations at
the same time).

f. We are reviewing the capability of our threat intelligence partner, Digital
Shadows, in light of the above incidents as we need to improve our
external threat intelligence.

g. We have identified around 140,000 “stale” (not accessed within 60 days)
files containing sensitive data and about 14,000 sensitive files being
shared with external users. We are now looking at ways to classify and
control these files more actively.

h. We have increased our contact with the National Cyber Security Centre.

Strictly Confidential Page 5 of 5 RCC Cyber-Security Paper

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 69 of 176
Tab 7 Back Office Transformation

70 of 176

THE AUDIT, RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Back Office Transformation

Author: Benjamin Cooke Sponsors: Rob Houghton, Alisdair Cameron

Executive Summary

Context

In January the board were taken through the Go/No-Go decision. On January 28 we
transitioned our Supply Chain operations to Transtrack CWC and financial processes to
our Core Finance System (SAP CFS). POLSAP is now an archive. The significant risk
from its hardware has been mitigated.

Two areas of concern and manual working were highlighted: our ability to reconcile
daily cash movements from Transtrack CWC through to CFS; and delays in the
intermediate and permanent solutions for branch cash forecasting.

This paper provides an update on the Go-Live, a summary of progress on the issues,
and an overview of other issues faced since Go-Live with a focus Branch impacts.

Questions addressed in this report

1) What is the current project status?

2) What has the impact been on our finance and supply chain operations?
3) How has the lack of a cash forecasting tool impacted Branch cash?

4) What is the impact of Transtrack CWC financial reconciliation issues?
5) What impact has the project had on Branches?

6) Where are we on financials and next steps?

Conclusion

« We are now fully live and have completed a month end on SAP CFS for financials.
There have been some teething issues on the Sales-Finance side but limited and
managed.

¢ Daily operations in Supply Chain on Transtrack CWC are taking longer to settle down
with basic in-bound and out-bound processing not yet back at pre-go-live pace, but
heading in the right direction. Delays in processing inward REMS rose significantly
but levels are now back to normal. Tactical issues impacting users have been
addressed more slowly than we would like, with Transtrack’s development team
focused on our larger challenges.

e Reverting to standard cash remittances for Branches peaked at an additional £87m
of cash in the network. In the second week of March planned cash orders have been
reinstated and excess cash has already dropped to £60m. We expect this reduction
to continue. The sterling forecast solution will move to parallel run this month.

@BCL@B80F8066 Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 7 Back Office Transformation

e Physical cash is counted weekly at all sites and matches Transtrack cash-on-hand
figures. A number of initial differences arose but these have been investigated and
cleared with support from Internal Audit.

e However, a substantial transactions are not being successfully processed through
CWC and into SAP CFS. Initially, we were also unable to make the reporting work,
proven before Go-Live, that identified all of the transactions underlying the
difference. The reporting issues are resolved, giving assurance that there is no loss
and enabling us to identify root cause to prevent new and clear old differences: we
can see all the individual transactions “stuck” in CWC.

e Unfortunately the progress that Transtrack is making to identify and resolve the root
causes is unsatisfactorily slow, reflecting their limited scale. Accenture and ourselves
are assisting with both assessments and skill sharing. Nonetheless, it may well be
May/June before we are operating cleanly.

e« Weare working closely with PwC to ensure that we produce timely, audited accounts.
In the Lessons Learnt exercise for BoT we may conclude that the capability of
Transtrack, an existing provider, should have received more challenge.

The Report

Current Project Status

Cutover
1. The cut-over weekend was executed successfully. On Monday 28" January, our
client settlements were paid manually, and our Bureau Cash Operations were
primarily manual both Monday and Tuesday. Beyond that, other than the issues
below, we have been operating in our target state from the beginning of
February.

Finance Processes (POLSAP Process Migration)

2. In total, our finance teams have raised 185 issues, of which only 31 severity 3/4
issues remain open. One or two clients queried the new invoicing processes.
Royal Mail were invoiced two days late but were communicated with throughout.

3. We completed our first month-end on the new systems. However, we have
decided to retain erly-life project support remains until after the financial year-
end as a precaution. Horizon (and all web/app) sales are now channelled into
CFS which uses master data contracts to auto-calculate settlement and billing for
every client/product and uses the same data for agents’ pay and financial
reporting.

4. This month our first system generated product profitability reporting is available
in CFS, although it will need some time to fully operationalise.

@BCL@B80F8066 Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

71 of 176
Tab 7 Back Office Transformation

Supply Chain; Cash Processing

5. Supply Chain operations has been more of a challenge. It took around 4 weeks
for basic in-bound and in-bound cash processing to settle down and perform at
pre-Go-Live levels. There are indications that we may start to see performance
gains, which are being sought. Processes changed most significantly in the area
of cash corrections.

6. Data is captured at a more granular level than before, which creates stronger
controls and reporting, but caused some initial confusion with manual working in
bureau on the first few days, and confusion with stock corrections leading to a
back-log of items that needed checking and re-processing. This has taken time
to work through alongside our ongoing operations.

7. An initial backlog of corrections has been resolved with help from Internal Audit.

Supply Chain; Cash Forecasting

8. Cash forecasting moved to standard remittances for all Branches (i.e. rather than
forecast, they received a set pre-agreed value). At its peak, it increased branch
cash by £87m.

9. Calls from Branches reduced during this period as most were over funded. In the
second week of March we re-introduced planned cash orders, increasing
collections and reducing cash orders. Excess cash has reduced to £60m and
should continue to fall.

10.Branch calls have returned to pre-Go-Live levels and feedback from the NFSP is
that neither switch has caused undue concern within the network.

11.The sterling cash forecast solution is about to start parallel run and will be
evaluated over the coming weeks. As the inventory team become confident in
the proposals they will enable more automation. Given this timescale and the
need to fund Easter it may be end May before branch cash returns to the £450m
level seen after Christmas.

Transtrack CWC Cash-on-Hand to CFS Financial Reconciliation

12.Our biggest challenge Post-Go-Live has been reconciling Transtrack CWC’s
accurate Cash-on-Hand figures to the values it sends to CFS. A significant number
of cash movement transactions occur but fail to make it to the out-bound
interface.

13.We knew this pre-Go-Live and had made progress in closing issues. Even though
we expected the problem to get worse, the GO decision was made as:

a. we knew physical cash reconciled to Transtrack local site cash on hand
(more on this in following section), and

b. a model was created that quickly identified all missing transactions for
analysis.

14.Following go-live this problem was worse than expected. It’s important to note
that physical cash still reconciles to Transtrack cash on hand so there is no risk
of physical cash loss. However, the model allowing us to identify transactions
failed, preventing the ability to pin-point issues and solve root cause.

@BCL@B80F8066 Strictly Confidential

72 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 7 Back Office Transformation

15.With Transtrack and Post Office resource spread across our sites, supporting
operations it took some time for the report failings to be analysed and fully
resolved.

16.On Feb 25" we reached our pre-Go-live position of being able to see each missing
stock transaction and moved focus to identifying root cause. Resolution has been
limited by the size and capability of Transtrack’s development team and we are
working with Accenture to actively bolster their capability, which will improve our
pace of resolution. Current estimates indicate that we will still be closing issues
through May/June.

17.At year end there will still be a meaningful difference between the balance on
CWC and on CFS. However as the underlying CWC data is supported by weekly
cash counts and we have a transaction listing of all stuck transactions, we believe
that we can support our accounts. Finance are conducting a mock year-end for
cash GLs on Sunday 17‘ March to test the approach agreed with our auditors
and confirm appropriate documentation.

Supply Chain; Physical Cash Counts

18.During this period, Supply Chain have been completing full site cash counts at
every location each week. Friday 8"" returned a complete match at all sites but
one; this had a slight shortage which we expect to be due to an overage the week
before.

19.This process took time to get right due to a high number of manual “stock
corrections” that occurred during and after go-live. Some of these were user
error, many needed to correct actions in the first few days. Not all had adequate
paperwork.

20.Our internal audit, supported by external financial audit team have worked with
supply chain - reviewing old CCTV footage where necessary - to double check
each of these stock corrections. In summary their view is that nothing malicious
has occurred and we expect to close the last few in the coming days. Several
useful recommendations about our stock correction process have been made that
we will look to implement.

@BCL@B80F8066 Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 73 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 7 Back Office Transformation

Branches Impacting Issues
21.A number of issues faced in project early life support have impacted branches.
Each issue is being fully documented through to resolution in a format agreed
with the Legal Team, learning lessons from the GLO process.

Issue Impact Resolution
a a,

The product was wrongly removed during a
large data cleanse. This was quickly realised

Branches who claimed with the product re-instated, however only half
Official Postage whilst the product was technically re-instated causing
Offical Pomage I M2 Sefautt mode was the Post Master to make a loss each time they
Product Incorrect now have a transacted. This was technically corrected after
Removed and discrepancy. These 7 working days.
" transactions are
re-activated relatively low value 1093 branches transacted during this period
wrongly hence the average need to complete a reversal transaction to
impact per impacted correct. 624 have, 469 are outstanding. All have

Branch was around £13. I been contacted and our out-bound call centre
will continue to call the 469 until they are
resolved.

In the first 2 days after Go-live our bureau cash
operated manually, meaning no pre-
When a Branch receives I aNnouncements were available. Around 500
cash and scans ina branches made errors when entering cash

Manual cash
receipting due pouch the cash received receipts. The 17 whose errors were over £50k
: is auto-populated. If this I Were informed quickly with the issue resolved
bat pre-announcement is not I Within 15 days. In total there were around 150
1 seanien available then Branches possible errors being investigated with
manual manually enter cash communications sent to all impacted branches.
operations 7
1. Pre- received. On 27" Feb the pre-announcement interface
announcement _ This leads to errors such I failed due to a number range running out in
fail as selecting the wrong Horizon. This was fixed within 6 days. A report
euurs currency, or entering too I 0N whether this type of issue could apply to
many “00"s. other interfaces is being worked through.
Matching of issues and receipts is in progress to
determine the number of branches impacted.
The Transtrack CWC HQ_ I This issue impacted 134 bureau and 200 coin
system crashed twice deliveries, the Branches were sent their orders
Transtrack HQ impacting the inventory _I the next day.
crash team who were unable to I with a server re-boot the system came back and
get all orders out forthe I the root cause is known. The issue was
day. permanently fixed on 18" March date.
@BCL@BSOFS66 Strictly Confidential

74 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 7 Back Office Transformation

Going Forward
22.The project team are preparing project closure reports and continuing to deliver

outstanding elements of scope including the archiving of POLSAP, small changes
delayed until post-go-live, technical environment close out and continuing to
upskill business team super-users on the new processes and systems.

23.Whilst we are unable to forecast precisely when our issues will be resolved we
believe that we will complete within the £37.3m cost forecast for a Jan Go-Live
that was provided in September. However some of the scope initially planned will
not be completed, the largest of these being our future forecasting solution which
requires rethinking. Any outstanding scope will go through the diligence of our
change funding and prioritisation process. An update on program close our will
come to the board in May or June.

@BCL@B80F8066 Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 75 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.1 Internal Audit Report

POST OFFICE PAGE 1 OF 5
AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE NOTING PAPER
Author: Johann Appel Sponsor: Jane MacLeod Meeting date: 25" March 2019

Executive Summary

Context

The purpose of this paper is to update the Committee on the PO Internal Audit activity
and key outcomes. This includes details of the work completed since the last Audit, Risk
and Compliance Committee (ARC) meeting in January and progress on the 2018/19
Internal Audit Plan.

Questions this paper addresses

e Is the Internal Audit Plan on track? What progress has been made since the last
meeting?

¢ Do Internal Audit have adequate resources to deliver the Audit Plan?

« What progress is being made with completion of audit actions?

« Have any significant issues arisen that the committee should be aware of?

Conclusion
1. Progress against plan:

We are making good progress following the delays experienced in 2018, with 24 of the
26 reviews on track for delivery by the May ARC meeting. The remaining two reviews
are change assurance reviews, which are currently being re-assessed in consequence
to the change portfolio being reprioritised. Our initial view is that it is too early to
review these programmes and that they are likely to be delayed to 2019/20.

One review has been finalised since the January ARC, with five reviews currently in
reporting and a further eight in fieldwork. An update on the ongoing Cyber Security
Maturity review is provided in paragraph 8. Current delivery progress is as follows:

2018/19 Combined Plan Status -Total Audits = 26 “
\\ = Completed
= Reporting

= Fieldwork
26

= Planning

=> Not started

(ARC approved baseline plan for 2018/19 (16 core internal audit reviews & 10 change assurance reviews).

A full summary of the 2018/19 audit plan status is included in Appendix 1.

Strictly Confidential ht March 2019

76 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.1 Internal Audit Report

POST OFFICE PAGE 2

2. Open and Overdue Audit Actions (as at 18 March 2019):
Audit Action Status:

Open (not yet due) 19
Overdue (<60 days) 0
Overdue (>60 days) ie}
Total 19

More detailed information is provided in paragraph 11 of the report.

3. Significant Issues:
There are no significant issues we believe the committee should be made aware of.

Input Sought
The Committee is asked to note and provide comment as necessary.

Strictly Confidential March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 77 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.1 Internal Audit Report

78 of 176

POST OFFICE PAGE 3

The Report

Changes to plan since January ARC meeting

4. There were no changes made to the audit plan since the January ARC meeting. The
re-prioritised plan approved by the ARC is attached as appendix 1.

POMS Audit Plan

5. POL Internal Audit is also responsible for delivery of the audit plan for Post Office
Insurance (POMS). Progress with the 2018/19 audit plan is reported at the POMS
ARC. All five audits on the plan are now complete or underway:

Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD) - Readiness Review (Complete)
Oversight of Appointed Representatives - Phase 1(Complete)
Nemesis Project - Programme assurance (Reporting)

Oversight of Appointed Representatives — Phase 2 (Planning)

MI quality and effectiveness (Planning)

Internal audit reviews completed

6. Since the January ARC meeting we have finalised the review of Bank Account
Governance. Our findings and observations are summarised below (the full audit
report is included in the reading room):

Bank Account Governance (Ref. 2018/19-14)

Following recent headlines over the material shortfall between
Patisserie Valerie’s actual and reported financial positions, and
investigation by the Serious Fraud Office (SFO), the CFOO has
requested that Internal Audit carries out a review of the controls
over bank account governance within Post Office.

The audit assessed the design and operating effectiveness of

Sponsor: controls in place over all aspects of governance of Post Office

Al Cameron bank accounts, including delegated authorities, bank mandates,
set up of new bank accounts, restricted access to online banking

Audit actions: facilities, monitoring mechanisms and bank reconciliations.

We conclude that the controls over the setting up and
management of bank accounts are well established and
effective, as a result we have rated this report Satisfactory.
There is reliance placed upon the Treasury team to operate the
controls over bank account set-up and management and work is
ongoing to address the lack of detailed process guidance to
enable these duties to be covered in case of absence or turnover.
The Treasury Policy is signed off by the CFOO and is subject to
annual review (and re-approval by the ARC).

The audit took longer than anticipated due to resource
constraints within the Treasury team and with the previous TR&C
manager leaving, and his replacement undergoing his induction,
there is work being undertaken to ensure continuity and
handover of the key banking contacts and relationships.

1
2
3

Management Comment provided by Al Cameron
Thanks to Internal Audit for a timely and helpful review.

Strictly Confidential March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.1 Internal Audit Report

POST OFFICE PAGE 4

Internal audit reviews in reporting

7. The following internal audits have been completed and the reports are currently
being cleared with management:

Review ‘Status / Remarks
1 [Branch Hub (Change Assurance) Final draft report for management comment
2 INetwork Reporting Final draft report for management comment
3 IAgent Remuneration Final draft report for management comment
4 ICyber Security Draft report - see par 8 for progress update
5 IContract Management (IT) Final draft report for management comment

Update on Cyber Security Maturity Assessment

8. Following previous audits of information security in 2013 and 2016 and a red-
team exercise in September 2018, the Board have expressed a desire to
understand the level of progress towards increased Cyber Security maturity.

9. Deloitte conducted an initial review of the 34 cyber security capabilities, using
the Deloitte Cyber Security Framework (CSF) in January 2019. This high level
assessment was intended to provide a rapid view of areas for a “deep dive”
second phase assessment. The findings from phase 1 identified 19 domains to
be assessed as priority, however, it was decided that establishing a baseline
maturity across all 34 domains would be more desirable and would assist
management in prioritising remedial actions.

10. The phase 2 review has experienced some delays and although the fieldwork is
substantially complete, Deloitte still have to agree with management appropriate
maturity targets and remedial action plans. As a result, the final maturity
assessment and action plan were not ready at the time of writing this report. We
have, however, attached a preliminary report as appendix 2 and will endeavour
to circulate the finalised report ahead of the ARC meeting if possible.

Updates on Internal Audit Open and Overdue Actions

11. Audit actions are generally being completed on time. As at 18 March there were
19 open actions, none of which were overdue.

Audit Action Status: BAU Change Total
Open (not yet due) 18 1 19
Overdue (<60 days) ie} 0 oO
Overdue (>60 days) ie) i?) oO
Total 18 1 19

END OF REPORT

Strictly Confidential March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 79 of 176
POL00423454

POL00423454

Tab 8.1 Internal Audit Report

POST OFFICE PAGE 5

Appendix 1 —- Re-prioritised Plan (As agreed with ARC on 30 October 2018)

2018/19 Internal Audit Plan - Status as at 18 March 2019

No. I Title/Subject Sponsor ira Timing _I Status / Rating
Internal Control Reviews

1 _ I Product Risk Review (Postal Orders) 0. Woodley _I Original April

2 I Employee Expenses A cameron’ Original April

3 I Procurement Fraud Investigation ‘A.Cameron I Addition May
4 I Month-end Close Process A.Cameron I Addition I Nov

5 MoneyGram Compliance O. Woodley Addition Sept

6 _I Contract Management (IT) R. Houghton I Original Oct
7 Whistle-blower Process J. Macleod Original Oct

8 I Opening of Bank Accounts A.Cameron I Addition Nov

9 I FS Training & Competence oie Original March Planning

10 I Cyber Security R. Houghton I Original Jan Draft Report

11 I IT Control Framework R. Houghton I Original March Fieldwork

12 I Financial Control Framework A.Cameron I Original Jan Fieldwork

13 Payroll M. Kang Original Feb Fieldwork

14 I Client Settlements Process (Interim Controls) I A. Cameron I Original Jan Fieldwork

15 I Agents Remuneration A.Cameron I Original Jan Final Draft Report
16 I Network and SGEI Reporting D. Smith Addition Feb Final Draft Report
17 I Procure to Pay A.Cameron__ I Original a4/aQ1 I Postpone®

18 I Branch Cash Forecasting & Management A.Cameron__I Original Q1 19/20 I Postpone"

19 I Supply Chain Management A.Cameron I Original a1 19/20 I Postponet

20 I Digital Strategy & Capability 0. Woodley I Original 2019/20 I Postpone®

21 [I Online Sales 0. Woodley _I Original 2019/20 _ I Postpone®)

22 I Data Privacy (GDPR Follow-up) J. Macleod I Addition a1 19/20 I Postpone®
Change Assurance”

1 I Change Excellence (Trafalgar) R. Houghton I Governance I May Advisory Report
2 I DMB Strategy D. Smith Programme I July

3 __I Branch Hub (Agents Portal) D. Smith Programme I October
4 I Investment Funding Controls R. Houghton I Governance I November

5 I Payzone Integration (Panther) q enn n I Programme I Jan Fieldwork

6 I Digital Identity Services M. Edwards I Programme I Feb Fieldwork

7 I Digitising Mails D. Smith Programme I TBC Being assessed

8 I Payment Technology Upgrade (PCI) D. Smith Programme I TBC Being assessed

9 _[ Change Excellence (Follow-up) R. Houghton I Governance I March Fieldwork

10 I P2C Belfast Exit R. Houghton I Programme I March Fieldwork

Delay until after BOT programme is complete and new controls embedded.

2) postpone due to process still bedding down and maturing (GDPR) / restructuring (Digital & Online) / remediation (P2P).
the list of Change Assurance reviews was approved by the ARC on the basis of being the highest risk programmes planned for
2018/19 at the time. The list is being reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis to reflect the programmes most deserving of
independent assurance, predominantly ‘Platinum’ projects.

Strictly Confidential ARC

March 2019

80 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.1.1 Appendix 1 - Deloitte Assessment of Cyber Security Maturity - Phase 2 - Pre Report Memo

Appendix 2

Deloitte Cyber Security Maturity Review - 18 March 2019

Deloitte Assessment of Post Office Ltd Cyber Security
Maturity - Phase 2 Pre-Report Memo

Introduction

Deloitte assessed the information security posture at the Post Office Ltd (POL) in 2013 and 2016. POL has made progress
in addressing the points raised in those assessments and there are a number of key strengths; but some actions remain

outstanding.

Deloitte conducted a further high-level review of 34 cyber security capabilities across POL using the Deloitte Cyber Security
Framework (CSF) during January 2019. The output from this work (known as phase 1) sought to gain a rapid view of
areas for further investigation and assessment. The output of phase 1 activity has been reported in a Deloitte memo

previously.

This memo relates to a further detailed and evidenced based review of those 34 cyber security capabilities assessed in
phase 1. During phase 2, the in-depth assessment comprised of interviews with key POL stakeholders and detailed
documentation review. The output from this process is a validated maturity score across the 34 cyber security capabilities,
the provision of two industry benchmarks against which POL cyber capabilities may be compared and detailed
recommendations, which if implemented, will take POL to target maturity as selected by POL. The phase 2 outputs also
provide the basis of a repeatable assessment of cyber maturity for the POL so that cyber security maturity can be

continually tracked as improvements are delivered over time.

High-Level Summary of Cyber Security Maturity Scores

Phase 2

Deloitte Cyber Strategy Framework ue ad Validated aeeey Average Maturity
Domains Maturity Score M@EHFIEY ——Giobal Retail) —_(Slebal FS)
Score
19 24 24 27
Secure 20 2a 25 27
Metea 1.8 2.0 25 25
Resilient 19 2a 24 27

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 81 of 176
Tab 8.1.1 Appendix 1 - Deloitte Assessment of Cyber Security Maturity - Phase 2 - Pre Report Memo

82 of 176

Deloitte Cyber Security Maturity Review - 18 March 2019

Overview of Key Strengths

The key areas of strength identified during phase 2 are outlined below:

Governance Structure

POL has mature security teams who discharge security responsibilities across IT, Information Security, and Information
Protection and Assurance. Their work is supported by senior internal stakeholders and a network of working groups
including the Information Security Committee (ISC), Cultural Committee and Cyber Risk Assessment Forum (CRAF), which
all feed into the Audit and Risk Committee, and ultimately, the Post Office Board. This ensures that there is a route for
escalation of cyber issues and sharing of cyber related information across the organisation. There is also a good
understanding of the regulatory requirements which underpins this governance structure across the organisation
(including PCI, GDPR and FCA, etc.).

Security Policy Coverage

POL has a comprehensive suite of wider security policies which leverage best practice from industry standards (such as
NIST and ISO 27001). All policies are available through a centralised location on the Intranet or Horizon. All policies are
reviewed annually or as appropriate in accordance with key POL or security developments, such as GDPR. Although this
is a strength, there is further policy development that can be undertaken to increase control effectiveness across the
organisation.

Cyber Risk Discussion and Information Sharing

POL is proactive in raising and responding to risk(s) identified through the involvement of relevant stakeholders, formally
captured via the Cyber Risk Assessment Forum (CRAF), risk registers and an easily digestible colour coded
(red/amber/green) risk priority matrix.

Business continuity management and Disaster Recovery

An experienced Business Continuity Management (BCM) and Disaster Recovery (DR) team understands the business and
its priorities. Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) and DR plans are in place for each business area and relevant testing
exercises are conducted. Post incident reviews are undertaken following incidents and lessons are fed back to enable
continuous improvement.

Physical Security of Cash in Transit and Depots

The physical security procedures for handling cash both in transit and at depots are extremely robust and effective in
accordance with Bank of England standards and other relevant legislation. Controls are based on a layered approach, and
reviewed and updated as required as per the latest developments in requirements and technology. Regular testing and
lessons learned are captured through spot checks and inspections.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.1.1 Appendix 1 - Deloitte Assessment of Cyber Security Maturity - Phase 2 - Pre Report Memo

Deloitte Cyber Security Maturity Review - 18 March 2019

Overview of Key Opportunities

The key opportunities identified during the assessment are outlined below
Crown Jewels

During the assessment, a provisional list of POL crown jewels was developed to provide input to the Cyber Strategy
Framework assessment. Developing an understanding of those crown jewels that are critical to the business, as well as
the confidentiality, availability and integrity requirements, is essential in order to realise the strategic benefits of any
security programme. The cyber security strategy and resources can then be aligned to protect these crown jewels
accordingly.

Risk Appetite

POL is currently operating from Risk Appetite statements dating back to 2015 and these are currently being reviewed. In
order to clearly set the strategic direction and basis of all risk-based decision making an opportunity exists to formalise
and promulgate these statements at the earliest opportunity to enable clear understanding across the business.

Cyber Metrics

During the assessment evidence was presented of a suite of Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) that are used to inform risk
discussions and information sharing across the business. There is an opportunity to review and evolve these to capture
all cyber related factors such as coverage of cultural activities, incident response metrics and threat intelligence key
performance indicators (KPIs) and KRIs. Appropriate cyber dashboards can then be regularly presented at Board level to
better articulate risk, and demonstrate return on investment and benefits realisation of the cyber strategy.

Threat Intelligence Capability

POL is currently developing its Security Operations Centre (SOC) to coordinate and correlate security event monitoring
across the enterprise. In parallel its threat intelligence capability is being evolved and grown. Significant opportunities
exist to develop a formal Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) programme, CTI model and threat library in order to inform
decision making across the business both proactively and real-time.

Incident Readiness and Response

Significant work is being undertaken in the area of incident readiness and response and opportunities exist to formally
document all related process and procedures. The integration of incident response capability to business continuity
management is worthy of attention and mutual exercising and testing in order to ensure effectiveness of procedures and
escalation paths/decision making

Insider Threat Programme

The Post Office has identified that the threat of a malicious insider is one of the top two threats it faces. Consequently,
an opportunity exists to develop an effective insider threat programme, with relevant key risk indicators identified and in
partnership with all key stakeholders (including human resources) to mitigate against this threat.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 83 of 176
Tab 8.1.1 Appendix 1 - Deloitte Assessment of Cyber Security Maturity - Phase 2 - Pre Report Memo

84 of 176

Deloitte Cyber Security Maturity Review - 18 March 2019

Cyber Security Maturity

Now that the Phase 2 assessment fieldwork is complete, preliminary capability maturity scores are reported. It should be
noted that those capabilities marked with a * within the table are still subject to validation and quality review and may
change.

The maturity level scoring is aligned to the descriptions in the table below.

Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5
Tnitial Repeatable Defined Managed Optimised
Capability is typically I Capability Is performed I Capability Is formally I Capability Is actively Capability is
undocumented and in I ona regular basis but I documented, with an maintained, and continually Improved
a state of dynamic is not formalized or I agreed ownership and performance is through both
change, tending to be I consistent. Coverage is I scope, and is used I regularly reported in a incremental and
driven in an ad-hoc, not agreed or throughout the format that can be Innovative changes.
uncontrolled and comprehensive. Mostly majority of the actioned. Advanced Advanced/industry
reactive manner. at a standard level of I organization. Standard level of leading
Basic/Early level of implementation, but level of implementation in implementation and
implementation. still basic in places. implementation. places, with almost full full coverage.
coverage.

The table overleaf illustrates the unvalidated phase 1 and validated phase 2 capability maturity scores. Also presented is
benchmark data drawn from: 1) large retail businesses including global retailers and, 2) financial services benchmark
drawn from global banks and investment houses. In addition to the maturity scores there are a number of significant
change programmes in-flight that are scheduled to deliver within the next 6-12 months at POL, and which if delivered,
are expected to have an upward impact on current cyber security maturity levels across the capabilities.

Recommended Next Steps

Based on the output of the current assessment the following is advised:

1. Select cyber capability target maturity levels. Target maturity levels will be selected by POL management,
supported by Deloitte based on the nature of POL’s business model, industry benchmarks and Deloitte suggested
target maturity levels.

2. Implement a programme of cyber security activity based upon the recommendation made, whilst continuing to
deliver the improvement activities in pipe-line to realise key benefits for POL.

3. Schedule an interim further independent cyber maturity assessment review at 6 months and a more detailed
assessment at 12 months to validate progress against selected target maturity.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.1.1 Appendix 1 - Deloitte Assessment of Cyber Security Maturity - Phase 2 - Pre Report Memo

Deloitte Cyber Security Maturity Review - 18 March 2019

Phase1Un- Phase2 — Average
validated Validated Maturity

Sub-dor Capabi
up-dom: —— Maturity Maturity (Global
Score Score Retail)
‘Strategy & operating model 1.8 23 2.3 24
Policies, standards & architectur
‘ Penang Policies, standards & architecture 2.0 27 2.4 29
epee Marae rue uis) Cyber risk culture and behaviour 18 19 24 26
Cyber risk mgt, metrics & reporting 2.0 27 23 28
Sete) Cloud security 23 24 26 24
Enterprise and
50) 6 Third party risk management 22 25 25 27
SI Human resources security 25 16 23 28
CE Physical security 22 26 28 3a
Identity lifecycle management 15 18 25 29
SEPT I User access control 25 29 26 3.0
Access
THAT Role based access control 15 19 26 28
Privileged user access control 2.0 26 2.6 26
‘Secure Software Development
rence 25 17 2.6 26
Post-development application
Secure protection 25 24 2.3 26
Asset management 15 16 25 26
‘System security 2.0 24 24 26
I Malware protection 25 24 a7 3a
Network security 2.0 23 24 27
End-user device security (CD) 2.0 25 24 27
Data loss prevention 12 16 22 23
SVEnGLED 2.0 23 23 26
Information lifecycle management 15 1.8* 23 24
PELE EINES? 2.0 2a" 24 2.6
Information classification 1.0 1.6" 23 23
Seti Penetration testing & vulnerability
identification ult) 20 a2 ad ae
a Cyber threat intelligence (CTI) 1.2 1.6 2.6 24
bore Et Is Brand protection 15 2.0 28 25
Vigilant ‘Security event monitoring 2.0 24 24 24
Poy Patch & vulnerability management 22 24 24 29
pe esta Cyber analytics N/A 1.2 N/A N/A
(soc)
Security platform administration &
Brarstions 2.0 22 25 23
7 Incident & crisis readiness 18 2.0 24 25
estes I management FICE aE 1.8 1.6 25 2.6
=. Business continuity management
Aseeiiiepe and recovery 20 27 ee ae

* indicates that these scores remain subject to validation.

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 85 of 176
Tab 8.2 Internal Audit Plan 2019/20

86 of 176

POST OFFICE LIMITED DECISION PAPER
AUDIT, RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Internal Audit Plan 2019/20

Author: Johann Appel Sponsor: Jane Macleod Meeting date: 25" March 2019
Executive Summary

Context

1. The Post Office annual risk-based audit plan for 2019/20 has been prepared in

accordance with the applicable requirements of the Internal Audit Charter as
approved by the ARC in March 2017, as well as the professional standards of the
Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors (CIIA).

Questions addressed in this report

2. What processes, activities and programmes should be assured by Internal Audit in
2019/20? Does the proposed plan focus on the right priorities to support the Post
Office strategic objectives?

3. What are the resource requirements to deliver this audit plan and how much will it
cost?

Conclusion

4. An integrated audit plan has been prepared to provide assurance over principal

business risks and significant change activities. The proposed plan can be
summarised as follows:

Category Number Estimated effort (days) I Co-source cost
of audits Total Co-source

Core Internal Audit 18 613 217 £235k

Change Portfolio 10 315 250 £271k

Total 281 928 467 £506k \?

“1 2018/19 plan was for 26 audits.

‘2 2018/19 Co-source cost budget was £560k. The cost reduction of £54k has been achieved by hiring
an in-house IT auditor, partially off-set by the cost of providing two additional audits. Overall
comparative cost will remain broadly unchanged or marginally favourable compared to the prior year.

Input Received

5.

The proposed Internal Audit Plan for 2019/20 was developed with input from Post
Office GE and the wider business. The plan was then reviewed and discussed by
Post Office Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC), who considered the proposed
reviews to individually and collectively represent an appropriate programme to
support management in their activities and to provide assurance to the Audit, Risk
& Compliance Committee (ARC) over key risks to Post Office.

Input Sought

6. The committee is asked to review and approve the proposed internal audit plan for
2019/20.
Strictly Confidential ARC 25% March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.2 Internal Audit Plan 2019/20

POST OFFICE PAGE 2 OF 14

Detail

The Planning Context

7. Post Office risk profile is impacted by continued and significant internal change,
increased regulatory scrutiny and market pressures. The 2019/20 Internal
Audit plan is designed to provide assurance over the organisation’s principal risks,
core processes and material change activities.

8. As of 2017/18 we have introduced a three year rotation plan for core processes
(refer par. 17). Core processes are usually mature and generally expected to be
well controlled, but warrant cyclical validation due to their pervasive nature and

criticality to the business. The 2019/20 plan includes the third and final tranche
of core processes to be reviewed over a three year period.

The Planning Process

9. The following diagram depicts the process we followed to identify, assess and
prioritise the processes and activities to be assured in 2019/20:

Identify Audit Universe

All Auditable Components
(entities, business units,
functions, processes, activities,

programmes, products)

Source: North Star (Strategic Objectives), Legal

«= Entities, Org Structure, Business Units, Products, Core
Processes, Enablers, Change Portfolio

Criteria: Risk Management Framework, Inherent Risk,
North Star (Strategic Priorities), Control Frameworks,

ce Prior audits & Time since last audit, Incidents / Risk
Events, Change, Brand impact, Value at Risk,

J Regulation

Informed by: Industry benchmarking (Deloitte,

c Gartner, CIIA, GIAA), Planning workshop, Bank of
Ireland, POMS priorities, Internal Audit ‘Hot Topics’

Review Input from: GE & senior management, RCC, ARC,
go I ‘Alignment with resource budget, Other 2” line and
external assurance activities

Watch list

High Risk Areas (9)
Core Processes (9)
Change Assurance (10)

Updated 3-year
rotation plan

The Planning Results

10. The proposed list of audits was discussed with GE members and senior
management and their feedback has been incorporated.

11. The tables below outline the proposed audits to take place in 2019/20. Internal
and external events may cause priorities and risk profiles to change, and
management may have additional requests during the year for advisory support
or audit assistance. In consequence, we may consider amending the plan as the
year progresses. We will also re-assess and refresh the plan at mid-year to ensure
it remains relevant. We will seek ARC approval for all material changes to the plan.

Strictly Confidential ARC 25% March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 87 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.2 Internal Audit Plan 2019/20

POST OFFICE PAGE 3 OF 14

12. Table 1 represents the baseline plan for internal control reviews, of which the
target delivery is 18 reviews. High level audit scopes for each review can be found

in Appendix 1.
1. Internal Control Reviews - Target = 18 reviews
Rank I Proposed Review GE Sponsor(s) Timing
1 Procure to Pay Interim CFO Ql
2 Branch Cash Forecasting Rob Houghton Aug
3 Supply Chain (CViT) Rob Houghton Aug
4 Accounts Receivable Interim CFO Flex
5 Agent On-boarding Debbie Smith & Rob Houghton I Q4
6 Pensions Follow-up Mo Kang May
7 Employee Expenses Follow-up Mo Kang & Interim CFO July
8 Branch Banking Framework Debbie Smith Q3
9 Sales (Savings Accounts) Owen Woodley Q3
10 Vetting / Fit & Proper Jane MacLeod & Rob Houghton I Flex
Effectiveness of Risk Management
11 Framework Jane MacLeod Flex
CFS Controls (Post Back Office
12 Transformation) Interim CFO Q2
13 Effectiveness of Compliance Function I Jane MacLeod Flex
14 Telecoms Customer Billing Owen Woodley Qi
Data Privacy (incl. follow-up of
15 GDPR) Jane MacLeod Qi
16 Cyber Security Follow-up Rob Houghton Q2
17 Payzone Control Framework Debbie Smith Q2
18 FS Branch Sales Owen Woodley & Debbie Smith I Flex

13. Table 2 represents reviews of significant change activities. The baseline plan is
for 10 change assurance reviews. This is an indicative list based on the current
change portfolio and will be reviewed and updated continuously as the portfolio
of change programmes develops and the risk profile changes. The draft plan
includes four thematic reviews focusing on programme governance (e.g. gating
effectiveness, benefits realisation). The thematic reviews will be balanced with
the need to provide assurance over individual change programmes - this could
be assurance at a point in time or ongoing / real time assurance, depending on
the project.

Strictly Confidential

88 of 176

ARC 25% March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

Tab 8.2 Internal Audit Plan 2019/20

POST OFFICE

PAGE 4 OF 14

2. Change Portfolio / Programme Assurance - Target = 10 reviews

Rank I Proposed Review GE Sponsor Timing
Investment Funding Controls follow-up Jul / Aug
1 (Governance) Rob Houghton
Effectiveness of 2nd line Programme Assurance tbd
2 (Governance) Jane MacLeod
3 Benefits Realisation (Product Realisation) Rob Houghton tbd
(Governance)

4 Effectiveness of the Gating Process (Governance) I Rob Houghton tbd

5 Placeholder (Governance / Programme review) Rob Houghton tbd

6 Belfast Exit (phase 2) Rob Houghton Sept

Data Governance Programme (Record

7 management) Rob Houghton tbd
8 PTU (PCI Compliance) Rob Houghton tbd
9 Digitising Mails Debbie Smith tbd
10 Identity Services (Follow-up) Owen Woodley — tbd

14.

Table 3 is our ‘watch list’ of additional areas for consideration during the year,
should either the assurance needs for the priority areas decrease or risk levels
for items on our watch list increase. The watch list will also inform the 2020/21
audit plan.

Topic / Area

Identity and Access Management (incl. Joiners / Movers / Leavers) follow-up

Contract Management (Including revenue contracts such as POCA)

Effectiveness of IT Security Operations (2nd Line)

Digital Strategy

SuccessFactors (Change Assurance of Phase 2)

MoneyGram (Product Risk)

ITDR

Brand Protection Strategy / Controls

olalnijalulalwinIe

Credit Card (New Provider)

10 Online Sales

11 Digital Identity (Control Framework / Operational Controls)

12 Business Continuity Management follow-up

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

ARC 25% March 2019

POL00423454
POL00423454

89 of 176
Tab 8.2 Internal Audit Plan 2019/20

POST OFFICE PAGE 5 OF 14

Post Office Insurance (POMS) Audit Plan

15. The table below shows the proposed audit plan for Post Office Insurance (POMS).
The plan is subject to approval by the POMS ARC and is included for information
only.

Oversight of Third Parties

Senior Managers & Certification Regime (SMCR)

Pricing: Principles, policies and process

Nemesis Project (Programme assurance)

aa) Ww) Ne

MI Platform

Resource Requirements

16. The approved headcount for the internal audit team is 5 FTEs. We are currently at
full headcount. The co-source requirement to support delivery of the 2019/20 plan
was estimated at approximately 467 days with a total cost of £506k.

Audit Coverage & Benchmarking

17. The proposed plans for POL and POI will jointly provide coverage of all principal
risk categories and across all business areas as illustrated below:

% audit effort by risk category % audit effort by business area

'" Operational = Technology & IS = Change = Finance & Ops
= Legal & Regulatory ™ Financial = FS&T sHR

1" Strategy = People IT *LRG

™ Change @ Third Party = Retail =POI

18. We have benchmarked Post Office internal audit cost against Deloitte’s 2018
Global Auditing Information Network (GAIN) Survey. The table below indicates
that Post Office’s spend on internal audit services is comparable with similar size
FS organisations and higher than similar size retail organisations. It should be
noted, however, that the cost of Post Office internal audit would be inflated by the
higher London wage costs and the more expensive co-source element of the
function.

Strictly Confidential ARC 25% March 2019

90 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 8.2 Internal Audit Plan 2019/20

POST OFFICE PAGE 6 OF 14
GAIN survey Average gross
GAIN industry group I grouping revenue across I V='296 HA eee AGES
(revenues) group ($) costs ($) as % of revenue
ee eodKng $500m - $1bn 586,810,000 2,038,190 0.35%
Insurance
(135 respondents) I $1bn - $5bn 1,583,230,000 1,853,290 C12%)
Retail $500m - $1bn 726,925,000 310,602 0.04%
(29 respondents) I sib - $5bn 2,015,000,000 852,702
Renee $1,253,670,000 I $1,763,260 0.14%
(FX rateIof £1/= $1.31) £957,000,000I £1,346,000 0.14%

Three Year Rotation Plan

19. In 2017/18 we introduced a rotational audit plan to assess core business
Processes over a three year cycle to provide regular assurance on the effective
operation of controls over critical business processes. The rotational plan in the
table below has been based on the last review of these processes, known issues
and ongoing remedial programmes.

. . . Financial Reporting Financial Reporting Controls
Financial Reporting Controls Controls (CFS controls post BOT)
Sales (Mails Process) Sales (Postal Orders) Sales (Savings)

Business Continuity Payroll Employee Expenses (follow-up)
IT Operations (IT Gover- -
nance & Risk management) Employee Expenses Regulatory Compliance
Fixed Assets Financial Close Process ‘) FS Conduct Management
. Bill to Cash (Accounts
Treasury Operations Contract Management Receivable)
Agents Remuneration Supply Chain Management ‘
Client Settlements Process I Procure to Pay “
Branch Cash Forecasting

‘ Postponed from 2018/19 to 2019/20 () Brought forward from 2019/20

20. Appendix 2 contains supplementary information to demonstrate the coverage of
all Post Office’s principal risks to be achieved over a 3 year cycle (2017/18 to
2019/20).

Strictly Confidential ARC 25% March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 91 of 176
QL 19 26

GL/EO/GZ-BAHIWWIOD soue!IdWOD »g ¥SIY IIPNY - PaYIW!T SOI 1804

POST OFFICE

PAGE 7 OF 14

Appendix 1 - High level audit scope statements

Rank I Proposed Review

High Level Scope

1 Procure to Pay

To assess the operating effectiveness of the Procurement process through to Accounts
Payable and the controls in place to ensure compliance with regulation and to prevent
fraud. Consider using Deloitte's ‘Moneyback Analytics’ to test for duplicate payments.
In addition the review will include a follow-up of the 2018/19 procurement fraud
investigation.

2 Branch Cash Forecasting

This review will consider the system and processes used for Branch Cash Forecasting
and Management as well as the fitness for purpose of the outputs. Also the potential to
reduce cash holdings in the Network.

3 Supply Chain (CViT)

To review the operating effectiveness and control of the CViT operation within PO. To
include the new CWC system (Transtrack) and to ensure compliance with all relevant
regulation - industry (SIA) and fleet / vehicle related (VOSA / CPC Compliance etc.).

4 I Accounts Receivable

To review the controls, processes and operating effectiveness of the AR function. To
include the management and accounting of aged debtors.

5 Agent On-boarding

To review the operating effectiveness of the controls and processes for the
recruitment, verification and training of new agents / partners.

6 I Pensions Follow-up

To review the processes and controls in place over pensions administration and
ensure they are operating effectively and compliantly (follow-up to the 2018 audit).

7 Employee Expenses Follow-up

To review the processes and controls in place and ensure they are operating effectively
and compliantly - with particular emphasis on the evidencing and authorisation of claims
- as a follow up to the 2018 audit. Controls over Corporate Credit Cards to be in scope.

8 Branch Banking Framework

To review the maturity of the controls over the Branch Banking Services with focus on
operations. Will also follow-up on findings from 2017/18 audit. To include the
management of relationships with the partner banks and PO's ability to demonstrate
adequate conduct in branches.

9 Sales (Savings Accounts)

Strictly Confidential

Product deep-dive to assess processes and controls around product design,
management, monitoring and reporting. To take into account any changes to product
(distribution / governance) following the outcome of negotiations with Bol.

POL00423454
POL00423454

OZ/6 LOZ URId JPN jewWayU] Z"g Gel

ARC 25 March 2019

GL/EO/SZ-SeRIWWOD soue!dWOD g ¥SIY JIPNY - PaYIWI] BOLO }s0Oq

QL 49 66

POST OFFICE

PAGE 8 OF 14

10

Vetting / Fit & Proper

To review the processes and controls by which POL ensures its employees conform to
internal and external expectations around behaviours including competency and
capability. To include vetting of joiners and movers, and activities to monitor
continuing fitness and propriety.

11

Effectiveness of Risk Management
Framework

To review effectiveness of POL's Risk Management function within the second line of
defence. To include assessment of the risk management framework, process and
governance, and the extent to which the function supports POL in achieving its
strategic and operational objectives.

12

CFS Controls (Post Back Office
Transformation programme)

To assess the design and operating effectiveness of the Financial Reporting Controls
following the Back Office Transformation programme. The review will focus on
controls that changed when processes migrated from POLSAP to CFS.

13

Effectiveness of Compliance Function

To review the operational effectiveness of the compliance function within the second
line of defence. To include assessment of the functional scope and reporting
touchpoints to allow POL to understand and manage compliance risks as per its stated
appetite. To include the financial crime second line activity.

14

Telecoms Customer Billing

To review the processes and controls in place to ensure telecoms customer billing
meets regularity requirements, incl. PSD2. To include controls over third party billing
systems and reports.

15

Data Privacy (incl. follow-up of GDPR)

Assess the operational effectiveness of the structure, process and controls in place to
ensure ongoing GDPR compliance. To follow up the actions from the 2017/18 GDPR
programme review to ensure those controls are embedded and sustainable.

16

Cyber Security Follow-up

To assess the implementation of the agreed actions and evaluate the level of progress
towards increased Cyber Security Maturity. This will involve periodic (6-monthly)
reviews to assess progress made with the areas / domains highlighted by the 2018/19
review to be in most need of improvement.

17

18

Payzone Control Framework

FS Branch Sales

Assess the design and operating effectiveness of key business and IT controls, as well
as the effective operation and reporting of risks and control deficiencies into Payzone
Board and into Post Office governance structures. The review will also follow up on
the progress to exit TSAs and reverse TSAs that are still in effect, and any deficiencies
arising from the Q4 FY18/19 Payzone Acquisition programme review.

To assess the design and operating effectiveness of the New Distribution Model to
ensure it is compliant with regulation and supports the FS sales strategy.

Strictly Confidential

POL00423454
POL00423454

4
Py
a
iD
=
g
B
>
4
5
a]

ARC 25 March 2019

QLL 1° ¥6

nY  PAIILUNT BOUL 1S0q

JWOD *g 4SIY 11

Fy

WON &:

6L/EO/Sz-901

POST OFFICE

PAGE 9 OF 14

Appendix 2 - 2017/18 to 2019/20 audits mapped against Post Office principal risks

For 2017/18 and 2018/19 the reference number corresponds to the audits on page 14 and the colour indicates the rating:

O Satisfactory © Needs Improvement @ Needs Significant Improvement ‘oS Unacceptable ©) Not Rated O

Operational
Risk

OPERATIONAL

Procure

Safety

Strictly Confidential

Process and
Service
Delivery

Product risk

Payments
(Demand /
Regulatory)

Records
management

Procure

Keep our
people, cus-
tomers & 3rd
parties safe

Risk Defi

The risk of failed transaction processes or process management
that are “externally facing" i.e. provide a service for external
customers, including agents, clients.

Failure to successfully design, market, deliver, support and
improve our product portfolio in a manner that meets customer
needs and delivers desired customer outcomes, may lead to
adverse financial and reputational impact.

The risk that Post Office is unable to manage effectively the
payment process. Failure to comply with contract regulation,
manage high volume of payments or record incorrect payments
may result in a reputation damage and financial loss.

Inadequate or insufficient processes and systems for creating,
maintaining, retrieving and disposing of contractual, commercial,
legal and intellectual property related documents and records, in
line with legal and business policy requirements.

Potential for failures in a procurement process resulting in loss,
disruption, penalties or reputation damage. Suboptimal manage-
ment of procurement channels (reduced purchase options), could
affect the continuity of the business and expose the business to
incur high costs that could reduce margins of profitability.

The risk to health and safety of colleagues, contractors, customers
and third parties (in the workplace, branches and also affected by
business activities e.g. acquisition of a vehicle. Breach of Health
and Safety regulations).

in Progress

POL00423454
POL00423454

Audit Coverage
Proposed 2019/20 I 2018/19 2017/18

Sales — Savings

Products @ @)
¢ Agent On-boarding Gs) © ®

Banking Framework @® @®

© Alt - MoneyGram
Product Risk Review

Procure to Pay

Data Governance
Programme (Change)

Data Privacy (GDPR
Follow-up)

Procure to Pay

@@'@

© Supply Chain (CViT)

ARC 25 March 2019
OD YSIY TIPNY - PAyIWUI] BOUJO Soq

Fy

WON &:

6L/EO/Sz-901

9114096

POST OFFICE

Py ipal Risks Risk Defi n

Physically
secure

BCP r
(Codteciea ee
ITDR)

Reputation

(Brand Brand
Protection)

Customer "
Risk Customer Risk

IT Security IT Security

INFROMATION
SECURITY

Strictly Confidential

PAGE 10 OF 14

Failure to ensure the physical safety of employees and agents in
response to incidents such as theft, robbery, burglary, terrorism
and site safety, could expose Post Office to significant costs for
reimbursement for damages and remediation, operational
disruption and reputational damage.

The risk or instances of interruptions (including critical sites, critical

and core infrastructure, suppliers and colleagues), as a
consequence of internal or external events due to a lack of
defined, tested and effective continuity plans and recovery
strategies, which may lead to financial, operational and
reputational damage.

The risk of losing the trusted brand image of Post Office that
prevents the business from successfully operating in its chosen
markets and/or achieving its North Star ambitions. The
organisation may lose market share, key resources or its ability to
compete because of the perception of its behaviour with
customers, agents, suppliers and partners.

The risk that business operations do not meet customer
expectations due to a reduced focus on their satisfaction (e.g.
vulnerable customers).

Inadequate procedures around the management of IT security
resulting in cyber threat (denial of service, theft/unauthorised
disclosure of valuable information) and insider threat
(theft/unauthorised disclosure of valuable information, accidental
disclosure, and illegal software use), and leading to financial loss,
service disruption and reputational damage.

POL00423454

POL00423454

Audit Coverage
Proposed 2019/20 I 2018/19 2017/18

© Supply Chain (CViT)

© Alt — BCP (follow up)

Cyber Security
Maturity (ongoing ®
re-assessment)

© Alt - Effectiveness of
IT Security 2nd line

© Alt — ID & Access
management follow-
up

ARC 25 March 2019

QL 49 96

nY  PAIILUNT BOUL 1S0q

JWOD *g 4SIY 11

Fy

WON &:

6L/EO/Sz-901

POST OFFICE

Py ipal Risks Risk Defi n

Business
Interruption
(ITDR)

Technology
Ops

TECHNOLOGY

Dependence
on 3rd
Parties and
Contract
manage-
ment

THIRD PARTY

Financial
Crime

Information
Protection &
Regulatory
Compliance

LEGAL & REGULATORY

Strictly Confidential

Business
Interruption
(ITDR)

Technology
Ops

Dependence
on 3rd Parties
and contract

management

Managing
losses & fraud

Financial
Crime

Data Security

PAGE 11 OF 14

The risk or instances of interruptions to IT infrastructure and
systems (including at IT suppliers) as a consequence of internal or
external events and due to inadequate recovery strategies and/or
continuity of systems and controls.

Inappropriate, inadequate or unavailable technological
infrastructure (e.g. HW, SW) to support current and future
business needs in an efficient and effective way.

The risk that Post Office is unable to effectively manage:
- dependency on 3rd parties to deliver, support and improve
services for which they have been contracted to the required time,
cost or quality; and

- its contracts, including failure to negotiate the favourable
commercial terms and conditions in contracts, ensuring
compliance with the terms and conditions, documenting and
agreeing any changes or amendments that may arise during its
implementation or execution, which may have an impact on
financial and operational performance.

The risk of acts that create financial loss, and/or are intended to
defraud, misappropriate property or circumvent the law.

The risk of financial crime (money laundering, terrorist financing,
bribery and corruption, fraud, etc.) resulting from inadequate or
failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external
events, leading to regulatory breaches and and/or reputational
damage to the Post Office; and financial and commercial loss to
the Post Office and its customers, colleagues and clients.
Inadequate procedures around the management of information
and its security results in a breach of valuable information
(customer, colleague, commercial and/or operational) leading to
financial loss and reputational damage.

Audit Coverage
Proposed 2019/20 I 2018/19 2017/18

« Belfast Exit (Change)
Belfast Exit (Change) @@ ©) Ge)

Telecoms Customer
<—“" O@ @

© Alt - Contract
Management, incl.
Revenue Contracts
(POCA)

Banking Framework

Agent On-boarding

¢ Employee Expenses
(follow up)

Vetting / fit & proper

© Effectiveness of the

Compliance Function
© Data Privacy (GDPR ® @)

follow up)

POL00423454
POL00423454

ARC 25 March 2019
GL/EO/SZ-BEnIWIWOD soUeIIdWIOD g ¥SIY IPN - PAIL] BOO 180d

QL JO 16

POST OFFICE

Principal Risks

Reporting
results,

a providing data
ie Ghonet accurately and
Z Risk effective

2 internal

controls
Sufficient cash
/ headroom

Strictly Confidential

PAGE 12 OF 14

The risk that Post Office faces exposure to losses, penalties and/or
reputation damage when it fails to act in accordance with legal and
regulatory obligations.

The risk that legal action will be taken because of an individual's or
organisation's actions, inaction, products, services or other events.
Managers and employees, individually or in collusion, commit
illegal acts, exposing the organisation, the management itself and
the employees to their consequences.

The risk that the administration of tax/VAT may be more costly - or
otherwise more burdensome than foreseen. The risk may arise
from existing tax/VAT laws and practice, or from changes in
tax/VAT laws and practice.

The risk that Post Office organisational infrastructure fails to
provide robust oversight of decision making and the control
mechanisms to ensure strategies and management instructions are
implemented effectively.

The risk of customer detriment or censure and/or a reduction in
earnings/value, through financial or reputational loss, from
inappropriate or poor customer treatment or business conduct.

The risk that Post Office suffers reputational damage, loss of
shareholder confidence and /or financial loss from the adoption of
inappropriate accounting policies, ineffective controls over
financial reporting, failure to manage the associated risks in
changes to tax, law and failure to disclose accurate and timely
information.

The risk that Post Office is unable to maintain sufficient cash /
headroom for the financial and operational needs of the business.

POL00423454

POL00423454

Audit Coverage
Proposed 2019/20 I 2018/19 2017/18

© Effectiveness of the @® ©)
compliance Function @

Vetting / fit and
prope @

FS Branch Sales

Effectiveness of the
Risk Management

Framework

Vetting / fit and
port ©@'e@

FS Branch Sales
© CFS Controls
Framework
* Accounts Receivable @ ©)

Branch Cash
Forecasting

ARC 25 March 2019

02/6 L0Z UEId UPN jewWa}ul Z°g Ge]
9L1 JO 86

OD YSIY TIPNY - PAyIWUI] BOUJO Soq

6L/EO/GZ-SaHIWWIOD soue

POST OFFICE

Py ipal Risks Risk Defi n

>
©

rs
Strategy Risk
5

wy Develop,
= 6

le} Inspire and
ry

a Grow

ws

g Managing
= change

ij

Ensuring
sustainable
profit

Competitive-
ness, Market
and Customer
Relevance

Strategic Risk

Communicate,
inspire and
align

Managing
change

PAGE 13 OF 14

The risk of not securing a sustainable and profitable growth (e.g.
not focusing on the long-term performance) could reduce revenue
and EBITDAS.

Failure to develop and implement an effective, coherent and
consistent strategy:

- aimed at establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage,

in response to actions adopted by main competitors, disruptors or
new operators; and

- in response to changing markets (including demographic,
technological and other external market events) and customers
changing service needs and expectations.

The risk that Post office does not have a Strategic Plan or deliver its
North Star strategic priorities due to insufficient capability to
execute it in line with plans or failure to adapt with agility to
respond to changes in the external and internal environment.
Inadequate, inappropriate or ineffective processes relating to
recruitment, development, management, reward, engagement and
well-being of Post Office employees could result in adverse
financial, operational or reputational impact.

Inadequate and/or inappropriate capabilities, processes,
organisation, data and culture to identify, prioritise, design, deliver
and manage the portfolio of change activities resulting in delays,
cost overruns, and non-realisation of benefits and in turn leading
to the business not being able to operate the desire capabilities,
processes and systems to support North Star ambitions.

“Alt” refers to alternative audit topics from the watch list.

Strictly Confidential

Audit Coverage
Proposed 2019/20 I 2018/19 2017/18

© Digitising Mails
(Change)

Investment Funding
Controls
* Benefits Realisation

@@O®
@®@
@0 @@
@2 @®@
."

# Pensions (Follow-up)
« Employee Expenses
(Follow-up)

Benefits Realisation

© Effectiveness of
Gating Process

Second line Program-
me Assurance

¢ In-flight reviews of
change programmes
(up to 6)

POL00423454
POL00423454

4
2
©
iv
g
3B

>
e

6

z

Loz v

0z/6

ARC 25 March 2019
GL/CO/SZ-PANIWIWIOD aoUENIWOD g ¥SIY TIPNY - PEIIWI! BUN 1S0q

911 4966

POST OFFICE

PAGE 14 OF 14

POL00423454

POL00423454

2017/18 Internal Audits Finalised

1 \VATProcess
2 lLottery Prize Pay-out
3 [Financial Spreadsheet Controls
4 Ii Control Framework (Advisory)
5 IMails Process
6 _ [Information Security (2016) Follow-up
7 [Security Transformation (Advisory)
8 (Compliance with Banking Framework
9. Customer Complaints
10 MoneyGram: AML Compliance
11 Telecoms Control Framework
12 Business Continuity
13. GDPR Programme
14 Pension Scheme(s)
15 Financial Control Framework
16 IT Governance and IT Risk management
17 SAP SuccessFactors - Payroll
18 Integrated Change Plan (Advisory)
19. IT Networks
20 SAP SF Payroll Go-Live Readiness Review
21 SAP SF Payroll Lessons Learnt INot Rated
22. [Back Office Transition Lessons Learnt, INot Rated
23. Back Office Transformation ‘Not Rated
24 Project Solar - HNGT Lite
25 Network Transformation
26 Branch Technology - EUC Transition
27 €UM
Strictly Confidential

2018/19 Internal Audits Finalised / In Progress
28 I Postal Orders (Product Risk Review)
29 I Employee Expenses
30 I Procurement Fraud Investigation
31 I Month-end Close Process
32__I MoneyGram AML Compliance
33 I Contract Management (IT)
34 I Whistle-blower Process
35 I Bank Accounts Governance
36 _I FS Training & Competence In Progress
37 _I Cyber Security in Progress
38 I IT Control Framework In Progress
39 I Financial Control Framework In Progress
40 I Payroll In Progress
41 I Client Settlements (Interim Controls) in Progress
42__ I Agents Remuneration in Progress
43 _ I Network and SGEI Reporting In Progress
44 I Change Excellence (Trafalgar) Advisory Report
45 I DMB Strategy
46 I Branch Hub (Agents Portal)
47 _ I Investment Funding Controls
48 I Payzone integration (Panther) In Progress
49 I Digital Identity Services In Progress
50 _ I Digitising Mails Being assessed
51 I Payment Technology Upgrade (PCI) Being assessed
52__I Mails Strategy Being assessed
53 I Belfast Exit (Migration to Azure Cloud) In Progress
54 I ‘One Best Way’ Deployment In Progress
Items in italic print denote Change Assurance reviews
ARC 25 March 2019

OZ/6 LOZ UEId UPN jewWayUl Z°g Gel
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

100 of 176

POST OFFICE LIMITED PAGE 1 OF 1
AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE APPROVAL PAPER

Treasury Risk Management Framework,
Policies and Authorities

Author: Mark Dixon Sponsor: Alisdair Cameron Meeting date: 25 March 2019

Executive Summary

Context

The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee approved the most recent Treasury Risk
Management Framework, Policies and Authorities (the “Treasury Policy”) at its meeting
in March 2018.

Our control framework requires an annual review and update of this document.

This paper provides an update as at March 2019 (the “March 2019 Treasury Policy
Update”).

Question addressed in this report

1. What changes have been made to the Treasury Policy?
2. How effective has the policy been over the last year in managing the risks it
addresses?

Conclusion

The Treasury Framework, Policies and Authorities set out in the Appendix to this report
are appropriate for an organisation of POL’s size and complexity.

Input Received

The Risk & Compliance Committee reviewed the changes and recommended the
approval of the changes and adoption of the revised Treasury Policy at a Committee
meeting on 14 March 2019.

Input Sought
The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee is asked to approve the changes

to the Treasury Risk Management Framework, Policies and Authorities set
out in this paper.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1

Treasury Policy

POST OFFICE PAGE 2 OF 5

The Report

What changes have been made to the Treasury Policy?

The full Treasury Risk Management Framework, Policies and Authorities are set out
in a Schedule to this paper.

2. The main changes proposed in March 2019 from March 2018 are listed below. In

March 2018 we concluded a major rewrite of the Treasury Policy. The changes
required for the March 2019 Update are therefore considered to be minor.

. Authorities are delegated to the Chief Financial and Operating Officer (the “CFOO”),
the POL Finance Director (the “POL FD”), and the Head of Treasury, Tax and
Insurance (the “HoTTI”), being the roles and titles existing as at February 2019. The
document has been updated to ensure that where titles change over time authorities
will rest with those persons performing substantially the same roles. In any case of
doubt confirmation will be provided by the Company Secretary. (See 1
Introduction.)

Drawdowns under facilities require approvals each time a drawdown is made. The
delegated authorities vary according to the drawdown period. The delegated
authorities for drawing under Other External Borrowings (up to £50m) have been
amended to ensure that drawings under the £50m BEIS Short-term Facility can be
made quickly and efficiently within deadlines. (See 3 Short-term Cash and
Liquidity Management.)

Subsidiaries may have surplus cash balances that they wish to deposit with POL or
may have short-term funding needs which can be satisfied by POL. The policy has
been redrafted to ensure flexibility for new subsidiaries, including Payzone Bill
Payments Limited, and to ensure that intra-group borrowing and lending is still
permitted after the completion of Project LEO, provided that such borrowing and
lending is permitted under the BEIS Facility and the entity's Articles of Association.
The policy delegates authority to the CFOO to agree and execute loans of up to 3
months and £20m on behalf of POL. (See 3 Short-term Cash and Liquidity
Management.)

. From time-to-time POL may enter into short-term funding arrangements with First
Rate Exchange Services Limited (“"FRES”) under which FRES provides a loan to POL
to fund additional holdings of foreign currency note inventory. The policy has been
updated to ensure that such loans are permitted and must be executed within the
delegated authorities set out in the policy. (See 3 Short-term Cash and Liquidity
Management.)

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

101 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

102 of 176

POST OFFICE PAGE 3 OF 5

Za

Sections 5 and 6 have been updated to reflect changes to credit ratings over the
last 12 months. (See 5 Counterparty Credit Risk Management and 6
Investment Risk Management.)

As per 5. above the section on Guarantees/Group Support has been rewritten to
ensure flexibility for new subsidiaries, including Payzone Bill payments Limited.
(See 13 Guarantees / Group Support.)

How effective has the policy been over the last year in managing the risks it

addresses?

9:

10.

11.

The Treasury Policy requires that any breaches are reporting to the Operations
Board (Treasury Committee) through the monthly Treasury Report. It requires that
breaches are immediately reported to the CFOO and the Group Director of Legal,
Risk & Governance and, when considered appropriate, at the discretion of the CFOO,
to the RCC and ARC.

On a number of occasions during the year the closing cash positions were outside
the targeted ranges set out in the policy. Each of these occurrences were described
in the Treasury Report. The low frequency of such occurrences suggests there is
no systemic problem in this area. On three occasions our bank accounts were
overdrawn overnight beyond our agreed overdraft limit with Barclays Bank of £5
million. The overdrawn amounts were £5.5 million, £19 million and £17.5 million
on 5 June, 11 June and 15 October respectively. Each was described in the Treasury
Report. All occurrences were due to late receipts in respect of wholesale note sales.
Barclays are notified in advance when we expect to exceed limits; an interest claim
is made against the wholesale customer making the late payment; and a discussion
had with the customer to reinforce the importance of timely payments. We do not
consider any further action to be appropriate.

On two occasions during the year we exceeded approved counterparty limits. Both
were with Barclays, our cash management bank, for whom we have an agreed limit
of £80 million, and on each occasion the breach was no more than £5 million and
was for no longer than one night.

(i) The CFOO was notified, on 17 April 2018, of a breach in our counterparty limit
with Barclays Bank overnight. The bank account closed on 16 April with a balance
of £83.7m, £3.7m above our £80m limit. The limit breach arose due to failure of
CHAPS payments to clients because of Barclays' system problems. The payments
were processed on 17 April.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

POST OFFICE PAGE 4 OF 5

(ii) The CFOO was notified, on 4 January 2019, of a breach in our counterparty limit
with Barclays Bank overnight. The bank account closed on 3 January with a
balance of £84.3m, £4.3m above our £80m limit. The limit breach arose due to
partial failure of CHAPS payments to clients because of an incomplete file
reaching Barclays. The payments were processed on 4 January. We have made
changes to the approval process to ensure that this is not repeated.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-2

103 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury

POST OFFICE PAGE 5 OF 5

Schedule - Treasury Risk Management Framework, Policies and Authorities -
March 2019

Strictly Confidential

104 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25:

Tab 9.1

Treasury Policy

POST OFFICE LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES (THE “GROUP”)

TREASURY RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK,
POLICIES AND AUTHORITIES - MARCH 2019

Page
I - Introduction
1 Background 2
2 Policy Overview 3
Il - Detailed Policies for the Management of Financial and Other Risks Relating to_

Treasury Activity
Key Policies
3 Short-Term Cash and Liquidity Management 5
4 Medium and Long-term Funding Management 8
5 Counterparty Credit Risk Management 10
6 Investment Risk Management 12
7 Foreign Exchange Exposure Management 16
8 Interest Rate Exposure Management 18
9 Bank Relationship Management 19
10 Commodity Price Exposure Management 20
Other Guidelines
1 Operational Banking 21
12 Payments 23
13 Guarantees and Indemnities / Group Support 25
14 Regulatory Obligations 26
15 ISDA Agreements 27
Ill - Governance and Reporting
16 Treasury Governance and Reporting 28
APPENDICES
A Summary of Counterparty Relationships, Services and Exposures 30
B CHAPS Banks 3
c Delegated Authorities for Authorisation Panels 32
D Delegated Authorities for Drawdowns under Credit Facilities 33
E Individual Write-off Authority Levels 34
F Summary of Delegated Authorities 35
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page?
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

pliance Committe

POL00423454
POL00423454

105 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

106 of 176

I - Introduction

Background

This document sets out the risk management framework, policies and authorities adopted by Post
Office Limited (“POL”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”) in relation to its treasury
activities and is an update of the paper approved by the ARC Committee in March 2018. It is
recognised that Post Office Management Services Limited (“POMS”) is subject to regulatory and
fiduciary obligations which require derogation from some of the following policies. POMS will
determine where there is a conflict between its obligations and these policies and amendments
will be agreed and documented. A service agreement will set out the treasury activities which will
be carried out on behalf of POMS.

This document should be read in conjunction with the wider Group Delegated Authorities. For
the avoidance of doubt, in the case of inconsistencies the Group Delegated Authorities will prevail.

The treasury risk management framework has been designed to:

protect financial asset values;
minimise income statement volatility;

ensure financial obligations are met as they fall due;

secure long-term funding to meet overall business objectives and shareholder return
requirements;

ensure regulatory obligations are met.

ec eee

The key treasury risks are:

Short-term cash and liquidity risk — the Group does not have sufficient short-term liquidity to
meet payment obligations;

Medium and long-term funding risk — the Group does not have sufficient committed long-term
funding in place to meet business objectives and going concern obligations;

« Counterparty credit risk — a financial institution counterparty cannot meet its obligations to the
Group. Such obligations may arise from: investing the Group’s surplus cash balances (see
investment risk, below); entering into derivatives transactions; entering into committed facility
arrangements; and certain other commercial arrangements with clients.

* Investment risk — arising from investing the Group’s surplus cash balances;

e Foreign exchange risk - arising from holding currency note inventory in branches and cash
centres to meet on-demand requirements from customers;

Interest rate risk — arising from the impact of changes in interest rates on the cost of funding,
the returns earned on the investment of surplus cash, and the returns earned on the POca
cash balances;

« Bank relationship risk — the Group does not manage its bank relationshij
manner;

Commodity price risk — arising from the impact of changes in commodity prices on operational
costs;

e Settlement risk — the risk that operational and business payments are not executed in
accordance with agreed policies and procedures, are not settled in a timely manner or are
exposed to the possibility of fraud;

e Regulatory risk — arising from POL failing to meet its regulatory obligations around its treasury
activities;

Proper recording of treasury transactions, including the reconciliation of bank statement
balances to ledger balances in a timely manner;

* Loss or theft of cash.

in an appropriate

In this document authorities have been delegated to the Chief Financial and Operating Officer
(the “CFOO"), the POL Finance Director (the “POL FD”), and the Head of Treasury, Tax and
Insurance (the “HoTTI”), being the roles and titles existing as at February 2019. Where titles
change over time authorities will rest with those persons performing substantially the same roles.
In any case of doubt confirmation will be provided by the Company Secretary.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 2
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

2. Policy Overview

21 The Board is averse to treasury risk. The risk management framework and policies have been
designed to reduce risk and concentrate on five principal areas to achieve this:

« Market Risk: to minimise any potential loss due to a change in market factors (e.g. interest
rates, exchange rates or commodity prices);

e Credit Risk: to minimise any potential loss due to a change in the credit-worthiness of a
counterparty;

« Business Risk: to minimise any potential loss due to economic factors;

* Operational Risk: to minimise any potential loss due to system, people, legal and other
external events;

e Regulatory Risk: to minimise the risk that POL fails to meet its regulatory obligations around
treasury activities.
2.2 Day-to-day operation of treasury policy and the activities of the Treasury function are the
responsibility of the HoTTI, who reports to the POL FD. Treasury activities are reported on a
monthly basis to the Treasury Committee, which is part of the Operations Board, for review and
oversight. The composition and responsibilities of the Treasury Committee are set out in section
16.1
2.3. Any proposed amendments to, or derogations from, policy will be considered in the Treasury
Committee and approved by the Audit, Risk and Compliance (“ARC”) Committee or, if
appropriate, by the Board.
2.4 Treasury is responsible for the following activities. These activities will only be undertaken by
Treasury unless an alternative arrangement has been formally approved by the ARC Committee
or the Board:
management of bank account structures to provide automated concentration of cash and/or
offset of balances;

management of the Group’s short-term cash flow forecasting process;

arrangement and management of short-term committed funding;

monitoring the debt capital structure to ensure that the Group has sufficient funding to support
medium and long-term forecast requirements and to minimise refinancing risks;

management of short, medium and long-term borrowing requirements;

e providing input to and critical review of the Group’s medium and long-term cash flow
forecasting process;

« fulfilment of obligations under the rules of the Bank of England's Note Circulation Scheme;

* setting counterparty limits for the financial institutions with which Group does business;

short-term liquidity management and the investment of surplus cash balances;

* executing FX hedges in accordance with the instructions of the FX Committee, using approved
instruments to hedge out to a maximum of 6 weeks;

monitoring net interest rate exposure;

managing bank relationships, in relation to corporate treasury activity;

* monitoring exposure to commodity price volatility;

« executing payments and administrating payments systems;

acting as a centre of excellence in providing guidance and advice on all operational banking,
payments and other treasury-related matters;

e regularly reviewing mandates;

* ensuring adherence to internal controls around internet banking systems and security;

ensuring adherence to treasury-related regulatory obligations.

25 Cash forecasting must be completed in accordance with Treasury's instructions and deadlines
and will support short-term, medium-term and long-term forecasting with the current Strategic
Plan of the Board (currently the 5-year plan to 2020/21). Any material variances are to be
escalated to the POL FD.

26 Compliance with the treasury policies set out in this document is mandatory, subject to the
derogations provided to POMS noted in 1.1 above.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 3

Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

107 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

27 Delegated Authorities

© Approve treasury risk management framework, policies and authorities - ARC
* Approve amendments to or derogations from Treasury Risk Management Framework,
Policies and Authorities - ARC

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 4
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

108 of Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

" Detailed Policies for the Management of Financial and Other Risks Relating to Treasury
Activity,

Key Policies

3. Short-Term Cash and Liquidity Management

Business Context

3.1. Ona daily basis the Group has significant operating, investing and financing cash flows across
its bank accounts, arising in relation to client-related activity across our counters, and as well as
its own business-related activity. Client-related inflows and outflows are material and volatile with
approx. £65 billion of flows each year. Flows can vary significantly depending on the day of the
week and time of year and can also be materially impacted by other factors, out of the Group’s.
control, such as the weather. Even with appropriate long-term committed funding in place there
is therefore a short-term liquidity risk that the Group does not have resources available to meet
its day-to-day payment obligations as they fall due.

Risk Management Objectives

3.2 The objective of the short-term cash and liquidity management policy is to ensure that the Group
has appropriate liquidity in the right place at the right time to meet its payment obligations as they
fall due.

Main Policy Statement

3.3 Through a combination of efficient bank account structures and accurate short-term cash flow
forecasting, together with access to appropriate levels of committed short-term liquidity, Treasury
will ensure that the Group can meet its obligations as they fall due.

Supporting Policy Guidelines
3.4 Bank Account Structures

3.4.1. Where possible, Treasury will manage cash balances within pooling arrangements which
enable cash to be efficiently and effectively concentrated and debit and credit balances
to be offset. Business units are not permitted to operate bank accounts that are outside
these pooling arrangements unless authorised in writing by Treasury.

3.4.2 Delegated Authorities

* Approve addition of bank account to existing pooling arrangement - HoTTI
« Approve removal of bank account from existing pooling arrangement - HoTTI
* Approve creation of new pooling arrangement - POL FD

3.5 Short-term Cash Flow Forecasting

3.5.1 Short-term cash flow forecasting is an essential tool for the Group and enables it to have
confidence that its committed facilities are sufficient to provide the liquidity needed to
meet its day-to-day payment obligations.

3.5.2 Treasury will prepare a short-term, daily rolling forecast of the utilisation of the BEIS
Facility and the NRF. The forecast, by day, covers a period of up to two accounting
periods. Treasury will issue:

daily reporting to the HoTTI analysing variances of same-day and two-day forecasts
to actuals;

* a weekly Liquidity Report to the CFOO and POL FD updating the forecast for the
following week and providing a variance analysis for last week;

 amonthly Forecast Update to the CFOO and POL FD updating the forecast for the
following two periods and providing a variance analysis for the last period.

3.5.3. The forecasts and variances will be reviewed on a daily basis by the HoTTI. Monthly

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 5
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

109 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

110 of 176

Forecast Updates will be included in the Treasury Report and reviewed by the Treasury
Committee. The ARC will be updated by exception.

3.6 Committed Short-term Funding

3.6.1

3.6.2

3.6.4

3.6.7

3.6.8

3.6.9

Treasury's first responsibility is to ensure that sufficient liquidity and facilities are available
to the Group to fund its operations. Funding is therefore negotiated and managed
centrally and the management of individual cash pools will be dealt with by Treasury

Short-term liquidity is managed as follows: POL has access to a £950m working capital
facility provided by the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (“BEIS”)
(the “BEIS Facility”). The BEIS Facility is available until March 2021. A utilisation request
must be provided to BEIS two days before drawdown. Forecasting variances may lead
to a shortfall between the amount drawn down and the actual amount required. The
strategy to mitigate the risk of a shortfall between forecast and actual funding
requirements is to hold a liquid investment reserve of £5m (the “Investment Reserve’).
Historically POL has tended to overdraw the BEIS Facility because it did not have access
to an emergency source of short-term funding other than the NRF. Any changes to the
targeted investment reserve will be reported to the Treasury Committee in the monthly
Treasury Report. Treasury can also use a £5m uncommitted overdraft facility with
Barclays, use the NRF (see 3.6.3 below), or use the £50m short-term credit facility
provided by BEIS (the “BEIS Short-term Facility”) (see 3.6.6 below).

In addition, POL is a member of the Bank of England's Note Circulation Scheme (the
“NCS"). The scheme allows POL to declare and sell eligible notes to the Bank of England
(the “Bank”) overnight with a commitment to buy those notes back from the Bank first
thing the next morning. This reduces the Group’s overnight funding requirement. The
NCS rules require the provision of collateral to the Bank. Collateral is currently provided
on behalf of POL under a Facilities Agreement entered into by POL with National
Westminster Bank Plc! under which the bank makes available: a £400m intra-day facility;
a £350m overnight NRF facility (for the purposes of providing overnight collateral to the
Bank); and, a £1m collateral facility, used in connection with our crime insurance.

The NCS rules also require that POL has a crime insurance in place that is compliant
with BoE requirements.

The amount available to be used under the NRF over the course of the Bank’s financial
year (to October) is constrained by a cap (the “Cap”) that POL generates, mainly as a
function of outward rems processed from its NCS cash centres. Treasury will monitor
utilisation of the NRF against the Cap to ensure that no more than the Cap generated is
used over the course of the year and that financial penalties are therefore avoided. Cap
generation and NRF utilisation will be reported to the Treasury Committee on a monthly
basis via the Treasury Report.

POL has arranged a £50m short-term credit facility with BEIS. The facility is available on
a same-day basis up to 11:45 am.

Any new borrowings require Board approval. See 4 Medium and Long-term Funding
Requirement.

The delegated authorities for drawdowns are set out in Appendix D and in 3.6.9 below.

Delegated Authorities

Approve change to Investment Reserve (nil to £20m /for up to 2 weeks) - HOTTI
Approve change to Investment Reserve (up to £50m /for more 2 weeks) - CFOO
Propose drawdown - under existing credit facilities - Dealing Panel

Approve drawdown - under BEIS Facility - Various (see Appendix D)

Approve drawdown - under other external borrowings, including the BEIS Short-term
Facility (up to £50m) - Various (see Appendix D)

re provided by Royal Bank of Scotland ple and were novated to National Westminster Bank Ple

in 2018 as part of the restructuring of the bank as a response to the Government's ring-fencing requirements.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 6
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

3.7 Short-term Cash & Liquidity Arrangements with Subsidiaries of POL

3.7.1

3.7.3

3.74

3.7.8

3.7.9

3.7.10

From time to time subsidiaries? of POL may have surplus cash balances which they wish
to deposit with POL or they may have short-term funding needs which can be satisfied
by POL.

POL is permitted to take loans from or make loans to subsidiaries.
All loans will be documented.

Margins on loans will be agreed between POL and the subsidiary and will be on an arm’s
length basis.

For short-term loans and deposits up to 3 months, for amounts up to £20m, authority to
agree margins and execute documentation, on behalf of POL only, is delegated to the
CFOO.

For the avoidance of doubt, any loans to or from a subsidiary will require the approval of
the subsidiary’s Board

At March 2019 POL has two subsidiaries: POMS and Payzone Bill Payments Limited. In
the event that new subsidiaries are introduced into the Group structure then, provided
such subsidiaries are subsidiaries under the 2006 Companies Act definition, then 3.7 will
also be applicable for loans to/from those subsidiaries.

In 2019 POL is considering a legal entity optimisation project under which certain wholly-
owned subsidiaries of POL will become sister companies of POL under a new holding
company structure. Provided that loans to/from any sister company are permitted under
the BEIS Facility and the entity’s Articles of Association then they will be permitted under
3.7 and will be executed within delegated authorities set out herein.

From time-to-time POL may enter into short-term funding arrangements with First Rate
Exchange Services Limited (“FRES”) under which FRES provides a loan to POL to fund
additional holdings of foreign currency note inventory. Such loans are also permitted
under 3.7 and must be executed within the delegated authorities set out herein.

Delegated Authorities

«Approve margin on intra-group loans to/from subsidiaries on behalf of POL (up to
£20m /up to 3 months) - CFOO and Head of Tax

« Execute documentation for intra-group loans to/from subsidiaries on behalf of POL
(up to £20m and up to 3 months) - CFOO

e Execute documentation for intra-group loans to/from subsidiaries on behalf of POL
(over £20m or over 3 months) - POL Board

? As defined under 2006 Companies Act.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page7
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

111 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

112 of 176

4. Medium and Long-term Funding Management
Business Context

41 The Group develops its strategic objectives and prepares long-term business plans to meet those
objectives. Such objectives will include the continued participation in the Bank of England’s Note
Circulation Scheme (the NCS") in order to ensure an adequate supply of notes for the branch
network. The Group must ensure that it has sufficient committed long-term funding in place to
meet these plans. There is a risk that the funding in place is not sufficient to achieve business
objectives or to adequately withstand unforeseen changes to plans.

4.2 In order to present its financial statements on a going concern basis the Group must demonstrate,
on an annual basis at each balance sheet date, that it has sufficient committed funding in place.

4.3. The Group's existing funding arrangements, including the facilities made available to enable
participation in the NCS, are set out in 3. Short-term Cash and Liquidity Management.

Risk Management Objective
4.4 The objective of the medium and long-term funding management policy is to ensure that the

Group has sufficient committed long-term funding in place to meet business objectives and going
concern obligations.

Main Policy Statement
45 Through a combination of accurate medium and long-term cash flow forecasts and the monitoring
of headroom, together with access to appropriate levels of long-term committed funding, the

Group will ensure it has sufficient funding in place to meet business objectives and going concern
obligations.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

46 Medium and Long-term Cash Flow Forecasting

4.6.1 Medium and long-term cash flow forecasting is an essential tool for the Group and
enables it to have confidence that its committed facilities are sufficient to provide the
liquidity needed to meet its business objectives and loan repayments.

4.6.2 Treasury will provide input to Group’s medium and long-term forecasts, in particular the
‘one-year and five-year strategic forecasts and in accordance with the current Board
Strategy.

47 Funding Strategy

4.7.1. The CFOO and the POL FD will recommend to the Board the appropriate debt capital
structure for the Group. The Group will have a debt maturity profile and funding structure
adequate to meet its:

* business objectives, including growth strategy;
* going concern obligations.

4.7.2 The debt capital structure and maturity profile will be monitored by the CFOO and POL
FD, and reviewed by the Treasury Committee to ensure that the Group has appropriate
funding available to support its long-term plans. Where possible, the Group seeks to
minimise its refinancing risk by adopting a range of maturities for its debt facilities.
Maturity of existing facilities will be monitored to ensure that negotiations commence in a
timely manner to extend or replace them.

48 Headroom
4.8.1 Facility Headroom - Facility Headroom is defined as the headroom available under the

BEIS Facility. The Group will aim to maintain Facility Headroom of at least £200m (the
“Facility Headroom Buffer’). Any reduction in Facility Headroom Buffer will require Board

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 8
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454

POL00423454
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy
approval. It will be monitored and reported in the monthly Treasury Report and the
monthly Performance Report to the Board.

4.8.2 Security Headroom - Security Headroom is defined in the BEIS Facility. Treasury will
also monitor the asset security headroom of the BEIS Facility. It will be reported in the
monthly Treasury Report and the monthly Performance Report to the Board.

4.8.3. Treasury will use a combination of the short-term forecasts outlined in 3.5 above and the
medium and long-term forecasts to monitor headroom.

4.8.4 Delegated Authorities
e Approve amendment to Facility Headroom Buffer - Board

49 Borrowing Policy

4.9.1 Borrowing is only permitted in sterling unless approved by the ARC.

4.9.2 Borrowing should only be incurred in accordance with the restrictions under clause 10 of
POL's Articles of Association and may require shareholder approval.

4.9.3 Additional borrowing is only permitted in accordance with the constraints imposed under
the BEIS Facility which limits borrowings as follows:
the existing £950m BEIS Facility itself, or any refinancing thereof;

«up to £50m of additional finance or capital leases;

* up to £50m additional other borrowings.

Together with the facilities in place to support POL’s participation in the NCS, namely:
the £400m intra-day facility;

e the £350m overnight NRF facility.

4.9.4 Delegated Authorities
* Approve new medium and long-term funding - Board

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 9
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19 113 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

114 of 176

5.

Counterparty Credit Risk Management

Business Context

5.1

5.2

Counterparty credit risk arises where a financial institution counterparty cannot meet its
obligations to the Group. Due to the nature of POL’s business activities such exposures arise
both as part of POL’s normal corporate treasury activities and its other client-related activities.
Exposures arise primarily as follows:

Corporate Treasury Activity

5.1.1

5.1.2

Investment of Surplus Cash Balances - Total exposure of approximately £5m but may
increase up to £50m when the investment reserve is increased during holiday periods.
(See 6. Investment Risk Management.)

Mark-to-Market of Derivatives - Derivative contracts (including FX swaps, FX forwards
and interest rate swaps) where the mark-to-market position has moved in favour of POL
such that the counterparty owes money to POL under the contract. Exposure arises due
to changes in market rates. Because FX maturities are managed within one month total
exposure is currently minimal.

Committed Facilities - Commitments made by a bank or other funding provider under
facilities that remain undrawn by POL. Such facilities currently comprise: the BEIS
Facility and the BEIS Short-term Facility; and, the £400m intra-day facility / £350m
overnight NRF facility provided by National Westminster Bank Plc. The exposure relating
to the BEIS Facility and the BEIS Short-term Facility is considered to be nil but there is
an exposure on National Westminster Bank Plc that fluctuates during the day depending
on how much is utilised under the facilities. Total exposure may be up to £400m.

Other Client-Related Activity

5.1.4

5.1.6

5.1.7

Banking Framework - Over-the-counter banking transaction services with retail and
business customers. Transactions are cleared through the LINK system with daily
settlement to POL received from Barclays Bank PLC this creates a daily net direct
exposure to Barclays Bank PLC of up to £30m. In addition, POL would also be exposed
to the failure of an individual client bank to meet its obligations under the LINK system.

Debit and Credit Card Processing - When a customer makes a payment to POL over-
the-counter using either a debit card or a credit card settlement is received by POL via
GPUK LLP (“GlobalPay”) on the next business day. This creates a one-day credit
exposure against GlobalPay. Total exposure fluctuates but is approximately £75m.

Cheque Clearing - when a customer makes a payment to POL using a cheque it creates
a short-term exposure (up to two days) exposure against the bank on which the cheque
is drawn. The total exposure on cheques is approximately £25m but this is disaggregated
between the banks on which the cheques are drawn.

Other Client-Related Activity - Exposures arising from other client-related activities.

- ATM Withdrawals — Exposure to Bank of Ireland linked to cash withdrawals from ATMs.
The exposure varies significantly, depending on the time of the year and day of the
week, between £20m and up to £135m.

- POca Related Flows — Exposure to JPMorgan Europe Limited in respect of POca-
related flows across POL counters. Flows between 13:00 on the previous day and
13:00 are aggregated and paid same day. The exposure fluctuates significantly
depending on the day of the week and time of the year and is impacted by holiday
periods and winter fuel payments. It can vary between £20m and up to £125m.

This policy focuses on counterparty credit risk arising from POL’s corporate treasury activities.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 10
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Risk Management Objectives

5.3

The objective of the counterparty credit risk management policy is to minimise the Group’s risk of
loss in its corporate treasury activities as a result of the failure of a financial institution
counterparty.

Main Policy Statement

5.4

Treasury will minimise the risk of loss due to the failure of a financial institution counterparty to
meet its obligations by only entering into corporate treasury transactions with highly-rated
counterparties and through credit approvals, limits and monitoring procedures.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

5.5

5.6

5.7

5.8

5.9

5.10

5.11

5.12

Treasury will only enter into corporate treasury transactions with appropriately approved financial
institution counterparties.

The Group's corporate treasury-related credit risk arises primarily from the investment of surplus
cash balances. For the purpose of the investment of surplus cash balances limits are allocated
according to rating band rather than specified counterparty. Approved counterparties and sub-
limits applicable to deposits (as at March 2019) are set out in 6 Investment Risk Management.
Deposit limits will fluctuate with changes to credit ratings.

When monitoring the credit quality of counterparties Treasury will use short-term and long-term
credit ratings from S&P and Fitch. The weaker of the two ratings will be used for decision-making
purposes.

Approved counterparties and credit limits for other transaction types are set out in Appendix A.

New counterparties and limits may be approved from time to time. Treasury will make a
recommendation to the Treasury Committee based on credit ratings for consideration and
recommendation to the ARC.

Exposures to investment counterparties will be monitored separately and reported to the HoTTI
on a daily basis and to the Treasury Committee on a monthly basis in the Treasury Report. See
6. Investment Risk Management. Exposures to corporate treasury counterparty activities will be
aggregated (including investment counterparties) and reported to the Treasury Committee on a
monthly basis together with changes to credit ratings as part of the Treasury Report.

Delegated Authorities

* Approve new financial institution counterparty - ARC
e Approve financial institution counterparty limit - ARC
* Approve temporary increase to financial institution counterparty limit - CFOO

Note on the Implications of Ring-fencing - Effective 1 January 2019 the major UK banks were
required to implement the Government's ring-fencing requirements. In 2018 the Group’s bank
accounts and the £400m facilities with Royal Bank of Scotland Pic were transferred to National
Westminster Bank Plc as part of the bank’s restructuring to meet these requirements. From 2019
these accounts and facilities will sit inside the ring-fence. (It should be noted that the interest rate
swap executed in April 2018 with NatWest Markets Pic sits outside the ring-fence.) Provided that
the S&P and Fitch long-term and short-term credit ratings of National Westminster Bank Plc (or
any other entity inside or outside the ring-fence) were the same as, or better than, Royal Bank of
Scotland Pic then all references to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc were deemed to apply to National
Westminster Bank Pic (or those other entities). This approach was also applied for Barclays Bank
PLC and Lloyds Bank plc.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 11
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

115 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

116 of 176

6. Investment Risk Management
Business Context

6.1 Treasury manages short-term liquidity to target a cash buffer of £5m. The buffer is reduced to nil
at period ends and can be increased up to £50m around holiday periods when liquidity risks are
highest. This creates surplus cash balances that can be invested by Treasury.

Risk Management Objectives

6.2 The three core objectives of the Group’s investment risk management policy are: (i) security — to
preserve the principal sum; (ii) /iquidity — to ensure investments are accessible when needed; (iii)
yield — to optimise return on investments.

Main Policy Statement

6.3 The Group’s overall consideration when depositing surplus cash balances is the preservation of
the principal sum. Surplus cash balances will be invested by Treasury to optimise return, subject
to counterparty credit risk considerations. These investments will not be subject to fluctuation in
capital values.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

6.4 Permitted Investment Instruments - Treasury are permitted to use the following investment
instruments: bank term deposits and deposits on interest-bearing accounts; money market funds
(‘MMFs”); and, when appropriate, deposits with the Debt Management Office (“DMO”).

65 Permitted Currencies — Treasury will only invest in £-denominated instruments.

6.6 Approved Bank Counterparties and Deposit Limits - It is the Group’s policy to establish and
monitor limits for each of the counterparties that it makes investments with.

6.6.1 Limits for term deposits and interest-bearing accounts (“deposit limits”) are based on
credit rating bands rather than specific counterparties. Counterparties are allocated to
bands based on the lower of the S&P and Fitch long-term credit rating as follows:

(a)

DAA 120
AA+ to AA- 90
A+ to A- 60
BBB+ 30
BBB and below 0

(1) Based on lower of S&P and Fitch long-term credit rating

6.6.2 Counterparties must have a long-term S&P or Fitch credit rating of at least BBB+ and a
short-term S&P or Fitch credit rating of A2/F2.

6.6.3 Counterparties must also be a member of CHAPS (see Appendix C for a list of CHAPS

banks).
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 12
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

6.6.4

6.6.5

6.7 Other

6.7.3

Approved counterparties and deposit limits based on credit ratings as at January 2018
are:

rast ting
sap Fitch

"Seat

Franc ttn Quntrpaty Pe ee
(an)

Barclays Bank PLC A Ad Stable A+ — F1 Negative 80.0
National Westminster Bank Plc (1) A-  A2 Positive At F1 \egative 60.0
NatWest Markets Pic (2) BBB+ A2 Positive A — F1  \egative Not applic.
Lloyds Bank Pie At Ad Stable A+ F1 Negative 60.0

(1) Entity inside ring-fence; (2) Entity outside ring-fence.

The deposit limits against individual institutions are expected to change with changes in
credit ratings.

Exception - Barclays Bank PLC, as our cash management bank, is allocated an
additional limit of £20m to allow for cash held as operational balances on bank accounts
from time to time. Barclays’ long-term rating of A+ would imply a deposit limit of £60m.
The limit is increased to £80m.

Unauthorised arbitrage is prohibited i.e. funds should not be specifically drawn down for
investment purposes.

Only Treasury is permitted to invest surplus cash balances.
A proposal for the investment of surplus cash balances will be made by the Dealing Panel

and approved by either the Treasury Authorisation Panel (see Appendix C — Delegated
Authorities for Approval Panels) or in accordance with 6.11 below.

6.7 Deposit Tenor Limits

6.7.1

Deposits will be no longer than one month.

6.8 Money Market Fund Investment Criteria - It is the Group's policy to establish and monitor limits

for each of the MMFs that it invests in.

6.8.1. The MMF must be rated by at least one of S&P and Fitch. If rated it must be rated AAAm
by S&P and AAAmmf by Fitch
6.8.2 POL’s holding as a proportion of the fund size must not be greater than 10%.
6.8.3. MMFs must have a constant net asset value (CNAV) (also referred to as stable NAV) or
a Variable Net Asset value (VNAV) (also referred to as accumulating NAV).
6.8.4 MMFs must have daily liquidity.
6.8.5 Investment is limited to £50m in any one MMF.
6.8.6 Investment in Prime Liquidity Funds is limited to £350m
6.8.7 Investment in Government Funds is limited to £150m.
6.8.9 Where a single provider has segregated Prime Liquidity Funds and Government Funds,
investments can be made in both MMFs subject to the limits above.
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 13
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

117 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

118 of 176

6.9 Approved MMFs and limits as at January 2018 are:

Gesture

tered Rre seh AM ney
(GN - Storing Lit Fura (Standart) ‘Asam AAAmmt Prime GBP
hnesco STC Gobal String Unusty Porto AAAm —-AAAmmt Prine GBP
Anerdeen Unucty Far (= Steg Fue Asam -AAAmmt Prine GBP
Blackrock - aon String igus Fund Asam —-AAAmmt — Prine GBP
CGoliman Sachs -Sterrg quid Resewves Fue Asam na rime GBP
Unatocated Asam —AAAmmt Prime GBP

‘Sub-total- Prime Liquidity Funds

Need Red
Sr em
NAV 14,400
onav

NAV 14,400
NAV 36,800
nav 11,800

Blackrock -hsttional Stering Government Liquidity Fund AAAm = AAAmmf Government GBP
Unallocated AAAm —AAAmmt Goverment GBP

‘NAV 2.400

Sub-total - Government Funds

Aeroms iat
Une ara oe
a ty

500° 0.3%
500" #DNi0!
500 (0.3%
500 0.1%
500 04%
100.0
350.0
500 21%
100.0
150.0

6.10 DMO Investment Criteria - The Group may invest with the DMO on an unlimited basis.

6.11 Operational Approvals - For each individual investment made approval is required as per the

table below:
investment <£300m <£100m <£50m <£300m <£50m <£50m
Amount
Tem of <1 month <3months <6 months, <1 year <1 year <1 year
Investment » * *
tmember — 1member 1 member croome
Delegated be ° fon. other POL
‘auto Treasury Treasury Treasury POL FD Pot Board
ory Authorisation Authorisation Authorisation Board Member
Panel Panel Panel

The POL FD is also authorised to approve investments with a maturity of up to 5 years for the purpose of providing

collateral for the Note Circulation Scheme.

6.12 Monitoring

6.12.1 Exposures to investment counterparties will be monitored separately and reported to the

HoTTI on a daily basis and to the Treasury Committee on a monthly basis in the Treasury

Report.

6.13 Limit Breaches

6.13.1 When Treasury are aware of a potential breach in advance (for example, when Treasury
choose to hold in excess of the authorised limit because no other investments
opportunities are available) approval must be obtained from either the CFOO or the POL
FD for a temporary increase to the limit. The temporary increase will normally be for no

longer than one night.

6.13.2 When Treasury are not aware of the breach in advance (for example, where we receive
more cash into our Barclays accounts than we had forecasted) Treasury will notify the
CFOO of the breach immediately on becoming aware of it but in any event no later than

close of business on the day after the breach occurred.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron
Policies and Authorities March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

Page 14
of 35

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

6.13.3 All limit breaches will be reported to the Treasury Committee in the monthly Treasury
Report.

6.14 Delegated Authorities

Approve new investment counterparty - within approved credit rating bands - POL FD
Approve changes to credit rating bands for deposit limits - ARC

Approve temporary increase to investment counterparty deposit limit - CFOO
Approve new permitted investment instrument - CFOO

Propose investment of surplus cash balances - Dealing Panel

Approve investment of surplus cash balances - Various (see 6.11)

eee eee

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 15
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

pliance Committee-2 119 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

120 of 176

7 Foreign Exchange Exposure Management
Business Context

71 Foreign exchange risk principally arises from holding foreign currency note inventory in branches
and cash centres to meet “on demand” requirements from customers. All currencies are
purchased from FRES. The exchange risk arises from the time of purchase from FRES to the
sale of currency to the customer. The size of balances on hand is determined by demand. POL
holds note inventory balances in approximately 70 currencies. On average, currency holdings
are c. £60m but can peak at over £100m during holiday periods.

Risk Management Objectives

7.2 The objective of the foreign exchange exposure management policy is to minimise the impact on
the Group's income statement of foreign currency exposures arising from its day-to-day
operations.

Main Policy Statement

7.3 Through a combination of periodic monitoring of foreign exchange exposures and entering into
hedges within approved hedging bands the Group will ensure its exposure to fluctuations in
exchange rates is minimised.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

74 The Head of Travel Money analyses the report of foreign currency note holdings in the network
which is prepared by Supply Chain and the daily reports of foreign currency holdings provided by
Treasury.

7.5 Amonthly meeting of the FX Committee is held, attended by: the Director of Product; the Finance
Director Financial Services and Telecoms; and the Head of Travel. The meeting is held to confirm
the value of hedges and timescales of hedges in accordance with the FX risk management policy
outlined below.

76 Detailed foreign exchange risk management policy statements

7.6.1 EUR and USD holdings will be hedged 100%; currencies with exposures over £1.5m will
be hedged 90% to 100%; other currencies with exposures over £1 million will be hedged
70%.

7.6.2 Atleast 80% and no more than 120% of qualifying exposures will be hedged based on
the average of (1) the previous period’s actual holdings and (2) the forecast for one month
forward.

7.6.3 Hedges will be closed out and reset to periods between two weeks and five weeks.
Longer-dated hedges will be set to mature at a monthend and will be revalued at each
intervening month end based upon the mark-to-market valuation provided by the hedging
bank.

7.6.4 Hedging will be conducted with counterparties approved by the Treasury Committee (see
5 Counterparty Credit Risk Management)

7.6.5 Trades will be executed at a pre-arranged margin with all counterparties.

7.6.6 The maturity of financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange exposures will
normally be about a month but can be no longer than six weeks.

7.6.7 Permitted Instruments - Foreign currency exposures can only be hedged using foreign
currency outright forwards or swaps.

7.6.8 FX hedging instruments can only be used to hedge exposures generated by holding
currencies to meet on-demand transactions by customers.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 16
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

7.7

7.8

7.9

7.10

7.11

Latest currency holdings and hedges will be reviewed at the end of each period immediately
before the maturity of the monthly hedges by Financial Director Financial Services and Telecoms.
and the Head of POL Travel.

On a monthly basis the Finance Director Financial Services and Telecoms will report to the
Treasury Committee on the gain or loss on foreign currency holdings.

From time-to-time POL may enter into short-term funding arrangements with First Rate Exchange
Services Limited (“FRES”) under which FRES provides a loan to POL to fund additional holdings
of foreign currency note inventory. For permissions and authorities in connection with such loans
see 3.7.9.

Any proposed changes to the policies above will be presented to the ARC Committee for approval
Delegated Authorities

* Execute FX hedge trades, within policy, in accordance with instructions issued by FX
Committee - Treasury

e Approve new permitted FX hedging instrument - CFOO

« Approve FX hedge trades for exposures not created by currency note inventory holdings —
up to £50m - CFOO

* Approve FX hedge trades for exposures not created by currency note inventory holdings —
above £50m - Board

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 17
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

121 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

8

Interest Rate Exposure Management

Business Context

81

8.2

The Group is exposed to changes in interest rates via its Libor-linked funding and the returns it
earns on cash balances. Increases in interest rates will increase the Group’s cost of funding and
increase the return it earns on cash, mainly linked to Post Office card account (“POca”) balances.

The Group's funding is via the BEIS Facility maturing in 2021 and the NRF. Interest rates on both
facilities are linked to Libor. POL also earns commission (credited to revenue) on the balances
of benefit payments held by JP Morgan, the POca cash balances. The commission interest
received is also linked to Libor. The interest receivable on the POca cash balances has
historically exceeded the interest payable on POL’s borrowings and is expected to do so for the
foreseeable future, despite the long-term decline of POca cash balances. The interest payable
on POL’s funding is a natural hedge of the commission interest receivable.

Risk Management Objectives

8.3

The objective of the interest rate risk management policy is to minimise exposures to income
statement impacts of changes in interest rates.

Main Policy Statement

8.4

The Group will monitor its exposures to changes in interest rates on a regular basis and
recommend hedging strategies, if appropriate.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

8.5 Treasury will obtain forecasts of interest payable / commission receivable and the net interest
rate exposure will be monitored by Treasury and, if appropriate, a proposal to hedge the exposure
will be put to the Treasury Committee prior to approval by the Board.

8.6 The suitability and effectiveness of the interest rate risk management policy will be reviewed at
each Treasury Committee meeting. Any proposed changes will be reported to the ARC
Committee for approval and submission to the Board.

87 Permitted Instruments - Hedging will be by way of interest rate swaps. Other instruments may
be approved by the ARC on a case-by-case basis.

8.8 The Government's Managing Public Money Guidelines allow organisations to consider the use of
derivatives but require them to consider their use carefully especially to assess value for money.
The Guidelines require POL to consult its sponsoring department / HM Treasury before executing
any derivative for the first time.

8.9 Delegated Authorities
e Approve new permitted interest rate hedging instrument - ARC
«Approve execution of interest rate hedging strategy - Board

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 18

Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

122 of 176

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

9.

Bank Relationship Management

Business Context

9.1

9.2

Good long-term relationships with banks are crucial to the success of the Group around its
corporate treasury activities. The Group requires support from banks across all its treasury
activities and this support is particularly important for the provision of: short-term liquidity,
including operational overdrafts; credit facilities to enable continued participation in the Note
Circulation Scheme; and, FX instruments and other derivatives, requiring credit to be extended.

Due to the UK-focused nature of the Group, the limited requirement for external funding and a
small amount of ancillary treasury business, the Group has historically focussed on building
relationships with a small group of UK clearing banks.

Risk Management Objective

9.3

The objective of the bank relationship management policy is to establish, maintain and develop
efficient and effective banking relationships with a core group of banks to provide the Group with
long-term banking support irrespective of short-term business conditions and financial market
turbulence.

Main Policy Statement

9.4

The Group will seek to build long-term relationships with two to three of the UK clearing banks.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

9.5

9.6

9.7

9.8

9.9

It is the Group’s policy to build long-term relationships with providers of banking services and
facilities in order to maximise mutual advantage. In allocating new business opportunities,
preference will generally be given to banks where a relationship already exists, but this does not
preclude the use of other banks identified by Treasury should it be appropriate. Any new
relationships will be reported to the Treasury Committee in the monthly Treasury Report for
approval.

Current counterparty relationships, including banks, are listed in Appendix B.

Management of the Group’s bank relationships is the responsibility of the HoTTI and the Chief
Financial and Operations Officer (“CFOO”). Bank selection will be determined by a number of
factors, including service, price, product range, geographic spread and willingness to provide
services. The decision to develop a new relationship will rest with the Treasury Committee.

From time to time POL may require that banking partners enter into Non-Disclosure Agreements.
(‘NDAs’) to protect Group-sensitive information. Approval will be required by the CFOO.

Delegated Authorities

e Approve entering into relationship with new bank - Treasury Committee

e Approve entering into relationship with new bank (prior to Treasury Committee approval) -
CFOO

* Approve entering into NDA with bank - CFOO

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 19
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

123 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

124 of 176

10 Commodity Price Exposure Management
Business Context

10.1 The Group is exposed to movements in the price of diesel, gas and electricity used throughout
the business.

Risk Management Objectives

10.2 The objective of the commodity price exposure management policy is to minimise income
statement volatility due to changes in commodity prices.

Main Policy Statement

10.3 Treasury will monitor exposures to these commodities and forecast price movements and may
recommend hedging action to the Treasury Committee or directly to the CFOO to protect the
Group from adverse price movements.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

10.4 The CFOO is authorised to hedge each commodity, where it is believed to be economic to do so,
up to a maximum of 3 years based on forecast future usage.

10.5 Permitted Instruments - permitted hedging instruments are spot purchases, currency deposits,
forward contracts, call options, matched options (e.g. cylinders) and swaps. Futures will not be
used without specific authority of the CFOO.

10.6 The Group will designate commodity cash flow hedges against forecast underlying exposures.
Unrealised gains and losses on hedges will be deferred in reserves. This will be recycled to the
income statement when the hedge matures to match forecast expenditure.

10.7 The suitability and effectiveness of the commodity price exposure management policy will be
reviewed at each Treasury Committee meeting. Any proposed changes will be reported to the
ARC Committee for approval and submission to the Board.

10.8 Delegated Authorities
«Execute commodity price hedges within policy - Treasury

« Approve new commodity price hedge counterparty - CFOO
* Approve execution of commodity price hedge within policy - HoTTI

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 20
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Other Guidelines

41. Operational Banking
11.1 Bank Facilities
11.1.1 Treasury is responsible for the negotiation of all operational banking facilities and any
changes to existing operational facilities. Such facilities include overdrafts, fx lines, BACS.
limits, intra-day limits and any similar arrangements. Directorates do not have the
authority to negotiate or commit to any new operational banking facilities without prior
approval from Treasury and are not authorised to undertake any discussions regarding
credit lines.
11.1.2 All changes to existing operational banking facilities or any new operational banking
facilities must be agreed by the CFOO.
11.2 Interest and Bank Charges
11.2.1 Bank transaction charges will be negotiated by Treasury to ensure minimum cost to the
Group. Charges incurred will be reviewed by Treasury to ensure that the activity levels
and unit costs applied by the banks to calculate charges are in accordance with agreed
tariffs. Errors are to be notified directly to the bank.
11.3. Bank Accounts
11.3.1 It is the Group’s policy to minimise the number of bank accounts it operates. Treasury
will conduct a bi-annual audit to ensure it has an accurate record of bank accounts.
Accounts not being utilised should be closed. This will be reconciled back to internal and
bank records.
11.3.2 All new bank accounts will be approved by the HoTTI
11.3.3 Where possible all accounts should be within a cash pooling arrangement. It is
recognised that certain constraints apply to POMS cash, where restrictions may preclude
pooling.
11.4 Bank Mandates
11.4.1 Itis the Group’s policy to standardise bank mandates wherever possible. Treasury will
manage and administer all bank mandates centrally. Each bank account must be
supported by a written, up-to-date mandate which is checked against a list of those
colleagues leaving the business on a monthly basis.
11.4.2 Authority levels relating to internet banking systems will be documented separately.
11.4.3 Sole signatory on a bank account is not permitted except for cheques where one
signatory may sign for amounts of up to £50,000.
11.5 Reconciliations
11.5.1 The Financial Accounting & Governance Manager is responsible for bank reconciliations.
11.5.2 The reconciliation process around certain bank accounts has been assigned to Treasury.
For those accounts, Treasury will ensure that all bank accounts are reconciled to the
underlying accounting records and all reconciling items are identified and cleared as
appropriate, in a timely manner.
11.5.3. The HoTTI will ensure that all Treasury-owned reconciliations have been properly carried
‘out and provided to the relevant staff members reporting to the POL FD in accordance
with prescribed deadlines.
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 21
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

125 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

11.6 Delegated Authorities

« Approve amendments to existing operational banking facilities - CFOO
* Approve new operational banking facilities - CFOO

Approve opening of new bank account - HoTTI

* Approve closure of bank account - HoTTI

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 22
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35
126 of Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

12 Payments
12.1 I Manual Payments

12.1.1 Signing mandates are managed by Treasury and must be in place with a bank for any
account on which cheques or similar manual payment instructions (e.g. direct debit
mandates) are issued.

12.1.2 Cheques or other manual payment instructions up to £50,000 may be signed by one
signatory. Cheques or other manual payment instructions greater than £50,000 must be
signed by two signatories.

12.1.3 It is the responsibility of the paying department to ensure that there is adequate
segregation of duties with regard to the preparation of manual payment instructions and
cheques and that written procedures governing the processing of payments are in place.

12.1.4 Cheque books should be kept in a secure place.

12.1.5 Paying-in books should also be kept in a secure place. To prevent credits being made
to unauthorised accounts, only pre-printed paying-in slips should be used when paying
in cheques.

12.1.6 Delegated Authorities
« Sign manual payment instruction - < £50k - Any 1 member of Banking

Authorisation Panel
Sign manual payment instruction - > £50k - Any 2 members of Banking
Authorisation Panel
12.2 I Computer-Generated Cheque Payments

12.2.1. There should be adequate physical security over the hardware and software used for the
preparation of computer-generated cheques. Detailed records should be kept of cheque
stationery utilised and any missing cheque numbers investigated. A monetary limit
should be set for the maximum value of any computer-generated or machine-signed
cheque.

12.3. Manually-Instructed Payments

12.3.1. Where any use is made of electronic payment systems via a bank, staff must ensure that
adequate written control procedures exist to ensure that the bank will only respond to
verified requests from authorised personnel, these include:

e the use of code words;

*  answer-back arrangements with the bank calling back to an authorised signatory
(other than an authorised signatory who has signed the request);

* requests by telephone for transfers to be supported by a written request, signed in
accordance with the mandate, received by the bank prior to dispatch of funds;

«transfer requests should only be sent on company headed notepaper, or pre-printed
forms unique to the Group.

12.3.2 Treasury must approve any proposal to start using an internet banking platform and
undertake a detailed security review.

12.3.3 Ifa bank requests any Group employee to sign an indemnity giving protection to the bank
in respect of payment instructions actioned by the bank, then this document must be
forwarded to Treasury for review and approval prior to signature.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 23
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

127 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

128 of 176

12.4

Electronic Transfers

12.41

12.4.2

12.4.3

124.4

12.4.5

1246

12.4.7

Electronic Funds Transfer (BACS/CHAPS/Faster Payments) is the preferred means of
payment. Where internet banking systems are used to make such payments, care must
be taken to ensure that there is adequate physical security over the system to prevent
unauthorised access. The networking of internet banking systems should be approved
collectively by the Treasury and IT departments.

Itis the responsibility of Treasury to ensure that there is adequate segregation of duties
in relation to initiating, authorising and releasing payments.

The authorisation process must be fully documented. Non-compliance with the agreed
authorisation procedures will be referred to the CFOO and ARC Committee and is
considered a serious breach of control.

BACS limits will be negotiated with the bank by Treasury and will be communicated to
the relevant business unit. Any request for an increase to a BACS limit must be made
by Treasury.

‘Any recommendations by a bank providing an internet banking system with regard to the
control environment surrounding that system must be adhered to in all respects.

Treasury must approve any proposal to start using internet banking systems or other
host-to-host solutions to initiate payments and ensure that a security review has been
undertaken if appropriate.

Delegated Authorities

«Release payment from Internet Banking System - < £50k - Any 1 Payment Panel
(Internet Banking System)

« Release payment from Internet Banking System - > £50k - Any 2 Payment Panel
(Internet Banking System)

« Release payment from Treasury Management System / SAP - Various (see
Appendix C)

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 24
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

13

13.1

13.2

13.3

Guarantees and Indemnities / Group Support

POL Support for Subsidiaries

13.1.1

13.1.2

13.1.3

13.1.4

13.1.5

POL may be asked to provide a letter of comfort, a letter of awareness or a direct
guarantee or indemnity to a third party to support the activity of its subsidiaries*. Although
a guarantee creates a contingent liability on POL it does not increase the overall liabilities
of the Group. Itis considered reasonable to meet such requests on behalf of a subsidiary.

Requests of this type will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and POL will also consider
whether it is more appropriate to issue a letter of comfort or letter of awareness.
Generally such a guarantee will not have a cost for POL. The authority to approve and
sign a direct guarantee to a commercial third-party for the benefit of any subsidiary must
be approved in accordance with the Group Delegated Authorities around indemnities.

For the avoidance of doubt 13.1 does not apply to guarantees provided by POL in favour
of subsidiaries in connection with the raising of third-party finance by subsidiaries. All
such guarantees must be considered by the Board.

Delegated Authorities

* Approve and execute a direct guarantee or indemnity to a commercial third party for
the benefit of a subsidiary - See Group Delegated Authorities for Indemnities

As of March 2019 POMS and Payzone Bill Payments Limited are the only subsidiaries of
POL. In the event that new subsidiaries are introduced into the Group structure then,
provided such entities are considered to be subsidiaries under 2006 Companies Act, then
13.1 will also be applicable for guarantees or indemnities for the benefit of those
subsidiaries.

Bank Guarantees

13.2.1

13.2.2

13.2.3

13.2.4

POL may provide a counter-guarantee to a bank to support a guarantee made by that
bank to a third party (a “bank guarantee”) on behalf of POL. Such a bank guarantee may
be used to support financing provided by a third party or to support a commercial
arrangement. Such an arrangement may create a contingent financial exposure for the
Group.

To Support Financing - Where the bank guarantee is used to support a financing
arrangement approval will be by the POL Board

To Support Commercial Activity - Where the bank guarantee is being provided to support
‘commercial activity the authority to approve and sign the guarantee to the bank must be
approved in accordance with the Group Delegated Authorities around indemnities.

Delegated Authorities

e Approve bank guarantee to support financing arrangement - Board

* Approve bank guarantee to support commercial arrangement
Delegated Authorities for Indemnities

«Execute counter-guarantee to bank in support of commercial arrangement - See
Group Delegated Authorities for Indemnities

See Group

Government Support for the Group

13.3.1

13.3.2

From time-to-time the Group may be asked to obtain a letter of comfort, a letter of
awareness or a guarantee from Government to support its activities. Such arrangements
do not create a contingent liability of the Group.

Requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis and will require POL Board
approval.

5 As defined under 2006 Companies Act.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 25
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

129 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

14 Regulatory Obligations

14.2 European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR")

14.2.1 Effective from January 2018, as a result of the changes introduced by MiFID Il, the
Group’s derivative activity is subject to the requirements of EMIR.

14.2.2 POLis classified as a Non-Financial Counterparty “-“ (an “NFC —")
14.2.3 As an NFC - EMIR places certain obligations on POL, namely:

a) Reporting Obligations - POL must report its derivative contracts to a trade repository
no later than the working day after execution.

b) Risk Mitigation Techniques — POL must: (i) confirm trades in a timely manner; (ii)
have dispute resolution processes in place; and (iii) engage in portfolio reconciliation

14.2.4 POL will delegate reporting to its counterparty in derivatives transactions and will only
execute derivative transactions with counterparties with which it has the appropriate
delegated trade reporting agreements in place.

14.2.5 All trades will be confirmed by the end of the second day after execution.

14.2.6 POL will have ISDA agreements in place with all derivative counterparties to ensure that
dispute resolution and portfolio reconciliation processes are documented.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 26
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

130 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

15 ISDA Master Agreements

15.2 POL enters into ISDA* Master Agreements with potential derivative counterparties. The ISDA is
an industry-standard agreement which governs the relationship between derivative
counterparties and each transaction entered into under the ISDA. The key provisions of the ISDA
include terms relating to payment and delivery obligations, termination rights, the close-out netting
of transactions on termination, and representation and warranties. When executing derivative
transactions POL enters into confirmations pursuant to the ISDA, which contain the economic
terms of each transaction.

15.3 POL will only enter into derivative transactions with counterparties with which it has an ISDA
agreement in place. POL will ensure that ISDA agreements are broadly similar in all material
respects across counterparties. It is policy to standardise ISDAs where possible.

15.4 Only Treasury can negotiate ISDAs on behalf of POL.

15.4 Delegated Authorities

« Agree changes to an ISDA Schedule - HoTTI
° Approve and execute ISDA agreement on behalf of POL - CFOO

* ISDA — International Swaps and Derivatives Association

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 27
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 131 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

132 of 176

Section Ill - Governance and Reporting

16

16.1

16.2

Treasury Governance and Reporting

Governance

16.1.1

16.1.2

16.1.3

16.1.4

16.1.5

16.1.6

16.1.7

16.1.8

16.1.9

PO Treasury risks are governed through the following structures:

POL Board: Authority to approve policies and approval limits relating to treasury risk
management resides with the Board. Treasury risk management includes but is not
limited to the following: short-term liquidity management, long-term funding, counterparty
risk management, foreign exchange exposure management and interest rate risk
management. The Board will delegate authorities to facilitate the operation of treasury
risk management and the daily operation of the Treasury function.

ARC Committee: Financial risk management policies and approval limits are
recommended to the Board for approval by the ARC Committee.

Risk and Compliance Committee (“RCC”): Financial risk management policies will be
presented to the RCC for noting prior to submission to the ARC.

Treasury Committee: Is part of the Operations Board and meets on a monthly basis to
review the Treasury Report, review financial risks, report on headroom and working
capital, and report on and recommend changes to policy to the ARC Committee as
required. The Treasury Committee is composed of the CFOO, the POL FD, the HoTTI
and Finance Director Financial Services. Other members of the Operations Board may
attend from time-to-time.

FX Currency Hedging Committee: Meets monthly or more frequently as required from
time-to-time to confirm the value of hedges and timescales of hedges in accordance with
the FX risk management policy. The committee is composed of: the Director of Product;
the Finance Director Financial Services and Telecoms; and the Head of Travel.

The Board has delegated the following specific authorities to the CFOO and POL FD.

CFOO: e Approval of investment instrument limits
* Approval of counterparty selection criteria
Approval of counterparties
.

Approval of counterparty limits

POL FD:

Approval of counterparties
e Approval of counterparty limits (within approved
investment instrument limits)

The daily operation of treasury activity is delegated to the panels as shown on Appendix
D. Inall cases members of these panels will be appointed by the Treasury Committee.

Authority levels for write-offs are shown in Appendix F.

Treasury Management Reporting

16.2.1

16.2.2

The Treasury Report will be produced on a monthly basis. The contents of the report will
include analysis of: note and coin inventory and how it is funded; insurance limits in cash
centres; network cash holdings and inward rems; a monthly forecast update, including
variance analysis for the prior period; Facility Headroom and Security Headroom;
balances held in bank accounts; the net NRF Cap position; fx gains and losses;
exposures to interest rate risks; treasury controls; as well as a summary of any project
work currently being undertaken by Treasury.

The Treasury Committee will meet on a monthly basis as part of the Operations Board.
It will review the Treasury Report and consider any other treasury risk management
issues as required and make recommendations to the ARC.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 28
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

16.2.3 Policy breaches will be immediately reported to the CFOO and the Group Director of
Legal, Risk & Governance and, when considered appropriate, at the discretion of the
CFOO, to the RCC and ARC.

16.2.4 Treasury KPIs will be reviewed regularly.
16.2.5 Authorities to drawdown under established facilities are laid out in Appendix E.
16.2.6 An additional authority matrix is shown in Appendix F that relates to various items which

arise during the normal course of business and for which individual write-off authorities
are required. Examples of such items, which will normally be provided for, include:

. ATM cash trapping and retract fraud;
. Travelers’ Cheque fraud;
. Camelot scratch cards failures in stock control due to master data errors.
Alisdair Cameron
March 2019
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 29
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35
Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 133 of 176

QZL JO PEL

GL/EO/GZ-BAHIWWIOD soue!IdWOD »g ¥SIY IIPNY - PaYIW!T SOI 1804

Appendix A: Summary of Counterparty Relationships, Services & Exposures

conning
Monet
sa oe el
rei etn Copy - we Se one ERB mae te cone
ore ean
2) Corporate Treasury Actwity
Barclays Bark PLC investment of Supls Cash Balances AAA Sable A FI Positive 400 800 Ether rough bak erm deposits or interest bearing accounts
Mictomktof Derhatves
a + 100
+ terest Rate Swaps = 180
400 1300
National WestrinsterBank Pie Rvesimert of Sup Cash Balances ‘A2 Positive A+ Fi Vegatve 50 600 Ether ¥yough bark term depositories bearing accounts
Comite Facies
~ £400mina-day6350m overt fait 4000 400.0 Exposure onvndrawn amount of commitment
NatWest Markets Pe Mctomktof Dervatves A2 Positve A FI Negative
“FX + 100
+ terest Rate Swaps = 180
5100

Investment of Supls Cash Balances

Mictomktof Derivatives
= PK
+ terest Rate Swaps

405.0
400

400

160.0 Either trough bark term deposits or interest bearing accounts

100
150

1100

Governor & Companyot te Bark — Mi-tomktof Derivatives
of feland - FK

Positive

2

Positive

10.0 Trades booked through Bank of teland First Curency Serdces (BOFCS)

») Other Cliontrelated Activity

Barclays Bark PLC Banking Framework (1) 200 Exposure related clearing and settemert of banking tameworkanasactons
Bank of rela ‘ATM Witeavals 1350 Exposure related b cash wthdrans fom ATMs

JP Morgan Europe Limited Pcaelated Flows 1250

PUK LP - Debit and Creat Caré Processing (3) _ _ 750" One day exposure fo GiotalPay eating to clearing of debit and reat card ransactons
Notes:

(1) POL is also exposed fo the failure of individual client banks under the Banking Framevork to meet their obligations under the Link system.

(2) A short-term (2 dey) exposure is created when a customer ma

aymnetto POL vie cheque. As vel s onthe customer the exposure is also against the bank on vhic the cheque is drewn. The eggregeted exposure across al banks is approx. £25m perc

(3) A short-term (1 day) exposure is created uhen a customer makes a paymentto POL wa debitor erect. As well axon te customer and GiobalPay the exposure it also against the card issuer. The aggregated exposure is approx. £75m per day.

Treasury Risk Management Framework,
Policies and Authorities

Alisdair Cameron

March 2019

Page 30
of 35

POL00423454
POL00423454

follog Ainseasy 16 GEL
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Appendix B: CHAPS Banks

Bank of America (N.A)
Bank of England

Bank of Scotland (HBOS)
Barclays Bank PLC

Citibank N.A

CLS Bank International
Clydesdale Bank PLC

The Co-operative Bank PLC
Danske Bank

Deutsche Bank A.G

HSBC Limited

J.P. Morgan Chase Bank

Lloyds TSB Bank PLC

National Westminster Bank PLC
The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC.

Santander UK PLC

Standard Chartered

State Street Bank

UBS A.G.
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 31
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

pliance Committee-2 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

136 of 176

Appendix C: Delegated Authorities for Authorisation Panels

itn epee one
Pat Stee in
Investment of Treasury Autorisaton Panel ‘Approve investment of suplus cash balarces - witinpolcy Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

‘Surplus Cash Approve drawdowns under existing creditfacities (upto 1 day)

Dealing Pane! Propose investment of sup cash balances

Propose drawdown -under credit esting facies
Banking Authorisation Panel * Signmanual payment instucfon (1)
= <£50k - any 1 Barking Authorisation Panel member
= > £50k - any2 Banking Authorisation Pane members
lectronie Payment Pare! Release payment tom terme banking system (2)

(eiemet Sanking Systems) *
= <£50k - any 1 Payment Panel (remet Banking System) member

= > £50k - any2 Payment Panel (renet Sanking System) members

Payment Pare Release payment rom TMS (2)

(Treasury Maragemert System) **

[BES Fecity, NRF end fle = any Treasury check AND

Gatevay payments] - any Barking Authorisation Panel OR Payment Pane member
Pager pa Release payment rom SAP 2)

ae

[oloase of BACS payments] + any 1 Amalgamated payment proposal AND

+ any payment autheriser

Matix securely maintained

central by Treasury

Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

(1) Cheques and direct debit instuctons to bank Banking Authorisation Panel members in accordance wih mandates held by banks

(2) Aligned to authorisation rights in Internet Banking Systems /Treasury Management System /SAP

* In respect of both the Banking Authorisation Panel and the various Payment Panels the
lists are extensive and complex owing to the number of bank accounts used within the
Group. The full listings are therefore not replicated here but are maintained and held

securely by Treasury.

be strong enough that a two stage authorisation is not needed.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron
Policies and Authorities March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

In respect of the Treasury Management Systems and SAP, the controls around changes
to master data (bank details), in particular around segregation of duties, are deemed to

Page 32
of 35

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Appendix D: Delegated Authorities for Drawdowns Under Credit Facilities

1 Approval of Drawdowns under BEIS Facility

Drawdown Amount <£950m <£950m <£950m
Over t day
Period of Drawdown Up to 1 day and over 12 mths
Up to 12 mths
4 member from
‘at Treasury
Delegated Authority authodiaeen POL FD cFOo
Panel
2. Approval of Drawdowns Under Other External Borrowings (including the BEIS Short-term Facility)
Drawdown Amount <£50m <£50m <£50m <£50m
Period of Drawdown Overnight Upto 1 wk Up 0 6 mths. over 6 mths
4 member from
Treasury
Delegated Authority Aldhoneaten HoTTI POL FD FOO
Panel
3. Leasing and Contract Hire

Amount <£50m <£50m

Maturity Up to 8 years Over 8 years

Delegated Authority POL FD + CFOO cFOO
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 33
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

137 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Appendix E: Individual Write-off Authority Levels

Authorities to write off provided-for items relating to external fraud and data errors:

Amount <£1k £1k to £10k £10k to £100k >£100k
rs Moragerof Head o
Delegated Authority ean eleva Weve sc CFOO
Area
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 34
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

138 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Appendix F: Summary of Delegated Authorities

Separate attachment

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 35
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Pos

ice Limited - Audit Risk &

mpliance Committee-2 f 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

POST OFFICE LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES (THE “GROUP”)

TREASURY RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK,
POLICIES AND AUTHORITIES - MARCH 2019

Page
I - Introduction
1 Background 2
2 Policy Overview 3
Il - Detailed Policies for the Management of Financial and Other Risks Relating to_

Treasury Activity
Key Policies
3 Short-Term Cash and Liquidity Management 5
4 Medium and Long-term Funding Management 8
5 Counterparty Credit Risk Management 10
6 Investment Risk Management 12
7 Foreign Exchange Exposure Management 16
8 Interest Rate Exposure Management 18
9 Bank Relationship Management 19
10 Commodity Price Exposure Management 20
Other Guidelines
1 Operational Banking 21
12 Payments 23
13 Guarantees and Indemnities / Group Support 25
14 Regulatory Obligations 26
15 ISDA Agreements 27
Ill - Governance and Reporting
16 Treasury Governance and Reporting 28
APPENDICES
A Summary of Counterparty Relationships, Services and Exposures 30
B CHAPS Banks 3
c Delegated Authorities for Authorisation Panels 32
D Delegated Authorities for Drawdowns under Credit Facilities 33
E Individual Write-off Authority Levels 34
F Summary of Delegated Authorities 35
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page?
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

140 of Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

pliance Committe
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

I - Introduction

Background

This document sets out the risk management framework, policies and authorities adopted by Post
Office Limited (“POL”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”) in relation to its treasury
activities and is an update of the paper approved by the ARC Committee in March 2018. It is
recognised that Post Office Management Services Limited (“POMS”) is subject to regulatory and
fiduciary obligations which require derogation from some of the following policies. POMS will
determine where there is a conflict between its obligations and these policies and amendments
will be agreed and documented. A service agreement will set out the treasury activities which will
be carried out on behalf of POMS.

This document should be read in conjunction with the wider Group Delegated Authorities. For
the avoidance of doubt, in the case of inconsistencies the Group Delegated Authorities will prevail.

The treasury risk management framework has been designed to:

protect financial asset values;
minimise income statement volatility;

ensure financial obligations are met as they fall due;

secure long-term funding to meet overall business objectives and shareholder return
requirements;

ensure regulatory obligations are met.

ec eee

The key treasury risks are:

Short-term cash and liquidity risk — the Group does not have sufficient short-term liquidity to
meet payment obligations;

Medium and long-term funding risk — the Group does not have sufficient committed long-term
funding in place to meet business objectives and going concern obligations;

« Counterparty credit risk — a financial institution counterparty cannot meet its obligations to the
Group. Such obligations may arise from: investing the Group’s surplus cash balances (see
investment risk, below); entering into derivatives transactions; entering into committed facility
arrangements; and certain other commercial arrangements with clients.

«Investment risk — arising from investing the Group’s surplus cash balances;

e Foreign exchange risk - arising from holding currency note inventory in branches and cash
centres to meet on-demand requirements from customers;

Interest rate risk — arising from the impact of changes in interest rates on the cost of funding,
the returns earned on the investment of surplus cash, and the returns earned on the POca
cash balances;

« Bank relationship risk — the Group does not manage its bank relationshij
manner;

Commodity price risk — arising from the impact of changes in commodity prices on operational
costs;

e Settlement risk — the risk that operational and business payments are not executed in
accordance with agreed policies and procedures, are not settled in a timely manner or are
exposed to the possibility of fraud;

e Regulatory risk — arising from POL failing to meet its regulatory obligations around its treasury
activities;

Proper recording of treasury transactions, including the reconciliation of bank statement
balances to ledger balances in a timely manner;

* Loss or theft of cash.

in an appropriate

In this document authorities have been delegated to the Chief Financial and Operating Officer
(the “CFOO"), the POL Finance Director (the “POL FD”), and the Head of Treasury, Tax and
Insurance (the “HoTTI”), being the roles and titles existing as at February 2019. Where titles
change over time authorities will rest with those persons performing substantially the same roles.
In any case of doubt confirmation will be provided by the Company Secretary.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 2
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

141 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

142 of 176

2. Policy Overview

21 The Board is averse to treasury risk. The risk management framework and policies have been
designed to reduce risk and concentrate on five principal areas to achieve this:

« Market Risk: to minimise any potential loss due to a change in market factors (e.g. interest
rates, exchange rates or commodity prices);

e Credit Risk: to minimise any potential loss due to a change in the credit-worthiness of a
counterparty;

« Business Risk: to minimise any potential loss due to economic factors;

* Operational Risk: to minimise any potential loss due to system, people, legal and other
external events;

e Regulatory Risk: to minimise the risk that POL fails to meet its regulatory obligations around
treasury activities.
2.2 Day-to-day operation of treasury policy and the activities of the Treasury function are the
responsibility of the HoTTI, who reports to the POL FD. Treasury activities are reported on a
monthly basis to the Treasury Committee, which is part of the Operations Board, for review and
oversight. The composition and responsibilities of the Treasury Committee are set out in section
16.1
2.3. Any proposed amendments to, or derogations from, policy will be considered in the Treasury
Committee and approved by the Audit, Risk and Compliance (“ARC”) Committee or, if
appropriate, by the Board.
2.4 Treasury is responsible for the following activities. These activities will only be undertaken by
Treasury unless an alternative arrangement has been formally approved by the ARC Committee
or the Board:
management of bank account structures to provide automated concentration of cash and/or
offset of balances;

management of the Group’s short-term cash flow forecasting process;

arrangement and management of short-term committed funding;

monitoring the debt capital structure to ensure that the Group has sufficient funding to support
medium and long-term forecast requirements and to minimise refinancing risks;

management of short, medium and long-term borrowing requirements;

e providing input to and critical review of the Group’s medium and long-term cash flow
forecasting process;

« fulfilment of obligations under the rules of the Bank of England's Note Circulation Scheme;

* setting counterparty limits for the financial institutions with which Group does business;

short-term liquidity management and the investment of surplus cash balances;

* executing FX hedges in accordance with the instructions of the FX Committee, using approved
instruments to hedge out to a maximum of 6 weeks;

monitoring net interest rate exposure;

managing bank relationships, in relation to corporate treasury activity;

* monitoring exposure to commodity price volatility;

« executing payments and administrating payments systems;

acting as a centre of excellence in providing guidance and advice on all operational banking,
payments and other treasury-related matters;

e regularly reviewing mandates;

* ensuring adherence to internal controls around internet banking systems and security;

ensuring adherence to treasury-related regulatory obligations.

25 Cash forecasting must be completed in accordance with Treasury's instructions and deadlines
and will support short-term, medium-term and long-term forecasting with the current Strategic
Plan of the Board (currently the 5-year plan to 2020/21). Any material variances are to be
escalated to the POL FD.

26 Compliance with the treasury policies set out in this document is mandatory, subject to the
derogations provided to POMS noted in 1.1 above.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 3

Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

27 Delegated Authorities

© Approve treasury risk management framework, policies and authorities - ARC
* Approve amendments to or derogations from Treasury Risk Management Framework,
Policies and Authorities - ARC

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 4
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

143 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

144 of 176

" Detailed Policies for the Management of Financial and Other Risks Relating to Treasury
Activity,

Key Policies

3. Short-Term Cash and Liquidity Management

Business Context

3.1. Ona daily basis the Group has significant operating, investing and financing cash flows across
its bank accounts, arising in relation to client-related activity across our counters, and as well as
its own business-related activity. Client-related inflows and outflows are material and volatile with
approx. £65 billion of flows each year. Flows can vary significantly depending on the day of the
week and time of year and can also be materially impacted by other factors, out of the Group’s.
control, such as the weather. Even with appropriate long-term committed funding in place there
is therefore a short-term liquidity risk that the Group does not have resources available to meet
its day-to-day payment obligations as they fall due.

Risk Management Objectives

3.2 The objective of the short-term cash and liquidity management policy is to ensure that the Group
has appropriate liquidity in the right place at the right time to meet its payment obligations as they
fall due.

Main Policy Statement

3.3 Through a combination of efficient bank account structures and accurate short-term cash flow
forecasting, together with access to appropriate levels of committed short-term liquidity, Treasury
will ensure that the Group can meet its obligations as they fall due.

Supporting Policy Guidelines
3.4 Bank Account Structures

3.4.1. Where possible, Treasury will manage cash balances within pooling arrangements which
enable cash to be efficiently and effectively concentrated and debit and credit balances
to be offset. Business units are not permitted to operate bank accounts that are outside
these pooling arrangements unless authorised in writing by Treasury.

3.4.2 Delegated Authorities

* Approve addition of bank account to existing pooling arrangement - HoTTI
« Approve removal of bank account from existing pooling arrangement - HoTTI
* Approve creation of new pooling arrangement - POL FD

3.5 Short-term Cash Flow Forecasting

3.5.1 Short-term cash flow forecasting is an essential tool for the Group and enables it to have
confidence that its committed facilities are sufficient to provide the liquidity needed to
meet its day-to-day payment obligations.

3.5.2 Treasury will prepare a short-term, daily rolling forecast of the utilisation of the BEIS
Facility and the NRF. The forecast, by day, covers a period of up to two accounting
periods. Treasury will issue:

daily reporting to the HoTTI analysing variances of same-day and two-day forecasts
to actuals;

* a weekly Liquidity Report to the CFOO and POL FD updating the forecast for the
following week and providing a variance analysis for last week;

 amonthly Forecast Update to the CFOO and POL FD updating the forecast for the
following two periods and providing a variance analysis for the last period.

3.5.3. The forecasts and variances will be reviewed on a daily basis by the HoTTI. Monthly

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 5
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Forecast Updates will be included in the Treasury Report and reviewed by the Treasury
Committee. The ARC will be updated by exception.

3.6 Committed Short-term Funding

3.6.1 Treasury’s first responsibility is to ensure that sufficient liquidity and facilities are available
to the Group to fund its operations. Funding is therefore negotiated and managed
centrally and the management of individual cash pools will be dealt with by Treasury

3.6.2 Short-term liquidity is managed as follows: POL has access to a £950m working capital
facility provided by the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (“BEIS”)
(the “BEIS Facility”). The BEIS Facility is available until March 2021. A utilisation request
must be provided to BEIS two days before drawdown. Forecasting variances may lead
to a shortfall between the amount drawn down and the actual amount required. The
strategy to mitigate the risk of a shortfall between forecast and actual funding
requirements is to hold a liquid investment reserve of £5m (the “Investment Reserve’).
Historically POL has tended to overdraw the BEIS Facility because it did not have access
to an emergency source of short-term funding other than the NRF. Any changes to the
targeted investment reserve will be reported to the Treasury Committee in the monthly
Treasury Report. Treasury can also use a £5m uncommitted overdraft facility with
Barclays, use the NRF (see 3.6.3 below), or use the £50m short-term credit facility
provided by BEIS (the “BEIS Short-term Facility”) (see 3.6.6 below).

3.6.3 In addition, POL is a member of the Bank of England’s Note Circulation Scheme (the
“NCS"). The scheme allows POL to declare and sell eligible notes to the Bank of England
(the “Bank”) overnight with a commitment to buy those notes back from the Bank first
thing the next morning. This reduces the Group’s overnight funding requirement. The
NCS rules require the provision of collateral to the Bank. Collateral is currently provided
on behalf of POL under a Facilities Agreement entered into by POL with National
Westminster Bank Plc! under which the bank makes available: a £400m intra-day facility;
a £350m overnight NRF facility (for the purposes of providing overnight collateral to the
Bank); and, a £1m collateral facility, used in connection with our crime insurance.

3.6.4 The NCS rules also require that POL has a crime insurance in place that is compliant
with BoE requirements.

3.6.5 The amount available to be used under the NRF over the course of the Bank’s financial
year (to October) is constrained by a cap (the “Cap”) that POL generates, mainly as a
function of outward rems processed from its NCS cash centres. Treasury will monitor
utilisation of the NRF against the Cap to ensure that no more than the Cap generated is
used over the course of the year and that financial penalties are therefore avoided. Cap
generation and NRF utilisation will be reported to the Treasury Committee on a monthly
basis via the Treasury Report.

3.6.6 POLhas arranged a £50m short-term credit facility with BEIS. The facility is available on
a same-day basis up to 11:45 am.

3.6.7. Any new borrowings require Board approval. See 4 Medium and Long-term Funding
Requirement.

3.6.8 The delegated authorities for drawdowns are set out in Appendix D and in 3.6.9 below.

3.6.9 Delegated Authorities

Approve change to Investment Reserve (nil to £20m /for up to 2 weeks) - HOTTI
Approve change to Investment Reserve (up to £50m /for more 2 weeks) - CFOO
Propose drawdown - under existing credit facilities - Dealing Panel

Approve drawdown - under BEIS Facility - Various (see Appendix D)

Approve drawdown - under other external borrowings, including the BEIS Short-term
Facility (up to £50m) - Various (see Appendix D)

re provided by Royal Bank of Scotland ple and were novated to National Westminster Bank Ple
in 2018 as part of the restructuring of the bank as a response to the Government's ring-fencing requirements.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 6
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

‘ost Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19 145 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

146 of 176

3.7 Short-term Cash & Liquidity Arrangements with Subsidiaries of POL

3.7.1

3.7.3

3.74

3.7.8

3.7.9

3.7.10

From time to time subsidiaries? of POL may have surplus cash balances which they wish
to deposit with POL or they may have short-term funding needs which can be satisfied
by POL.

POL is permitted to take loans from or make loans to subsidiaries.
All loans will be documented.

Margins on loans will be agreed between POL and the subsidiary and will be on an arm’s
length basis.

For short-term loans and deposits up to 3 months, for amounts up to £20m, authority to
agree margins and execute documentation, on behalf of POL only, is delegated to the
CFOO.

For the avoidance of doubt, any loans to or from a subsidiary will require the approval of
the subsidiary’s Board

At March 2019 POL has two subsidiaries: POMS and Payzone Bill Payments Limited. In
the event that new subsidiaries are introduced into the Group structure then, provided
such subsidiaries are subsidiaries under the 2006 Companies Act definition, then 3.7 will
also be applicable for loans to/from those subsidiaries.

In 2019 POL is considering a legal entity optimisation project under which certain wholly-
owned subsidiaries of POL will become sister companies of POL under a new holding
company structure. Provided that loans to/from any sister company are permitted under
the BEIS Facility and the entity’s Articles of Association then they will be permitted under
3.7 and will be executed within delegated authorities set out herein.

From time-to-time POL may enter into short-term funding arrangements with First Rate
Exchange Services Limited (“FRES”) under which FRES provides a loan to POL to fund
additional holdings of foreign currency note inventory. Such loans are also permitted
under 3.7 and must be executed within the delegated authorities set out herein.

Delegated Authorities

«Approve margin on intra-group loans to/from subsidiaries on behalf of POL (up to
£20m /up to 3 months) - CFOO and Head of Tax

« Execute documentation for intra-group loans to/from subsidiaries on behalf of POL
(up to £20m and up to 3 months) - CFOO

e Execute documentation for intra-group loans to/from subsidiaries on behalf of POL
(over £20m or over 3 months) - POL Board

? As defined under 2006 Companies Act.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page7
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

4. Medium and Long-term Funding Management
Business Context

41 The Group develops its strategic objectives and prepares long-term business plans to meet those
objectives. Such objectives will include the continued participation in the Bank of England’s Note
Circulation Scheme (the NCS") in order to ensure an adequate supply of notes for the branch
network. The Group must ensure that it has sufficient committed long-term funding in place to
meet these plans. There is a risk that the funding in place is not sufficient to achieve business
objectives or to adequately withstand unforeseen changes to plans.

4.2 In order to present its financial statements on a going concern basis the Group must demonstrate,
on an annual basis at each balance sheet date, that it has sufficient committed funding in place.

4.3. The Group's existing funding arrangements, including the facilities made available to enable
participation in the NCS, are set out in 3. Short-term Cash and Liquidity Management.

Risk Management Objective
4.4 The objective of the medium and long-term funding management policy is to ensure that the

Group has sufficient committed long-term funding in place to meet business objectives and going
concern obligations.

Main Policy Statement
45 Through a combination of accurate medium and long-term cash flow forecasts and the monitoring
of headroom, together with access to appropriate levels of long-term committed funding, the

Group will ensure it has sufficient funding in place to meet business objectives and going concern
obligations.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

46 Medium and Long-term Cash Flow Forecasting

4.6.1 Medium and long-term cash flow forecasting is an essential tool for the Group and
enables it to have confidence that its committed facilities are sufficient to provide the
liquidity needed to meet its business objectives and loan repayments.

4.6.2 Treasury will provide input to Group’s medium and long-term forecasts, in particular the
‘one-year and five-year strategic forecasts and in accordance with the current Board
Strategy.

47 Funding Strategy

4.7.1. The CFOO and the POL FD will recommend to the Board the appropriate debt capital
structure for the Group. The Group will have a debt maturity profile and funding structure
adequate to meet its:

* business objectives, including growth strategy;
* going concern obligations.

4.7.2 The debt capital structure and maturity profile will be monitored by the CFOO and POL
FD, and reviewed by the Treasury Committee to ensure that the Group has appropriate
funding available to support its long-term plans. Where possible, the Group seeks to
minimise its refinancing risk by adopting a range of maturities for its debt facilities.
Maturity of existing facilities will be monitored to ensure that negotiations commence in a
timely manner to extend or replace them.

48 Headroom
4.8.1 Facility Headroom - Facility Headroom is defined as the headroom available under the

BEIS Facility. The Group will aim to maintain Facility Headroom of at least £200m (the
“Facility Headroom Buffer’). Any reduction in Facility Headroom Buffer will require Board

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 8
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

147 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

148 of 176

POL00423454

POL00423454
approval. It will be monitored and reported in the monthly Treasury Report and the
monthly Performance Report to the Board.

4.8.2 Security Headroom - Security Headroom is defined in the BEIS Facility. Treasury will
also monitor the asset security headroom of the BEIS Facility. It will be reported in the
monthly Treasury Report and the monthly Performance Report to the Board.

4.8.3. Treasury will use a combination of the short-term forecasts outlined in 3.5 above and the
medium and long-term forecasts to monitor headroom.

4.8.4 Delegated Authorities
e Approve amendment to Facility Headroom Buffer - Board

49 Borrowing Policy

4.9.1 Borrowing is only permitted in sterling unless approved by the ARC.

4.9.2 Borrowing should only be incurred in accordance with the restrictions under clause 10 of
POL's Articles of Association and may require shareholder approval.

4.9.3 Additional borrowing is only permitted in accordance with the constraints imposed under
the BEIS Facility which limits borrowings as follows:
the existing £950m BEIS Facility itself, or any refinancing thereof;

«up to £50m of additional finance or capital leases;

* up to £50m additional other borrowings.

Together with the facilities in place to support POL’s participation in the NCS, namely:
the £400m intra-day facility;

e the £350m overnight NRF facility.

4.9.4 Delegated Authorities

* Approve new medium and long-term funding - Board
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 9
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35
Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

5.

Counterparty Credit Risk Management

Business Context

5.1

5.2

Counterparty credit risk arises where a financial institution counterparty cannot meet its
obligations to the Group. Due to the nature of POL’s business activities such exposures arise
both as part of POL’s normal corporate treasury activities and its other client-related activities.
Exposures arise primarily as follows:

Corporate Treasury Activity

5.1.1

5.1.2

Investment of Surplus Cash Balances - Total exposure of approximately £5m but may
increase up to £50m when the investment reserve is increased during holiday periods.
(See 6. Investment Risk Management.)

Mark-to-Market of Derivatives - Derivative contracts (including FX swaps, FX forwards
and interest rate swaps) where the mark-to-market position has moved in favour of POL
such that the counterparty owes money to POL under the contract. Exposure arises due
to changes in market rates. Because FX maturities are managed within one month total
exposure is currently minimal.

Committed Facilities - Commitments made by a bank or other funding provider under
facilities that remain undrawn by POL. Such facilities currently comprise: the BEIS
Facility and the BEIS Short-term Facility; and, the £400m intra-day facility / £350m
overnight NRF facility provided by National Westminster Bank Plc. The exposure relating
to the BEIS Facility and the BEIS Short-term Facility is considered to be nil but there is
an exposure on National Westminster Bank Plc that fluctuates during the day depending
on how much is utilised under the facilities. Total exposure may be up to £400m.

Other Client-Related Activity

5.1.4

5.1.6

5.1.7

Banking Framework - Over-the-counter banking transaction services with retail and
business customers. Transactions are cleared through the LINK system with daily
settlement to POL received from Barclays Bank PLC this creates a daily net direct
exposure to Barclays Bank PLC of up to £30m. In addition, POL would also be exposed
to the failure of an individual client bank to meet its obligations under the LINK system.

Debit and Credit Card Processing - When a customer makes a payment to POL over-
the-counter using either a debit card or a credit card settlement is received by POL via
GPUK LLP (“GlobalPay”) on the next business day. This creates a one-day credit
exposure against GlobalPay. Total exposure fluctuates but is approximately £75m.

Cheque Clearing - when a customer makes a payment to POL using a cheque it creates
a short-term exposure (up to two days) exposure against the bank on which the cheque
is drawn. The total exposure on cheques is approximately £25m but this is disaggregated
between the banks on which the cheques are drawn.

Other Client-Related Activity - Exposures arising from other client-related activities.

- ATM Withdrawals — Exposure to Bank of Ireland linked to cash withdrawals from ATMs.
The exposure varies significantly, depending on the time of the year and day of the
week, between £20m and up to £135m.

- POca Related Flows — Exposure to JPMorgan Europe Limited in respect of POca-
related flows across POL counters. Flows between 13:00 on the previous day and
13:00 are aggregated and paid same day. The exposure fluctuates significantly
depending on the day of the week and time of the year and is impacted by holiday
periods and winter fuel payments. It can vary between £20m and up to £125m.

This policy focuses on counterparty credit risk arising from POL’s corporate treasury activities.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 10
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

149 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

150 of 176

Risk Management Objectives

5.3

The objective of the counterparty credit risk management policy is to minimise the Group’s risk of
loss in its corporate treasury activities as a result of the failure of a financial institution
counterparty.

Main Policy Statement

5.4

Treasury will minimise the risk of loss due to the failure of a financial institution counterparty to
meet its obligations by only entering into corporate treasury transactions with highly-rated
counterparties and through credit approvals, limits and monitoring procedures.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

5.5

5.6

5.7

5.8

5.9

5.10

5.11

5.12

Treasury will only enter into corporate treasury transactions with appropriately approved financial
institution counterparties.

The Group's corporate treasury-related credit risk arises primarily from the investment of surplus
cash balances. For the purpose of the investment of surplus cash balances limits are allocated
according to rating band rather than specified counterparty. Approved counterparties and sub-
limits applicable to deposits (as at March 2019) are set out in 6 Investment Risk Management.
Deposit limits will fluctuate with changes to credit ratings.

When monitoring the credit quality of counterparties Treasury will use short-term and long-term
credit ratings from S&P and Fitch. The weaker of the two ratings will be used for decision-making
purposes.

Approved counterparties and credit limits for other transaction types are set out in Appendix A.

New counterparties and limits may be approved from time to time. Treasury will make a
recommendation to the Treasury Committee based on credit ratings for consideration and
recommendation to the ARC.

Exposures to investment counterparties will be monitored separately and reported to the HoTTI
on a daily basis and to the Treasury Committee on a monthly basis in the Treasury Report. See
6. Investment Risk Management. Exposures to corporate treasury counterparty activities will be
aggregated (including investment counterparties) and reported to the Treasury Committee on a
monthly basis together with changes to credit ratings as part of the Treasury Report.

Delegated Authorities

* Approve new financial institution counterparty - ARC
e Approve financial institution counterparty limit - ARC
* Approve temporary increase to financial institution counterparty limit - CFOO

Note on the Implications of Ring-fencing - Effective 1 January 2019 the major UK banks were
required to implement the Government's ring-fencing requirements. In 2018 the Group’s bank
accounts and the £400m facilities with Royal Bank of Scotland Pic were transferred to National
Westminster Bank Plc as part of the bank’s restructuring to meet these requirements. From 2019
these accounts and facilities will sit inside the ring-fence. (It should be noted that the interest rate
swap executed in April 2018 with NatWest Markets Pic sits outside the ring-fence.) Provided that
the S&P and Fitch long-term and short-term credit ratings of National Westminster Bank Plc (or
any other entity inside or outside the ring-fence) were the same as, or better than, Royal Bank of
Scotland Pic then all references to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc were deemed to apply to National
Westminster Bank Pic (or those other entities). This approach was also applied for Barclays Bank
PLC and Lloyds Bank plc.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 11
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

6. Investment Risk Management
Business Context

6.1 Treasury manages short-term liquidity to target a cash buffer of £5m. The buffer is reduced to nil
at period ends and can be increased up to £50m around holiday periods when liquidity risks are
highest. This creates surplus cash balances that can be invested by Treasury.

Risk Management Objectives

6.2 The three core objectives of the Group’s investment risk management policy are: (i) security — to
preserve the principal sum; (ii) /iquidity — to ensure investments are accessible when needed; (iii)
yield — to optimise return on investments.

Main Policy Statement

6.3 The Group’s overall consideration when depositing surplus cash balances is the preservation of
the principal sum. Surplus cash balances will be invested by Treasury to optimise return, subject
to counterparty credit risk considerations. These investments will not be subject to fluctuation in
capital values.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

6.4 Permitted Investment Instruments - Treasury are permitted to use the following investment
instruments: bank term deposits and deposits on interest-bearing accounts; money market funds
(‘MMFs”); and, when appropriate, deposits with the Debt Management Office (“DMO”).

65 Permitted Currencies — Treasury will only invest in £-denominated instruments.

6.6 Approved Bank Counterparties and Deposit Limits - It is the Group’s policy to establish and
monitor limits for each of the counterparties that it makes investments with.

6.6.1 Limits for term deposits and interest-bearing accounts (“deposit limits”) are based on
credit rating bands rather than specific counterparties. Counterparties are allocated to
bands based on the lower of the S&P and Fitch long-term credit rating as follows:

(a)

DAA 120
AA+ to AA- 90
A+ to A- 60
BBB+ 30
BBB and below 0

(1) Based on lower of S&P and Fitch long-term credit rating

6.6.2 Counterparties must have a long-term S&P or Fitch credit rating of at least BBB+ and a
short-term S&P or Fitch credit rating of A2/F2.

6.6.3 Counterparties must also be a member of CHAPS (see Appendix C for a list of CHAPS

banks).
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 12
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 151 of 176

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

6.6.4

6.6.5

6.7 Other

6.7.3

Approved counterparties and deposit limits based on credit ratings as at January 2018
are:

rast ting
sap Fitch

"Seat

Franc ttn Quntrpaty Pe ee
(an)

Barclays Bank PLC A Ad Stable A+ — F1 Negative 80.0
National Westminster Bank Plc (1) A-  A2 Positive At F1 \egative 60.0
NatWest Markets Pic (2) BBB+ A2 Positive A — F1  \egative Not applic.
Lloyds Bank Pie At Ad Stable A+ F1 Negative 60.0

(1) Entity inside ring-fence; (2) Entity outside ring-fence.

The deposit limits against individual institutions are expected to change with changes in
credit ratings.

Exception - Barclays Bank PLC, as our cash management bank, is allocated an
additional limit of £20m to allow for cash held as operational balances on bank accounts
from time to time. Barclays’ long-term rating of A+ would imply a deposit limit of £60m.
The limit is increased to £80m.

Unauthorised arbitrage is prohibited i.e. funds should not be specifically drawn down for
investment purposes.

Only Treasury is permitted to invest surplus cash balances.
A proposal for the investment of surplus cash balances will be made by the Dealing Panel

and approved by either the Treasury Authorisation Panel (see Appendix C — Delegated
Authorities for Approval Panels) or in accordance with 6.11 below.

6.7 Deposit Tenor Limits

6.7.1

Deposits will be no longer than one month.

6.8 Money Market Fund Investment Criteria - It is the Group's policy to establish and monitor limits

for each of the MMFs that it invests in.

6.8.1. The MMF must be rated by at least one of S&P and Fitch. If rated it must be rated AAAm
by S&P and AAAmmf by Fitch
6.8.2 POL’s holding as a proportion of the fund size must not be greater than 10%.
6.8.3. MMFs must have a constant net asset value (CNAV) (also referred to as stable NAV) or
a Variable Net Asset value (VNAV) (also referred to as accumulating NAV).
6.8.4 MMFs must have daily liquidity.
6.8.5 Investment is limited to £50m in any one MMF.
6.8.6 Investment in Prime Liquidity Funds is limited to £350m
6.8.7 Investment in Government Funds is limited to £150m.
6.8.9 Where a single provider has segregated Prime Liquidity Funds and Government Funds,
investments can be made in both MMFs subject to the limits above.
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 13
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

152 of 176

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

6.9 Approved MMFs and limits as at January 2018 are:

Gesture

tered Rre seh AM ney
(GN - Storing Lit Fura (Standart) ‘Asam AAAmmt Prime GBP
hnesco STC Gobal String Unusty Porto AAAm —-AAAmmt Prine GBP
Anerdeen Unucty Far (= Steg Fue Asam -AAAmmt Prine GBP
Blackrock - aon String igus Fund Asam —-AAAmmt — Prine GBP
CGoliman Sachs -Sterrg quid Resewves Fue Asam na rime GBP
Unatocated Asam —AAAmmt Prime GBP

‘Sub-total- Prime Liquidity Funds

Need Red
Sr em
NAV 14,400
onav

NAV 14,400
NAV 36,800
nav 11,800

Blackrock -hsttional Stering Government Liquidity Fund AAAm = AAAmmf Government GBP
Unallocated AAAm —AAAmmt Goverment GBP

‘NAV 2.400

Sub-total - Government Funds

Aeroms iat
Une ara oe
a ty

500° 0.3%
500" #DNi0!
500 (0.3%
500 0.1%
500 04%
100.0
350.0
500 21%
100.0
150.0

6.10 DMO Investment Criteria - The Group may invest with the DMO on an unlimited basis.

6.11 Operational Approvals - For each individual investment made approval is required as per the

table below:
investment <£300m <£100m <£50m <£300m <£50m <£50m
Amount
Tem of <1 month <3months <6 months, <1 year <1 year <1 year
Investment » * *
tmember — 1member 1 member croome
Delegated be ° fon. other POL
‘auto Treasury Treasury Treasury POL FD Pot Board
ory Authorisation Authorisation Authorisation Board Member
Panel Panel Panel

The POL FD is also authorised to approve investments with a maturity of up to 5 years for the purpose of providing

collateral for the Note Circulation Scheme.

6.12 Monitoring

6.12.1 Exposures to investment counterparties will be monitored separately and reported to the

HoTTI on a daily basis and to the Treasury Committee on a monthly basis in the Treasury

Report.

6.13 Limit Breaches

6.13.1 When Treasury are aware of a potential breach in advance (for example, when Treasury
choose to hold in excess of the authorised limit because no other investments
opportunities are available) approval must be obtained from either the CFOO or the POL
FD for a temporary increase to the limit. The temporary increase will normally be for no

longer than one night.

6.13.2 When Treasury are not aware of the breach in advance (for example, where we receive
more cash into our Barclays accounts than we had forecasted) Treasury will notify the
CFOO of the breach immediately on becoming aware of it but in any event no later than

close of business on the day after the breach occurred.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron
Policies and Authorities March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

Page 14
of 35

POL00423454
POL00423454

153 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

6.13.3 All limit breaches will be reported to the Treasury Committee in the monthly Treasury
Report.

6.14 Delegated Authorities

Approve new investment counterparty - within approved credit rating bands - POL FD
Approve changes to credit rating bands for deposit limits - ARC

Approve temporary increase to investment counterparty deposit limit - CFOO
Approve new permitted investment instrument - CFOO

Propose investment of surplus cash balances - Dealing Panel

Approve investment of surplus cash balances - Various (see 6.11)

eee eee

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 15
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

154 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

pliance Committee-2
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

7 Foreign Exchange Exposure Management
Business Context

71 Foreign exchange risk principally arises from holding foreign currency note inventory in branches
and cash centres to meet “on demand” requirements from customers. All currencies are
purchased from FRES. The exchange risk arises from the time of purchase from FRES to the
sale of currency to the customer. The size of balances on hand is determined by demand. POL
holds note inventory balances in approximately 70 currencies. On average, currency holdings
are c. £60m but can peak at over £100m during holiday periods.

Risk Management Objectives

7.2 The objective of the foreign exchange exposure management policy is to minimise the impact on
the Group's income statement of foreign currency exposures arising from its day-to-day
operations.

Main Policy Statement

7.3 Through a combination of periodic monitoring of foreign exchange exposures and entering into
hedges within approved hedging bands the Group will ensure its exposure to fluctuations in
exchange rates is minimised.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

74 The Head of Travel Money analyses the report of foreign currency note holdings in the network
which is prepared by Supply Chain and the daily reports of foreign currency holdings provided by
Treasury.

7.5 Amonthly meeting of the FX Committee is held, attended by: the Director of Product; the Finance
Director Financial Services and Telecoms; and the Head of Travel. The meeting is held to confirm
the value of hedges and timescales of hedges in accordance with the FX risk management policy
outlined below.

76 Detailed foreign exchange risk management policy statements

7.6.1 EUR and USD holdings will be hedged 100%; currencies with exposures over £1.5m will
be hedged 90% to 100%; other currencies with exposures over £1 million will be hedged
70%.

7.6.2 Atleast 80% and no more than 120% of qualifying exposures will be hedged based on
the average of (1) the previous period’s actual holdings and (2) the forecast for one month
forward.

7.6.3 Hedges will be closed out and reset to periods between two weeks and five weeks.
Longer-dated hedges will be set to mature at a monthend and will be revalued at each
intervening month end based upon the mark-to-market valuation provided by the hedging
bank.

7.6.4 Hedging will be conducted with counterparties approved by the Treasury Committee (see
5 Counterparty Credit Risk Management)

7.6.5 Trades will be executed at a pre-arranged margin with all counterparties.

7.6.6 The maturity of financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange exposures will
normally be about a month but can be no longer than six weeks.

7.6.7 Permitted Instruments - Foreign currency exposures can only be hedged using foreign
currency outright forwards or swaps.

7.6.8 FX hedging instruments can only be used to hedge exposures generated by holding
currencies to meet on-demand transactions by customers.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 16
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

156 of 176

7.7

7.8

7.9

7.10

7.11

Latest currency holdings and hedges will be reviewed at the end of each period immediately
before the maturity of the monthly hedges by Financial Director Financial Services and Telecoms.
and the Head of POL Travel.

On a monthly basis the Finance Director Financial Services and Telecoms will report to the
Treasury Committee on the gain or loss on foreign currency holdings.

From time-to-time POL may enter into short-term funding arrangements with First Rate Exchange
Services Limited (“FRES”) under which FRES provides a loan to POL to fund additional holdings
of foreign currency note inventory. For permissions and authorities in connection with such loans
see 3.7.9.

Any proposed changes to the policies above will be presented to the ARC Committee for approval
Delegated Authorities

* Execute FX hedge trades, within policy, in accordance with instructions issued by FX
Committee - Treasury

e Approve new permitted FX hedging instrument - CFOO

e Approve FX hedge trades for exposures not created by currency note inventory holdings —
up to £50m - CFOO

* Approve FX hedge trades for exposures not created by currency note inventory holdings —
above £50m - Board

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 17
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

8

Interest Rate Exposure Management

Business Context

81

8.2

The Group is exposed to changes in interest rates via its Libor-linked funding and the returns it
earns on cash balances. Increases in interest rates will increase the Group’s cost of funding and
increase the return it earns on cash, mainly linked to Post Office card account (“POca”) balances.

The Group's funding is via the BEIS Facility maturing in 2021 and the NRF. Interest rates on both
facilities are linked to Libor. POL also earns commission (credited to revenue) on the balances
of benefit payments held by JP Morgan, the POca cash balances. The commission interest
received is also linked to Libor. The interest receivable on the POca cash balances has
historically exceeded the interest payable on POL’s borrowings and is expected to do so for the
foreseeable future, despite the long-term decline of POca cash balances. The interest payable
on POL’s funding is a natural hedge of the commission interest receivable.

Risk Management Objectives

8.3

The objective of the interest rate risk management policy is to minimise exposures to income
statement impacts of changes in interest rates.

Main Policy Statement

8.4

The Group will monitor its exposures to changes in interest rates on a regular basis and
recommend hedging strategies, if appropriate.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

8.5 Treasury will obtain forecasts of interest payable / commission receivable and the net interest
rate exposure will be monitored by Treasury and, if appropriate, a proposal to hedge the exposure
will be put to the Treasury Committee prior to approval by the Board.

8.6 The suitability and effectiveness of the interest rate risk management policy will be reviewed at
each Treasury Committee meeting. Any proposed changes will be reported to the ARC
Committee for approval and submission to the Board.

87 Permitted Instruments - Hedging will be by way of interest rate swaps. Other instruments may
be approved by the ARC on a case-by-case basis.

8.8 The Government's Managing Public Money Guidelines allow organisations to consider the use of
derivatives but require them to consider their use carefully especially to assess value for money.
The Guidelines require POL to consult its sponsoring department / HM Treasury before executing
any derivative for the first time.

8.9 Delegated Authorities
e Approve new permitted interest rate hedging instrument - ARC
«Approve execution of interest rate hedging strategy - Board

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 18

Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

157 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

158 of 176

9.

Bank Relationship Management

Business Context

9.1

9.2

Good long-term relationships with banks are crucial to the success of the Group around its
corporate treasury activities. The Group requires support from banks across all its treasury
activities and this support is particularly important for the provision of: short-term liquidity,
including operational overdrafts; credit facilities to enable continued participation in the Note
Circulation Scheme; and, FX instruments and other derivatives, requiring credit to be extended.

Due to the UK-focused nature of the Group, the limited requirement for external funding and a
small amount of ancillary treasury business, the Group has historically focussed on building
relationships with a small group of UK clearing banks.

Risk Management Objective

9.3

The objective of the bank relationship management policy is to establish, maintain and develop
efficient and effective banking relationships with a core group of banks to provide the Group with
long-term banking support irrespective of short-term business conditions and financial market
turbulence.

Main Policy Statement

9.4

The Group will seek to build long-term relationships with two to three of the UK clearing banks.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

9.5

9.6

9.7

9.8

9.9

It is the Group’s policy to build long-term relationships with providers of banking services and
facilities in order to maximise mutual advantage. In allocating new business opportunities,
preference will generally be given to banks where a relationship already exists, but this does not
preclude the use of other banks identified by Treasury should it be appropriate. Any new
relationships will be reported to the Treasury Committee in the monthly Treasury Report for
approval.

Current counterparty relationships, including banks, are listed in Appendix B.

Management of the Group’s bank relationships is the responsibility of the HoTTI and the Chief
Financial and Operations Officer (“CFOO”). Bank selection will be determined by a number of
factors, including service, price, product range, geographic spread and willingness to provide
services. The decision to develop a new relationship will rest with the Treasury Committee.

From time to time POL may require that banking partners enter into Non-Disclosure Agreements.
(‘NDAs’) to protect Group-sensitive information. Approval will be required by the CFOO.

Delegated Authorities

e Approve entering into relationship with new bank - Treasury Committee

e Approve entering into relationship with new bank (prior to Treasury Committee approval) -
CFOO

* Approve entering into NDA with bank - CFOO

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 19
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

10 Commodity Price Exposure Management
Business Context

10.1 The Group is exposed to movements in the price of diesel, gas and electricity used throughout
the business.

Risk Management Objectives

10.2 The objective of the commodity price exposure management policy is to minimise income
statement volatility due to changes in commodity prices.

Main Policy Statement

10.3 Treasury will monitor exposures to these commodities and forecast price movements and may
recommend hedging action to the Treasury Committee or directly to the CFOO to protect the
Group from adverse price movements.

Supporting Policy Guidelines

10.4 The CFOO is authorised to hedge each commodity, where it is believed to be economic to do so,
up to a maximum of 3 years based on forecast future usage.

10.5 Permitted Instruments - permitted hedging instruments are spot purchases, currency deposits,
forward contracts, call options, matched options (e.g. cylinders) and swaps. Futures will not be
used without specific authority of the CFOO.

10.6 The Group will designate commodity cash flow hedges against forecast underlying exposures.
Unrealised gains and losses on hedges will be deferred in reserves. This will be recycled to the
income statement when the hedge matures to match forecast expenditure.

10.7 The suitability and effectiveness of the commodity price exposure management policy will be
reviewed at each Treasury Committee meeting. Any proposed changes will be reported to the
ARC Committee for approval and submission to the Board.

10.8 Delegated Authorities
«Execute commodity price hedges within policy - Treasury

« Approve new commodity price hedge counterparty - CFOO
* Approve execution of commodity price hedge within policy - HoTTI

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 20
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

160 of 176

Other Guidelines

41. Operational Banking
11.1 Bank Facilities
11.1.1 Treasury is responsible for the negotiation of all operational banking facilities and any
changes to existing operational facilities. Such facilities include overdrafts, fx lines, BACS.
limits, intra-day limits and any similar arrangements. Directorates do not have the
authority to negotiate or commit to any new operational banking facilities without prior
approval from Treasury and are not authorised to undertake any discussions regarding
credit lines.
11.1.2 All changes to existing operational banking facilities or any new operational banking
facilities must be agreed by the CFOO.
11.2 Interest and Bank Charges
11.2.1 Bank transaction charges will be negotiated by Treasury to ensure minimum cost to the
Group. Charges incurred will be reviewed by Treasury to ensure that the activity levels
and unit costs applied by the banks to calculate charges are in accordance with agreed
tariffs. Errors are to be notified directly to the bank.
11.3. Bank Accounts
11.3.1 It is the Group’s policy to minimise the number of bank accounts it operates. Treasury
will conduct a bi-annual audit to ensure it has an accurate record of bank accounts.
Accounts not being utilised should be closed. This will be reconciled back to internal and
bank records.
11.3.2 All new bank accounts will be approved by the HoTTI
11.3.3 Where possible all accounts should be within a cash pooling arrangement. It is
recognised that certain constraints apply to POMS cash, where restrictions may preclude
pooling.
11.4 Bank Mandates
11.4.1 Itis the Group’s policy to standardise bank mandates wherever possible. Treasury will
manage and administer all bank mandates centrally. Each bank account must be
supported by a written, up-to-date mandate which is checked against a list of those
colleagues leaving the business on a monthly basis.
11.4.2 Authority levels relating to internet banking systems will be documented separately.
11.4.3 Sole signatory on a bank account is not permitted except for cheques where one
signatory may sign for amounts of up to £50,000.
11.5 Reconciliations
11.5.1 The Financial Accounting & Governance Manager is responsible for bank reconciliations.
11.5.2 The reconciliation process around certain bank accounts has been assigned to Treasury.
For those accounts, Treasury will ensure that all bank accounts are reconciled to the
underlying accounting records and all reconciling items are identified and cleared as
appropriate, in a timely manner.
11.5.3. The HoTTI will ensure that all Treasury-owned reconciliations have been properly carried
‘out and provided to the relevant staff members reporting to the POL FD in accordance
with prescribed deadlines.
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 21
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

11.6 Delegated Authorities

« Approve amendments to existing operational banking facilities - CFOO
* Approve new operational banking facilities - CFOO

Approve opening of new bank account - HoTTI

* Approve closure of bank account - HoTTI

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 22
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

161 of 176

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

162 of 176

12 Payments
12.1 I Manual Payments

12.1.1 Signing mandates are managed by Treasury and must be in place with a bank for any
account on which cheques or similar manual payment instructions (e.g. direct debit
mandates) are issued.

12.1.2 Cheques or other manual payment instructions up to £50,000 may be signed by one
signatory. Cheques or other manual payment instructions greater than £50,000 must be
signed by two signatories.

12.1.3 It is the responsibility of the paying department to ensure that there is adequate
segregation of duties with regard to the preparation of manual payment instructions and
cheques and that written procedures governing the processing of payments are in place.

12.1.4 Cheque books should be kept in a secure place.

12.1.5 Paying-in books should also be kept in a secure place. To prevent credits being made
to unauthorised accounts, only pre-printed paying-in slips should be used when paying
in cheques.

12.1.6 Delegated Authorities
« Sign manual payment instruction - < £50k - Any 1 member of Banking

Authorisation Panel
Sign manual payment instruction - > £50k - Any 2 members of Banking
Authorisation Panel
12.2 I Computer-Generated Cheque Payments

12.2.1. There should be adequate physical security over the hardware and software used for the
preparation of computer-generated cheques. Detailed records should be kept of cheque
stationery utilised and any missing cheque numbers investigated. A monetary limit
should be set for the maximum value of any computer-generated or machine-signed
cheque.

12.3. Manually-Instructed Payments

12.3.1. Where any use is made of electronic payment systems via a bank, staff must ensure that
adequate written control procedures exist to ensure that the bank will only respond to
verified requests from authorised personnel, these include:

e the use of code words;

*  answer-back arrangements with the bank calling back to an authorised signatory
(other than an authorised signatory who has signed the request);

* requests by telephone for transfers to be supported by a written request, signed in
accordance with the mandate, received by the bank prior to dispatch of funds;

«transfer requests should only be sent on company headed notepaper, or pre-printed
forms unique to the Group.

12.3.2 Treasury must approve any proposal to start using an internet banking platform and
undertake a detailed security review.

12.3.3 Ifa bank requests any Group employee to sign an indemnity giving protection to the bank
in respect of payment instructions actioned by the bank, then this document must be
forwarded to Treasury for review and approval prior to signature.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 23
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

12.4

Electronic Transfers

12.41

12.4.2

12.4.3

124.4

12.4.5

1246

12.4.7

Electronic Funds Transfer (BACS/CHAPS/Faster Payments) is the preferred means of
payment. Where internet banking systems are used to make such payments, care must
be taken to ensure that there is adequate physical security over the system to prevent
unauthorised access. The networking of internet banking systems should be approved
collectively by the Treasury and IT departments.

Itis the responsibility of Treasury to ensure that there is adequate segregation of duties
in relation to initiating, authorising and releasing payments.

The authorisation process must be fully documented. Non-compliance with the agreed
authorisation procedures will be referred to the CFOO and ARC Committee and is
considered a serious breach of control.

BACS limits will be negotiated with the bank by Treasury and will be communicated to
the relevant business unit. Any request for an increase to a BACS limit must be made
by Treasury.

‘Any recommendations by a bank providing an internet banking system with regard to the
control environment surrounding that system must be adhered to in all respects.

Treasury must approve any proposal to start using internet banking systems or other
host-to-host solutions to initiate payments and ensure that a security review has been
undertaken if appropriate.

Delegated Authorities

«Release payment from Internet Banking System - < £50k - Any 1 Payment Panel
(Internet Banking System)

« Release payment from Internet Banking System - > £50k - Any 2 Payment Panel
(Internet Banking System)

« Release payment from Treasury Management System / SAP - Various (see
Appendix C)

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 24
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

163 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

13

13.1

13.2

13.3

Guarantees and Indemnities / Group Support

POL Support for Subsidiaries

13.1.1

13.1.2

13.1.3

13.1.4

13.1.5

POL may be asked to provide a letter of comfort, a letter of awareness or a direct
guarantee or indemnity to a third party to support the activity of its subsidiaries*. Although
a guarantee creates a contingent liability on POL it does not increase the overall liabilities
of the Group. Itis considered reasonable to meet such requests on behalf of a subsidiary.

Requests of this type will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and POL will also consider
whether it is more appropriate to issue a letter of comfort or letter of awareness.
Generally such a guarantee will not have a cost for POL. The authority to approve and
sign a direct guarantee to a commercial third-party for the benefit of any subsidiary must
be approved in accordance with the Group Delegated Authorities around indemnities.

For the avoidance of doubt 13.1 does not apply to guarantees provided by POL in favour
of subsidiaries in connection with the raising of third-party finance by subsidiaries. All
such guarantees must be considered by the Board.

Delegated Authorities

* Approve and execute a direct guarantee or indemnity to a commercial third party for
the benefit of a subsidiary - See Group Delegated Authorities for Indemnities

As of March 2019 POMS and Payzone Bill Payments Limited are the only subsidiaries of
POL. In the event that new subsidiaries are introduced into the Group structure then,
provided such entities are considered to be subsidiaries under 2006 Companies Act, then
13.1 will also be applicable for guarantees or indemnities for the benefit of those
subsidiaries.

Bank Guarantees

13.2.1

13.2.2

13.2.3

13.2.4

POL may provide a counter-guarantee to a bank to support a guarantee made by that
bank to a third party (a “bank guarantee”) on behalf of POL. Such a bank guarantee may
be used to support financing provided by a third party or to support a commercial
arrangement. Such an arrangement may create a contingent financial exposure for the
Group.

To Support Financing - Where the bank guarantee is used to support a financing
arrangement approval will be by the POL Board

To Support Commercial Activity - Where the bank guarantee is being provided to support
‘commercial activity the authority to approve and sign the guarantee to the bank must be
approved in accordance with the Group Delegated Authorities around indemnities.

Delegated Authorities

e Approve bank guarantee to support financing arrangement - Board

* Approve bank guarantee to support commercial arrangement
Delegated Authorities for Indemnities

«Execute counter-guarantee to bank in support of commercial arrangement - See
Group Delegated Authorities for Indemnities

See Group

Government Support for the Group

13.3.1

13.3.2

From time-to-time the Group may be asked to obtain a letter of comfort, a letter of
awareness or a guarantee from Government to support its activities. Such arrangements
do not create a contingent liability of the Group.

Requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis and will require POL Board
approval.

5 As defined under 2006 Companies Act.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 25
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

164 of 176

Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

14 Regulatory Obligations
14.2 European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR")
14.2.1 Effective from January 2018, as a result of the changes introduced by MiFID Il, the
Group’s derivative activity is subject to the requirements of EMIR.
14.2.2 POLis classified as a Non-Financial Counterparty “-“ (an “NFC —*)
14.2.3 As an NFC - EMIR places certain obligations on POL, namely:
a) Reporting Obligations - POL must report its derivative contracts to a trade repository
no later than the working day after execution.
b) Risk Mitigation Techniques — POL must: (i) confirm trades in a timely manner; (ii)
have dispute resolution processes in place; and (iii) engage in portfolio reconciliation
14.2.4 POL will delegate reporting to its counterparty in derivatives transactions and will only
execute derivative transactions with counterparties with which it has the appropriate
delegated trade reporting agreements in place.
14.2.5 All trades will be confirmed by the end of the second day after execution.
14.2.6 POL will have ISDA agreements in place with all derivative counterparties to ensure that
dispute resolution and portfolio reconciliation processes are documented.
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 26
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

165 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

of 176

15

15.2

15.3

15.4

15.4

ISDA Master Agreements

POL enters into ISDA* Master Agreements with potential derivative counterparties. The ISDA is
an industry-standard agreement which governs the relationship between derivative
counterparties and each transaction entered into under the ISDA. The key provisions of the ISDA
include terms relating to payment and delivery obligations, termination rights, the close-out netting
of transactions on termination, and representation and warranties. When executing derivative
transactions POL enters into confirmations pursuant to the ISDA, which contain the economic
terms of each transaction.

POL will only enter into derivative transactions with counterparties with which it has an ISDA
agreement in place. POL will ensure that ISDA agreements are broadly similar in all material
respects across counterparties. It is policy to standardise ISDAs where possible.

Only Treasury can negotiate ISDAs on behalf of POL.

Delegated Authorities

« Agree changes to an ISDA Schedule - HoTTI
° Approve and execute ISDA agreement on behalf of POL - CFOO

* ISDA — International Swaps and Derivatives Association

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 27
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Section Ill - Governance and Reporting

16

16.1

16.2

Treasury Governance and Reporting

Governance

16.1.1

16.1.2

16.1.3

16.1.4

16.1.5

16.1.6

16.1.7

16.1.8

16.1.9

PO Treasury risks are governed through the following structures:

POL Board: Authority to approve policies and approval limits relating to treasury risk
management resides with the Board. Treasury risk management includes but is not
limited to the following: short-term liquidity management, long-term funding, counterparty
risk management, foreign exchange exposure management and interest rate risk
management. The Board will delegate authorities to facilitate the operation of treasury
risk management and the daily operation of the Treasury function.

ARC Committee: Financial risk management policies and approval limits are
recommended to the Board for approval by the ARC Committee.

Risk and Compliance Committee (“RCC”): Financial risk management policies will be
presented to the RCC for noting prior to submission to the ARC.

Treasury Committee: Is part of the Operations Board and meets on a monthly basis to
review the Treasury Report, review financial risks, report on headroom and working
capital, and report on and recommend changes to policy to the ARC Committee as
required. The Treasury Committee is composed of the CFOO, the POL FD, the HoTTI
and Finance Director Financial Services. Other members of the Operations Board may
attend from time-to-time.

FX Currency Hedging Committee: Meets monthly or more frequently as required from
time-to-time to confirm the value of hedges and timescales of hedges in accordance with
the FX risk management policy. The committee is composed of: the Director of Product;
the Finance Director Financial Services and Telecoms; and the Head of Travel.

The Board has delegated the following specific authorities to the CFOO and POL FD.

CFOO: e Approval of investment instrument limits
* Approval of counterparty selection criteria
Approval of counterparties
.

Approval of counterparty limits

POL FD:

Approval of counterparties
e Approval of counterparty limits (within approved
investment instrument limits)

The daily operation of treasury activity is delegated to the panels as shown on Appendix
D. Inall cases members of these panels will be appointed by the Treasury Committee.

Authority levels for write-offs are shown in Appendix F.

Treasury Management Reporting

16.2.1

16.2.2

The Treasury Report will be produced on a monthly basis. The contents of the report will
include analysis of: note and coin inventory and how it is funded; insurance limits in cash
centres; network cash holdings and inward rems; a monthly forecast update, including
variance analysis for the prior period; Facility Headroom and Security Headroom;
balances held in bank accounts; the net NRF Cap position; fx gains and losses;
exposures to interest rate risks; treasury controls; as well as a summary of any project
work currently being undertaken by Treasury.

The Treasury Committee will meet on a monthly basis as part of the Operations Board.
It will review the Treasury Report and consider any other treasury risk management
issues as required and make recommendations to the ARC.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 28
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

167 of 176
POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

16.2.3 Policy breaches will be immediately reported to the CFOO and the Group Director of
Legal, Risk & Governance and, when considered appropriate, at the discretion of the
CFOO, to the RCC and ARC.

16.2.4 Treasury KPIs will be reviewed regularly.
16.2.5 Authorities to drawdown under established facilities are laid out in Appendix E.
16.2.6 An additional authority matrix is shown in Appendix F that relates to various items which

arise during the normal course of business and for which individual write-off authorities
are required. Examples of such items, which will normally be provided for, include:

. ATM cash trapping and retract fraud;
. Travelers’ Cheque fraud;
. Camelot scratch cards failures in stock control due to master data errors.
Alisdair Cameron
March 2019
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 29
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

168 of 176 Post Office Limited - Audit Risk &

mpliance Committee-25/03/19
GL/EO/GZ-BAHIWWIOD soue!IdWOD »g ¥SIY IIPNY - PaYIW!T SOI 1804

921 JO 69L

Appendix A: Summary of Counterparty Relationships, Services & Exposures

conning
Monet
sa oe el
rei etn Copy - we Se one ERB mae te cone
ore ean
2) Corporate Treasury Actwity
Barclays Bark PLC investment of Supls Cash Balances AAA Sable A FI Positive 400 800 Ether rough bak erm deposits or interest bearing accounts
Mictomktof Derhatves
a + 100
+ terest Rate Swaps = 180
400 1300
National WestrinsterBank Pie Rvesimert of Sup Cash Balances ‘A2 Positive A+ Fi Vegatve 50 600 Ether ¥yough bark term depositories bearing accounts
Comite Facies
~ £400mina-day6350m overt fait 4000 400.0 Exposure onvndrawn amount of commitment
NatWest Markets Pe Mctomktof Dervatves A2 Positve A FI Negative
“FX + 100
+ terest Rate Swaps = 180
5100

Investment of Supls Cash Balances

Mictomktof Derivatives
= PK
+ terest Rate Swaps

405.0
400

400

160.0 Either trough bark term deposits or interest bearing accounts

100
150

1100

Governor & Companyot te Bark — Mi-tomktof Derivatives
of feland - FK

Positive

2

Positive

10.0 Trades booked through Bank of teland First Curency Serdces (BOFCS)

») Other Cliontrelated Activity

Barclays Bark PLC Banking Framework (1) 200 Exposure related clearing and settemert of banking tameworkanasactons
Bank of rela ‘ATM Witeavals 1350 Exposure related b cash wthdrans fom ATMs

JP Morgan Europe Limited Pcaelated Flows 1250

PUK LP - Debit and Creat Caré Processing (3) _ _ 750" One day exposure fo GiotalPay eating to clearing of debit and reat card ransactons
Notes:

(1) POL is also exposed fo the failure of individual client banks under the Banking Framevork to meet their obligations under the Link system.

(2) A short-term (2 dey) exposure is created when a customer ma

aymnetto POL vie cheque. As vel s onthe customer the exposure is also against the bank on vhic the cheque is drewn. The eggregeted exposure across al banks is approx. £25m perc

(3) A short-term (1 day) exposure is created uhen a customer makes a paymentto POL wa debitor erect. As well axon te customer and GiobalPay the exposure it also against the card issuer. The aggregated exposure is approx. £75m per day.

Treasury Risk Management Framework,
Policies and Authorities

Alisdair Cameron

March 2019

Page 30
of 35

POL00423454
POL00423454

follog Ainseasy 16 GEL
Tab 9.1

170 of

Treasury Policy

76

Appendix B: CHAPS Banks

Bank of America (N.A)
Bank of England

Bank of Scotland (HBOS)
Barclays Bank PLC
Citibank N.A

CLS Bank International
Clydesdale Bank PLC

The Co-operative Bank PLC
Danske Bank

Deutsche Bank A.G

HSBC Limited

J.P. Morgan Chase Bank

Lloyds TSB Bank PLC

National Westminster Bank PLC

The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC.

Santander UK PLC

Standard Chartered

State Street Bank

UBS A.G.

Treasury Risk Management Framework,

Policies and Authorities

Post Office

imited - Audit Risk &

Alisdair Cameron
March 2019

pliance Committee-2

Page 31
of 35

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Appendix C: Delegated Authorities for Authorisation Panels

itn epee one
Pat Stee in
Investment of Treasury Autorisaton Panel ‘Approve investment of suplus cash balarces - witinpolcy Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

‘Surplus Cash Approve drawdowns under existing creditfacities (upto 1 day)

Dealing Pane! Propose investment of sup cash balances

Propose drawdown -under credit esting facies
Banking Authorisation Panel * Signmanual payment instucfon (1)
= <£50k - any 1 Barking Authorisation Panel member
= > £50k - any2 Banking Authorisation Pane members
lectronie Payment Pare! Release payment tom terme banking system (2)

(eiemet Sanking Systems) *
= <£50k - any 1 Payment Panel (remet Banking System) member

= > £50k - any2 Payment Panel (renet Sanking System) members

Payment Pare Release payment rom TMS (2)

(Treasury Maragemert System) **

[BES Fecity, NRF end fle = any Treasury check AND

Gatevay payments] - any Barking Authorisation Panel OR Payment Pane member
Pager pa Release payment rom SAP 2)

ae

[oloase of BACS payments] + any 1 Amalgamated payment proposal AND

+ any payment autheriser

Matix securely maintained

central by Treasury

Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

Matix securely maintained
central by Treasury

(1) Cheques and direct debit instuctons to bank Banking Authorisation Panel members in accordance wih mandates held by banks

(2) Aligned to authorisation rights in Internet Banking Systems /Treasury Management System /SAP

* In respect of both the Banking Authorisation Panel and the various Payment Panels the
lists are extensive and complex owing to the number of bank accounts used within the
Group. The full listings are therefore not replicated here but are maintained and held

securely by Treasury.

be strong enough that a two stage authorisation is not needed.

Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron
Policies and Authorities March 2019

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

In respect of the Treasury Management Systems and SAP, the controls around changes
to master data (bank details), in particular around segregation of duties, are deemed to

Page 32
of 35

POL00423454
POL00423454

171 of 176
Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

172 of 176

Appendix D: Delegated Authorities for Drawdowns Under Credit Facilities

1 Approval of Drawdowns under BEIS Facility

Drawdown Amount <£950m

<£950m <£950m

Over t day
Period of Drawdown Up to 1 day and over 12 mths
Up to 12 mths
4 member from
‘at Treasury
Delegated Authority authodiaeen POL FD cFOo
Panel
2. Approval of Drawdowns Under Other External Borrowings (including the BEIS Short-term Facility)
Drawdown Amount <£50m <£50m <£50m <£50m
Period of Drawdown Overnight Upto 1 wk Up 0 6 mths. over 6 mths
4 member from
Treasury
Delegated Authority Aldhoneaten HoTTI POL FD FOO
Panel
3. Leasing and Contract Hire

Amount <£50m <£50m

Maturity Up to 8 years Over 8 years

Delegated Authority POL FD + CFOO cFOO
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 33
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19

POL00423454
POL00423454

POL00423454
POL00423454

Tab 9.1 Treasury Policy

Appendix E: Individual Write-off Authority Levels

Authorities to write off provided-for items relating to external fraud and data errors:

Amount <£1k £1k to £10k £10k to £100k >£100k
rs Moragerof Head o
Delegated Authority ean eleva Weve sc CFOO
Area
Treasury Risk Management Framework, Alisdair Cameron Page 34
Policies and Authorities March 2019 of 35

Post Office Limited - Audit Risk & Compliance Committee-25/03/19 173 of 176
Tab 9.1

1740

Treasury Policy

Appendix F: Summary of Delegated Authorities

Separate attachment

Treasury Risk Management Framework,
Policies and Authorities

Pos

ice Limited - Audit Risk &

Alisdair Cameron
March 2019

mpliance Committee-2

Page 35
of 35

POL00423454
POL00423454

61 /E0/Sz-SenIWUWIO soue!IdW0D ® ¥SIY PMY - PAIL! BOYJO IS0q

QLLJOGAL

OST OFFICE LWITED Treasury Risk Management Framework, Policies and Authoitien
‘Appendix F- Summary of Delegated Authors = or Mah 219

POL00423454

POL00423454

—
net an ” tet tea ‘wom
ws se rt ox fan taney Gat gggg FOL nan Tumy Nene aang Mb nent Tarn
6 Soa = ee ce St =
‘ooo ten fb cot wif pt nrgene ua sept
fered aecinealioacisteneees Pa teen
paialionpreroreneney ue otto
fovecuet meant ere
Trem aontripe soe a oytton
tens ente ar tg ane ue sept
owneion “ar 08 Fay
cote a teen
tro tamed tnoena ue orton
scoot he eaters nd
onee a sey hn
corm ue orton
Sete ue toythn
‘even Lit Aree a
Aroma regen nse a a SS A ee
etn 34 a soto }— =} + + 1 4} +}
“E MeD  LOme TER FUNDING MAOENENT Edm
Aorta ae ro sto (ff _{I_f_ II {#f=(f{_{_{_{=+4
tema
Aeorronre dig embry on nth A YS
paaeteleinripaabannindd « ste rr
somite ren ate sn wtoe a
overran oan EET ‘sac ane
tower eertcoepet- wn proc get Pn mvtton
feore cage ary hres rope o ae
teow} kom meray pe i “ tite
tre ear tea ct tc “ sept
eonineann one ace
east Tomo rt nyse
aon cemet) We pusara om tation
met. stin I Dowapet roe “ soy
on tytn
“ Penner
7, FORD EXcihoe BPoBURE MAXAGENENT
soy
‘rene are BonunE aoe
7 oaceeATOMer mae
” ste
uote reeynn LETTS

follog Ainseasy 16 GEL
QLL JO OAL

GL/EO/SZ-BEnIWIWOD soUeIIdWIOD g ¥SIY IPN - PAIL] BOO 180d

OST OFFICE LWITED Treasury Risk Management Framework, Policies and Authoitien
‘Appendix F- Summary of Delegated Authors = or Mah 219

POL00423454

POL00423454

att, ™
wim! ou an Tramey Careney ggg POL
eg rt Compt mim Heap 2

Parment Panes
Lou) = Aenhing internet raney
Trane, Treaary Aeernn Deatog =
Jae Monger tse Pont ening a

‘18, COMMODITY PRICE EXPOSURE MANAGEMENT Conroy ric Expo Manazenert
set connoaty ce mses wn ey
eore new conmett ancora cates

‘rove ste comes ches tncky wr oy tern
omen ‘Sesto ankina
‘erore arenes ns cnet rar cies we ey tte
‘roe cpr rig ies 2} a8 dey tern
‘rove cnn etc we Mate
regore cone de aeeart oo uate
owes
Sir mana pret uct <8 Most te
Sirrmnal peer state <5 Mote 2m
‘in pert treet Bang Stn <5 Mose tom

ies yer tere Barer StS.
es nye er Tanya Soe
‘ia pert tr SAP

‘Guanes Lore Sussen
‘rove ar xt et parte crac Ev pay eer ee sary See owe
Setgama Atees

‘egore tk urate age race eargenet

‘re uae st cri rage (Se Group Onegai Athrts)

iat cute pare nek napa comme erage (ee Grup One

ate

‘SDA Mie Aram,
‘gsecargesto at SDA Sots
‘grove ard este DA nyse on aa A POL

oy ern

(0 nes peony te oe ad (2) gore, es, BAC at iy drones

‘art
‘anya S91)

follog Ainseasy 16 GEL
