POL00139738
POL00139738

Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Meeting: 25 September 2013

Attendees:

Team/Function

Legal Rodric Williams (RW)
Jaranil Singh (JS)
Martin Smith of Cartwright King (CK)
Kayleigh Harding (KH)

Financial Services Centre (FSC) N/A

Security Dave Posnett (DP)

Communications

Attendees

Sophie Bialaszewski (SB2)

Network Gail Peacock (GP)

Nick Beal (NB)
Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Steve Beddoe (SB)
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) N/A

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps.

Prestbury GP waiting to hear if transaction failure occurred. Report awaited.
Part of the information received. Disks starting to arrive from FJ.
Maureen Moores to send further CD's to GP to analyse.

ATM Gluing Further information awaited — DP or SB to update further

Case

Rhigos Branch

GP - Angela to meet with Colin and talk to the SPM. The case
has not yet been through the business process and therefore will
not qualify for mediation. To conclude internal process — to be
kept open.

AT™

Branch received new router 2 % months ago. ATM down ever

since. Wincor suggesting it is due to new router.

RW confident it is not Horizon issue and will not cause branch

4A_27495085_1
POL00139738
POL00139738

shortfall. Existing line with Wincor and Bank of Ireland regarding

routers. Tony Cahill to deal.

NB - would like to be kept updated. Wincor engineers giving out
false messages. Problem is not disappearing. Not topic for call but
to be kept informed.

Post & Go

Leeds branch is now balancing.

All branches balance differently. Wincor file goes into Horizon and
becomes part of balance. Process issue to ensure consistency.

GP - part of training and support programme.

Wincor recommend process for the system. Process deviated
slightly. Most branches have one person with knowledge of the
machine. In one of the branches being investigated, the activity is
postponed as the person with system knowledge is on holiday. No
cover when these people are not there.

Leave action open until investigations finished
Appears to be an Operator issue rather than Horizon.

Belfast Refresh

No update
If any variation to report, SB to update. — SB to provide RW with
timetable.

Nelson

Security manager met with SPM to discuss losses etc. Mark Baker
in attendance as CWU rep. Claims system at fault and Horizon
not fit for purpose.

The meeting was regarding a request for cameras to be put into
the office - CCTV to focus on keyboard to cross reference with
Horizon data. Technology and man hours not available.

GP has data — to speak to Helen to decipher data.

SB to obtain FJ response with regard to technical points identified.

Cheques

GP to chase Rod for update.

Pontycymer

Intervened with branch. Balancing being looked at. Looking to
send someone out. SB carrying out checks as in Nelson matter.
No issues uncovered to date.

4A_27495085_1
POL00139738
POL00139738

SPM was writing transactions on spreadsheet and attempting to
balance every hour. No Horizon issues found. Ongoing matter.

New Issues Identi

Name

Area

Issues/Observations/Comments

DP

Martin Griffiths - SPM had robbery in 2013. Further loss
discovered in an audit. SPM drove to work, got out of the car and
walked in front of bus. SPM currently in hospital. SPM mother
claims SPM driven to suicide and is attempting to get the matter

publicised.
Initial audit - SPM cited Horizon responsible for losses.

GP — confirmed branch on Second Sight list. Requested
mediation or case review. £29,555.00 debt from both robbery and

Audit. The request was logged by the team on 2 September.

GP to send details to RW — to copy in Ruth Barker

GP

1. Process when branches raise suspicion about member of staff
- policy drafted by Alison Drake — is this the relevant policy?

Document dated 2012 — Process was to meet with SPM and
provide advice to assist the SPM. Cameras used to be put in.
Changed when HR legislation brought in.

Loss reported to NBSC. DP to chat with RK to see if document
replicated.

2. Gap identified in stock reconciliation process which could lead
to branch discrepancies. When stock returned, 10% checked.
Attempting to work through issues. Business decision to be
reached whether to write loss off.

Processes too expensive to implement — branches suffer loss and
no way of verifying discrepancy. AW has arranged call to discuss

tomorrow.

NB

No Issues

SB

No Issues

4A_27495085_1

POL00139738
POL00139738

KH on behalf of No Issues
AP
RW CK have put together a draft protocol for issues raised within this

call. This is currently being reviewed in Legal. MS to lead next

week and take group through the protocol.

MS - add clarity to issues which need to be raised. Draft form at
the moment, to be tweaked

SB No Issues

JS No Issues

Action Points

1. Substitutes from each team are to be sent if the usual attendee is unavailable. - RW to
circulate email to advise all teams of the process.

2. Prestbury - reports awaited regarding whether transaction failure occurred. Maureen Moores to
forward further disks to GP to analyse.

3. ATM gluing case — further information and email awaited. To be updated in due course.

4. Rhigos - Internal process to be completed. Update further in due course.

5. ATM-—NB to be updated outside of the call.

6. Post & Go — SB to update further once investigations have finished within the 3 branches.
7. Belfast Refresh - SB to provide RW with timetable.

8. Nelson - GP has disk of data — to speak to Helen to decipher data

9. Nelson - SB to obtain FJ response with regard to technical points identified.

10. Cheques — GP to chase RI for update.

11. Pontycymer — SB to carry out further checks. Matter to be updated following further review.
12. Martin Griffiths - GP to send details to RW and Ruther Barker.

13. SPM assistants — DP to speak to RK to ascertain if document produced on how to address issue
has been replicated.

14. Stock reconciliation - AW chairing call 26/09/13. To be updated further following the call.

15. Protocol — to be reviewed by legal and finalised by CK. MS to discuss during the call next week.

4A_27495085_1 4
