POL00101980
POL00101980

MS Cameron McKenna LLP
. Mitre House

BBC Programme Legal Advice 160 Aldersgate Street
British Broadcasting Corporation London EC1A 40D
Room WC 2251 DX 135316 BARBICAN 2
White City
London
W127TS
NOT FOR BROADCAST

January 2015

By Fax-{ GRO
Our ref SCB/SCB/MIT/111850.00038 ~ —_
Dear Sirs

Post Office Limited - Horizon

We refer to previous correspondence with you, to the BBC coverage of the above matter and, in
particular, the broadcast on the One Show on Wednesday, 17 December 2014.

Our client has been considering the broadcast, particularly in the light of the correspondence between our
client and the BBC, and our correspondence with you.

Our client is concerned that the programme included a number of inaccurate and misleading statements,
which were damaging to our client’s reputation. Our client is taking steps to consider the impact of the
broadcast, in particular with the third party organisations we referred to in our letter of 16 December 2014
who use the Horizon system, and with those with which our client has major franchise partnerships.

We do not propose to reiterate all the various issues addressed in previous correspondence with the BBC.
However, following the broadcast of the One Show on both 10 and 17 December, you should be aware
that we stand by the concerns that both we and our client raised in correspondence and specifically do not
consider that our client was treated fairly in the broadcast, in relation to either the BBC Editorial
Guidelines or the Ofcom Broadcasting Code, [nor that our client was given an appropriate or fair
opportunity to respond to the significant allegations being made in the broadcasts]. Moreover, a
number of our client’s responses to allegations which were made were not included in the programme.

There are certain issues about which our client is particularly concerned:

UK - 202899429.1

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registration number OC310335. It is a body corporate which uses the word
"partner" ¢o refer fo a member, oF an employee or consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications, It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority of
England and Wales with SRA number 423370 and by the Law Society of Scotland with registered number 47313. A list of members and their professional qualifications is open to
inspeotion atthe registered office, Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street, London ECLA 4DD. Members are either solicitors or registered foreign lawyers. VAT registration umber
974 899 925. Further information about the firm can be found at www.ers-eniek.com

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a member of CMS Legal Services EEIG (CMS EEIG), a European Economic Interest Grouping that coordinates an organisation of independent
law firms. CMS EEIG provides no client services. Such services are solely provided by CMS EEIG's member firms in their respective jurisdictions. CMS EEIG and each of its
_member firms are separate and legally distinct entities, and no such entity has any authority to bind any other. CMS EEIG and each memiber firm are liable only for their own acts
‘or omissions and not those of each otlier. The brand name "CMS" and the term "frm" are used to refer to some or all of the member firms or their offices. Further information ean
bbe found at www.crnslegal.com

Notice: the firm does not accept service by e-mail of court proceedings, other processes or formal notices of any kind without specific prior written agreetpent.

POL00101980
POL00101980

e Despite our client having made it clear that it was keen to participate in the programme by
interview, viewers will have understood from comments made on the programme that our client
had been asked to contribute to the programme but had simply refused. As you are well aware,
our client had quite reasonably explained that, in the circumstances of your broadcast, it
considered that participation by way of pre-recorded interview would be the best way of
providing a meaningful contribution in relation to the issues which were being raised, and had
made its spokesperson available well in advance of the broadcast. However, not only did the
BBC not agree to our client’s reasonable request but the presenters simply stated that our client
had been given the opportunity to “come and sit ... on the sofa” but that our client had declined,
without any reference to our client’s offer of an interview.

e Reference was made in the programme to “a number of sub-postmasters” having come forward
and to these being “effectively new cases”. No information has been provided to our client about
any “new cases”. Our client has repeatedly asked to be furnished with any new evidence or
information which suggests that there has been any miscarriage of justice, but none of this has
ever been provided. The fact that our client has repeatedly requested this information but that
that the BBC has refused to provide this evidence was not explained.

¢ Our client’s statement that the system successfully processes millions of transactions and that a
tiny fraction of sub-postmasters appear to have experienced problems although included, was on
both occasions immediately followed by comments clearly seeking to cast doubt on their
statement.

¢ The programme included the seemingly unsubstantiated contribution from Mr Patel QC, without
any qualification as to the basis on which he was providing his opinion and without including any
of our client’s concerns about the contribution. Indeed, by beginning “With what I have seen...”
it will have led viewers to understand that Mr Patel QC had some genuine insight into the legal

cases.

These false and misleading statements are damaging to our client and should not be repeated by you. Our
client will also continue to consider its position in the light of the broadcasts and will monitor the impact
of your programme on its business. In the meantime, all of client’s rights remain reserved.

Yours faithfully

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP

UK - 202899429.1

we
