POL00423685
POL00423685

POST OFFICE LIMITED
AUDIT, RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Compliance and Audit Report Meeuna 26 January 2021

Jonathan Hill, Director, Compliance Al Cameron, Group Chief Finance
Author: Johann Appel, Head of Internal Sponsor: Officer

Audit Ben Foat, Group General Counsel

Input Sought: Noting
The Committee is asked to:

1. note the Compliance update, in particular:
. The Controls Framework update;
¢ The Data Management activities;
. Post Office’s approach to cookies;

2. note the Internal Audit update, specifically progress being made with delivery of the
Internal Audit programme and completion of audit actions.

Previous Governance Oversight
Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC) on 12 January 2021

Executive Summary
This paper provides an update on key and emerging risks, compliance matters and an update
on the latest internal audit position.

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503
POL00423685
POL00423685

@

Compliance

1. The Controls Framework project has been established, initially, to review/identify gaps in
the controls established for the activities done to address the Group Litigation Order (GLO)
matters. We are working with the Historical Matters Unit (HMU) project teams, who are
identifying processes that have been updated or need updating following the Common
Issues judgement (CIJ), Horizon Issues judgement (HIJ) and the establishment of the
Stamps Scheme.

2. An interim report is expected from KPMG relating to the HIJ, which the Controls project
will use as the basis to conduct controls reviews of the Horizon issues.

Progress to date:

3. Recruitment of experienced Controls Compliance Analysts.

4. The HMU team is mapping the processes and controls for Transaction Corrections, these
are being reviewed by the Control Framework analysts.

5. Changes to around 70% of processes have been made to the Onboarding of new
Postmasters, the Controls Framework project team is reviewing these to understand what
controls are in place and how effective they are

6. Designing and building a temporary Workflow on ‘Power Apps’ Tool to record controls
information against each business process, and facilitate assessment, assurance and MI
for the Controls Framework project

7. Testing the workflow tool and producing a training pack for the business outlining how
control owners and operators will need to support the project

8. Drafting a controls assurance template to support and facilitate the control assurance
work, ensuring design and operating effectiveness and consistency of Controls work;

9. A review of the existing Operations processes and controls is underway working with the
Ops teams, with a target completion of the start of February

10. A review of the Stamps stock, including controls is underway, aiming to complete in
February 2021, subject to Covid restrictions.

Key issues:

11. Initial controls reviews have identified that there is no consistent approach to mapping
the processes, and in some cases no maps, for activities addressing the CIJ remediation
actions, which makes it difficult to for the business to identify its controls and the project
to provide assurance that the controls exist and are effective.

Remediation activities:
12. Where process maps are missing we are working with the HMU CIJ team to support the
creation of process maps

13. This may lead to re-work to assess the robustness of controls, where additional activities
are identified at a later date

Next steps:
14. Framework workstream:
. Design business-wide controls framework (draft early January 2021)
. Framework to be reviewed by external party (e.g., Deloitte) to ensure meets
industry standards
15. Controls system
. Define the user requirements for a permanent controls system (draft early January
2021)
16. CIJ controls review
¢ Complete Operations controls review

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0001
POL00423685
POL00423685

@

. Refresh work plan following updated activity project plan from HMU team
17. HIJ controls review
. Develop workplan following receipt of KPMG’s HIJ interim review (early January
2021)
18. Stamps Stock review
. Complete review of Stamps Stock actions, including associated controls (January-
February 2021)
19. Business case
. Develop business case for plus roll out of Controls Framework and Controls
Framework system across all Post Office activities and functions

Sale
At the time of writing, the telecoms sale is due to complete in January 2021. A number of
questions are still be addressed by the transaction team. These include:

. Management of historical and post-sale complaints relating to pre-sale matters.
. The continuing of a PSD2 audit for premium rates calls, scheduled for January
2021.

. Existing Ofcom information requests that are due in Q4 2020/21.

20. Ofcom has not yet been informed of the final decision but we have advised the Telecoms
team this should be done ahead of signature.

Comms incident

21. We are due to send Ofcom a letter to inform them that all inbound comms and outbound
comms have been addressed to put the customer back into the circumstances they would
have been if there had not been a communication failure. We are waiting to hear if Ofcom
will investigate.

Annual Best Tariff Notifications

22. Annual Best Tariff reminders have started being sent and are planned to be completed by
14* February 2021 in line with the regulation. We expect complaints to rise as customers
will ask why they have been paying higher out of contract prices. Customers who have
not been subject to a fixed commitment period will receive a bill message, Ofcom may
consider that we should be more direct.

Voice only customers

23. Ofcom has released the consultation on its approach to the voice only market, if Post
Office were to remain in the telecoms business this would have a material impact on our
ability to compete. Given the potential sale, Post Office is not responding to the
consultation.

24. The Telco regulatory developments are highlighted at Appendix 1.

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0002
POL00423685
POL00423685

CCRC, PCDE and HSS

31. The 4 November Historical Matters Steering Committee approved the recommended
actions with these to be undertaken on an expedited basis, having regard to the 5 February
2021 deadline date for disclosure for the 41 past convictions referred for appeal by the
CCRC to the Court of Appeal (Criminal Division).
32. Peters & Peters (P&P) has now applied, in conjunction with Herbert Smith Freehills (HSF),
case specific and non-case specific search terms to the indices to identify material that
may be relevant to the PCDE. The searches resulted a number of records (files or boxes)
that have been categorised as either
. Potentially relevant records (e.g. because the descriptions are vague but they
contain relevant words, or they are relevant but the date is outside the relevant
review period)

. relevant to the PCDE and malicious prosecution workstream based on the
descriptions in the indexes.

. Records that are not relevant

33. The 10 December Historical Matters Decision Forum approved a recommendation from
P&P to
. Request all of the clearly relevant records for physical checking
. Complete a sample of the potentially relevant records. This review is nearing

completion and relevant documents were identified in c10% of the boxes sampled.

P&P are considering if more records need to be checked. The relevant records

identified included

* case specific material relevant to an individual prosecuted by Post Office Limited
(POL)

e documents where an acquitted individual raised issues with Horizon

e documents relating to issues identified during the roll-out of Horizon, or shortly
before

¢ prepared statements for interview

34. The wider “dip sample” exercise of a statistically representative random group of indexed
and unindexed boxes (c.100 of each) is being progressed by HSF.

35. The records that form the sample have been retrieved. The scanning was initially delayed
due document quality but it is now progressing.

36. In parallel, the HSF case handlers have been trained, enabling the reviews to start w/c 7
December. The sampling is due to complete w/c 25" January.

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0003
POL00423685
POL00423685

@

37. The outcome of the reviews will be reviewed throughout the sampling exercise to give
early indication of any potential follow up action. The initial feedback indicates that a
significant proportion of the records are receipts. Work is in progress to understand the
potential relevance of receipts to the PCDE and HSS activity

Back office sites record assurance review:

38. The RCC instructed Compliance and Legal to instigate a search of all Post Office back office
locations to give assurances that all relevant information has been presented to Counsel
for Starling and PCDE purposes.

39. 93 locations were initially identified as being in scope.

. 44 were de-scoped as they have been determined to be ‘vacant’

. Vacant premises had to be cleared of all materials including records.

40. All location searches have been completed and results collated. Of all sites searched there
are five deemed potentially to be of relevance;

. Swindon - a high number of sealed packages may be of relevance these were being
checked, under external counsel guidance, on 15‘ January for materiality. Plans are
in place to move these to P&P should they be needed.

. Chesterfield - P&P had already visited Chesterfield and retrieved all materials that
appeared relevant. However, the number of records identified by this latest search
(c.2,300) was significantly higher than expected. Plans are in place to verify numbers
and run checks on any additional new records, which should be completed by 18th
January.

. Bolton - 15 boxes of transactional records have been located and currently being
investigated under guidance from P&P. Any in-scope documentation will be sent
direct to P&P.

. Swansea - All relevant files are being collected on 18* January for delivery to P&P.

. Mutley (Plymouth) - Full mail sacks from branches have been stored there over the
years. These are being checked, guidance from P&P. This will be completed by 18"
January.

41. The Legal and search teams are confident that the necessary searches will be complete
for 5** February deadline for PCDE purposes

Record retention

42. The RCC Data Management paper identified that Post Office businesses needed to give
assurances that Record Retention Schedules, agreed as part of the Record Retention
Programme, were accurate and covered all processing activities.

43. All Data Owners were identified and provided with a copy of the Retention Schedules,
Remediation Logs and copies of the Document Retention and Disposal and Protecting
Personal Data policies.

44. Data Owners have expressed concerns with regards to the implementation of the
Remediation requirements. The key barriers reported back so far have been lack of
resource to implement the changes and the timeframes set for remediation to be
complete.

45. The responses from the data owners are being recorded and consolidated by the Chief
Information Security Officer (CISO) team as the owner of the record retention policy and
compliance is supporting the team. Going forward this should be coordinated through the
Data Governance framework.

Record management in branches

46. Compliance, Property Services and the Network team have stood up a project to
implement a change programme for Records Management with the Branches. This project
will look to:

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0004
POL00423685
POL00423685

. Identify and communicate out to Branches what information needs to be archived
and preserved
. Create a new process for record archiving on a regular basis and not just on the
closure of a branch as is the process today
. Arrange for the necessary materials to be provided to branches to allow for archiving
to occur, including boxes, archive content labels and deletion dates
. Mechanisms for transferring boxes of records from branches to off-site storage
facilities.
47. The key challenges will be ensuring that;
. this project is sufficiently resourced to allow the new processes to be implemented,
. New processes are developed and shared with relevant stakeholders for consultation
. Communications and training materials created and shared across the Network to
enable a smooth transition into Business as Usual.
48. This work will commence in early 2021 as resources were focussed delivering Christmas
in branches and on the searches of back office locations.

Post Office Ltd approach to Cookies:

49. The CNIL (French Data Protection regulator) levied significant fines of €100m and €35m
respectively against Google (US parent organisation and Ireland subsidiary) and Amazon
Europe for breaching French Data Protection legislation with regards to their use of website
cookies under the ePrivacy directive. The ruling is not applicable in the UK. However, the
ICO is likely take into consideration the finding of the CNIL.

. Google - CNIL were clear that cookies are only lawful if informed consent has been
given. Consent should be requested using a banner on the user’s first site visit with
a clear link to how cookies can be disabled or opposed. Ability to refuse should be
offered in whole and part with information disaggregated by purpose. CNIL imposed
a deadline of 3 months to ensure individuals were adequately informed otherwise a
further penalty of €100k would be imposed for each day of delay.

50. Post Office continues to be ‘middle of the pack.’ We believe the Google ruling may have
an indirect bearing on our approach to cookies. Therefore, the Digital team and
Compliance is assessing the implications of the ruling and possible changes to our Cookies
approach. Changes could include:

. Default settings for all cookies except necessary to be switched to ‘off’ in
preference centre

. Persistent bookmark on all pages of Post Office website to allow users to re-access
the preference centre at any time

. Detailed information provided through cookie policy on vendors and duration

General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Contract Remediation

51. The Contract Remediation project was formally closed at the end of July as reported to
the previous RCC. Work is ongoing on and the number of outstanding contracts is 5, 2
fewer than reported at the previous Committee meeting.

52. Fujitsu has agreed all GDPR clauses in the main contract. The only outstanding issue is
with one processing schedule, which requires Legal to agree a position on.

53. We have received a response from Fujitsu Telecoms (FJT). FJT’s response is disappointing
given the number of changes it has proposed and that are non-GDPR compliant. The
Telecoms team, together with Legal and Compliance, is working to close this down quickly
as it is required to conclude the overall sale agreement.

54. Monthly Contract Review Group meetings continue to monitor progress and support
negotiations. This will continue until all outstanding contracts are finalised.

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0005
POL00423685
POL00423685

@

Compliance with Money Laundering Regulations
55. Please see the separate annual Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MRLO) report.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) update

56. Overall completion of the annual ABC training was 98.4% as at 15*" December 2020. The
business unit previously at 81.7%, is now at 92.4% completion rate and Learning &
Development are liaising with HR Business Partners to identify better controls for
contractors.

57. Submissions on the gifts and hospitality tool remain low due to Covid restrictions, however
a reminder was issued to colleagues in November due to a potential increase in gifts
leading up to Christmas.

Whistleblowing Update

58. All reports received in the last two months relate to the branch network, with the majority
received from agent assistants raising concerns about Postmasters and unethical
behaviour or conduct. Two reports received relating to a Postmaster subsequently
uncovered potential mails fraud that is estimated to be in the region of £500k. This is
currently being investigated by Post Office Security Operations, supported by the Royal
Mail Investigations team.

59. The contract to procure Protect (UK Whistleblowing Charity) to enable us to undertake
self-assessment and benchmarking is nearing completion and this should commence in
January. Protect have been asked to deliver tailored training for GE and Senior Managers
as early as possible in 2021 and we are awaiting their proposals.

Fit & Proper update

60. Please see the separate annual Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MRLO) report.
External Threats

61. Please see the separate annual Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MRLO) report.

Supply Chain Compliance

62. Remote audit of Supply Chain is progressing, and an interim update has been provided to
Supply Chain outlining seven key findings identified to date, to enable them to commence
mitigation. Some potential issues have been highlighted relating to outstanding actions in
respect of fire risk assessments undertaken in June and July which are currently being
investigated by the Head of Health & Safety. It is anticipated the audit will conclude by
the end of December.

Multi Principal Review of 1% line controls.

63. Our three regulatory principals, Capital One, Bank of Ireland (Bol) and Post Office
Management Services Limited (POMS), are reviewing mystery shopping, training, the risk
management framework, quality of sales oversight and internal governance as part of
their oversight of the Post Office.

64. The discovery work has recently completed and whilst there will be areas of improvement
highlighted, there do not appear to be any material issues raised that would cause the
Principals to alter their selling/introducing regulated activity with the Post Office.

65. Whilst we are supportive of this review there a number of items in a ‘statement of facts’
document that need to be clarified before a draft report is produced.

66. We expect the final report to be produced late January and we will share this with this
Committee.

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0006
POL00423685
POL00423685

Compliance Monitoring

67. Following the implementation of the latest Covid-19 lockdown, with the agreement of our
Principals, mystery shopping was suspended. This will be reviewed when conditions allow.

68. Sales of Travel Insurance are currently suspended in branch; all of our other financial
services products remain on sale and promotional activity is planned for both protection
and savings business. As with previous lockdowns, we will focus on remote monitoring
measures to review performance such as cancelations, complaints and customer validation
calls and regular governance meetings with the Principals remain in place.

FS Key Regulatory updates

69. A summary slide of the key future developments is included in the reading room at
Appendix 2.

70. Post Office responded to the Her Majesty’s Treasury (HMT) call for evidence on Access to
Cash in November, which sets out the government's aims for protecting access to cash
throughout the UK. Post Office outlined the well-established and increasingly important
role it plays in access to cash.

71. As part of this consultation the government is considering imposing a single regulator to
have responsibility for a well-functioning cash retail distribution network. We await the
government response (no date has been given for this) but we will need to understand
any potential regulatory risks or implications for Post Office if is decided that the cash
infrastructure should be regulated.

72. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has withdrawn its proposal to establish a single
easy access savings rate for all savings account of over one year. This is welcome as it
could have caused significant challenges for the future pricing of savings back books and
the need to change systems with our partner Bol.

73. The Overall Compliance Dashboards (Appendices 3 and 4) are included in the reading
room.

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0007
POL00423685
POL00423685

Internal Audit

Progress against Internal Audit plan

74. Delivery of the 2020/21 programme is making good progress, with a further five audits
completed since the November ARC meeting (4 POL & 1 Post Office Insurance (POI)). In
addition we have also issued one interim report on the Historic Matters CIJ Improvement
Programme.

75. Current delivery status is as follows:

POL Internal Audit Plan POI Internal Audit Plan
Status: Total Audits = 28 “ Status: Total Audits = 6 @
9

= Completed = Fieldwork

= Completed = Reporting = Fieldwork
= Planning Not Started

(Target number of reviews based on revised plan for 2020/21 approved by ARC (18 Internal control reviews & 10 change assurance reviews).
Details of the audit plan status are included in the reading room (Appendix 10).
(2)p01 ARC approved baseline plan for 2020/21.

76. A re-prioritised Internal Audit programme was approved at the May ARC meeting in
response to Covid-19. A more dynamic (quarterly rolling) audit plan was adopted and is
being reviewed at each ARC. Further revisions to the plan was approved at the September
ARC meeting and is included in the reading room (Appendix 10).

77. The following audits are planned for delivery in Q4:

Review Sponsor Timing I Status
Historic Matters (Post GLO) Set-up and Fieldwork (Interim
1 Governance Declan’ Salter Oct Report Issued)
Historic Matters - CI] Operations Improvement Fieldwork (Interim
2 Programme Danaher Balter asta Report Issued)
3 Postmaster Reporting (MI, Branch Trading Amanda Jones Jan Fieldwork
Statements)
4 I Postmaster Remuneration (3 Party Data) Amanda Jones Feb Planning
5 Historic Matters - HIJ Operations Improvement Declan Salter Feb Not Started
Programme
¢ I GLO Historical Shortfall Scheme - Claims & Dedlan Salter Par Not Started
Payments
7 I Third Party Revenue Data Assurance Al Cameron Feb Planning
8 I Change Controls Effectiveness Dan Zinner Feb Not Started
9 I Strategic Platform Modernisation Jeff Smyth Mar Not Started
9
Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0008
POL00423685
POL00423685

@

Internal Audit reviews completed
78. The following POL audits were completed since the November ARC meeting:

1 I IT Control Framework 4 I Belfast Exit Follow-up (Programme
Assurance)
2 I Mails & Parcels 5 I PCI Compliance (Programme
Assurance)
3 I Historic Matters - CIJ Operations
Improvement Programme (Interim)

79. Our findings and observations from these reports are summarised below (par. 80-84),
with the full reports available in the reading room (appendices 5-9).

80. IT Control Framework (Ref.2020/21-13)

The purpose of the audit was to assess how effectively the IT Control
Framework (ITCF) supports IT control assurance and risk mitigation
for POL, and whether it reflects the operation of IT related controls
across the business and provides accurate and timely information on
control performance.

We believe that the approach to implementing the ITCF is sound,
based on alignment with an internationally recognised governance
framework, with quarterly self-assessment and monthly reporting of
Sponsor: status and remediations. The 268 controls that make up the ITCF
Jeff Smyth and are largely aligned with what's happening on the ground and the
self-assessment process was generally operating effectively.

Needs Improvement

Audit actions: . . .
0 Additional work is required to ensure that the ITCF fully supports the

5 business. This should be addressed through migration to a more

comprehensive risk and control management tool, and the
2 introduction of strong second line activity to independently validate
7 the self-assessment process.

We conclude that the ITCF has continued to mature since its
. implementation in 2018 and has further improved since our previous
Appendix 5 review in 2019. However, we highlight that the operation of the ITCF
is not yet fully embedded within the business and was impacted by
the absence of a key staff member during April to July 2020.

Management Comment provided by Tony Jowett (CISO

“Our IT controls framework allows us to better mitigate risks impacting POL’s IT. We have reached a
very good basic standard of maturity against COBIT 5 and other controls frameworks. This report
comes at a perfect time to help us move to the next level of controls maturity. I accept the findings in
it and will work to address them. Many thanks for the input.”

10
Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0009
POL00423685
POL00423685

@

81. Mails & Parcels (Ref.2020/21-16)

The Mails & Parcels business is of key strategic importance to Post
Office, contributing one third of PO’s total revenue (approximately
£350m) in FY20. In Q3 FY21 Mails & Parcels contributed 63% of all
Network income.

The purpose of this audit was to review both the Customer and
Postmaster journeys for Mails and Parcels products, and to assess
the controls in place over related financial, operational and
compliance processes.

Needs Improvement

Sponsor: . a ae -
Owen Woodley We found that Post Office are maintaining a positive and effective
relationship with Royal Mail Group (RMG), having just successfully
Audit actions: negotiated and signed a new 11 year agreement (MDA2).
1 However, the audit highlighted several issues concerning worsening
4 performance with respect to compliance with Prohibited and
0 Restricted Items (Dangerous Goods) requirements. Segregation of
5 parcels and accuracy of Mail Redirection forms were similarly
underperforming, both of which have resulted in significant Service

. Credits being applied by RMG in FY20 and are expected to recur for
Appendix 6 FY21.

There are currently limited consequences at branch level for
underperformance and non-compliance in these areas. If
performance in these areas are not improved, the level of Service
Credits being applied by RMG will increase when the new Mails
Distribution Agreement (MDA2) comes into effect.

Management Comment provided by Tom Wasilewski (Head of Commercial Development)

“Given the growing importance of Mails to both the Post Office and our Postmasters a thorough
review and audit of its key processes is crucial. The areas highlighted for improvement are right
focusing on important drivers of safety and financial performance, and it is satisfying, given the
recent signing of the new agreement with RM, that no issues were identified in how that relationship
is managed. Compliance and enforcement of Prohibited and Restricted Items (Dangerous Goods) is
critical to delivering the high levels of mails integrity our customers expect and the downward trend
is concerning making an urgent focus on improvement a priority. However, given the multiplicity of
causes and the scale of the network, it is a challenge for which the Mails team will need support from
colleagues across the business and we look forward to working closely with them in turning this
around. The improving trend in segregation is encouraging and the new contractual arrangements
under MDA2 make achieving the new target across all areas a priority”.

11
Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0010
POL00423685

POL00423685

@

82. Historic Matters - CIJ Operations Improvement Programme (Interim Report)

(Ref.2020/21-15)

Not Rated (Interim Report)

Progress with completion of
NRF recommendations:

mComplete mTest with HIJ
mln Progress m Outstanding
Sponsor:

Declan Salter
Management comments and

audit actions will be in the
final report.

Appendix 7

Following the judgments from the Group Litigation Order, Post
Office has undertaken a programme of improvements to
overhaul culture, practices and procedures throughout every
part of the business. In addition to launching the Historical
Shortfall and Stamps Schemes, as part of its operational
improvement plan, and to address issues which arose from
group litigation concluded last year, Post Office has
established a new Historic Matters business unit (HM) to
oversee and deliver the programme of improvements.

Internal Audit is performing a review of the management and
oversight of the improvements delivery, as well as, the
appropriateness and sustainability of plans to address the
Common Issues Judgment (CIJ) and Horizon Issues Judgment
(HIJ) findings. This is being done in three phases.

This second phase of the audit work assessed the programme
of measures that will oversee the delivery of the operational
improvements to address the criticisms from the CI).
Primarily, we sought to gain assurance that the operational
improvements recommended by Norton Rose Fullbright
(NRF), as a result of their analysis of the judgment, have been
identified and implemented in accordance with the planned
timescales.

We concluded that considerable work has been done to
address the judgment findings and implement the 34 NRF
recommendations. The status of completion of the
recommendations at the time of the audit report, is shown in
the chart to the left.

Progress is well evidenced throughout, although in some
instances, we have noted differences between the project’s
view of progress, compared to that of Operations. There is an
opportunity to address this by the adoption of a formal
handover process that clearly assigns the acceptance of
amended documents and procedures by BAU operations.

We highlight that further activity will be required within the
business to absorb the impact of the recent OE and the
premature departure of some key senior colleagues.

Management Comment provided by Amanda Jones (Retail and Franchise Network Director)

“There has been progress on the remedial actions on the NRF report and we expect to have the majority of
actions completed by the end of February with a clear plan to completion for any that may remain open, The
change in ownership has enabled further multiple reviews of our responses (including by the HMU) to NRF’s
recommendations and our aim, where possible, is to go beyond legal compliance to make appropriate
operational and cultural improvements to our processes. All actions are tracked with weekly reporting to GE.”

Confidential

12

POL-BSFF-0238503_0011
POL00423685

POL00423685

@

83. Belfast Exit Follow-up (Programme Assurance) (Ref.2020/21-11)

Belfast Exit, also known as ‘Pivot 2 Cloud’, aims to migrate Horizon
- the combined group of applications that supports the Retail
business of Post Office - from the Belfast data centres (managed
by Fujitsu) onto a new cloud platform. The programme was last
assessed by IA as part of the 2018/19 plan, with a follow-up review
agreed as part of Internal Audit’s approved 2020/21 plan.

Needs Improvement The objective of this follow-up review was to gain assurance that
the revised programme set-up, governance and delivery processes

Sponsor: are fit for purpose and operating effectively to enable the
Jeff Smyth envisioned benefits of migrating to the cloud.

Since its restart, the programme has focused on ways to reduce

Audit actions: complexity, add scale and delivery throughput, seeking

0 opportunities to add contingency and reduce delivery risks.

3 However, despite the good work done by the team, the technical

4 challenges and the risk of in-flight delays remain significant, as is

the potential future cost of failing to address some of the technical

7 challenges faced (technical debt), in order to focus on optimising

delivery.

We have rated the programme delivery as Needs Improvement,
however, we highlight that there is a significant residual risk
that is outside of the control of the programme. This risk
relates to the fixed deadline of exiting the datacentre when the
current lease expires. Management is currently assessing
contingency arrangements, with the most likely scenario being a
lease extension at an approximate additional cost of £4m. As a
result, benefits originally forecasted for FY22 and FY23 may not be
achieved.

We also highlight that the Belfast Exit and PCI Compliance
programmes both share a heavy reliance on Fujitsu subject matter
experts and a single test environment, thus competing for the same
resources.

Appendix 8

Management Comment provided by Rob Wilkins (Cloud Services Director)

“Good progress has been made with the 1° application migrated within 4 months of restart, a significant
improvement on previous attempts to migrate and the introduction of AWS to assist in the planning
and approach has yielded improvement. However, the success of the programme ultimately sits with
Fujitsu given their intrinsic knowledge of the Horizon application. There are significant constraints
placed on the delivery team, namely the lack of Fujitsu technical subject matter experts who understand
Horizon, and only a single functional test environment. Both of these constraints are in contention with
PCI and other projects and programmes. There are also significant interdependencies between this
programme and PCI that need to be tightly managed, one can and will impact the other if they are
independently unable to keep to schedule. In order to mitigate the risk of programme overrunning, POL
is working with Fujitsu's facilities team to secure short term lease extensions. The team need to also
understand the potential that COVID restrictions/impacts could have a knock-on effect on its ability to
maintain schedule given the significant amount of technical change the programme introduces.”

Confidential

13

POL-BSFF-0238503_0012
@

84. PCI Compliance (Programme Assurance) (Ref.2020/21-17)

POL00423685
POL00423685

The PCI compliance programme is a key compliance risk mitigation
programme for Post Office with a high level of risk, complexity and
cost. The implications and the level of changes needed to processes
and systems supporting both Payment and Banking Services, have
led to multiple programme iterations with several business case
revisions.

The programme was last assessed by Internal Audit as part of the
2019/20 plan and a follow-up review agreed as part of Internal
Audit’s 2020/21 plan. The objective of this follow-up review was to

Needs Improvement

Sponsor: gain assurance that the revised programme set-up, governance

Jeff Smyth and delivery processes are fit for purpose and operating effectively.

Audit actions: Significant improvements have been made to the programme since

0 the 2019/20 assessment. In addition, the degree of confidence over

the programme’s ability to deliver has increased, with the
2 programme highlighting its underlying assumptions and risks in the
1 recent funding submission.

3 Despite the good work done, key challenges remain in the delivery
of a PCI compliant environment. This is primarily a consequence of
the inherent complexity of the chosen solutions, which are partly

Appendix 9 bespoke and the heavy reliance on third parties.

There is a risk of additional costs and further delays in completing
the programme, which is not completely within Post Office control,
as the current delivery approach is governed by a Time and
Materials (T&M) contract with Fujitsu (with Ingenico operating as a
subcontractor of Fujitsu).

We note that the programme is still facing challenges in the level
of transparency and ease of engagement at functional level with
Fujitsu and Ingenico.

We also highlight that the Belfast Exit and PCI Compliance
programmes both share a heavy reliance on Fujitsu subject matter
experts and a single test environment, thus competing for the same
resources.

Management Comment provided by Rob Wilkins (Cloud Services Director:

“A good document with some useful insights which while identify areas where improvement is needed
also highlight how far the programme has come over the last 9-12months. The report references that
POL are very reliant on its suppliers to deliver this along with other projects and programmes who are
contending for the same resources. In order to ensure the best chance of a successful delivery of this
programme, it has been prioritised at the expense of other initiatives which are contending for the
same limited resources and test environment. That said, the programme has recently slipped twice due
to other POL priorities (changes to support Brexit and RM contract changes) both of which had a 2 week
impact to the schedule. The next 2 quarters are key for this programme as it looks to take the P2PE
solution to full pilot and rollout, the latter could present significant challenge should the UK still be
under COVID restrictions - this should be closely monitored.”

Confidential

14

POL-BSFF-0238503_0013
@

POL00423685
POL00423685

Post Office Insurance (POI) Audit Programme

85. The table below shows the status of the POI audit programme:

Review Timing I Status / Rating
1 I Cyber Security (POL-POI Gap Analysis) Aug
2 I Incident and Breach Management Aug Reporting “t
3 I Data Governance: Ethics, security and privacy
e Phase 1 - Third Party Data Security Sept Complete (interim report)
«Phase 2 - Data Governance Dec Fieldwork
4 I Special Investigation (Confidential) Sept Complete (not rated)
5 I Pricing: Principles, policies and process Nov Complete, pending POI
ARC submission
6 I Financial Promotions Communications Jan Fieldwork
7 I Effectiveness of Risk Management - original plan Q4 Not started
8 I Channel review: Non-branch sales - original plan Q4 Being re-assessed

N! This audit was delayed due to special investigations undertaken at management request and with POI ARC approval.

Status of Audit Actions

to provide extended completion dates for

shown in the table below (status at 18

Ageing:

Open (not yet due) 34
Overdue (<60 days) 1
Overdue (>60 days) ie}
Total open actions 35

Action Owners and Status Update

86. During May 2020 we agreed with management

14 actions impacted by Covid-19. All 14 actions have now been completed.
87. The movement and ageing of audit actions are

January 2021).

Audit Action Status (POL):

Open actions at last ARC 29

Less: Actions closed in period 18

Add: New actions in period 24

Total open actions 35
88. Following is a summary of the one overdue action and latest status update:

Description of audit finding and I GE owner

a 4 and due
Priority rating date

Health & Safety Response to Covid-19

completed for all affected colleagues
land the necessary actions taken to
ensure safe working practices whilst

orking at home and, where
appropriate, e.g. following an
(Occupational Health assessment
ladjustments supported and
implemented.

Finding (P2): No formal collation and la) cameron

review of home working assessments

lundertaken. (Original date:

lAction: The Health and Safety team 81/10/2020
ill work with HR to ensure that the Revised date:

appropriate assessments have been 81/12/2020

(Owner: Martin Hopcroft

[It was decided to delay the process until
after the busy Christmas period. GE PAs are
currently collating a return on behalf of their
lead teams to confirm that the activity has
been completed. The H&S team are offering
support to any team who has questions or
concerns. The team will be working around
the PAs to undertake this check and collate
the summaries during January. An update

ill be provided to the Safety Board on 27"
january.

Confidential

15

POL-BSFF-0238503_0014
POL00423685
POL00423685

@

Appendices!

Compliance

Appendix 1: Telecoms Regulatory Calendar
Appendix FS Regulatory Calendar
Appendix 3: Compliance Dashboard summary
Appendix 4: Compliance Dashboard

Internal Audit

Appendix 5: Internal Audit Report — IT Control Framework

Appendix Internal Audit Report - Mails & Parcels

Appendix Internal Audit Report - Historic Matters - CIJ Improvement Programme
Appendix Internal Audit Report - Belfast Exit Follow-up (Programme Assurance)

Appendix 9: Internal Audit Report - PCI Compliance (Programme Assurance)
Appendix 10:Internal Audit Plan for 2020/21

1 Appendices are accessible in the Diligent Reading Room.
16
Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238503_0015
