POL00327110
POL00327110

From: Parsons, Andrew

Sent: 05 December 2013 09:49
To: martin smith; Jarnail A Singh

William GRO. _
Subject: Criminal investigation information sharing [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Martin, Jarnail, Rodric

As discussed last week, below is our next thorny question on the interaction between the mediation scheme
and criminal prosecutions.

We now have 4 cases in the Scheme subject to live criminal investigations / prosecutions. Thusfar we have
refused to provide any details of these cases to the Working Group. However, the Working Group are
concerned that as they have no oversight on these cases, there is no way for them to validate that the
applicant's application to the Scheme should remain suspended. Underlying this is a general (and in my view
unwarranted) distrust by SS and JFSA of how POL handles criminal cases.

It is has therefore been proposed that POL makes available some information on each of the 4 cases to Tony
Hooper. Tony can then take a view on whether POL is progressing those cases reasonably / in good faith.
The case information will not been provided to the WG by POL or TH.

This requests breaks down into 3 questions:

1. Asa matter of principle, can POL provide information to Tony? I'd be grateful if CK could revert with a view
on this point by COB tomorrow.

2. What information should be provided to Tony?

3. How should we provide the information to Tony (eg. what confidentiality rules do we need to put in place?
What is the exact question that Tony is being asked to consider? etc.)?

I suggest that we tackle question 1 first and then if we get the "ok" to proceed, consider questions 2 and 3.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be I only

attachments, If you are not martin.smith

by law. martin.smithf
ase notify andrew.parsons

is authorised to access this e-mail a

POL00327110
POL00327110

ng of this communication or attachments is prohibited

soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copy
and may be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for
be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

any loss or damage which may

of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it,

Content of this email which does not relate to the official busing

‘This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661
Our registered office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term
partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
