POL00138192
POL00138192

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerdf_
Sent: Mon 31/03/2014 1:25:45 PM (UTC)
To: Belinda Crowef
Ce:
Subject: RE: Horizon
Belinda,

The terminology works for me. What I’m not clear on from the note is whether the factfile - which is almost
concluded - is to be included in its entirety and then validated by the independent expert or whether this
work is to be undertaken again. My understanding was from the discussion at Board that it would be the
former.

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

® 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
© Post Office stories

© @postofficenews

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 31 March 2014 14:10

To: Lesley J Sewell; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Rodric Williams
Cc: Belinda Crowe; David Oliver1; Chris Aujard

Subject: Horizon

Importance: High

Sensitivity: Confidential

Both

Please see attached a suggested outline, prepared by Linklaters, for a report we might want to commission on
Horizon. I understand you are both aware of the background to this.
POL00138192
POL00138192

It seems to me that it covers all the bases, but I am not sure whether the terminology is correct.
l also think that as well as setting out what a report should cover, we should also list the matters which would not be
in scope. E.g. SPMR contracts, training etc.

Grateful for your views asap.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

4 Postline:

belinda.croweg

From: Swil, Jonathan [mailto’

Sent: 28 March 2014 16:22

To: David Oliveri

Cc: Chris Aujard; Rodric Williams; Belinda Crowe; Band, Christa
Subject: RE: Going forward

David

Thanks. I attach the note setting out our thoughts on what a report into Horizon would entail.

We will aim to get you an outline of our thinking to date on the options work as early as possible on Monday.
Kind regards

Jonathan

From: David Oliver1 [mailto:
Sent: 28 March 2014 12:34
To: Swil, Jonathan

Cc: Chris Aujard; Rodric Williams; Belinda Crowe; Band, Christa
Subject: Going forward

Jonathan,
Post our conference call I think the plan remains as we discussed on the phone.

® On the assurance work you are sending your note through today.

® On the options work we will look to get a couple of hours in the diary to discuss options — probably on
Tuesday. To support that work it would be good if you can set out where your thinking has got to on the
potential options and their viability. It would be good to have that paper as early as possible in Monday.

e I will ask Chris’ office to set up the meeting.

Thanks
POL00138192
POL00138192

David

David Oliver
Programme Manager

JESSE IIIS II IIIS IIS IOI IIA III III III II II III III

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Any business communication, sent by or on behalf of Linklaters LLP or one of its affiliated firms or other
entities (together "Linklaters"), is confidential and may be privileged or otherwise protected. If you receive it
in error please inform us and then delete it from your system. You should not copy it or disclose its contents
to anyone. Messages sent to and from Linklaters may be monitored to ensure compliance with internal policies
and to protect our business. Emails are not secure and cannot be guaranteed to be error free. Anyone who
communicates with us by email is taken to accept these risks. Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership
registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C326345. It is a law firm authorised and regulated
by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (www.sra.org.uk). The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is
used to refer to a member of Linklaters LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its
affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. Please refer to

ww
members together with a list of those non-members who are designated as partners and their professional
qualifications, may be inspected at our registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ and such
persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers.

