POL00100324
POL00100324

ANNOTATED AGENDA
SIR ANTHONY HOOPER
14:30 — 15:30
A. The Terms of Reference for the Working Group
JFSA suggested a widen scope for the working group suggesting it build on all existing
horizon related issues. This is an opportunity to restate the case that the Working Group's
role is both narrow and critical to Post Office — that being to oversee the administration of the
Scheme.
B. The Final Report
Tony has been supportive of a final report when there was a discussion of the Terms of
Reference at the last Working Group. This gives an opportunity to confirm you are happy to
have a final report.

C. General Reflections on progress with the Scheme

An opportunity to get Tony’s views on how the Scheme is progressing and how the different
Working Group participants have been performing

D. Second Sight’s Capacity

Dependant on the first meeting you may wish to take Tony's views on Second Sights
capacity and their ability to complete the Scheme on time.

E. Cost of the Scheme and the Role of Professional Advisors
The Scheme faces two challenges (apart from claim value) to good value for money.

(1) Advisors have been protesting at the timescales set and contribution to costs that Post
Office have made. Tony has been supportive of Post Office pushing back on this issue.

(2) Second Sight and the absence of firm deliverables at their current run rate.
F. Tony’s Contract

An opportunity to confirm to Tony that you have been pleased with his Chairmanship and
would like him to continue.
POL00100324
POL00100324

A. The Terms of Reference for the Working Group

At the last Working Group we had expected to finalise the Terms of Reference as
they had previously been fully discussed and the only minor point of difference was a
technical clause that Post Office was redrafting.

However linked to the work to provide a tightly defined scope of engagement for
Second Sight the Working Group Terms the Terms of Reference were reopened by
JFSA at the last face to face meeting.

JFSA contended that the Working Group should have a wider remit and should
supervise all work to do with the Horizon system and that the Terms of Reference
should build on all previously published documentation about Horizon.

This has never been Post Office’s intention for the Working Group and a review of
documentation provided by Alan Bates has not shown any evidence which would
change that view.

Previous documentation — such as the “raising Concerns with Horizon” document -
were around a specific time bound period to raise concerns about Horizon which has
now been superseded by the Scheme.

Second Sight were also supportive of a wider Terms of Reference as it would allow
their wider work with MPs to be supervised by the Working Group.

Tony sounded reasonably supportive of a wider set of terms of reference but in
particular was supportive of a final report at the end of the Scheme.

B. The Final Report

You have already indicated that you are supportive of a final report to James
Arbuthnot.

This meeting provides a useful opportunity to make the same point to Tony and also
to set out that you are not supportive of publishing interim reports due to the effect
they are likely to have on the mediation process.

C. General Reflections on progress with the Scheme

An opportunity to get Tony’s views on how the Scheme is progressing and how the
different Working Group participants have been performing

D. Second Sight’s Capacity

Dependant on the first meeting you may wish to take Tony's views on Second Sights
capacity and their ability to complete the Scheme on time.

This also provides an opportunity to take sound Tony out on how firm he is likely to
be (both with Post Office and with Second Sight) on timescales once the Scheme is
into full swing.
POL00100324
POL00100324

E. Cost of the Scheme and the Role of Professional Advisors

Advisors have been protesting at the timescales set and contribution to costs that
Post Office have made. Tony has been supportive of Post Office pushing back on
this issue so far. This provides an opportunity to discuss with Tony how he intends to
manage this going forward and also to make clear that Post Office will not be able to
continually fund requests for additional money from advisors.

Depending on the first meeting you may also wish to touch on Second Sight and the
need to ensure that they deliver high quality evidence based products given the cost
so far.

F. Tony’s Contract

Tony was employed from mid October to the end of March at a cost of £20,000.
Although he is unlikely to get into detail in the meeting we propose to extend these
terms either through another block extension or a rolling contract at £4,000 pcm
depending on Tony's preference.

He shows every indication of wishing to see the Scheme through to its conclusion.
