POLO0111694

POL00111694
Message
From: Paula Vennells!
on behalf of — Paula Vennells }
Sent: 21/02/2019 13:
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI ; Alisdair Camerot ; Tim Parker
ndrew.parsonsi-
I; Mark R Davies
Subject: Re: Board GLO Sub Committee
Hi Tom,

Yes we defend robustly but we avoid adding extra coverage.

As before we hold the ground: the system is robust. And not comment any further during the trial. So
‘aggressive’ no, robust - absolutely no question.

We are trading well. We will continue to trade well. The system (enhanced since 2010) works and the trial
doesn’t change that. A very firm line.

I will pick up and Jane and Mark and Al and we will get back you with the plans (and lines/Q&A as I said on
the call).

The strategy has worked well so far, which is to minimise coverage in mainstream media. Therefore, we don’t
engage in any public debates, we have strong lines but we add no oxygen by commenting or engaging.

This is not new news despite how the claimants will present it as that; our approach is to curtail interest as much
as possible.

And of course, we will respond differently if circumstances dictate. We will be all over it.

Your questions re how far we can go ‘legally’ are important. We have used injunctions and demanded apologies
in the past. They are both to be used but with caution. They gain more coverage, which is not always balanced.
But they are tools in the box. (Portland are very experienced at this too - it is about judgement and if/when to
make the call.)

Tl pick up with Mark, Jane and Al next week.

Paula

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <;
Sent: Thursday, February 21, 2019 12:47 pm
To: Alisdair Cameron; Paula Vennells; Tim Parker; andrew.parsons; Jane MacLeod
Subject: Board GLO Sub Committee

Jane

One follow-up question from the call.

POL-0109267
POLO0111694
POL00111694

To what extent can the court protect POL against journalists overstating the evidence re Horizon? If a journalist
writes that there is evidence of systematic problems with Horizon when in fact no such evidence exists, will the
court help us?

Seems to me it’s extremely important to have a press strategy that seeks to stop misrepresentation by journalists
and seeks to protect POL’s business today against the implication that the current system doesn’t work

properly.
Grateful if you could come back to us on that.

Tom

Board GLO Sub Committee

Scheduled: Thursday, 21 Feb 2019 from 11:00 to 12:00

Location: WallaceSpace, 18 Clerkenwell Green, Clerkenwell, London EC1R ODP
Dial in details

Invitees: Alisdair Cameron, Mark Underwood!}, Anthony de Garr Robinson, Paula Vennells,
CompanySecretarial, Ken McCallisl Tim Parker, Rodric Williams, Andrew Parsons, Rob Houghton, Jane
MacLeod, Veronica Branton, Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent from my iPhone

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

POL-0109267
