POL00098878
POL00098878

Notes for Board update on Second Sight investigation, 1 July 2013

e Second Sight due to present initial findings at a meeting with James Arbuthnot, MPs and JFSA next

Monday (8 April).

e Report will focus on four “best” cases in detail — following an initial review of nearly 50 cases overall

e Key point to emphasise is that we understand Second Sight have not identified any systemic issues

with Horizon itself

e However, the report still presents significant reputational risks for PO. Second Sight nervous about

perceptions of a ‘white wash’, and so may draw attention to two points:

a)

b)

Issues with PO’s wider support, training and investigation processes in relation to Horizon

issues.

> We accept there are lessons to be learnt here, and have a proposal on how we can be
seen to be addressing such issues at the same time as closing down the SS

investigation.

The fact that we have disclosed two previous ‘anomalies’ with the Horizon system, which
they may suggest means we cannot be confident there are not more widespread problems

with the system.

>» This is a red herring. In both cases the errors were picked up and either have been or
are in the process of being addressed with the affected sub-postmasters; a
comprehensive audit has been performed to check there weren’t further cases we
weren’t aware of; and new procedures are being put in place to ensure such

anomalies are spotted at an early stage in the future.

e We also have other concerns around Second Sight’s handling of the investigation:

°

They haven’t (yet) reviewed all the evidence we have given them, and hence may not be ina

position to set out definitive conclusion on all four cases

It appears that they are not focussing on empirical evidence (i.e. the transactions data) in
the way we would expect forensic accountants to — instead have a tendency to rely on the
sub-postmasters’ interpretation/recollection of events (and in some cases they appear to

have ‘led the witness’).
POL00098878
POL00098878

To manage these risks and issues we’re taking the following steps:

Meeting with SS this afternoon to: a) emphasise the importance of ensuring headline
statements are not misleading; b) reiterate importance of them reaching final conclusions
next week wherever possible, based on the evidence that has been submitted to them
(should be possible for at least 3 out of the 4 cases) — and not relying on sub-postmasters to

reach the conclusions on their behalf.

Meeting with James Arbuthnot on Wednesday morning, to update him on progress and
answer any questions, alert him to reputational risks and discuss handling plan (he will have

heard preliminary headlines from SS on Tuesday).

Will propose that it is now appropriate for the Second Sight investigation to be brought to a
conclusion (rather than continuing until October or beyond) — no evidence of systemic issues
with computer system, but we will appoint an independent firm to review our wider

management processes to learn the lessons from the investigation.
Also developing comprehensive stakeholder and communications plan:

° Detailed Q&A pack being prepared (jointly agreed with SS, Fujitsu and JA), to ensure

we're ready with accurate lines to explain the situation

° Will prepare media statement (and share drafts with SS/James Arbuthnot). Important
to emphasise wider context: we process over 6m transactions a day across 11,800

branches.

° Will offer face-to-face briefing meetings with affected MPs (and may seek additional

support from Oliver Letwin)

We'll keep the Board closely updated over the next week.
