POL00133265
POL00133265

Vouchers Migration

1. Introduction

The IMPACT Release 3 Conceptual Design identifies the following requirement
regarding vouchers

1. Generic vouchers to be removed from Horizon where possible

This covers Vouchers to TP and Vouchers to CRU. There is no intention to
remove vouchers such as “promotional vouchers” as these are a valid method of
payment.

Analysis has been carried out as to the complexity of these changes from a Horizon
viewpoint and Fujitsu have confirmed that most of these changes could be carried out
via an OBC change earlier than the Release 3 of Impact.

2. Recommendation

Vouchers to TP is removed via OBC process prior to S80. Must be between April 20"
and May 20".

Reference data implications have been considered and the subsequent effect on CBDB.
In order to mitigate the effects the products will be mapped to the same cash account
line as the current “vouchers to TP” line. This will ensure that it is reported in the
same way on the cash account at the Branch.

It is confirmed that this will have no impact on the current POL MIS or OpTip system

The implication of the above recommendation still needs to be considered by the
Business Change team and once agreement reached passed to business as usual to
implement.

Vouchers to/from CRU is removed via OBC process at point 55

Vouchers to/from CRU removed at point 55 and non core product to be introduced
for Northern Ireland only. This is due to current way that DMB’s “write off” their
balancing losses/gains.

3. Overview of analysis

3.1 Vouchers to TP

In order to simplify branch processes and remove unnecessary paperwork from both
branch and CACM analysis has been undertaken to ascertain how to account for items
which are currently reported via Vouchers to TP. Post S80 this will remove the need
for the branch to complete the manual vouchers form (P5365) and for this to be keyed
into DPU.

Items identified are as follows :-

Stamps for Official Postage
3.2

POL00133265
POL00133265

Postshop items for Official Usage

Spoilt Postage Label — Royal Mail
Parcelforce
Special Delivery
Underpaid

The above will be separate items on the MOP screen mapped to the current
cash account line

Goodwill

Local purchases

Stamp Vending Machine Losses

RL Authorised Write-Off

Petty Cash Voucher — only available until S80

Robbery and Burglary clearance — cash — only available until S80

Robbery and Burglary clearance — stock — only available until S80

Robbery and Burglary clearance — vouchers — only available until S80
Sub-Postmaster Shortages/Repayment of Shortages — only available until S80

Obsolete stock not claimed on Horizon — only available until S80

The above will be separate items on the Housekeeping screen with a new
parent product of local expenditure and will be mapped to the current cash
account line.

Whilst this will have no impact in CACM prior to S80 the branch will be able
to complete their weekly voucher form more easily as they will record each
item individually on Horizon and then summarise to the manual form. Post S80
the items listed as only available until S80 should be removed once Transaction
Corrections are live

Vouchers to/from CRU

In order to simplify branch processes and remove unnecessary paperwork from both
branch and cash centres analysis has been undertaken to ascertain how to account for
items which are currently reported via Vouchers to/from CRU. Once all branches are
live on S80 and branch trading is enlivened the requirement for vouchers to CRU will
be removed.

Items identified are as follows :-
Ulster Saving Bank warrants

Redeemed postal orders (Belfast City Branch only)
POL00133265

POL00133265

Ulster Savings Bank Warrants — these are warrants that have been paid out by the
branch and, in effect, should be accounted for in the same way as a cheque which has
been received for services. The entries in Horizon should be :-

Cr Cash
Dr USB warrant to Cash Centre (new product required)

Redeemed postal orders — these are postal orders brought to the DMB in Belfast by
other banks. They are recorded on Horizon as being paid however no cash is paid out
over the counter. The settlement is made by the cash centre. The accounting at present
is as though the branch has then received a remittance of cash from the cash centre in
order to balance Horizon. The entries in Horizon should be :-

At point of acceptance
Dr Redeemed Postal Orders
Cr Redeemed Postal Orders to Cash Centre (new product required)
POL00133265
POL00133265
