POLO0095461
POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

POB(99)6th
p099/54 to 70 POST OFFICE BOARD

Minutes of the meeting held on 7/8 June 1999

at 148 Old Street

Present
Dr Neville Bain Chairman
John Roberts Chief Executive
Richard Close Managing Director Finance
Jerry Cope Managing Director Strategy & Personnel
Mike Kinski Non-Executive Member (for PO99/58 only)
Dr John Lloyd Non-Executive Member
Miles Templeman Non-Executive Member (for PO99/58 only)
Rosemary Thome Non-Executive Member
i GRO I
Scatt Childes Notes

Richard Dykes, Managing Director Royal Mail

Stuart Sweetman, Managing Director Post Office Counters Limited for PO99/67 to
70 only.

Kevin Williams, Managing Director Parcelforce Worldwide

Others attending: Jonathan Evans, Acting SCS Programme Director, for
POS9/62 and 63
Brian Thomson, DGM Royal Mail London, for
PO99/64, 65 and 66.

John Modd, Royal Mail Service Delivery Director, for
POS9/ES & 66.

APOLOGIES POS9I54

Mike Kinski and Miles Templeman attended only for
the discussion of the Strategic Plan (PO99/58).

RICHARD ADAMS POS9/55

The Board welcomed Richard Adams who had

returned after a serious car accident.

MINUTES OF POS9/56

PREVIOUS MEETING
The Board approved the minutes and separate record
of proceedings of its meeting of 27 April 1999 and the
minute of its special meeting of 23 May 1999.

MATTERS ARISING POS9/57

POB(99}13 7
The Board noted the matters arising from the meeting of
27 Aprili999.

“ Nv
In Strictest Confidence \
JHE POST OFFICE
STRATEGIC PLAN
4999-04 POB(99)35

@

«

(ii)

(iy)

POL00095461

POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

Posg/58

This Strategic Plan was fundamentally different from
Previous Corporate Plans and had the central objective of
establishing The Post Office as a complete distribution
company. it was based on six key strategies:

* preparing for letters competition;

* Global strategy;

° Distribution and supply chain;

* Customer Management and Access;

* Support Services; and

° SCS

In reviewing the detail of the Plan the Board wanted to
focus on five key issues:

e Royal Mail efficiency and investment;
Global ambition;

New investments;

Capability inhibitions;and

Post Horizon treatment.

eoeee

With regard to efficiency, the Plan showed that Royal Mail
should net savings over the five years of £240m, although
this was after £390m was re-invested in service and other
initiatives. In total the cumulative five year reduction in the
net cost base across the organisation including that
attributable to volume, was £477m.

The basic plan showed real growth in turnover of 8%, and
underlying profit of 18%. Given the competitive
environment, this in itself was stretching, but further
ambitions had been built into the plan and sensitivity
which showed turnover increasing by some 40% and
profit growing by 18%.

A number of new investments were either underway or
planned over the Plan period, including the strategic
development of a European parcels network (ex German
Parcel), customer management, network banking, Lottery,
and management of wholesale cash. The projected retum
on turnover from these investments ranged from 10% to
25% and all produced satisfactory financial returns. The
returns on other areas of investment: global letters,
logistics, express and Government gateway, were lower
ranging from 5% to 20% and their affordability was
therefore questionable.

64
In Strictest Confidence
(vi)

(vii)

(ili)

(&)

POL00095461

POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

The success of the Plan was dependent on a number of
key issues. Management capability would be crucial,
Particularly during a period of intense organisational
change. Providing sufficient incentives through a
reformed pay policy would also be necessary to retain
and recruit employees of sufficient calibre. Maintaining
good industrial relations, ensuring that the commercial
freedoms set out in the White Paper were fully delivered
and managing the impact of regulation on prices were
other key factors that would determine the Plans’
Success. All these factors clearly represented a risk to
successful achievement of the plan

It was noted that

Members wanted to ensure that the efficiency targets set
for Royal Mail were sufficiently stretching. There had been
some feedback that Government officials considered that
improvements were insufficiently radical. This view was
not supported by the Board who felt that the Plan set out
Programmes which collectively represented the biggest
transformational change undertaken by The Post Office;
ideally, employee support for this would be won so as to
enable the good industrial relations and flexible working

which were essential to the competitive success of The
Post Office.

However, Members did accept that the present
Projections were unlikely to be sufficient to underpin
competitive success in the longer term; but given the very
early stage in the deployment of the change programmes,
a more ambitious set of projections as the mainfine of the
Plan could not be justified.

The Board considered whether there was a need to set
out alternative strategic proposals for Parcelforce,
including those that government had in the past rejected.
In discussion it was recognised that Parcelforce had
embarked on a clear strategy based on the hubs and the
development of express and logistic services; this
followed years of blight and uncertainty caused by
government blocking of investment and of proposals to
reduce counter-productive internal competition, This, and
the decision by the present Government not to sell
Parcelforce Worldwide, suggested that signalling the
possibility of a change of strategy in this Plan was not
appropriate. However, the success of the deployment of
the current strategy should be kept under careful review
with a view to considering other options (especially on
express and logistics) should profit projections not be met.

65
In Strictest Confidence
&)

«i

(xii)

(xiti)

(xiv)

(xv)

POL00095461

POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

The presentation of new investments was also reviewed
and it was agreed that future Plans could cover more
radical alliance options. This was certainly a possibility for
logistics, and analysis would be completed in the autumn
On letters, the early need for a really major initiative would
be considered at the Board Awayday, along with further
development of International letters, POCL post-Horizon
and Parcelforce profitability.

itwas acknowledged that to some extent the Plan did not
Provide sufficient detail of the organisation's global
Strategy or market analysis, although the work that had
been done was on a par with other countries. Work of this
nature was ongoing but could not be completed over the
short term. A great deal of work had been completed on
the impact on the domestic market of not developing the
international market and a statement on this could be
incorporated within in the relevant section.

In advance of their meeting with the Secretary of State,
the Chairman and Chief Executive would be provided with
information on the impact that progressing the revised
Horizon programme would have on POCL’s profit and
loss account and cash flow. Additionally, the Strategic
Plan would highlight, possibly in an annex, the impact of
Horizon continuing in the guise of option ‘B’. This would
show the sensitivities of some of the key assumptions e.g.
securing 50% rather than 25% of Government Direct
business and also retention of some BA business
permanentiy.

A statement on the £480m that Government had agreed
that POCL could draw down to cover its income and
funding gap would be included with a sensitivity on an
unfavourable VAT outcome.

The mainline financial projections were based on a
reduction in the monopoly limit to 50p. The Post Office’s
policy on the monopoly had always been for a
progressive, phased reduction followed by a review of its
impact. Any change had also to be consistent with Europe
and given that greater liberalisation would be introduced
in either 2003 or 2005, it seemed illogical to press for
unnecessary changes. Members supported this position
although it was known that government officials believed
the assumption to be unrealistic. A table summarising the
impact of a reduction on the profit and loss account over
a ten year period could be provided.

Officials had sought more information on worst case
scenarios and how the business would deal with more

66

In Strictest Confidence
POL00095461
POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

(xvi)

(xvii)

(xviii)

(xix)

(x)

(xxi)

(xxi

(xxii)

fadical liberalisation, technical substitution etc. The Board
felt strongly that the Plan was its best view of its
commercial strategy and that an in depth analysis of
every fine point of detail was not necessary. The Board

pranimousty supported the style and presentation of the
jan.

Paragraphs 8.4 and 8.5 of the Plan appeared
contradictory with one implying that commercial freedoms
were the key to future success but the other stating that
the organisation would remain ‘risk-averse’ as long as it
remained publicly owned. The wording of these
Paragraphs would be reviewed.

The proposed amendments would be incorporated into
the Plan and a final draft, with the alterations highlighted,
circulated to Members. This would occur five days before
the Plan was submitted to the Minister, which was due at
the end of June. A summary version of the Plan and draft
covering letter would also be prepared and circulated, the
latter emphasising that the Board was content that the
tisks and opportunities within the Plan were pitched at the
appropriate level and that to increase the degree of risk
would be an irresponsible action for the Board to support.

in conclusion Members confirmed that the Plan was for
the first time a commercial plan which set out the
appropriate degree of change, was deliverable and was in
@ style and format that Members unanimously supported.

The Board thanked David Burn and his team for their
excellent work in putting together The Post office's first
commercial plan and the Chairman thanked Members
personally for their contribution and input to its
development.

Agreed the general direction of the Plan, the treatment of
key issues and financial and performance projections.

Noted that work was continuing on augmenting the
market segmentation to clarify the rationale of a complete
distribution company with a global reach objective.

Devolved to the Chairman and Chief Executive, in
consultation with colleagues, the amendments set out
above.

Agreed that the Plan, amended as necessary, should be
put to Government.

67

In Strictest Confidence
POL00095461
POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

Action .
Jerry Cope (i) Highlight for Members the amendments made to the Plan
following the Board discussion

ii) Review the wording on paragraphs 8.4 and 8.5 of the

conclusion, in particular with regard to references to being
tisk adverse’.

Stuart Sweetman (iii) Circulate the Terms of Reference of the Horizon Working
Group established by DTI

CHAIRMAN'S POSS/59
BUSINESS

(i) Board Effectiveness would be discussed at the Board
Awayday in July.

(il) Stuart Sweetman and John Roberts were due to meet
Keith Todd and Richard Christou from ICL later that
afternoon to confirm Horizon accountabilities and seek
reassurance on ICL’s capability to deliver the programme.

(ii) A Horizon Working Group had been established by tan
McCartney, The Post Office Minister, and its Terms of
Reference would be circulated to Board Members.

{iv) Meeting with Secretary of State. A meeting with the
Secretary of State to discuss the working relationship with
DTI following recent developments with Horizon, had
been arranged for 10 June. The Chairman, John Roberts,
Rosemary Thorne and John Lloyd would attend.

(vy) it was important that The Post Office was seen to be
supportive of DTI and was prepared to work with them to
rebuild relationships with the Treasury. It was also
important to work with both the Secretary of State and the
Minister, rather than focus attention on one or other
individual.

(vi) If appropriate, the Chairman would write to the Secretary
of State after the meeting to confirm understanding of the
key issues.

CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S PO99/60
REPORT POB($9)36

«i Quality of Service. Performance across ail the businesses
was not good. Counters had achieved a quality of service
result of 93.5% in April and a three month rolling result of
94%. This was against a target of 95%. Royal Mail’s First
class quality result remained disappointing at 88.8%

68
In Strictest Confidence
(ii)

(iil)

(iv)

(vy)

(vi)

(vii)

POL00095461
POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

compared with a target of 92.5% and a result last April of
90.4%. Parcelforce’s Next Day quality result was also
below its 97% target at 95.8%.

Partnerships. (Secretary's note: the minute of this

baa has been circulated to Members on a personal
asis).

National Audit Office (NAO). The NAO was to undertake a
teview of the internal Government processes leading up
to the acquisition of German Parcel. The NAO had no
jurisdiction over The Post Office and therefore no access,
although, depending on the issues raised, points of
clarification might be considered. A draft copy of the NAO
teport would be forwarded to The Post Office.

Conferences. Four conferences of senior Post Office
Managers had been held during May to launch the SCS
programme; positive feedback had been received from
delegates. The Chief Executive had also addressed the
CMA conference. Communication from the SCS team was
now being issued on a weekly basis.

White Paper. Government was stil] maintaining that the
White Paper would be issued at the end of June although
obtaining input from Treasury was proving difficult.

A number of issues with regard to the White paper had

stil to be clarified. These included:

* the danger of double jeopardy through the regulator
and Government setting incompatible targets;

+ clarification of the definition of “commercially robust”
criteria for investments; the Treasury was seeking the
inclusion of “financially affordabie”;

* agreeing a package around the monopoly reduction
which would not enable the regulator to act
independently of the European Union;

* obtaining year-end flexibility around the £75m
investment fund which would allow for a rollover of + or
+£20m;

e sources of borrowing; The Post Office needed access
to borrowing to avoid acquisitions of cross-subsidies
from Royal Mail;

* aresponse to proposais on pay policy which were first
tabled in February 1999;

* clarification of the definition of the Monopoly to close a
loop hole with regard to electronically produced items
which were currently outside of the legal definition; and

* Horizon

New Report. The style and format of the new
69

In Strictest Confidence
FINANCIAL
OVERVIEW

(i)

Gil)

tiv)

(v)

(vi)

POL00095461

POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

Performance report was welcomed. In future it would be
appropriate to report a single Group profit forecast to DTI
with the Board being provided with this and a breakdown
of the individual business performance.

PO99/61

Profit for April was:

* Royal Mail £32m:;

* Parcelforce WorldWide £(3.0)m;
* POCL £6.6m

The current full year forecasts were:
* Royal Mail £487m;

* Parcelforce Worldwide £14m;

e POCL £31m; and

* Group £525m (before tax)

In order to achieve its full year income forecast Royal Mail
National had had to adjust its cumulative position to the
extent that it differed significantly from the 12 month
trend. On current performance the full year forecast was
£60m above the 12 month trend line.

Royal Mail had entered the new year below its expected
level and this exacerbated the income shortfall.

Since the Board approved the Royal Mail budget, the
balance of risks and opportunities had altered
substantially with risks of £100m now identified. The
original budget had in hindsight been overly aggressive
with regard to expected savings. A price increase would
not be appropriate in the wake of the White Paper and
commercially would cascade the wrong message to
employees.

{t was fundamentally wrong for costs to be increasing
whilst volumes decreased and Roya! Mail would have to
address this issue. In the short term a number of recovery
actions had been identified including a continuation of
existing austerity measures which in the last four months
of 1998/99 had realised savings of £32m. In total these
actions were expected to recoup £115m. With regard to
income, advertising expenditure of £17m had generated
income of £50m and a profit of £9m. The possibility of
investing further expenditure to generate a similar profit
was being examined. The introduction of the performance
bonus scheme, which had up front costs of £56m, had
been delayed and savings expected during the year
would therefore not be realised. The scheme would only
be introduced once expected benefits materialised. In

70

In Strictest Confidence
vii)

(viil)

(ix)

(x)

(xi)
(xii)

(xiii)

(xiv)

POL00095461

POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

delaying its introduction the risk of industrial action was
increased,

Royal Mail's IMPs programme had failed to deliver the
expected benefits and it was unclear whether further
investment in the short term could help generate further
Savings. This would be considered further. Consultancy
spend was one immediate area that could deliver saving
in terms of staff who were employed on short term

contracts and opportunities to exploit this would be
considered.

Organisational change could distract attention from the
operational and financial administration of the
organisation and maintaining focus during this period of
change was a key issue. The benefits derived from SCS
were unquestionable but were unlikely to benefit Royal
Mail in 1999/00. It had therefore identified action to exploit

revenue opportunities particularly from its smaller
customers.

The deployment of innovative employee suggestion
schemes would be considered.

Parcelforce’s £3.0m loss in April included a £1.9m profit
from Royal Mail’s Special Delivery product for which
Parcelforce was now accountable.

Risks and opportunities remained balanced at £8m.

Work to reduce debt related to the introduction of SAP
continued but the bulk of the recovery work had now been
done. In future the Board would be advised of
performance on an ‘by exception’ basis.

Parcelforce was focusing efforts on growing its revenue
and encouraging results were been seen from a ‘below
the line’ advertising campaign. Resource was also being
moved to the International market where market share
was diminishing. Non-staff inter business costs were
unexpectedly increasing and a review to establish the
reasons for this was being undertaken. The Eastern
territory was underperforming and a performance review
with the management of the territory would be held to see
what support could be provided to ensure that
improvements were made.

The EFL shortfall of £170m had now been reduced to
£59m helped through the leasing rather than purchase of
vehicles; this provided an opportunity to reduce the
impact of VAT. Opportunities to exploit this within

wal

In Strictest Confidence
Action
Richard Close

Richard Dykes

Secretary

GEORAPHICAL
STRUCTURES
WITHIN THE SCS
ORGANISATION
POB(99)37

@

(ii)

i)

wy)

w)

@

(i)

0)

POL00095461
POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

Parcelforce and other Group wide opportunities to reduce
the VAT burden would be explored,

Provide DT! with a single Group profit forecast.

In future report on Parcelforce's debt recovery on an
exception basis.

Following publication of the White paper, review with DTI

opportunities to improve the organisation's management
of VAT.

Consider what benefits might be derived from increasing
investment in IMPs technology.

At an appropriate time, make arrangements to hold a
future Board meeting at the Parcelforce International Hub.

POS9/62

Currently The Post Office operated three Territories in
Parcelforce Worldwide, nine Divisions in Royal Mail and
seven Regions in Counters. Originally, it had been
intended to redesign and introduce new geographical
interfaces in April 2000 by establishing three commonly
defined territories whose boundaries equated to the
current Parcelforce format and retained Royal Mail Area
boundary integrity. However, there was no reason why
the process could not be brought forward in order to
derive earlier cost and management control benefits in
Royal Mail.

The changes would result in employee savings of 300 in
Counters, which equated to £3-6m in the current year and
500 in Royal Mail, £9m in the current year.

In reviewing the geographical structure the role of the
Couniry Boards was considered and it was agreed that,
given the political implications of the Scottish Parliament,
and Welsh and Northern Irish Assembiies, it was
important that they should continue to handle the key
influence and opinion forming interfaces that would
emerge. However, the role of the Boards and in particular
the Country Chairmen would change. Currently part-time
non-executives with between five and seven support staff,
it was envisaged that they would take on a more full-time

72

In Strictest Confidence
(w)

)

(vi)

(vil)

(vill)

Action
Neville Bain

SHAPING FOR
COMPETITIVE
SUCCESS - UPDATE
ON COSTS &
BENEFITS POB(99)38

(i)

In Strictest Confidence

role covering all Post Office external relations issues in
their country with a support staff of two to three. They

would report to the Director of Communications and
Corporate Relations.

The Proposed geographical changes had been
communicated to the DTI, POUNC and Unions. An
internal briefing note would be circulated from the Chief

Executive and a low key external announcement would
be made.

It was noted that

The Chairman would want to reflect on the timing of any
changes fade with regard to the Country Chairmen.
Given that their role was changing it was important that
individuals with the appropriate skills and experience were
appointed and at this stage it was unclear whether this
would result in continuing with external appointments or
utilising the abilities of senior managers made available

as a result of SCS, The Country Chairmen had been
appraised of the proposals and any changes would be

communicated to their respective Boards by a senior
executive.

The Post Office expected a significant involvement with

the Scottish Parliament although postal services remained
reserved to Westminster.

Endorsed the conclusions on geography and strategic HQ
locations;

Endorsed the migration plans for Royal Mail and POCL
subject to the SCS assurance process.

Review issues conceming the timing of any changes in
Country Chairman personnel.

POS9/63

At the February Board meeting (PO99/19) one-off SCS
costs of £50m had been forecast with assumed savings
of 1,000 people. Whilst the financials were not yet
confirmed, costs were now forecast at £79m with savings
of 1400 people; a stretch target of 1500 people had been
set for Royal Mail. The DTI had agreed to EFL relief
against the original costs and it was hoped that they

3

In Strictest Confidence

POLO0095461
POL00095461
LONG TERM
OPERATING
STRATEGY FOR
LONDON POB(93)39

(i)

(iii)

(iv)

)

(vi)

(vii)

@

i)

In Strictest Confidence

would agree to this being extended to the £79m now
forecast. There were potential productivity benefits of
£200m and the creation of a single sales force was
estimated to contribute between £10-23m.

It was noted that

The very considerable people issues could not be

underestimated with a major programme of appointments
being undertaken. It was also probable that many people
would need to change locations and a firm but consistent

POL00095461
POL00095461

approach in line with business values would be important.

The appointments and redundancy process was being
carefully managed and every effort was being made to
appoint and retain quality people.

Ensuring clear accountabilities within the new structure
was being given careful consideration.

Agreed that strategic approval of individual business
cases would be dealt with by the programme Board
(POEC),

Agreed authorisation of implementation costs by MaPEC
to preserve the rigour of review and financial control.

Agreed that a further update would be provided in
October.

PO99/64

London was currently Royal Mail's worst performing
Division against measures of both productivity and
service. The operational estate was also older than other
areas of the country and provided far from optimum
operational conditions; it could not accommodate the
technology envisaged in the Future Pipeline Vision.

The proposed London strategy took three stands: estates,

technology and people. New operational buildings would
allow the deployment of new and developing sorting
technology, which in turn would reduce staffing levels to
around a quarter of numbers currently employed in
processing centres, thereby enabling a more rigorous
selection of people to jobs.

”

In Sirictest Confidence
Action
Richard Dykes

(iil)

(iv)

v)

(vi)

(vil)

(viii)

(ix)

In Strictest Confidence

Land costs in London were significantly higher than other
Parts of the country e.g. four times higher than in the

Midlands, although build costs were not significantly
different

Potential Operating savings of £33m per annum had been
identified.

The proposal envisaged the development of new mail
centres in East, West and Central London. An important
feature of the plan was the redevelopment of the Mount
Pleasant site which would be cleared and rebuilt. During
this period of development traffic from Mount Pleasant
would be transferred into the existing centres at
Paddington, Whitechapel and North London. These
centres would then shut and the traffic return to the ‘new’
Mount Pleasant after the development work had been
completed.

it was noted further that

A number of different proposals relating to the
redevelopment of Mount Pleasant had been considered
including the piecemeal replacement of the building.
These had all been rejected although further madelling
work could be carried out and incorporated within the fult
business case which would go to MaPEC in March 2000.
Mount Pleasant was a prime central London location and
finding a suitable alternative would be extremely difficult.
The cost of such replacement would also be
considerable.

Major developments within London were likely to result in
environmental concerns, and a positive approach to
London wide transport issues would be developed to
support the individual planning applications.

Approved expenditure of £3.4m for external planning
costs and £2.9m for internal programme costs to progress
the proposals, with a DFE of £0.3m.

Approved, in principle, the implementation of Royal Mail's
long term operating strategy for London at an estimated
total project cost of £227.2m, subject to further approval
of the detailed business cases.

As the investment cases come forward review the

opportunities for alternative development proposals e.g.
piecemeal development of Mount Pleasant

75

In Strictest Confidence

POLO0095461
POL00095461
POLO0095461
POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

Projects Approved by POS9/65
MaPEC Requiring
Endorsement by the
Board -
Worldwide Advanced
Network Distribution

pOB(99)40

i This project, together with, Address Interpretation
(PO99/65), formed the basis of a radical re-engineering of
the current UK international pipeline. Specifically, WAND
proposed to create a single International Mail Hub to
replace the eight geographically dispersed offices of
exchange. This necessitated the acquisition of a site at
Langley, Berkshire, close to Heathrow Airport.

(ii) The site was to be developed by and leased from
Metropolitan Estate’s Property Company (MEPC). To
maintain the programme and reserve the proposed site it
had been necessary to negotiate an extension to the
proposed agreement and this extension expired on 8
June 1999. The extension had been agreed at a cost of
£374m. MEPC also retained the right to seek alternative
development proposals should a further extension be
required.

it was noted that

(ii) The project had been subject to one of the most detailed
appraisals ever undertaken and the financials were as
robust as they could be.

(iv) The experience gained through the development of
Parcelforce's Coventry Hub was being utilised with cross
business representation on the project board.

(vy) The CWU had commissioned a report by external
consultanis which had been critical of Royal mail's
proposals. The union had been involved in the
development process. The risk of industrial action, at least
jn the short term, did exist and the union had sought
further time to try and deflect difficulties. Royal Mail would
not want to risk losing the site through delaying the
signing of contracts with MEPC but also recognised that it
would be helpful for the union to been given further time.

MEPC would want to publicise the signing of such a
significant contract and it would be important to ensure
that the timing of any communications was appropriately

1
In Strictest Confidence
Action
Richard Close

John Roberts

Projects approved by
MaPEC requiring
endorsement by the
Boad - Address
interpretation (Al)
POB(99)41

(vii)

(vill)

(ix)

&)

(i)

@

ii)

@

(i)

In Strictest Confidence

co-ordinated.

The Board was sympathetic towards the CWU but did not
want to put the project at risk through further delays.
Nevertheless, it would be appropriate for Richard Dykes
to speak with the Chief Executive of MEPC to establish if
there was any more flexibility over timing issues,

The Chairman was content that the full business authority
for the project be taken at MaPEC, but for his own benefit
would want to see a copy of these papers .

Milestone reports would be tabled at future Board
meetings in a manner to be determined.

Approved in principle the WAND project at an estimated

cost of £279.5m at outturn prices and capital receipts of
£5.4m

Agreed that authority for future phases of the project be
devolved to MaPEC within the in principle authority given,
subject to suitable milestone reports.

Provide the Chairman, for his information, with a copy of
the business case paper once it had been produced and
was ready to be considered by MaPEC.

Consider how best to report to the Board on the three
important issues of Horizon, WAND and Al.

PO99/66

The project envisaged the development and deployment
of a world leading software capability in the identification
and interpretation of addresses and other information
such as indicia (attributes) on mailpieces. Development of
software had, after a competitive tender exercise, been
awarded to Lockheed Martin.

Al would provide a national electronic network capable of
providing cost effective service for maiipiece attribute
resolution and tracking to all mail processing machines.
lt was noted that

77

In Strictest Confidence

POL00095461
POL00095461
HORIZON

(ii)

(iy)

™)

(vi)

(vii)

viii)

(ix)

&)

i)

POLO0095461
POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

The outsourcing of remote video technology had not been
tuled out as a possible future development

A major risk was Lockheed Martin's capability to deliver,
given the size and scope of the project. Internally, the
Director Technology and Information Systems was being
involved in the project to help ensure potential problems
were quickly identified.

The experience gained through the introduction of IMP
technology provided some useful insights into the
management and control of the project.

The IMP project, together with other recent large
initiatives, provided the internal resource necessary to
manage and oversee the project. Appointments would be
for the life of the project and the impact of SCS would not
be allowed to impact on the project.

Approved the development and deployment of Al, at a
minimum cost of £170m together with a general DFE of
£26m

Approved an additional contract payment of up to £32m
(including VAT) based on pre-agreed achieved contract
targets

Approved in principle the establishment of four remotely
sited video coding centres at a maximum cost of £3.1m,
plus an annual rental of £0.5m.

Agreed that authority for future phases of the project
could be devolved to MaPEC within the in principle
authority given, subject to satisfactory milestone reports.

PO99/67

A working group to oversee the development of the
Horizon programme had been established by lan
McCartney, The Post Office Minister. He regarded the
Group as having authority to work across Government.
Terms of reference had been agreed and would be
circulated to the Board. The Group was comprised of
internal stakeholders but did not include representatives
of either Treasury or DSS, who could however, be invited
to attend for specific issues.

It was noted that

At some stage Treasury and DSS would have to be
78

In Strictest Confidence
MaPEC - ROYAL MAIL

NATIONAL:
RELOCATION OF
PHILITELIC BUREAU

POB(99)42x

APPOINTMENT OF A
DIRECTOR OF
SUBSCRIPTION
SERVICES LIMITED
POB(99}43x

DATE OF NEXT
MEETING

(i)

(ii)

Gi)

POL00095461
POL00095461

In Strictest Confidence

included within the workings of the Group but at this stage
it was not necessary. The next meeting of the Group had
been scheduled for 21 June 1999 and a Trade & industry

Select Committee hearing on Horizon had been called for
14 June.

PO99/68

The existing lease on a building in Edinburgh which
housed the Philatelic Bureau had elapsed and could not
be renewed or extended. It was therefore necessary to re-
locate and alternative premises had been acquired at a
capital cost of £10.7m.

Although the proposal produced a negative NPV of £1.6m
over a ten year life, it did represent the least cost option

and provided a positive annual contribution from reduced
lease rentals.

POS9/69

Noted that Michael Boddy would resign from the Board of
Subscription Services Limited with effect from 1 July
1999.

Agreed the appointment of Lesley Field as a Director of
Subscription Services Limited with effect from 1 July
1999.

PO9S/70

The next meeting would be at Charingworth Manor,
Gloucestershire, on 20 July 1999.

19

In Strictest Confidence
