POL00148672
POL00148672

Parsons, Andrew,

Sent:
To:
Ce: ; Pheasant,
; Matthews,
Subject: RE: Expert [BD-4A.FID20472253]
All

My thoughts...

A key question appears to be whether ICL look at old Horizon as well as Horizon Online. My guess is that POL won't
be now looking to prosecute any old Horizon cases so we can focus on HOL. Martin / Jarnail?

As to access to the SS material, I can't see in principle any issue with this. Material going to SS has been largely
vetted already. However, Martin / Jarnail — could you confirm whether an expert under criminal law has to disclose all i
material instructions / source material in their report? In the civil process, the general rule is that the expert must i
disclose to the Court and the other side pretty much everything they have considered in forming their opinion. If this
applies equally to criminal procedure, then CK / POL may wish to vet any material before sending it to ICL.

We may want to explore what ICL intend to investigate under the "fitness for purpose" heading. This could be as
simple as "does Horizon provide the necessary functionality?". Or, it could go wider into "Does Horizon provide a
good user experience?". From handling IT disputes in the past, I know that determining the quality of user experience
can be a very subjective question, that is difficult to answer. I

Finally, I think the structure proposed by ICL really highlights the deficiencies in SS' approach. ;

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

From: Jarnail Singh [mailto; _
Sent: 08 July 2014 16:19
To: Andy Holt; Chris Aujard; Jessica Madron; Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew; Belinda Crowe
Cc: Martin Smith

POL00148672
POL00148672

Subject: RE: Expert

Andy

Thanks.

It is perhaps inevitable Imperial college London’s experts would wish to speak to Fujitsu directly . Please let me have
the name and contact of the person who will be designated by Fujitsu to speak to the experts.

1am keen to avoid further delay. The proposed report represents good value for money and would be extremely
useful for POL purposes. Sooner we can demonstrate the system works the better.

Regards

Jarnail

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

; GRO Mobex:

Post Office stories

@postofficenews

©®O®@OeO

From: Andy Holt

Sent: 08 July 2014 12:46

To: Jarnail Singh; Chris Aujard; Jessica Madron; Rodric Williams; Parsons, Andrew; Belinda Crowe
Ce: Martin Smith

Subject: RE: Expert

Belinda/Andy, some of the requests relate to the Second Sights study (which would include MP cases, spot reviews
etc). Are we ok to share this information?

Jarnail, I will share this document with both Fujitsu and within IT so that we assess what ICL are requesting.
Regards

Andy

From: Jarnail Singh

Sent: 04 July 2014 13:38

To: Chris Aujard; Jessica Madron; Rodric Williams; Andy Holt; Parsons, Andrew
Ce: Martin Smith
POL00148672
POL00148672

Subject: FW: Expert

Dear All

Please find attached the initial review prepared by professor Kramer and Dr Dulay of London imperial college
consultants.

The initial review contains a proposal which is through and outlines the steps the steps to be taken and
documentation to be considered. There is a proposed work plan on page 4. As you will see it is estimated that it will
take 50 hours consultant days by Professor Kramer and Dr Dulay to complete the work.

Before we proceed with the next step, may I ascertain whether there is any views or observations or questions on
the attached documents.
regards

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

Post Office stories

@postofficenews

©
©
©
©
©

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

by law. christopher.aujar
please notify
andrew parson 7 on, distribution, publication or copying of this

POL00148672
POL00148672

communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661.
Our registered office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term
partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
