POL00458462
POL00458462

POST OFFICE JOB DESCRIPTION — DRAFTv3.0

Job Title Group Assurance and Risk Director
Grade: SLP/Remco TBC

Post Reports to: Interim Chief Financial Officer
Division: Finance

Business Unit: Group Assurance and Risk (New BU to be set up)
Budget Accountability:

Number of Direct / 4 direct reports/c 50 indirect reports
Indirect Reports:

Location: Wood Street

Fit & Proper Yes

Requirements

Unique Position -

Number:

Date of Job Evaluation _7BC

Purpose of the role

The Group Assurance and Risk Director (GARD) role is a key member of the Leadership Team (LT)
reporting into the Interim Chief Financial Officer. As a LT member, this role will be accountable for
executing on Post Office’s strategic plans, by leading their integrated assurance function, functional
strategy, and its delivery roadmap.

The GARD will be accountable for driving integrated assurance and risks coverage across the entire
footprint of the Post Office and for leading pragmatic and proactive Assurance functions across Post
Office which will, prioritising on key risks (present and emerging), provide timely and objective
assurance to the SEG, Board and RCC/ARC.

The role will also be responsible for ensuring the three lines of defence model is embedded in the
DNA of Post Office, and that the first line (the business functions) not only understand their
accountabilities but are also able to demonstrate the maturity of their control environment through
an amalgamation of business led risk and controls self-assessment and constructive challenge /
business partnering from the GARD and the Assurance team.

This role will be pivotal to ensure POL remains centered around ethical decision making and doing
what right, both from a Postmaster and employee perspective, and can demonstrate an effective
Governance regime.

It will be vital to create effective working relationships with key stakeholders, which will include:

Board

Audit & Risk Committee

Senior Executive Group (SEG) / General Executives
External Auditors

External Assurance Providers

Shareholder / Shareholder representatives
Regulators

The role will lead the Assurance function and be responsible for ensuring it is a lean and efficient
Group function. The function will comprise the following teams:

Group Internal Audit (with this role also having a dotted line to Audit Committee)

Group Assurance

Group Compliance

Group Risk
POL00458462
POL00458462

Where does this role fit in within Post Office?

ie}
Ps
S)
£
cs
o
2
=

Principal responsibilities

Lead the creation and delivery of the Integrated Assurance Strategy for Post Office.

Provide robust assurance coverage and opinions to support a Postmaster centric organisation.
Drive transformation of Assurance activities across Post office, and in particular within Group
Assurance to ensure efficiency, timely and first-time right assurance outcomes.

Understand the material risks both strategic and operational, to support the appropriate
achievement of Post Office strategic plans.

Lead and oversee the delivery of a flexible, risk-based assurance plan (assurance, compliance,
and internal audit), ensuring reviews are completed using appropriate methodology and
standards, providing clear reporting on risks and controls to the ARC and Board.

Establish and deliver a broad-based risk and control program focused on providing assurance
over Post Office material risk.

Enhance and embed effective risk management processes bringing latest industry standards and
thinking to the business and supporting department heads in managing their approach to risk.
Lead by example, promoting appropriate business and risk awareness and requiring compliance
with all statutory, legal and regulatory requirements and Post office policies.

Knowledge, Experience and Skills

An experienced senior leader with a proven track record of establishing an integrated assurance
function across the second and third line of defence, within a large and complex organisation going
through significant transformation and change.
Deep expertise in Assurance, Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance and senior leadership
experience.
Strong sense of urgency to get things done, but also savvy about the political environment.
Strong relationship builder, but also not frightened to take tough decisions and give feedback.
The intellect and logical mindset to be able to set longer term strategy and bring this context
into the decision making of today.
Demonstrable ability to connect across all levels of the organisation, working collaboratively with
members of the Leadership Team and the Senior Executive Group (SEG) team to ensure
strategic alignment and integration across the business. High-levels of engagement, with the
ability to influence widely, taking others with them.
Proven track record of leading solutions to complex business problems.
Strong skills in business processes and management and a focus on quality, improvement. and
efficiency; high levels of resilience and energy.
A role model for independence, objectivity, ethics, integrity, and professionalism
Degree educated and holder of an ACA, CIMA, IIA, CII or qualified equivalent.
Preferably previous experience of building integrated assurance teams and plans.
Commitment to own professional and personal development, keeping knowledge up to date,
developing and maintaining networks and bringing relevant external thinking back into the
business
A genuine interest in Post Office and its mission/values/culture.
