POL00448696
POL00448696

From:

Sent: Sat 02/12/2023 10:17:51 AM (UTC
To: Henry Staunton
Subject: Re: The Investigation

Alternatively I am available Tuesday morning.

Sent from Outlook for iOS

From: Henry Staunto!
Sent: Saturday, December 2, 2023 1
To: Elliot Jacobs!
Subject: Re: The Investigation

Dear Elliot ,

I disappointed but not surprised that you have been kept in the dark and apologise on behalf of
the Board for this unacceptable situation . As you say , perhaps not alot of common sense was
displayed at our end , You should know that I have already discussed with Nick some of the
deficiencies on PO's side.

I will arrange a Teams call today with you and Ben Foat . I have a couple of commitments but
will cancel these to work around Foat's availability .

I understand from you that PO have agreed an instalments plan to settle the agreed difference on
the trading account . However , my own view remains as discussed last weekend , that you
should pay the difference in one go . I know this is a big ask and is different from the plan of
action that you have agreed . I asked you to rethink your position last weekend and would be
grateful if you could accommodate me . FYI Saf told me last weekend that he would pay the
agreed difference in one go - although , to be transparent that difference was not as " agreed " as
he thought it was .

I will get back to you with a time for a call today .
Best ,
Henry

Sent from Outlook for iOS

From: Elliot Jacobs!
Sent: Saturday, Dec:
To: Henry Staunton
Subject: Re: The Investigation

Hi Henry

POL-BSFF-WITN-006-0027442
POL00448696
POL00448696

Thank you for stepping in and letting common sense prevail!

T have seen the accounting note which seems fine but have not had any documentation on the
investigation nor an outcome shared with me nor any data or interim update since my meeting
with JB nor any report from Mel Park.

Basically, I know nothing. I been told nothing and have been left in limbo for frankly a period
that feels like forever. The entire process from start to finish has been far from optimal and an
experience that feels like a guide to how not to treat postmasters rather than the progressive,
lessons learned organisation we are supposed to be working on becoming.

Do you mean on Saturday? If so, I can make anytime between 11.30 and 4. Just let me know
when suits you and I will ensure my availability.

Kind regards
Elliot

Sent from Outlook for iOS

From: Henry Staunton,
Sent: Saturday, December 2, 2023 2
To: Elliot Jacobs (1)
Subject: The Investigation

Dear Elliot ,

Wrt the disclosure of trading with Post Masters , the legal advice we received on Sunday was
what I expected . You also would have been pleased . I apologise on behalf of the Board for the
upset to you and Saf in the interim - at least you both now have a result on disclosure which I
hope you are comfortable with .

I have been asked by Ben Foat to discuss the results of the Investigation with you . Have you
seen a copy of the report ?1 will arrange a meeting with you , me and Foat to brief you . Do you
have any time tomorrow after say 11.00 am . When I know your availability I will contact Foat .
Best ,

Henry

Sent from Outlook for iOS

POL-BSFF-WITN-006-0027442
