POL00110440
POL00110440

Message

From: Jane MacLeod

on behalf of — Jane MacLeod

Sent: 10/06/2016 12:

To: Paula Vennel

cc: Avene Regani 3
Subject: 1:1 on Monday

Paula

I have the following points for Monday. Please let me know if there is anything else you would like to discuss?

1. Contract Management Framework

IACCM training has initiated —- we have 25 people enrolled across FD in the first cohort
Obligations mapping — this is the work that the ARC expressed concerned about at the May meeting. My
proposal is that we identify the 20 most material contracts and require each contract owner to confirm by
[end August] that in relation to each such contract they have mapped all obligations and have a documented
process to demonstrate:

° obligations on Post Office

©. obligations on Supplier/Client

o. frequency of obligations, and

© processes by which performance of obligations are monitored (including MI to demonstrate

performance (both quantitative and qualitative) of obligations.

This work will need to be done by the contract owners and I suspect will not be well received given the amount
on at the moment, so I will need your support on this. Further, we should then ensure that he performance
data around these contracts is captured as part of the monthly performance reports.

2. Corporate Services Restructures — status

Restructures are currently underway in Risk & Assurance, and Legal. I will update you on issues arising from
these, and the expected timeframes.

3. Sparrow/Litigation/Chairman’s Review

We met with Tony Robinson QC last night, and among other things discussed whether the work underway to
complete the Chairman’s review should continue. His view was that it shouldn’t. I have already flagged this
to Tim and will brief you on the rationale and consequences in our meeting.

4. Communication of Strategy

During various engagement meetings with my wider CS team, concern has been raised as to the lack of
visibility of the forward strategy and what that means. Unfortunately, while ‘simpler to run/better for
customers/ great to work for’ strapline is understood at a high level, there is a concern about how this is
being delivered. I know Mark is working on the communication plan for the strategy, but I think it would be
helpful if we could provide (at a high level) reassurance that we are working on a wider strategy and what
the timetable for development and then communication will be.

5. Objectives — see below for brief summary against Q1 objectives. I assume we will agree Q2 objectives at our July
meeting?

Establishment of group compliance function:

Role profile developed and benchmarked, however I am reluctant to proceed with this role until there is
greater clarity on the future plans for sales of (in particular) FS products in branches as this will
fundamentally affect the shape of the role.

POL-0111334
Jane

POL00110440
POL00110440

Manage AML compliance audit and progress remediation plans (Q1-3)
On track, although we are struggling with resource to undertake the risk assessment. We are looking at
alternate resourcing options and the cost of these.

Scope impact & develop implementation plan for new Data Protection Regulations
Underway

Scope impact & develop implementation plan for Network/ Information Security Directives
Underway

Review Cost initiatives and develop plans to implement
The P2 reports show that Corporate services is well within budgets for both staff and non-staff
costs. Further work is ongoing to develop and improve MI, as well as progressing initiatives.

® Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number{

POL-0111334
