igencia Training ‘
L4 Counter Fraud :
Investigator Apprenticeship
Learner & Employer
Handbook

POL00448015
POL00448015

POL00448015
POL00448015

Introduction to
Intelligencia Training

Intelligencia Training are the UKs leading provider
of specialist apprenticeships in Intelligence Analysis
and Counter Fraud Investigation maintaining

client relationships with a number of high-profile
Government agencies, the law enforcement
community, local authorities, the custodial sector,
banking and insurance companies, large retailers
including utilities providers and the gaming /
gambling sector.

Our apprenticeship programmes are designed to support the
development of transferable knowledge, skills and behaviours
which are requirements to be an effective analyst, and to
provide a standardised approach across the sectors in which
this role is performed.

A significant number of our apprentice achieve in a timely

manner resulting in achievement rates for 18/19 being above
89%, 27.4 percentage points above the national minimum

standard. (Data published in March 2020) &

What is an
apprenticeship

With the UK Government's intention to deliver
increasing volumes of apprenticeships as a viable
alternative to University education, we believe it is
essential to offer a range of dynamic apprenticeships
that will challenge new and existing employees,
especially in the intelligence, security and financial
sectors. Equally, modern apprenticeships provide
opportunities for role-relevant upskilling, increasing
existing workforce capability and mobility, without
necessarily requiring new recruitment.

Apprenticeships offer an opportunity for the application of
new knowledge and skills within a role-specific setting, whilst
developing relevant behaviours and associated soft skills that
may not usually be developed within traditional commercial
programmes.

Our programmes are delivered through a monthly workshop.
delivered at your site, and in some cases via online webinar

POL0044801
POL00448015

sessions, Our highly skilled tutors have occupational and
technical competence, with previous experience operating
within military, law enforcement and other intelligence sector
roles. This has enabled us to contextualise a range of modules
which are sector specific enabling apprentices to apply the
knowledge and skills quickly in their roles, often adapting
working practices, which employers have found to be very
beneficial for both the individual apprentice and their wider
workforce.

Apprentices enrolling onto programme are keen to develop their
knowledge, skills, and behaviours to ensure that they become
more effective in their roles and to enable them to support
others in their team. The structure of our programme aims to
facilitate this, by providing opportunities for apprentices to
develop their skills across a range analytical technique, some of
which they are unfamiliar with. Apprentices find this rewarding
as they are given an insight into wider intelligence techniques
enabling them to broaden their understanding

POL00448015
POL00448015

History behind Counter Fraud
Investigator Apprenticeship

In 2020 it was identified that nearly half of local
Government Officials felt they lacked fraud
awareness training. This was one of the key reasons
cited why Government organisations feel they are
vulnerable to external fraud.

In response to this clear indication to a lack or recognised
counter-fraud training the Cabinet Office, HMRC, and the

Department for Health among other leading sector employers
developed the Level 4 Counter-Fraud Investigator Standard.
Arecognised direct-entry pathway into Counter-Fraud
Investigation.

In development of the Standard there would be a focus on the
key knowledge, skills and behaviours that would allow for the
fraud to be successfully investigated and managed from start to
finish.

Programme Outline

The content of the programmes will be defined by
the results of apprentices’ skill scan. The order of
sessions or the need to participate in sessions will
be determined by the pre course initial assessment
process.

All applied analytical techniques sessions and off the job
projects are delivered with varying levels of complexity.

Apprentices prior exposure and level of experience will
determine the complexity level planned for.

An outline of available modules is as below:

Module 1 - Counter Fraud Overview (2 days)
Cross sector terms and definitions

Fraud Types and associated offences
Understanding your organisation and role
Overarching legislation

Module 2 - Case Initiation (1 day)

Fraud investigation model (and equivalents)
Initiation of an investigation

Understanding of Disclosure requirements

Investigative Outputs
PACE

Module 3 - Interviewing Theory (1 day)
Assumption and bias - impact and effects
Human Aspect - theory and behaviours
Interview Planning

PEACE model

Module 4 - Interviewing Witnesses/Victims

(Theory and Practical Sessions - 2 days)

Soft skills associated with interview techniques - victims/
witnesses

Evidence gathering from witness/victim

Statements

Conducting different types of interviews

Special measures

Subject matter experts and expert witnesses

Associated legislation

Module 5 - Evidence Gathering (Physical and Digital)
(3 days)

Evidence Types and Forensic Opportunities

Powers and Audit

Evidence Gathering Process

Legal Considerations

Search Practical

Module 6 - Interviewing Offenders (2 days)

Soft skills associated with interview technique - offenders
Evidence gathering from Offender

Statements

Legal considerations

Practical

Module 7 - Analytical Techniques to support Fraud
Investigations (2 days)

Pattern and Trend Analysis
Comparative Case Analysis

Network Analysis

Module 8 - Case Building (2 days)

Definition in relation to different case/investigation types
Disclosure - practical application

Pathways (civil, criminal)

Productions Orders and required outputs

Actions to take

Legal requirements

Module 9 - Presenting Evidence in Court (2 days)

Theory - Court processes and procedures
Practical - courtroom (use of actors, guest speakers,
participation, defence and prosecution)

Module 10 - Planning/problem solving/team building
(1 day)

Required development and evidence of role associated
behaviours

Module 11 - Internet Research & Investigation (1 day)
Module 12 - Cyber Security Awareness (1 day)
Module 13 - Mental Health 1st Aid (1 day)

Module 14 - Mock End Point Assessment
POL00448015
POL00448015

End Point Assessment

What is End-Point Assessment (EPA)?

EPA is the final stage which apprentices undertake after their
formative training has been completed. It is designed to be
an objective and impartial assessment of an apprentice’s
knowledge, skills, and behaviours.

Gateway

When the apprentice has completed their formative training,
there will be a short period of time where the employer,
training provider and apprentice will assess their progress
to determine whether or not the apprentice is ready to
undertake EPA.

Generally, the Gateway stage is where all aspects of the
apprenticeship training must be completed and signed off
by all parties. Apprentices who are required to complete
Functional Skills as part of their programme must achieve
these during their practical training, otherwise prior to
entering the gateway.

How Does End Point-Assessment Work?

Towards the end of an apprenticeship, the employer and
training provider will begin preparing the apprentice for the
EPA, The schedule for all the assessments will be determined
by the End-Point Assessor, who is hired by the End Point
Assessment Organisation (EPAO).

EPA is made up of a number of assessment elements
which the apprentice must pass in order to complete the
apprenticeship.

EPA Time Frames for Completion

Professional
discussion

Within 1 month of
entering Gateway

Investigation
Report

Within 2 months
of entering
Gateway

These assessments are designed to give the apprentice the
opportunity to demonstrate all the required knowledge,
skills and behaviours outlined in the Apprenticeship
Standard. These are the criteria required for them to be fully
competent in their role,

End Point Assessment for Counter Fraud
Investigator

The End Point Assessment for Counter Fraud Investigator
consists of three components:

1. Professional discussion: Based upon a portfolio that has
been signed off by employer upon completion. to allow
the apprentice to evidence their application of knowledge,
skills, and behaviours within their current role. This can be
drawn from all areas of work undertaken throughout the
programme (90 mins)

. Investigation report: A 2000 / 2500 word report giving
the overview of an investigation that has been submitted
at the EPA gateway.

Covers following aspects of investigation:
Legislation and Dept/Service Agency Policies
Evidence Gathering Duties

Interviewing

Case Progression

Content of report mapped to KSB techniques to generate key
findings, assessments and recommendations

3, Presentation on investigation report: Based upon the
investigation report 30 mins with questions at the end,

Presentation of
investigation
report

Within 2 months
of entering
Gateway

POL0044801
POL00448015

Safeguarding and Welfare

Intelligencia training prioritises the protection and
wellbeing of all our apprentices. Our tutors and
senior managers are suitably trained and qualified
to identify and respond to a breadth of safeguarding
concerns.

Whilst the nominated trainer is always available to discuss any
safeguarding or welfare concerns that may arise, there are also
nominated points of contacts below:

lan Richardson
Designated Safeguarding Lead

BRO I

The Designated Safeguarding Lead (DSL) has the overall
responsibility for providing a strategic overview of safeguarding
arrangements within the organisation to ensure we are meeting
regulatory requirements, whilst providing operational support
to the Designated Safeguarding Officer (DSO) in responding
and acting on safeguarding concerns

Hazel Sarath
Designated Safeguarding Officer
Hazel:

The DSO has the responsibility to respond to disclosures
by undertaking the appropriate investigations, maintaining
records, and escalating where necessary to the appropriate
referral agencies. This may include more than one agency
depending on the nature of the concern.

The Local Authority Designated Officer’s (LADO) contact details
fora specific area of responsibility will be provided on request
and can be reached via email or phone.

Staff, learners and employers need to be aware of the different
types of abuse and wider issues incorporated within the
safeguarding, all of which, need to be reported and acted upon
with the same level of transparency. Those vulnerable to abuse
include children and vulnerable adults. The following are some
of the more current safeguarding concerns to be aware of.

Cuckooing

Cuckooing is a practice where people take over a person’s
home and use the property to facilitate exploitation. There
are different types of cuckooing which include using the
property to deal, store or take drugs; using the property to
sex work; taking over the property as a place for them to live
or taking over the property to financially abuse the tenant.

The most common form of cuckooing is where drug dealers
take over a person’s home and use it to store or distribute
drugs. It is common for the drug dealers to have access to
several cuckooed addresses at once and to move quickly
between them to evade detection.

People who choose to exploit will often target the most
vulnerable in society such as though dependent on drugs,
individuals with learning difficulties, mental health issues,
physical disabilities or socially isolated.

County Lines

County lines is the organised criminal distribution of drugs
from the big cities into smaller towns and rural areas using
children and vulnerable people often with mental health or
addiction problems - to act as drug runners or move cash so
the dealers can stay under the radar of law enforcement.
Generally, heroin, cocaine, and amphetamines are the focus
of County lines distribution.

The influence of County lines is nationwide. Once caught up
in county lines, exploited individuals are at risk of extreme
physical and/or sexual violence, gang recriminations and
trafficking.

Female Genital Mutilation

Female Genital Mutilation or FGM is the partial or total
removal of the external female genital organs or any other
organs for non-medical reasons. This generally occurs
between infancy and 15 years old and is referred to as
“cutting”, “female circumcision’, “initiation”, “Sunna” and
“infibulation”. It is considered that approximately 65,000 girls
in the UK are considered to be at risk. These are primarily
girls from Kenyan, Somalian, Sudanene, Sierra Leonean,
Egyptian, Eritrean and Egyptian nationalities. FGM has been
seen in Afghan, Yemeni and Pakistani communities in the UK.

POL00448015
POL00448015

Gang Culture

Spotting the signs that a young person is being drawn into a
gang is a key element to prevention. Certain groups of
children are more vulnerable and likely to be drawn

into gang culture and professionals should be able to
recognise when a young person is susceptible to risk of
gang involvement. Many of the common indicators are also
signs for other types of harmful activity, e.g. child sexual

exploitation and county lines.

There are however, some significant indicators to identify
where a young person may be vulnerable to being drawn
into gang culture, and also signs that imply that a person is
already involved with a gang. Some of these signs are lives.
in an area with high gang activity, has become involved in
antisocial and criminal behaviour early, which has led to
persistent offending and juvenile convictions, associates with
friends, peers who are involved in antisocial and aggressive
behaviour, lives in an area where drugs are readily available;
or is exposed to drug use, lives in areas with high levels of
poverty, unemployment, social housing and crime.

In isolation, they may not raise obvious concerns that a child
is involved in gang activity. However, professionals should
use of a combination of both indicators/signs to ensure that
they have the fullest picture of the child’s circumstances and
therefore may make the best judgement in determining the

risk,

Mental Health and Wellbeing

We realise that undertaking an apprenticeship programme

can often add to the stresses of balancing competing
professional and personal commitments. We also recognise
the link between mental health and wider safeguarding
considerations, and therefore, have a commitment

to promoting effective mental health across all of our
apprenticeship programmes. Mental Health training, as

well as support tool kits, are available throughout the
programme. We also provide an opportunity to speak to a
Mental Health Practitioner at any stage of the programme.
This can be coordinated at any time, through the apprentices

allocated trainer.

POL00448015
POL00448015

Prevent and British Values

Intelligencia Training is also committed to effective __Inresponse toa Prevent concern the following Prevent Regional
community cohesion and reducing the risk of Coordinators may be contacted.

extremism in the UK. NORTH WEST: Nigel Lund

i GRO. i

In line with the Counter Terrorism and Security Act 2015 we
actively seek to build resilience to radicalisation by focusing on
British Values, and increasing apprentice’s awareness towards
critical thinking skills, which are naturally embedded
throughout the modules. Apprentices will have the opportunity _ EAST MIDLANDS: Sam Slack
to actively build their capability to research and respect L GRO
alternative opinions and perspective, alongside developing an
understanding and appreciation for rule of law. r

The four British Values developed within our apprenticeship SOUTH WES’
programmes are: - pee

> Democracy SOUTH EAST: Alamgir Sheriyar

> Rule of law

LONDON: Jake Butterworth

> Individual liberty

Jennie fisher
> Respect and tolerance

POL00448015
POL00448015

20% Off -The-Job (OTJ) requirements

As part of a levy funded apprenticeship, there is a
funding requirement to undertake and maintain
20% “Off- the- Job” training. This requirement
often causes confusion for both apprentices

and their employers. The OTJ training will be
planned between the apprentice, employer, and
Intelligencia Training before the programmes
begins and will form part of the Apprenticeship
Commitment Statement, and Apprenticeship
Agreement.

Off the job training is broadly defined as activities in which
learning takes place, outside the remits of regular day to
day work, but contributes to your professional development
and knowledge, skills and behaviours linked to the

apprenticeship standard.

On the job training

It is imperative that the skills learnt on the
apprenticeship are brought into the workplace
to enhance the learner’s knowledge, skills and
behaviours. They contribute to the output of
the organisation, whilst also supporting the
development of wider transferable skills.

Activities may include, but not limited to;-
} Classes and Workshops

i Online learning/Webinars

> Supporting Reading

> Research

D> Role Play and Simulation Exercises

> Shadowing

> Mentoring

D> Attending Meetings

> Projects

a Professional Network Events

> Visits and Engagement with other Departments
> Writing Assignments

D> Peer Discussion

One of the ways for this to be facilitated is via a workplace
investigation report to support learning and demonstrate
competency prior to entering EPA gateway. The intent is to
fully develop skills within the workplace producing a useable
and effective set of investigation skills whilst preparing the
learner for EPA. Apprentices will be fully supported by their
tutor and line manager throughout the stages.

Functional Skills

In line with the government strategy, Intelligencia
Training is fully committed to supporting apprentices
in upskilling their English, maths, and digital skills

to enable them to successfully carry out their

daily routines, and to achieve functional skills
qualifications as required.

All apprentices will have the opportunity to work towards a level
2 qualifications regardless of the apprenticeship requirements
for English, Maths, and ICT (where applicable).

land Diagnostic Assessment

As part of the eligibility and enrolment process all apprentices
are required to complete online BKSB Initial Assessments (IA)
which will assess their current level of skills for both English and
Maths.

Apprentices who need to achieve L2 functional skills as part of
their apprenticeship programmes will then undertake further
diagnostic assessments to identify specific areas

for development. This will form the basis of their Individual
Learning Plan. (ILP)

Duration of Functional Skills

Learners will work towards achieving their functional skills
qualifications within the first six months of their apprenticeship.
This may vary, depending on their individual starting point, and
whether they require any additional support.

Please note: Learners must achieve L2 functional skills before
they enter the gateway.

Exemptions

Apprentices may have prior learning and qualifications which
may be used as exemptions for functional skills. This should be
confirmed and evidenced at eligibility stages prior to induction.
Intelligencia Training will refer to the latest ESFA guidance for
validity.

Apprentices using exemptions will still have the opportunity to
develop their English and Math’s skills through the completion
of course work or accessing functional skills webinars and
learning resources. Individuals may also want to undertake
formal assessments to maintain the currency of their skills if
they wish to do so.

International GCSEs, regulated or unregulated, or equivalent
level 1/level 2 certificates grade At to C/9 to 4

GCSEs grade A* to C, obtained in Wales, including Math’s
numeracy

GCSEs grade A‘ to C, obtained in Northern Ireland
Scottish Intermediate certificates grade A to C

POL00448015

POL00448015

Scottish Standard Grades (credit level) grade 1 to 2
Scottish National 5 certificates grade A to C

international O levels grade A’ to C
AandAS levels at any pass grade

full International Baccalaureate (IB) level 3 Diploma (LARS
reference 50034157)

International Baccalaureate Certificate in Math
core math’s qualifications at level 3

What is involved in Functional Skills?

The L4 Apprenticeship Standard currently incorporates 2
functional skills at Level 2: English and Math’s. Apprentices will
be required to undertake the following controlled assessments
at the end of their functional skills training. These assessments
will be scheduled in as part of their programme and invigilated
by an independent person.

Delivery Model

Online paper-
using a calcula
Iculator

Math

8min
Approximately
3-5 minutes

Approximately
10-15 minutes

Question and
listening and answer session

communication

subject to number
of participants.
Minimum of 3
and maximum

of 5.

Intelligencia training have implemented a blended learning
approach consisting of remote webinars and workshops. Our
Functional Skills Tutors are specialists in English and Math’s and
have a wealth of experience in delivering to adults ina
work-based environment. They will contact the leamers directly
providing them with plan of delivery and a schedule of dates
they can access webinars. These have been planned to take into
consideration apprentices shift patterns.

Apprentices will be required to complete extension workin
between sessions, which will include mock assessments, so
they can practice their skills prior to their final assessment
taking place. They will also be able to access resources remotely,
at any given time, through BKSB.

Workplace Support

POL00448015
POL00448015

Line manager and hierarchy also playa critical partin Activities that employers should be involved in include:

the achievement of the apprenticeship. Apprentices
may benefit from having a workplace coach or
mentor, who can support the apprentice with their
skills development within their daily role. Ideally
this would be somebody who has completed the
apprenticeship previously or has the relevant
occupational experience and technical skills that
matches the requirements of the apprenticeship
standard.

There will be regular communication between Intelligencia

Training and the employer to discuss progression and support.

Determining a role specific apprenticeship pathway and
timeframe

Supporting with 20% OTJ training by helping to plan
activities, time and resources to achieve the required hours
each month and support individual's self-development

Determining suitable topics for on- the- job projects

Attendance at formal presentation sessions linked to on the
job projects
Reviewing your monthly progression and providing

additional time and support from training staff or internal
mentors as required

Being actively involved in the quarterly review process
Being actively involved in the quarterly review process.

Tripartite Quarterly Review Process

In order to meet compliance and funding
requirements apprentices, their employers and
Intelligencia Training are required to undertake and
complete a quarterly review process, where

individuals will have the opportunity to discuss their
progress to date, and any concerns they may have in

relation to their programme.

This process will be completed electronically and scheduled

every 12 weeks from the apprentices start date. Apprentices and

employers will be required to review the contents of the form,

adding relevant comments before returning to a member of
the quality assurance team. The review dates will be scheduled
within the commitment statement so there is visibility for all
parties as to when these will take place across the duration of
the programme.

As this process is open to both internal and external audit
arrangements, there is an expectation that there is 100%
compliance. in order to monitor this, Intelligencia Training
will report on learner and employer engagement at senior
management and board level, escalating directly to clients as
and when required.

Career, Education, Information
Advice and Guidance (CEIAG)

Intelligencia Training will remain impartial in
regard to providing CEIAG and will work
alongside employers to ensure that apprentices
are aware of job opportunities within their
organisation, and to prepare individuals well, to
ensure they have the confidence to progress on

to higher level qualifications and the next steps in
their chosen career.

This will include the use of transferable skills, enabling
apprentices to move from one area of the business to
another.

gencia

SCS GRO
Intelligencia Training Limited

3 Appley Court

Haynes

Bedfordshire

MK45 3QQ

www.intelligenciatraining.com

POL004480
POL00448015

