POL00338347
POL00338347

Message

From: Rod Ismay {-

Sent: 03/02/2011 09:43:41
To: Michele Graves
Subject:

Dear all — you enquired last night about the last response to the media here.

As far as I know the response below is the last one. It relates to the programme Channel 4 planned to run last summer.
There has been at least one tv programme which did go out and I referred to that in the paper I recirculated last night.

I don't, however, have any records of what Press Office responses have been to any of those earlier situations.

Thanks, Rod

From: Barbara Bennett On Behalf Of Sue Huggins
Sent: 26 July 2010 16:14
To: Mike Moores; Mike Y«

Andy Furey; Matthew Starks; Deborah Moore; Dave Hulbert; Nick Beal; Rod Ismay
poned"

For information

From: Paul Budd

Sent: 26 July 2010 15:58

To: David Y Smith; Mary Fagan; Sue Huggins
Subject: C4 News item "postponed"

For info...

From: Brown, Katie [mailto:
Sent: 26 July 2010 15:47
To: Paul Budd

Subject: RE: Post Office statement

Dear Paul,

Thank you for your statement. We are postponing tonight's broadcast as we are still working on the investigation. We will
come back to you to let you know when the report will be broadcast.

Regards,

Katie

KATIE BROWN
PRODUCER, CHANNEL 4 NEWS FILM FUND

200 GRAY'S INN ROAD
LONDON
POL00338347
POL00338347

WC1X 8XZ
UNITED KINGDOM
Tt

=S Please consider the environment. Do you really need to print this email?

From: Paul Budd [mailto:
Sent: 26 July 2010 11:35

To: Brown, Katie

Subject: Post Office statement

Katie
Post Office Ltd’s statement regarding your story is as follows:

“Virtually all the UK’s 12,000 Post Office branches operate entirely professionally, using the Horizon system, without
any accounting discrepancies and without accumulating abnormal debts, and it is clearly in the interests of both our
customers and the vast majority of subpostmasters that in the very few instances where there is evidence that the finances
of a branch are not properly managed or where money has gone missing, Post Office Ltd must fully investigate, and take
necessary action, including legal action in the last resort. The decision to prosecute is not taken lightly and in every case
where action has been taken no court has found evidence to believe the Horizon system’s integrity to be deficient.”

We would expect you to be able to use this in full during your report — but do let me know if this is likely not to be the
case.

In addition, the following additional statements address your questions regarding reliability and investigations undertaken
if concerns are raised — obviously you’re welcome to use these in full if it’s helpful, but they do not replace the formal
response given above.

“The Horizon system has been in place for ten years and handles up to 750 transactions every second and all
subpostmasters have access to full training and ongoing support and are able to raise any concerns over transactions or
accounting to Post Office Ltd who will always help and investigate.”

“We are continuing to upgrade the system to make sure it meets the growing demands of the financial services products
provided by today’s Post Offices. Whilst implementing changes will inevitably have caused some inconvenience, it

has not in any way affected the integrity of the system, which is fundamentally more accurate and less open to abuse than
the old fashioned paper based systems it replaced.”

Finally, Post Office Ltd does not publish details of prosecutions of subpostmasters.
I'd be grateful if you could confirm receipt of this email.
Many thanks

Regards

Paul Budd
POL00338347
POL00338347

"ean cnonaisaciinaanaaiaocnancianaiaaaiaanaaocaacnanaaaaae Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales
registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ This email and
any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not
use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

Please Note:

Any views or opinions are solely those of the author and do not
necessarily represent those of Independent Television News Limited unless
specifically stated. This email and any files attached are confidential
and intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to which they
are addressed. If u have received this email in error, please notify
postmaste

Please note that to ensure regulatory compliance and for the protection of
our clients and business, we may monitor and read messages sent to and
from our systems.

Thank You.
