POLO0065032

Post Office Mediation Scheme

DRAFT

Second Sight - Case Review Report

Case Reference: M118
Applicant: Carl PAGE

Advisor: Tom Cleary (Frisby & Co Solicitors)

28 May 2015

This draft report and accompanying documents are confidential and are not to be disclosed
to any person other than a person involved in the processing of the Applicant’s claims
through the Scheme.
1. Introduction

POLO0065032

1.1. This report has been prepared by Second Sight, which is the trading name of Second Sight
Support Services Limited, the company appointed to conduct an independent investigation of
a number of matters raised by Subpostmasters, or former Subpostmasters.

1.2. This report should be read in conjunction with the following:

a)
b)
¢)
d)

the documents submitted by the Applicant and his Professional Advisor;
Post Office's Investigation Report (‘POIR’) including attachments;
Second Sight's Briefing Report - Part One; and

Second Sight's Briefing Report - Part Two.

1.3. The Terms of Reference for Second Sight as set by the Mediation Working Group for this work
are as follows:

a)

To investigate the specific complaints raised by each Subpostmaster who has been

accepted into the Scheme with the aim of providing:

vi.

an assessment of points of common ground between Post Office and that
Subpostmaster;

an assessment of points of disagreement between Post Office and that
Subpostmaster;

where there is disagreement, a logical and fully evidenced opinion on the merits of
that Subpostmaster's complaint where it is possible to do so;

a summary of any points on which it is not possible to offer a fully evidenced
opinion due to a lack of evidence/information;

a view on whether a case is suitable for mediation; and

assisting with any reasonable requests made by the Working Group and/or Post
Office.

1.4. Second Sight has been provided with the following documents:

a)

b)

¢)

the Initial Application to the mediation scheme submitted by the Applicant;

the Case Questionnaire Response ('CQR') submitted by the Applicant's Professional
Advisor; and

Post Office's Investigation Report (’POIR’), prepared in response to the above

mentioned documents.

Pagel
1.5. The following are the issues raised by the Applicant:

a) responsibility for losses that total £282,000.00 (of which the Applicant pleaded guilty
to stealing £94,000.00);

b) — mis-advice by Post Office's Helpline (including his having, he alleges, been told that he
could sell currency at below-market rates "as long as he showed a weekly profit");

c) adequacy of training and support, including Helpline and Audit;

d) Post Office's Investigations and Prosecutions processes; and

e) other consequential losses, not dealt with in this report, but which may be raised if the
case progresses to mediation.

1.6. This report focuses on the results of our efforts to determine how a branch shortfall, that Post
Office asserts to have comprised "a shortage of foreign currency having a sterling equivalent of
£282,000.00", is likely to have arisen. We have focussed on this because the Applicant
repeatedly denies, despite his guilty plea, that he ever stole anything at all. We have therefore
also focussed on the Applicant’s prosecution and conviction for the theft of £94,000.00, the
basis of his plea having been that "the remaining £188,000 may have been the result of
incompetent accounting or possibly theft by other person(s)". Other issues, not all of which are
dealt with in detail in this report, may however be relevant to the mediation process in the
unlikely event that this case does proceed to mediation.

1.7. The main drivers of the losses are alleged by the Applicant to be mis-advice by Post Office,
including his assertion that his Post Office Line Manager, Mr Geraty, had not only given him
permission, when he had first asked whether he was allowed to sell foreign currency at
preferential rates, but that, throughout the ensuing years, neither Mr Geraty, nor anyone else
in Post Office, so much as suggested that he was doing anything wrong until both he and his
customer were arrested in January 2003. The Applicant criticises Post Office's training and
support, as well as its audit and investigation processes, asserting that its two prosecutions of
him were largely baseless in that, although he concedes that the branch audit did disclose a
large apparent currency shortfall (with a sterling equivalent of £282,000.00), there was never
any evidence as to where the missing money had gone. He says that no evidence was offered
to show that he had stolen anything nor, for that matter, was there any evidence to show that
any branch funds had been stolen by anyone else.

1.8. The Applicant was in post as Subpostmaster of the six-position Rugeley branch from 1 April
1997 until his Contract was terminated on 14 January 2003. The Applicant and his wife (now
ex-wife) had bought from Post Office, at a cost of £102,496.00 including VAT, a ten year licence
to run the branch. Classifies as a ‘Modified Sub Post Office’, it had formerly been a Crown
Office and had an adjacent Royal Mail Sorting Office, but no Bureau de change until the
Applicant, with Post Office's approval, created one in 1998. The branch won an award in 2000
for increasing its sales of foreign currency, receiving a certificate from Royal Mail.

Page 2

POLO0065032
POLO0065032

1.9. The branch had established nine separate stock units: one for each of the six counter clerks plus
one for the 'philatelic unit' (a stamp-vending machine mounted to the exterior wall of the
building), one called the 'BU' for the Bureau de Change and one called the 'AM' (Assistant
Manager's) stock unit which (where bulk cash, bulk foreign currency, bulk stamps and other
stock was recorded in Horizon).

1.10. The Applicant was suspended, on 14 January 2003, after an Audit had discovered a shortfall
that was initially stated as amounting to £645,345.18. The bulk of that shortage related to five
cheques, aggregating to £638,675.65, that had been seized by the Police prior to the audit and
that had therefore not been included in the cash on hand and stock figures counted by the
auditors. The Audit also concluded that £282,000.00 worth of foreign currency, which Post
Office asserts should have at that time been held at the branch, was not present. It remains
unclear to us how, if the branch shortfall, once those cheques were taken into account, was
only £6,669.53 (i.e. £645,345.18 minus £638,675.65) that figure could have included a currency
shortfall with a sterling equivalent of £282,000.00.

1.11. The Applicant says that the foreign currency shortfall revealed by the Audit was illusory, and
that, if it was real, then it may have been caused either through errors by branch staff, or the
false starting point for the ‘Audit’, which he says was "actually just a Stock Count".

1.12. Post Office initiated a civil claim to recover the £282,000.00 but that was never concluded
and instead it brought criminal charges against the Applicant and his customer for conspiracy to
defraud and a separate charge of theft, in the amount of £282,000.00, against the Applicant
alone. After a nine week trial, the conspiracy charge had resulted in an acquittal, whilst the
theft trail resulted in a hung jury. Post Office then initiated a retrial on the theft charge, again
in the amount of £282,000.00. The Applicant pleaded guilty to stealing £94,000.00 and was
consequently convicted on the theft charge. He spent about three weeks in prison before being
moved to an open prison. He was released on tag after about six months.

1.13. Post Office asserts, in its POIR, that the total losses that it suffered as a result of this branch's
foreign currency dealings, exceeded £900,000. That figure includes the branch's currency
shortfall of £282,000.00 and a further £630,000.00 in lost profits (i.e. profits that it claims it
would have made if the currency had been sold at non-beneficial rates).

2. Points of common ground between the Applicant and Post Office

2.1. It is common ground that an Audit of the Applicant’s branch on 14 January 2003 discovered a
shortfall of £645,345.181, although the amount of the true shortfall was later much lower than
that, once the five cheques referred to in paragraph 1.9. above, that had been seized by the
Police on 13 January 2003, were taken into account. The Applicant continues to assert,
however, that he has no idea how the branch's shortfall arose.

2.2. The Applicant does not dispute Post Office's assertion that it is now clear (though he
consistently asserts that it was not clear to him at the time) that, by granting beneficial

Page 3
POLO0065032

exchange rates to his customer (referred to throughout this report as'GROI, that customer was
able to make an estimated profit of £630,000 by routinely selling the notes that he bought from
the Rugely branch to other Bureaux de Change (principally Thomas Cook).

2.3. It is also common ground that the Applicant was found not guilty following a trial on a charge of
conspiracy to defraud. On the day of his retrial he pleaded guilty to theft on an agreed basis of
plea where the amount stolen was recorded as £94,000.00, the jury at the original trial having
been unable to reach a verdict.

3. Points of disagreement between Post Office and the Subpostmaster

3.1. The Applicant says that he was misadvised by his Retail Line Manager, in that he says he was

given authority to provide special foreign currency exchange rates to the customer'cro} with
whom he was later accused of conspiring to steal from Post Office. He says that Post Office was
fully aware of all the transactions relating to iro; and that they were never queried, which gave

support to his conclusion that he was doing nothing wrong.

3.2. In relation to training and support, the Applicant says that despite being aware of the high
number of Transaction Corrections (TCs) issued to the branch, no further training was provided
to him by Post Office. In his court testimony, he also says that he only had two hours training in
operating his new Bureau de change.

3.3. The Applicant also says that the prosecution was based on an Audit, which was not verified
against source documents, or critically examined, and that Post Office could not say when the
money was stolen, where from, or by what means. He says that the prosecution against him
should therefore never have ensued.

3.4. It is Post Office’s conclusion that the Applicant’s conviction was correct and that the Applicant
stole at least the £94,000.00, as reflected by his plea of guilty.

4. Where there is disagreement, a logical and fully evidenced opinion on the merits of that
Subpostmaster's complaint where it is possible to do so

4.1. In relation to his complaint of misadvice, the Applicant says that his Retail Line Manager, and
main point of contact with Post Office, was Steve Geraty. He says that Mr. Geraty, who had
who had worked in the Post Office for many years, had encouraged him and his ex-wife to try
new ventures. He says that Mr. Geraty helped them to introduce the Bureau de change and
National Lottery. The Applicant also says that Mr. Geraty suggested to him that he could
provide favourable exchange rates for his customer, icro} who wanted to purchase large
quantities of foreign currency, "provided those rates were attractive enough". The Applicant
says that Geraty told him that he could sell currency at a any level "as /ong as the rates ensured
that everyone gained", noting that would be the case “as long as the rates he used were always
higher than the retail buyback rate so that Post Office would still make a profit". \t would
appear, however, that, if that advice was given, then, despite it being followed by the Applicant
and his staff for many years, it was never criticised by anyone in Post Office. Equally, it never

Page 4
4.2.

4.3.

resulted in the establishment of a properly authorised contractual ‘Corporate Customer’
relationship betwee! icro} company, RPX Recycled Plastics Ltd , and Post Office. Indeed, we
have found no evidence that any properly-authorised Corporate Customer relationships were
ever established at this branch, nor any evidence that Post Office ever noticed that fact, despite
the branch's substantial, award-winning, currency sales volumes; several branch audits; the fact
that Post Office had, at that time, fewer than 40 registered ‘Corporate Customers' in the whole
of the UK; and despite the Applicant having personally contacted, in December 2002, Post
Office's specialist foreign currency unit in Hemel Hempstead when he tried to find a more
efficient and less expensive (to Post Office) arrangement for sending those frequent and large
quantities of Euros to his branch (this is referred on page 47 of 86 in File 7 part 2 of the Court
documents).

The Applicant says that, as a result of Mr. Geraty’s suggestion and assurances, he and his staff
sold foreign currency to:srojat favourable rates that were slightly higher than the daily ‘sell rate’
faxed each day to his branch by Post Office. The Applicant said that he "assumed that Mr
Geraty had cleared this arrangement with others in Post Office", and that, "since all the
transactions showed the rate at which the currency was being sold" (but see our observations
on this matter in paragraph 4.6. below), and "because none of those had resulted in any queries,
he had no reason to suspect that Post Office had any issues with the sales". The Applicant
asserts that, at the first trial, Post Office confirmed that, whilst it had a policy that any branch
ordering a substantial quantity of foreign currency should be telephoned first, no such calls
were ever made to his branch. We have seen no evidence that supports that assertion,
although we do note that the Court documents (all of which have been supplied by the
Applicant's Professional Advisor and none at all by Post Office) are incomplete.

We have examined the two Witness Statements, dated 14 February 2003 and 15 May 2003
provided by Mr Steve Geraty (see document entitled 'Geraty Statements') but they provide
virtually no useful information, the first merely stating that Geraty had worked for the Royal
Mail Group for 31 years and that he had indeed been a Retail Network Manager with
responsibilities that included the Rugely branch but stating, rather unhelpfully in our view:
“when I began covering this office as Retail Network Manager the office did not conduct bureau
de change transactions, and it is my belief that Carl Page began doing these transactions at a
later date. As this happened some four years ago I cannot recall too many other details". The
later Witness Statement added very little, comprising only three sentences, and including the
remarks: "/ can state that I as a Retail Network Manager for Post Office Ltd do not have the
authority nor would I sanction an agent or Subpostmaster to sell products or provide services for
less than the specified monetary value either as stipulated by Post Office Ltd or its clients for
whom products are sold by Post Office Ltd on their behalf. This includes the Bureau de Change
product for which our joint partner First Rate Travel stipulates the selling and buying exchange
rates for all currencies and travellers cheques sold at Post Office outlets". We note that Mr
Geraty does not deny here that he gave the Applicant the permission that the Applicant asserts
he did, merely that he (Geraty) did not have the authority to give such permission, that being a
somewhat self-evident fact. The Applicant's Professional Advisor, who attended the trial, has
verbally reported to us his "clear recollection" that, under oath as a Witness for the Crown,
Geraty, when cross-examined, have seen uncorroborated references to the effect that Mr

Page 5S

POLO0065032
44.

4.5.

Geraty stated that he "could not remember approving the sales of foreign currency to AW at
special rates". Unfortunately, we have been unable to reach any better evidenced conclusions
on the critical issue of whether the Applicant was telling the truth about Mr Geraty having
‘approved' the offering of beneficial rates to

ind whether Mr. Geraty's memory lapse was
real or feigned. That key issue was raised in the cross-examination of the Applicant during the
first trial (see transcript at page 92 of 106 of File 7 part 3 of the Court documents). Pages 38

and 39 of 62 of File 7 part 4 also repeat the Applicant's testimony as to Mr Geraty's approval of
preferential rates being made available toIsroI even though that was, in the words of the
Crown's QC, "dead against the rules". Post Office says that "Mr Geraty is no longer in the
business and so Post Office has been unable to obtain his comments. However, there is no
evidence to support that Mr Geraty knew of or sanctioned such a practice". It is interesting that
there is no testimony on this matter from the Applicant's ex-wife, she having been, according to
the Applicant, present when the matter was discussed with Mr Geraty.

We have, however, noted (from the Court transcript shown on page 32 of 86 in file 7 part 2 of
the Legal File documents) that the Applicant, while giving evidence under oath, describes a
situation where he used to routinely (i.e. several times a week) take car tax discs out to a Used
Car Dealership and issue large numbers of them at the Dealership. This would, of course, have
been a serious breach of Post Office's security rules. The Applicant, asked in Court what Mr
Geraty had said, when he heard what he (the Applicant) had been doing, testified that Mr
Geraty had said "As long as there's no comebacks and the Post Office don't know. If they do
know, I don't know anything about it". Once again, in the absence of any evidence to inform us
whether this alleged statement by Mr Geraty was addressed by the Court in its questioning of
him, and without therefore knowing whether Mr Geraty admitted or denied that alleged ‘wilful
blindness’, we have been unable to assess whether Mr Geraty's alleged statement (that he
could not remember approving the request, made both by the Applicant and his ex-wife, to

I preferential foreign exchange dealing rates), can be relied upon (see pages 34 and 35
of 86 of the Court transcript). We note that Post Office's QC refers to this matter, at that point

in the trial, as being "central" to the case, which is why we have asked Post Office to reveal to
us how Mr Geraty responded, under oath, when his alleged ‘approvals' (of practices that were
meant to be unacceptable to Post Office) were put to him in Court. We invite Post Office to
clarify this important matter when it responds to this Draft Case Review Report.

It is not clear to us why, if Post Office had no intention of allowing Subpostmasters to over-ride
the rates that were faxed to them each day, the system would have allowed that to happen. In
other words, why would Post Office's Standard Operating Procedures be designed in a manner
that required every Subpostmaster (running a Bureau de Change) in the country to have to key
in all the FX rates every day. It seems obvious to us that such a process could have been
expected to result in errors being made but also, as in this case, it introduced a substantial
exposure to material financial loss to Post Office. This risk not having been prevented (i.e. by
being designed out of the system), there also seems to us to have been no after-the-event
control designed to detect accidental keying errors or inappropriately generous (loss-
generating) rate over-rides. We regard those as control deficiencies (in our parlance
“deficiencies in error and fraud repellency") for which Post Office itself must accept
responsibility. We regard it as germane to note that the Applicant says that he had been

Page 6

POLO0065032
4.6.

47.

4.8.

POLO0065032

granting preferential rates to customers (as well as extraordinarily favourable rates t
he visited the branch, at a frequency of up to four, or even five, times a week, for nearly four
years, and on very large transactions for over eleven months) before the fact that those
transactions produced a net loss for Post Office was discovered. Even then, it was Customs and
Excise, not Post Office, that ‘discovered’ the problem and only then after Euros having a sterling
equivalent of over £11 million had been sold to/GRO! This provides, in our view, compelling
evidence that Post Office had no proper system of control to prevent, or even to detect after-
the-event, materially off-market Foreign Exchange deals, nor any process to detect and
investigate the propriety of very large transactions that ought to have been flagged up as
indicative of potential money laundering and that in any event were, in every instance,
generating material financial losses for it.

It appears to us that Post Office was 'blind' to those material financial losses because its single-
currency Horizon accounting system aggregated together, into one weekly ‘Sterling Equivalent’
figure, so many transactions, across so many Bureaux de Change throughout the country, that
this branch's aberrant transactions became subsumed among all the others... and therefore
disappeared from its field of vision. The process designed by Post Office did not require
individual FX transactions to be reported to it. Rather, the net financial impact of all of each
branch's FX transactions were reported only as one Jump sum ina weekly ‘Revaluation’ figure.
This process was, in our view, deeply flawed and functionally inadequate in its initial design.
This design flaw is, in our view, acknowledged in the comments made by and to Post Office's
Investigator Manish Patel in the 14 January 2003 interview (see transcript at pages 196, 197,
199, 200 and 292 of the Court documents supplied by the Applicant's Professional Advisor).
Indeed, on page 292 of the Court documents (to be found at page 20 of 85 in File 4 part 4 in
those Court Documents), Patel acknowledges "your revaluation figures should have been very
high compared to what they were and granted maybe those should have been picked up by the
Business earlier but they weren't".

We question why the aggregation of so many branches' holdings of so many currencies, into
one ‘Sterling Equivalent’ that was only accounted for at the end of each week, was ever
determined by Post Office to be functionally adequate. By comparison, banks and other
entities that deal in multiple Foreign Currencies, all have Multi-currency Accounting Systems,
whereas Horizon is a Single-currency system that can only hold balances expressed in Pounds
Sterling. This meant that, instead of being able to tell, at any point, how many notes of each
currency was held in every one of its branches, Post Office only knew, once a week, what the
Sterling Equivalent of the aggregate of each branch's holdings of all currencies was. Post Office
was consequently unable to account for its many branches' holdings of multiple currencies in
the way that any bank would be able to. In our view, consolidating so many branches' holdings
of so many currencies into just one massive ‘Sterling Equivalent' figure was guaranteed to result
in the sort of serious and undetected problems that occurred in this branch.

The Applicant refers, in the 14 January 2003 interview, to "always having had a positive
revaluation" figure at the end of each week. It is clear to us that his position is that those
recurring and consistently positive revaluation figures led him to believe that, despite
transacting at rates that were preferential to [oro! Post Office was nonetheless making a profit

Page 7
4.9.

4.10.

4.11.

4.12.

POLO0065032

on all of them. It only later becomes apparent that, due to Post Office's practice of immediately
materially devaluing all of the currency that it purchased though FRTS in the wholesale currency
markets, those branch-level revaluations were showing that small profits were being made
when, in truth, those small profits were nowhere near large enough to offset the large losses
that Post Office had already (unbeknown to the Applicant) booked. It is, in our view,
extraordinary that Post Office failed to detect the fact that it was making such substantial and
recurring losses on this branch's FX transactions until the intervention by HM Customs and
Excise.

In this context, the Applicant said that Post Office first reacted (to the issue of the foreign
exchange rates he was offerings in January 2003, afterisro: was arrested. He says that prior
to that, despite providing the information every week for a number of years, having undergone
various Audits and having been lauded as running one of Post Office's highest volume foreign

exchange dealing branches, no one ever voiced any concerns about those beneficial rate deals.
He also refers to having asked, before Christmas 2002, the "gentleman in Hemel Hempstead to
get in touch with me after Christmas because it's ridiculous that the Post Office are sending
special deliveries [i.e. bags containing amounts of foreign currency], 30 packs of special
deliveries a day. Why can't he send me one big bulk on a Monday?". Post Office seems not to
have challenged those statements by the Applicant so we have treated them as truthful.
Similarly, during the recorded interview of the Applicant, conducted by Post Office's
investigator Manish Patel on 14 January 2003, the Applicant refers to having, 18 months earlier,
asked a local police officer (in the police station across the road from his branch) whether
"there was anything dodgy" aboutéRoand that he had been advised by that officer that they
(the police) had "never heard of him". Given that none of these assertions have been
challenged by Post Office, we have to question why, if the Applicant was aware, as Post Office
asserted during the two criminal trials, that what he was doing was in any way improper, he
would have drawn the police's, and Post Office's, attention to it.

Post Office says that Geraty is no longer an employee and so it has been unable to obtain his
comments to investigate this claim. In his two Witness Statements submitted to the first theft
trial, Geraty said: "/t is my belief that Carl Page began doing these transactions at a later date"...
and: "As this happened some four years ago I cannot recall too many other details"... and: "1
cannot now recall specific conversations or dealings I had with Mr Page, however I can state
that I as a Retail Network Manager for Post Office Ltd do not have the authority nor would I
sanction an agent or Subpostmaster to sell products or provide services for less than the
specified monetary value either as stipulated by Post Office Ltd or it's (SIC) clients for whom
products are sold by Post Office Ltd on their behalf. This includes the Bureau de Change product
for which our joint partner First Rate Travel stipulates the selling and buying foreign exchange
rates for all currencies and travellers cheques sold at Post Office Outlets".

We note that those statements do not constitute a firm denial that Geraty approved, or
s had been asserted by Mr Page.

even suggested, the processing of special-rate deals witl

GRO!

Whilst Post Office says it is “unlikely” that Geraty would have given such advice, it accepts
that preferential rates for larger foreign exchange transactions were available to customers. In

Page 8
POLO0065032

its POIR, Post Office appears to confirm that it was the Officer in Charge of a branch (the
Subpostmaster or his manager), who was responsible for authorising a special commission rate
for foreign currency transactions. We have borne in mind the fact that Geraty gave evidence
for the prosecution when the Applicant and were accused of conspiring to defraud Post
Office. Having heard all the evidence, the jury found both {Ro} ind the Applicant not guilty and
we have no doubt that the Applicant's assertion that his use of special rates had been cleared

with Geraty would have been an important element in its deliberations.

4.13. On the balance of probabilities, therefore, we consider that the Applicant was advised by
Geraty that he could offer special rates and that it was not fully and properly explained at the
time how in practice that rate should have been transacted. We do not find to be compelling
Post Office's assertion that it is unlikely that the Applicant had been authorised by Geraty,
though we do consider it plausible that he may have wrongly interpreted whatever Geraty had
said to him, though Geraty (and others in Post Office) had ample opportunity to detect and
correct the Applicant's misunderstanding and yet it signally failed to realise what was going on
until January 2003. We cannot ignore the fact that many hundreds of transactions were never
queried by Post Office, despite all of them having been fully and openly reported by the branch.
We note in particular from the POIR that Mr. Geraty had stated, during a meeting to discuss the
Applicant’s performance, that “his main focus was sales growth via customer service, and
therefore transaction accuracy was not his main forte”. That statement alone should have
resulted in Post Office paying close attention to the exceptionally high volume of clearly non-
retail foreign exchange transactions that the branch was routinely processing yet it seems that
did not happen.

4.14. In that context, the Applicant says that his wife was more adept at the accounting side of
running the branch than he was, and that, after she left the branch, he started to receive letters
from Post Office regarding the branch’s poor performance and high level of errors. He says that
despite being fully aware of this, Post Office did not provide him with any further training. He
says he received an initial two weeks’ ‘on the job’ training on the ECCO computer system, and
that when the Forde Money Changer ('FM') was installed in branch, he and his staff were given
3 hours’ instruction and a manual. It should be noted that the Forde Money Changer system
was totally ‘standalone’ having no electrical nor mechanical connection to the Horizon system.
This meant that the branch's Bureau de Change position only became known to Horizon once a
week (on a Wednesday evening), and only then based upon what the branch staff entered into
Horizon when they keyed into Horizon the sterling values shown on the FM system's 'Command
10' print out (this also seems to have been referred to as the 'Print 10 Weekly Summary’).

4.15. In his CQR, the Applicant says that, at the second trial, Post Office maintained that he had
stolen the money "by hiding it in the foreign exchange account". On page 16, paragraph 4 of his
CQR, the Applicant's position is stated by his Professional Advisor as follows: "If there were any
errors in the figures, it is Mr. Page’s position that these must have been due to erroneous
inputting of figures by either him or members of the staff".

4.16. Post Office says that the Applicant’s training records are no longer available, but that it is
very likely that the Applicant received the standard training package in place in 1997, and that

Page 9
POLO0065032

he would have received training on the use of the FM in processing foreign currency
transactions, adding that, in its view, this would have been adequate for the role of
Subpostmaster. Post Office says that if the Applicant had felt that he needed additional training
he could have requested it via his Retail Line Manager. Post Office says that there were no calls
by the Applicant to the National Business Support Centre (NBSC) Helpline requesting further
training, and that “as it was the responsibility of the Applicant to access the support available to
him Post Office reasonably expected the Applicant to do this”.

4.17. Post Office accepts that, during an interview held on 3 July 2002, reference was made to the
Applicant shadowing a “good branch Manager’, but that there are no records to indicate
whether this ever took place. Post Office adds that here are no records of any calls made by the
Applicant to follow up on this matter, and that, as the meeting was held six months before the
Audit which led ultimately to the termination of the Applicant's contract, “it is Post Office’s view
that had the Applicant been so minded he could have taken it upon himself to arrange a visit to
another branch or contacted NBSC to request one. The fact that the Applicant states that this
did not happen would indicate that he was not so minded”.

4.18.  Inits POIR, Post Office says that the Applicant was contacted regarding performance issues
16 times in 2001 and 24 times in 2002. They add, in relation to Error Notices (later known as
Transaction Corrections or TCs) that the purpose of TCs was to highlight errors made at the
branch, and that, once highlighted, the expectation was that this would prevent future errors of
this type. We have asked the question of Post Office as to what identified level of error, if any,
triggered the requirement that Subpostmasters undergo further training. We have seen no
evidence that there was any standard process by which that sort of identification did take place,
and it is clear that to us, not only from this case but also from others that we have examined,
that as far as Post Office was concerned it was entirely the Subpostmaster's responsibility to
identify further training needs, and for him or her to request, arrange, and attend such further
training.

4.19. We return to the issue of the branch’s performance, and its contribution towards the
Applicant’s prosecution, later in our conclusion.

4.20.  Inrelation to his prosecution and conviction, Post Office says, in its POIR, that the Applicant
pleaded guilty to a single charge that between 1 March 2002 and 14 July 2003 he stole
£282,000.00 from Post Office. It says that the agreed basis of plea was that “the Defendant
stole £94,000.00 from the Post Office having begun to do so on return from holiday in August
2002. The remaining deficit of £188,000 may have been the result of incompetent accounting or
possibly theft by other person(s)”. We note the use of the words "may" and "possibly" here and
we return to this basis of plea in our conclusion. We also note that Post Office has offered no
more evidence than that the Applicant pleaded guilty in the second trial in regard to the
composition of its loss or of the Applicant's theft. Post Office does not seem to have critically
re-examined, in the way that we now have, the evidence that, as the Prosecuting body, it
submitted to the criminal trials.

4.21. The Applicant was first arrested and interviewed by Staffordshire Police on 13 January 2003,
the day before the Audit. The arrest would appear to have occurred as the result of a Customs

Page 10
POLO0065032

and Excise investigation into suspicions of money laundering. Following an investigation,
including enquiries into the Applicant’s bank accounts and lifestyle, the Police decided to take

no further action against either him or the other suspect, his custome! However, Post
Office instigated civil proceedings against the Applicant and, in December 2003, also criminal
proceedings, charging the Applicant with stealing £282,000.00, and conspiring with

defraud Post Office.

iwere found not guilty of the
conspiracy charge. However, there was a hung jury in relation to the theft charge and the
decision was taken that the Applicant should be retried. The Applicant says that prior to the

4.22. In June 2005, following a nine week trial, the Applicant andis

second trial taking place, an offer was made by the Prosecution to amend the amount that had
allegedly been stolen from £282,000.00 to £94,000.00. We note that an Expert Witness, in his
written evidence to the second trial quotes the Prosecution Counsel's Opening Note, dated 2
October 2005, as having stated that the amount stolen was £282,000 in sterling (see page 6 of
22 in Tab 5 of the Applicant's CQR). The supposition that the money was allegedly taken in
sterling is also mentioned on page 55 of 86 in the Court transcript at File 7 part 2 of the Court
documents.

4.23. The Applicant says that he was suffering with depression and, facing the prospect of another
lengthy trial, and in light of another matter, of which both he and Post Office were aware, that
might have impacted on any sentence, he considered the effect that this reduced theft charge
would be likely to have on the inevitable custodial sentence and decided to plead guilty. His
CQR records him as having said “! didn’t do this, but I just want it to go away”.

4.24. Whilst we have endeavoured to keep this report concise, in order to explain the relevance of
this offer, it has been necessary to go into some detail, to explain how the monies alleged by
the Prosecution to have been stolen by the Applicant were calculated and to reach a conclusion
as to whether such a large amount, or any amount was actually stolen.

4.25. The bulk of the £645,000 shortfall found by the 14 January 2003 Audit related to cheques
held at the branch, which were disallowed for the purposes of that Audit. It is not mpletely
RO! were sent

clear from the submitted evidence how many of, those cheques (all presented by}
for processing and subsequently paid, though it appears that all of them were paid and that
served to substantially reduce the apparent shortfall. In any event, the amount the Applicant
was charged with stealing related to a balance snapshot produced for the AM stock unit, which
stated that a sterling equivalent of £282,000.00 of foreign currency was held within that stock
unit. Since, on the day of the Audit there was no foreign currency at all in that stock unit, Post
Office concluded that all of it was missing, later concluding that it had been stolen. Post Office
says that it was initially presumed that one of the cheques, (number 100148) for £278,181.82
was payment for this ‘missing’ foreign currency. This was later disregarded when it was found
that the cheque had been presented to cover three previous cheque payments, made by}

December 2002, that had been returned 'refer to drawer’ due to insufficient funds in the
company's bank account. Post Office's auditors then drew the conclusion that the £282,000.00
was not only a real shortfall but that the money had been stolen, either in the form of foreign

Page 11
POLO0065032

currency, or of sterling, and it was, it seems, on the basis of that conclusion that the theft
charge was brought against the Applicant.

4.26. While we have seen evidence that supports the auditors’ conclusion that there was a real
shortfall, we have as yet seen no evidence that convinces us that the shortfall was the result of
theft. Rather, we consider it likely that the shortfall was merely an accumulation of the
amounts that had been given to customers (predominatel >) by way of extra funds over and
above what they would have received if they had dealt at 'Normal', rather than 'Special' FX
Rates. This would have meant that, instead of that extra currency (that had been given to
customers, principally tofero} being booked as an immediate financial loss, those losses might
have later manifested themselves as currency shortfalls in the branch. We expand on this in the
following paragraphs.

4.27. The Applicant, in his CQR asserts that Post Office “could not say when the money was stolen,
nor by what means, nor from what account or fund ... Essentially, the Prosecution case was the
Computer says there is money missing so it must be theft”. As far as we have been able to
establish, the Applicant's recollection is correct: Post Office was unable to attest, during the two
trials, to anything more than that the branch ‘audit' had established that £282,000.00-worth of
foreign currency was meant to be in the branch but was not there. This does not, in our view,
constitute evidence that that amount of currency was stolen, let alone by whom.

4.28. At the first trial, the Prosecution alleged that the £282,000.00 was a shortage in the AM
stock unit, which had been built up over a period of time. A Forensic Accountant instructed by
the defence, Mr. Liddell, concluded that there was a potential for timing differences to have
built up between the amounts of cash recorded on Horizon and the FM systems, which might
explain the discrepancy. His report says “! refer in particular to instances where
large quanti

ypurchased a

of Euros before the end of the cash account week, so the sale was entered in FM,
did not physically collect the cash until the beginning of the following cash
account week. In these instances the Horizon figure would differ from FM by the amount of

ia
5
=
g
X.

ind awaiting collection”. Mr. Liddell notes there is no automatic link between
FM and Horizon systems —it is necessary for the data to be transferred manually. He says
“Clearly this gives increased capacity for human error and for incorrect totals to be entered on
the Horizon system”.

4.29. Mr. Liddell also investigated whether the £282,000.00 actually existed, and concluded that a
surplus of Euros of approximately £282,000.00 could not physically have been built up in the
AM stock or elsewhere. All the Euros delivered to the branch were entered into the FM, and the
Applicant says that his analysis of sales shows that they matched, or exceeded, the deliveries.
(Post Office suggests that it was suspected thati I was selling Euros back to the branch, which
would account for any ‘excess’).

4,30. It is of note that this expert reported that he had been “unable to identify a clear
explanation or definition of the Revaluation Total from the Post Office Operators Manual —
Bureau de Change on Demand, copies of which are provided to Subpostmasters”, and that
similarly he could find “no explanation in the manual of the Wholesale Buy Rate, the Retail Buy

Page 12
POLO0065032

Rate and the differences arising between the two”. Mr. Liddell says in his report that, in the
majority of cases, Euros were sold to: it a rate just below the Retail Buy Rate at which they
were booked into the FM. At 3.32 Mr. Liddell’s report says “[the Applicant] states that he
understood a positive revaluation total [..] to mean that income and profit was being generated
for [Post Office]. He was not aware that an initial devaluation had occurred which, if taken into
account, could turn a positive revaluation total into a loss to [Post Office]”.

4.31. Byhis calculation, Mr. Liddell says that ifisto} had paid the correct rate for the Euros that the

prosecution schedule showed that he had purchased, the difference would have amounted to
£592,802. He also said that in the majority of instances, the transactions generated a “small
profit when measured against the Retail Buy Rate”.

4.32. We have studied all of the evidence that the Applicant and his Professional Advisor have
submitted in respect of the criminal trials (Post Office having submitted nothing) in order to
fully understand how the Post Office accounted for Foreign Exchange ('FX') transactions.

4.33. Having done that, we have become deeply concerned about the evidence supplied by Post
Office to the court in the first trial. Specifically, the way that its accounting for foreign
currencies, including the ‘Revaluation Total,’ was explained to the court, in a Witness Statement
submitted by Post Office's employee Hugh Stacey (see Attachment 1) is, in our view, incomplete
and misleading. That Witness Statement was also quoted in the Expert Accountant's Report
(see paragraphs 3.19 and 3.20 of Tab 4 to the Applicant's CQR). That particular paragraph, from
Witness Stacey's Statement is, in our opinion, not only poorly and confusingly articulated, but in
some aspects also materially incorrect and incomplete. It would, in our view, have potentially
under-informed and misled the court. That Witness Statement (and the related diagram shown
in it, as repeated in the Expert Accountant's Report), shows how there were two "Buy Rates".

In the figures used in the diagram, one Buy Rate was £95, whereas the other was £101. The
second rate (£101) was what the currency really had cost Post Office when it was purchased
from First Rate Travel Services (FRTS) who had, in turn, purchased the currency (at a cost of
£100) in the wholesale (i.e. Inter-bank) market. The other rate (£95) was a notional rate that
was meant to represent the rate that the branch would be expected to use were it to buy back
that same currency from a retail customer. The Applicant testified in Court (see page 86 of File
7 part 2 in the Legal File papers) that he had no knowledge of the rates at which the currency
had been purchased by FRTS in the wholesale market and that he was unaware that Post Office
‘devalued’ currency by approximately 6% before supplying it to its branches. It has never been
made clear, in any of the evidence that we have examined, why Post Office did that.

4.34. After careful examination of Post Office's Witness Statement, we have concluded that the
description of the way that Post Office (and its business partner FRTS) accounted for FX
transactions is incomplete, completely lacking in clarity and also, we strongly suspect, simply
wrong. We also suspect that neither of the Forensic Accountants reached the level of
understanding of Post Office's accounting processes or detected the errors that Post Office was
making, as we now have.

Page 13
POLO0065032

4.35. Asan example of the Witness Statement's propensity to confuse the jury, the sentence, that
says: "In terms of the illustration if we were to buy £100 from FRCS/FRTS, Post Office Limited
would buy this for £101" should, we suspect, have said: "/n terms of the illustration if we were to
buy £100 worth of foreign currency from FRCS/FRTS, Post Office Limited would buy this from
FRCS/FRTS for £101". Similarly, the next sentence, that says: "Upon receipt of the Post Office
Network (Cash Centre) the £101 would be converted to £95 which represents the retail buy rate,
this devaluation looses (SIC) the Post Office £6 in value which is held on its books at the central
cash centre" should, we suspect, have said: "Upon receipt at the Post Office Network (Cash
Centre) the sterling equivalent of the foreign currency that had been purchased for £101 would
be revalued to £95 using the retail buy rate (that being the rate which the branch would be
expected to use were it to buy back that currency across the counter). This would have the
effect of reducing the apparent cost of that amount of foreign currency in Post Office's books,
thereby generating an immediate book profit of £6. This profit would later be reduced when the
currency was sold, normally at the Retail Sell Rate (£103) at which point a profit of £8 would be
recorded (that being the difference between the sale proceeds at £103 less the 'revalued' (i.e. re-
stated) cost figure of £95. It can be seen that this would result in a final profit figure, in Post
Office's books, of £2 which is the difference between the sale proceeds of £103 less the true cost
(to Post Office) of £101".

4.36. In our view, the Witness's reference to the "devaluation" "losing the Post Office £6" is
completely wrong and serves to illustrate that not only was Post Office's accounting incorrect,
but that, even when called upon to describe the accounting to the court, Post Office was
completely muddled. It is our position that there would be no commercial or accounting reason
for holding currency that had just been purchased at a value far lower than it could be re-sold
for that day in the Inter-bank wholesale market. Indeed to account for the foreign currency
asset holding in that way would contravene generally accepted accounting practice. As
described in paragraph 4.26, by reducing the apparent cost of the currency that it had just
purchased for £101 to £95, Post Office must have booked a PROFIT, rather than the LOSS
described in Mr Stacey's Witness Statement. That profit ought to have been at once reduced
whenever the currency was sold for less than the £101 ‘Wholesale Buy Rate’. It seems to us
(using the figures quoted in the Witness Statement) to be clear that Post Office was not only
routinely overstating its profits (whenever currency was sold for less than the retail sell rate)
but that it had been telling its branch manager (the Applicant) that the currency had cost £95
whereas it had actually cost £101. That mis-communication goes a long way towards explaining
why the Applicant (and also perhaps his Line Manager Mr Geraty) might have mistakenly
concluded - and thereafter acted in the belief - that the real cost was only £95.

4.37. From our analysis of the Mr Stacey's Witness Statement we have concluded that Post Office
and FRCS/FRTS were erroneously recognising substantial amounts of income that had not, in
reality, been generated. In the example that Mr Stacey gives on pages 5 and 6 of his Statement,
the overstatement was £8,317 on currency (Euros) that cost £96,649.00. That is a highly
material profit overstatement (at a rate of 8.61% on cost). By overstating its profits so
massively, it is plausible that the overstatement brought about by the Pagej_
transactions could easily have exceeded, say, £688,000 on currency sales of Euros costing
around £8 million (8.61% of £8 million equals £688,800). This leads us to conclude that this

Page 14
POLO0065032

massive income overstatement, in Post Office's and FRCS's/FRTS's books, as admitted in Mr
Stacey's Statement, could only have arisen if the offsetting entries (to the £688,000 in Profit and
Loss Account credits) had gone somewhere other than to the debit of the two companies’ Profit
and Loss Accounts. If there hadn't been offsetting debits, the companies' books simply
wouldn't have balanced. It seems to us highly likely that those offsetting Debits, in Post Office's
books, may have resided in the ‘Currency Held' asset figures. The aggregate of those overstated
assets was, in our view, the quantity of foreign currency that Post Office's books showed that it
(actually its Rugely branch) still had in stock when in truth that quantity of foreign currency had
been passed on to} 4

4.38. We have concluded that Post Office's books therefore showed a false (non-existent) asset
and that those entries may well have accumulated
in the branch's books to create the massive asset overstatement that was (wrongly) ascribed by
Post Office to theft by the Applicant. Mr Stacey's Witness Statement also fails to disclose why
Post Office and FRTS did not detect those accumulating material accounting errors until
Customs and Excise drew attention to the transactions as a result of its (as it turned out

after each transaction wit!

unfounded) suspicions of Money Laundering.

4.39. In our view, there can only be three plausible reasons for that Witness Statement's lack of
clarity; its failure to disclose the accounting errors made by Post Office and FRTS; the reasons
why those accounting errors were not detected by Post Office or FRTS; and the possibility that
the apparent 'losses' were the result of Post Office's overstatements of profit rather than the
result of theft of funds by the Applicant. These are:

a Mr Stacey did not himself understand how the accounting and revaluation process
worked; or

2 Mr Stacey did understand how the accounting and revaluation process worked but
was unable to explain it properly; or

3. Mr Stacey did understand how the accounting and revaluation process worked and

for some reason allowed a description, that he knew or suspected might cause
confusion, to be presented to the court.

4.40. We have concluded that not only was the description of its accounting processes that Post
Office presented to the court confusing and incorrect but that the fact that it was so muddled
supports our view that the Applicant is likely to have thought that the ‘Retail Buy Rate’, which is
also referred to as the ‘Retail Buy Back Rate' (i.e. £95 in the example quoted in the court
evidence) was the rate below which he should not sell, whereas the real rate below which he
should not have sold was the 'Wholesale Buy Rate’ (£101). The Applicant was typically selling
Euros (particularly to 9} at a rate (using the above example rates) of approximately £95.50,
which would generate a real loss to Post Office of £5,500 ona sale of Euros 150,000, whereas it
appears the Applicant thought that a sale at that price would generate for Post Office a small
profit of £500 (i.e. the sale proceeds of £95,500 minus the £95,000 that he (wrongly) thought
was the real cost of that amount of currency). The Applicant testified, in the first trial, to this
effect, as shown on pages 38, 45 and 46 of 86 in File 7 part 2 of the Court documents supplied

by the Applicant's Professional Advisor).

Page 15
POLO0065032

4.41. In our view, if the evidence submitted to the court was representative of the information
and advice that had earlier been given by Post Office to the Applicant, then we see it as highly
likely that the Applicant (and his staff) really did misunderstand the true price that had been
paid for the currency that they were selling and that, throughout (from 1999 onwards) the
Applicant was under the (false) impression that, as long as he showed a profit each week when
he produced the 'Command 10' printout from his branch's Forde Money Changer, then Post
Office really had made a profit on his branch's foreign currency dealings.

4.42. In his CQR, the Applicant says that at the second trial, Post Office said the theft had nothing
to do with AM Stock, but that the money had been stolen by the Applicant from somewhere
else in the office and “hidden in the foreign exchange account using Horizon". The Applicant
says that, if there were any errors in the figures, they must have been due to erroneous
inputting of figures by either him or members of his staff. In our view, both Post Office and the
Applicant were wrong here.

4.43. The Applicant’s CQR reports that a second forensic expert accountant, Mr. Timothy Taylor,
who was appointed by the Defence team for the second theft trial, concluded that it was
extremely unlikely that any money was concealed by hiding it by some means in the foreign
exchange account using Horizon. According to Mr. Taylor’s report, the Prosecution’s opening
note stated that the indictment period for the alleged theft of the £282,000.00 was between
March 2002 and January 2003 and that from the week ended 28 August 2002 (Week 22), the
Applicant concealed the cash by routinely inflating the foreign currency held on Horizon in the
AM stock unit. He says that the opening note also alleged that, some time prior to the end of
Week 22, the Applicant concealed the theft by overstating the amount of Overnight Cash
Holdings (ONCH), as opposed to the foreign currency sterling equivalent figure in Horizon.

4.44. Mr. Taylor explained that the schedule prepared by the witness, Post Office's employee, Mr.
Patel, for the purposes of illustrating how the alleged deficiency, or ‘inflation’ of the
£282,000.00 occurred over time, is simply the difference between the foreign currency on hand
figure as recorded in Horizon, and the sterling equivalent foreign currency on hand figure, as
identified from the weekly FM printouts referred to as the ‘Command 10' Reports. The weekly
Command 10 Reports showed the sterling value of all the foreign currencies in the branch's
stock as well as the commission earned by the branch in that week.

4.45. Mr. Taylor also noted that, for weeks 14 and 16 in 2002, the apparent inflation figure was
negative. One of the negative figures was explained as being the result of typing an incorrect
revaluation figure into Horizon, demonstrating that, since Horizon and the FM were not
integrated, differences could arise as a result of manual inputting errors.

4.46. Mr. Taylor’s report concludes with an agreement that, from the week ended 28 August
2002, the Horizon foreign currency sterling equivalent figure was inflated, initially by £138,000
and increasing to £282,000.00 by the date of the 14 January 2002 Audit. However, he adds that
the alleged deficiency of £282,000.00 in the AM stock unit does not necessarily indicate theft by
the Applicant — he says that the shortfall could in practice be the result of other unidentified
errors or differences in Horizon.

Page 16
POLO0065032

4.47. He continues that it is implicit in the Prosecution’s case that, by simply stating that the
£282,000.00 shortfall in the AM stock unit equated to a theft of the same amount, all other
figures in Horizon were correct. Mr. Taylor said he had seen no evidence that was the case, and
that he also noted the high incidence of errors occurring at the branch.

4.48. He said that it was not possible to establish whether the declared ONCH figures were
correctly recorded, as they were not independently checked at the time other than at the two.
branch audits. We note here that one of the matters under consideration during the interview
held with the Applicant on 3 July 2002, to discuss his performance, was that during an Audit of
the branch on 27 June, it was found that Bureau transactions were not being entered onto the
system on a daily basis, resulting in the ONCH declarations being inaccurate.

4.49. He ends by saying that, if it is alleged that by Week 18 the theft had reached £177,500 and
that it was being concealed either by overstating the true foreign currency balance or the ONCH
figure, then, in his opinion, there was an unexplained inconsistency in the Prosecution case.
That was because in Weeks 20 and 21, the inflation figures as stated by Mr. Patel in the
schedule were nil, and the recorded ONCH figures were only £79,810.00 and £91,249.69
respectively, and therefore they could not have been overstated by £177,500.

4.50. Both experts’ reports raised the question as to whether the ‘audits’ actually constituted an
audit in the sense that data was not verified back to source documentation nor critically
examined before conclusions were drawn. Both concluded that they were more akin to a stock
take at a particular time and that it was dangerous to draw the conclusions the Post Office had
drawn from them. The Applicant suggests in his CQR that it is a significant feature of the case
that in the middle of the indictment period, an Audit of the branch concluded that the office
was not well run but did not find evidence of theft or fraud.

4.51. In answer to the Applicant’s suggestion that the audit conducted at the branch on 14
January 2003 was not verified against source documents or critically examined, Post Office says
that records of the Audit are no longer available. The POIR explains that an audit is “conducted
to reflect the current trading position of a branch at the moment the audit is undertaken. This is
completed by comparing the cash and stock physically on hand to that stated as on hand by
Horizon’. We consider this explanation does sound very much like a ‘stock take’, rather than
what is normally understood to be an ‘audit’.

4.52. In answer to the Applicant’s question as to how the alleged shortfall built up in the AM stock
unit, or how the shortfall was "hidden in the foreign exchange stock unit", Post Office says that
it no longer holds any audit or investigation records for this case, and is therefore unable to
comment on this particular issue, other than adding that it should be noted that the Applicant
pleaded guilty to the charge of theft.

4.53. Post Office says, that whilst it is unable to determine with certainty the most likely cause of
the discrepancy and having reviewed the limited data snow available, it has formed the view
that, just as had been reported by the auditors on 14 January 2003, the shortfall was the result
of foreign currency being ‘missing’ from the AM stock unit. Post Office says that the theft

Page 17
POLO0065032

charge was reduced from £282,000.00 to £94,000.00, as it was “willing to accept that a smaller
amount of the loss had been caused by theft’, however, it adds that, in its view, “had a trial
been required then the case would have been found in the prosecution's favour”.

4.54. We do not support that view. Earlier in this report, we referred to the wording of the
prepared basis of plea, agreed between the Prosecution and Defence as to the explanation for
the remainder of the cash that the Applicant was alleged to have stolen. That statement said:
“The remaining deficit of £188,000 may have been the result of incompetent accounting or
possibly theft by other person(s)”. While noting the words "may" and "possibly" here, we
believe that basis of plea statement completely undermines Post Office's original hypothesis
which was that the Applicant stole all of the missing £282,000.00. From the evidence that we
have examined, we consider it to be possible or even likely that, if the greater part of the
missing money really had been caused by incompetent accounting or by theft (by persons other
than the Applicant), then it has to be accepted that it is perfectly plausible that the entire
amount could have been attributable to those causes. As to "incompetent accounting", we
have found no better evidence to attribute that to the Applicant than we have found to
attribute it to Post Office and to its FM and Horizon systems.

4.55. It is our view that, had the jury (in that first theft trial) been informed by Post Office that the
shortfall was the result of its own accounting errors, rather than being the result of money
having been stolen, it is entirely possible - or even likely - that it would have acquitted Mr Page,
rather than being equally divided in its verdict (that trial resulted in a hung jury). Obviously, had
that first jury acquitted Mr Page there would have been no second trial at all.

4.56. As we see it, had the evidence of Post Office's mistaken conclusion as to where the money
had gone been submitted at the second theft trial... and had the Applicant not felt compelled,
as described above, to plead guilty, the case would not have been found in the Prosecution’s
favour. We have reached that conclusion on the basis that the Prosecutor, Post Office would, in
our assessment, have been unable to prove the Applicant's guilt, due to flaws in its own Audit
and Investigation processes and in its Witness Statements to both trials. These flaws included
Post Office's failure to properly explain how the FM and Horizon systems accounted for Special
Rate Currency Deals; its failure to disclose its own massive and repeated profit overstatements;
the fact that those profit overstatements created the apparent losses at the branch; the fact
that those apparent losses (that Post Office had throughout ascribed to theft by Mr Page)
manifested themselves (in Post Office's submissions to the three trials) as currency shortfalls in
Mr Page's branch whereas they were purely an accumulation of Post Office's own profit
overstatements and there was no currency - or sterling - "missing" from the branch.

4.57. Our close examination of the Court documents, submitted by the Applicant and his
Professional Advisor, has revealed to us that Post Office's investigator, Manish Patel, suspected
FX deals, with the Applicant. Specifically, page 309 of the evidence pack (which is a page from
the transcript of the 23 April 2003 interview) refers to £58,000-worth of currency ‘Buy backs',
processed by the Applicant. The inference here was that, before he left the branch after each
transaction, /crolhad given some of the Euros (that he had purchased with post-dated cheques)

Page 18
POLO0065032

back to the Applicant as a ‘thank you'. The pattern established by the investigator was that the
Applicant would then buy back those Euros into his branch, thereby freeing up Sterling cash
that he then kept for himself. It is not clear to us why this seemingly suspicious activity was not
deeply explored during the criminal trials.

4.58. It is Post Office’s position that its post-Audit security investigation, and its criminal
proceedings, were all conducted fairly and in accordance with the strict rules and procedures in
place, and that there is no indication that the Applicant was treated unfairly. We find ourselves
unable to support that position. We also ask why, if our own examination of the evidence
submitted by the Applicant (there having been very little evidence submitted to us by Post
Office) has enabled us to so seriously question the evidence that Post Office submitted to the
three trials, Post Office's own recent investigation did not also reveal those serious deficiencies.

5. Asummary of any points on which it is not possible to offer a fully evidenced opi
lack of evidence/information

jon due toa

5.1. We have concluded that the bulk of the shortfall (or possibly even all of that shortfall) ascribed
by Post Office to theft by the Applicant was not stolen, and also was never "missing" from the
branch at all, save in the sense that the branch's customers (principally:

>} had been routinely
given more currency than Horizon "thought" they had been given. As a consequence, we
strongly suspect that the Horizon system accumulated a massive shortfall that was not a
currency shortfall at all. Rather, it was an accumulation of amounts that Post Office had
wrongly taken to its own Profit and Loss Account as a result of its own erroneous accounting
practices.

5.

i)

. Post Office now asserts, in its POIR, that "these two prosecutions relate to two entirely separate
losses. The first related to the loss of profit suffered by Post Office as a result of selling foreign
currency at preferential rates. The second related to the physical theft of foreign currency notes
from the branch". This statement does not seem to be correct. It is our understanding that, in

currency having a sterling equivalent of £282,000.00. Eighteen months later, in June 2005,
following a 9-week trial during which all of the charges had been denied by both men, both
were found not guilty of the conspiracy charge. There was, however, a hung jury in relation to
the theft charge against the Applicant. Post Office then decided that the Applicant should be
retried in relation to the theft charge, this time asserting that the Applicant had taken money
from somewhere else in the office and then, in some unspecified way, somehow hidden the
theft in the foreign exchange account. That second trial did not accuse the Applicant of stealing
foreign currency notes to the value of £282,000.00 as it had in the first trial, but rather in
stealing something else and somehow converting the loss into a foreign exchange shortfall.
The Applicant's Professional Advisor, asserts, in the Applicant's CQR, that in January 2006,
during the preparation for the retrial: "Post Office could not say when the money was stolen,
nor by what means, nor from what account or fund within the sub post office. Mr. Page’s

Page 19
5.3.

5.4.

5.5.

POLO0065032

defence teams were incredulous that a prosecution would proceed on that basis. Essentially, the
Prosecution case was “the Computer” says there is money missing so it must be theft".

It follows that, at the first trial, the Crown had been unsuccessful in persuading the Court that
the Applicant and his customer had conspired to deprive it of profits that it asserted that it
would, but for those beneficial exchange rates, have made, and it had also been unsuccessful in
asserting that the Applicant had stolen foreign currency to the value of £282,000.00. In the
second trial it had again brought a charge of theft, asserting that the Applicant had stolen
£282,000.00 in an unspecified way. Given the Applicant's guilty plea, prior to the second trial
commencing, any further evidence of theft that Post Office may by then have gathered (i.e.
beyond the evidence that was presented, unsuccessfully, at the first trial) was never tested in
Court and indeed we have seen no such evidence among all of the documents that we have
examined.

In this context, in its POIR, Post Office says that "Following the submission of the original POIR in
October 2014, Second Sight formed the view that Post Office had prosecuted the Applicant for
theft of £282,000 but the £282,000 actually formed part of the loss of profit claim Post Office
had made against the Applicant but was unsuccessful in obtaining a guilty verdict for. Post
Office does not consider that there is any merit in this". \t continues: "Essentially, the audit in
January 2003 revealed a shortage of £645,345.18 which included £282,000 worth of foreign
currency that was declared as being present in the branch in the accounts but was not physically
present in the branch when the audit was undertaken. Prior to the audit, the Police had seized
cheques to the value of £638,675.65 from the branch. Once these cheques were correctly
accounted for and other minor adjustments were made, this left a real shortage in the branch of
£282,000. This sum had been falsely declared by the Applicant as being held in branch as foreign
currency. In reality there was not an additional £282, 000 of foreign currency in the branch and
the Applicant had gradually been falsely inflating the amount of foreign currency alleged to be
in branch to disguise the actual loss from Post Office. This shortage led to Post Office’s second
prosecution of the Applicant (which was successful following a guilty plea)". Finally, Post Office
says: “Put another way, the missing £282,000 of foreign currency could not have been caused by
selling currency at preferential rates".

In analysing whether the Applicant really had been "falsely inflating the amount of foreign
currency" and, if so, why, we have studied the ‘Foreign Currency Discrepancies Schedule’, a copy
of which is shown at pages 24 - 26 of File 3 part 3 in the Court documents). That Schedule does
show that, from Week 18 in 2002 (that was the week ending 31 July 2002 in which a visiting
Post Office manager remitted back to Post Office, from the branch, £160.000.00) until week 41
(that was the week ending 3 January 2003) the 'Foreign Currency on hand' figures (these are
sterling equivalents) rise substantially higher than any figures previously declared and that all of
those declared numbers are materially higher than the 'Forde Money Changer' numbers shown
on that Schedule. The effect of those very large currency on hand declarations was that the
difference between the figures that had been declared (by the Applicant) as being on hand in
the branch grew substantially from a starting difference of £177,500.00 to a closing difference
(as discovered by the Audit) of £282,000.00. During the trial, under cross-examination, the
Applicant seems to have found difficulty in explaining why he had declared such large currency

Page 20
5.6.

5.7.

5.8.

POLO0065032

on hand figures (see pages 24 - 27 of 106 of File 7 part 3 of the Court documents) or why, prior
to the foreign currency notes on hand figures increasing so substantially after £160,000 in
sterling cash had been remmed out in week 18 by a senior Post Office employee who had gone
to the branch to find out why it had such an inappropriately large sterling cash on hand balance
(see page 42 of 106 of File 7 part 3 of the Court documents). Post Office asserts that the
Applicant had been inflating the sterling cash on hand figures prior to week 18, and the foreign
currency cash on hand figures after week 18, because he had been routinely stealing money
from the branch and had been balancing his branch's books by inflating the amount of sterling
(and later foreign currency) that his branch was meant to have on hand.

At a later point in his cross-examination (see pages 76 to 78 of 106 of File 7 part 3 of the Court
documents), the Applicant provides a more compelling explanation as to why there were large
and, after week 18 ever-increasing, differences (culminating in the £282,000.00 Audit-date
shortfall) between what the Forde Money Changer's ‘Command 10' print out said should be in
stock (by way of foreign currency notes) and what was actually shown in the branch's Horizon
records as being in stock (shown as columns 5 and 4 of the above-referenced ‘Foreign Currency
Discrepancies Schedule' - see pages 24 - 26 of File 3 part 3 in the Court documents). The

explanation that he gave is that, where he had booked sales of large quantities of Euros toi
based upon telephone calls from [ono] (but where:

had yet to arrive at the branch to collect
them), those large quantities of Euros would not therefore be included in the Forde Money
Changer's running total (since they had already been sold through it) but the notes instead
would be held in the main safe, allocated to the AM stock unit. Those notes needed to be

shown as branch stock because no money had, at that point, been received from [onol in

payment for them. In simple terms, the Applicant's practice of selling currency as it were in
telephone deals with jcno!

eant that the Forde Money Changer's weekly ‘Command 10' print
out would materially understate the branch's true currency notes on hand figure, and those
sold-but-not-paid-for notes would need to be added back into the branch's stock when carrying
out the weekly branch balancing. Even in the face of that albeit convoluted explanation, the
fact remains that, at the date of the Audit, the £282,000.00 shortfall could not be accounted for
in that way.

Later still in the cross-examination, the Applicant refers to his normal practice, when he
received foreign currency notes that he had, in effect 'pre-sold' toicro} of entering the sterling
equivalent into both the AM stock unit as well as the BU stock unit and also into the Forde
Money Changer. The correct practice would be to only book the currency into the BU stock unit
and the Forde Money Changer. Booking the incoming currency into both stock units would, of
course, duplicate the stock value on Horizon and that ought to have generated enormous (false)
surpluses in the branch's books. This practice is referred to on pages 4 to 8 of 62 of File 7 part 4
of the Court documents and we have been unable to establish whether it led to the
£282,000.00 overstatement of currency. Either way, it certainly won't have made balancing
the branch's books a simple process.

Despite carefully examining all of the detailed and, frankly complicated and confusing,
evidence, neither the jury nor we ourselves have been able to determine with certainty that the
£282,000.00 shortfall really was caused by the Applicant's theft. The doubt persists that it

Page 21
POLO0065032

might simply have arisen because Euros of that sterling equivalent had been sold toisRo; but not
paid for by him as of January 13 2003.

5.9. In our view, the fundamental difficulty, in establishing exactly how that shortfall arose, is that
Horizon's was unable to handle multiple currencies other than by recording, just once a week, a
revaluation figure expressed as a sterling equivalent of the currency notes that each branch was
meant to have in hand. Establishing, and clearly explaining, exactly what happened proved (as
evidenced by its failure to secure a conviction against either Defendant at the first trial) beyond
the combined skills of Post Office's investigation and legal teams and the Crown's prosecuting
QC. It seems now also to have proved beyond the skills of those who prepared the POIR.

5.10. By way of illustration, Post Office asserts, in its POIR, that "the Applicant had gradually been
falsely inflating the amount of foreign currency alleged to be in branch to disquise the actual
loss from Post Office" and “he deliberately inflated foreign currency holdings to disguise the
removal of money from the branch". Those assertions are made in the POIR regardless of the
fact that none of the evidence submitted to the court, during the first trial, managed to
convince the jury of their truth.

5.11. Post Office says, in that POIR, "there has been no evidence presented to Post Office that
questions the validity of the prosecution or the Applicant’s guilty plea". Second Sight is a firm
with technology, accounting and investigative skills that claims no particular expertise in regard
to criminal law matters. Indeed, Post Office has made this point quite clear in its
communications to Applicants, their Professional Advisors and in its Press Releases. It follows
that any views that we have expressed, in this report, in respect of the criminal trials, are based
upon our examination of the evidence in our capacity as professional accountants and fraud
investigation specialists. We are not aware of Post Office having commissioned any other firm
to review the two criminal prosecutions and indeed, as far as we are aware, Post Office did not
have the documents that were supplied by the Applicant's Professional Advisor, until it
prepared its revised POIR. We are consequently unsure whether, or how, Post Office has
reassured itself that both prosecutions were properly carried out. Should the Applicant wish to
pursue his expressed desire to have his case re-examined, then there are avenues available to
him to do so.

5.12. Having heavily criticised, in this CRR, Post Office's conduct, including its failure to detect the
huge volume and value of this branch's off-market foreign exchange deals prior to being alerted
to them by HM Customs and Excise, and its subsequent failure to offer adequate evidence of
theft at the first trial, we must also here criticise the Applicant. It seems to us quite remarkable
that, if his consistently repeated testimony is to be believed, he failed ever to realise that the
beneficial foreign exchange sales rates that he was, over the years,
wildly different from those offered by other Bureaux de Change tha’

I were SO

i as able to make
massive profits simply by buying from his branch and selling to other local Bureaux de Change.
It is also clear that the Applicant realised that he was taking substantial credit risks, way beyond
the losses that he could afford to sustain (indeed he acknowledged that during the first trial, as
shown on page 69 of 86 of the Court transcript shown in File 7 part 2 of the Court documents).

He took those risks for no reward (other than the tiny £1.10 in fee income that he received for

Page 22
POLO0065032

every foreign currency transaction, regardless of its value, that he processed), by routinely
accepting’< high-value, post-dated, cheques, in exchange for foreign currency cash. The
inference here is that, if he was doing all that without sharing in massive profits, then he
must have been extraordinarily dense. That said, Post Office failed ever to notice what he was.
doing and it was for Post Office, through the Crown, to prove that his motivation was personal
gain and theft and, as stated above, but subject to our remarks in paragraph 5.11. above, we
have seen no compelling evidence that supports those assertions and charges.

5.13. Post Office concedes, in its POIR, that "/t is regrettable that Post Office did not take action
before the events of January 2003. Post Office appears to have been slow to react in
questioning the levels of currency being sold, particularly Euros and the high value of cheques. A
possible reason for this is that as the two Post Office departments responsible for foreign
currency and cheque processing are independent of each (cash centre and the cheque
processing centre respectively) and may not have communicated any concerns with one another
regarding the branch. Alternatively, it is possible that both of these departments may have
attributed the high foreign currency and large cheque amounts to a corporate customer of the
branch".

6. Is this case suitable for mediation?

6.1. In our opinion this case is suitable for mediation, not least because it will offer both parties the
opportunity to achieve resolution on the matter of whether there ever was adequate evidence
of theft to bring a prosecution for theft.

6.2. If the case does proceed to mediation, then the following issues should also be considered:

a) Whether the inadequate training and support in respect of FX transaction processing, and the
misadvice that the Applicant says he received from his Contract Manager and from others in
Post Office, including the alleged failure to notice and respond to the off-market FX rates that
he was openly offering to icso, are likely to have caused of some or all of this branch's losses.

b) whether Post Office or the Applicant is responsible in part or in whole for the £282,000.00 in
losses, that we assume have been written off by, Post Office in addition to the losses that Post
Office booked centrally when the small weekly profits booked by the branch failed to extinguish
the losses that it had already booked when it devalued all of the currency that it sent to the
branch.

Page 23
