POL00103411

POL00103411
Message
From: Tim Parker I
on behalf of Tim Parker!_
Sent: 08/03/2019
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI
cc: Ke -Franklind
f Paula Vennells
nica Branton
Subject: Re: Postmaster Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Very disappointing: we now need to look at the detail.
Tim Parker
Chairman

National Trust
20 Grosvenor Gardens, London, SW1W ODH

Chairman
Post Office Limited

Chairman
Samsonite International SA
Westerring 17, B-9700 Oudenaarde, Belgium

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI:
Sent: Friday, March 8, 2019 4:28 pm
To: Jane MacLeod

Ce: Tim Parker; Ken McCall1; Carla Stent1; Tim.Franklin1; Shirine Khoury-Haq; Paula Vennells; Alisdair Cameron;
Veronica Branton

Subject: Re: Postmaster Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD.
Jane

That’s obviously disappointing. Good that there are contingency plans in place.

I'd like to read the judgement itself please.

Tom

Sent from my iPhone

On 8 Mar 2019, at 15:26, Jane Macleod I wrote:

All

POL-0102994
POL00103411
POL00103411

We received the judgment this morning in the Common Issues Trial. The judgment is 325 pages and
very detailed, and as a result we have not yet read it completely or fully understood all the
arguments. However a high level review indicates:
e We have lost on all material points
e The judge has criticised Post Office comprehensively — both as to our historic operations and
behaviours and our conduct of the case
e The judge accepts the evidence of the Lead Claimants but is sceptical of our witnesses who he
characterises as ‘extraordinarily partisan’
e He has struck out the key contractual provisions which require postmasters to account to Post
Office, and
e He has stated that the Branch Trading Statement — which is the key document on which Post
Office relies for postmasters to account for cash and stock in branches — cannot be relied on as a
statement of account.

The judgment will be handed down formally either next Friday (15‘) or on Monday 18". In the
meantime we are working on grounds for appeal.

We have activated our contingency planning in order that we have communications and detailed plans
available and ready to launch at the point the judgment is formally handed down. In the meantime, the
judgment is subject to embargo and cannot be shared or discussed outside of Post Office and its legal
team. We are keeping the news to a tight team within Post Office.

There are many questions that we cannot yet answer and we need some time to fully digest the verdict.
We will therefore be setting up a Board call probably on Tuesday. In the meantime, please call either
myself or Al as needed.

Jane

<image001.png> Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number:

ECC RFF FH RoR FF 00 oR fF 0 0 0 0 0 oR 0 0 0 oR A Co oo

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

CIC RRR I ICCC RR RR I I HC RR of I ES 2K ORR I CSR 2A RR I SG RR CES

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this
can be found on our website at www postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

POL-0102994
POL00103411
POL00103411

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit hitp ymanteccioud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

POL-0102994
