Agenda

POL00423564

POL00423564
®
Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting
Friday 1 May 2015, 10:00 - 12:00
Boardroom 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials London
Dial in Details
Freephone Number
Toll Number:
Participant passcode
Members: Jane MacLeod (Chair) I Attendees: Gavin Lambert
Alisdair Cameron Garry Hooton
Neil Hayward Steve Miller
Alwen Lyons Georgina Blair
Nick Kennett Martin George
Paula Vennells
Apologies:
Agenda Item Purpose Timing Paper Owner
1 I Committee minutes I Agree minutes of last meeting 10:00 - 10:05 I One Chair
and actions and review actions 5 minutes
2 I Principles of risk Discuss and approve principles I 10:05 - 10:20 I Two Steve Miller
management and implementation plan prior I 15 minutes
to submission to GE
3 I Review of Discuss and approve review 10:20 - 10:35 I Three Steve Miller
effectiveness of risk I prior to submission to ARC 15 minutes
and internal
controls framework
4 I Principal risks Review POL principal risks and I 10:35 - 11:05 I Four Steve Miller
risk management section of 30 minutes
the Annual Report prior to
submission to ARC
5 I Risk incidents Review and approve proposed I 11:05 - 11:15 I Five Georgina
reporting process reporting process 10 minutes Blair
6 I Vulnerable Discuss approach to developing I 11:15 - 11:25 I - Martin
customers update policy on vulnerable customers I 10 minutes George
7 I Review of policy Review and approve proposed I 11:25 - 11:35 I Six Steve Miller
approvals process approach 10 minutes
8 I Internal Audit Review latest update from 11:35 - 11:50 I Seven I Garry
Report Internal Audit prior to 15 minutes Hooton
submission to ARC
9 I Gifts & Hospitality Review report 11:50 - 12:00 I Eight Georgina
Annual Report 10 minutes Blair
Papers for noting
10 I ID Cards Policy Note policy = Nine John Scott
11 I Information Note policies - Ten Julie
Security Policies George
(4)
Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 1 of 85
1, Committee Minutes & Actions

RCC 1 MAY 2015

PAPER ONE

Post Office Ltd - Confidential

POL00423564
POL00423564

Action to be closed.

team.

amendments noted.

Risk and Compliance Committee (R&CC) Reference: R&CC March
bade 16 Warch Venue: Boardroom, Finsbury Dials Time: 14:00 - 16:00
Attending:

Jane MacLeod General Counsel Chair

Alisdair Cameron Chief Financial Officer Member

Neil Hayward Group People Director Member

Nick Kennett Financial Services Director Member

Gavin Lambert Chief of Staff On behalf of the CEO
Alwen Lyons Company Secretary Member

Steve Miller Head of Risk - incoming Observer

Arnout van der Veer Head of Risk and Assurance - outgoing Report

Georgina Blair Risk Business Partner Secretariat

Paul Beaumont Risk Business Partner Report

Garry Hooton Head of Audit - incoming Report

Apologies:

Paula Vennells CEO Member

The Chair declared the committee quorate and opened the meeting.

The committee reviewed the minutes and actions from the last meeting.

The following amendments to actions were noted:
Action 1655 - Whistleblowing comms plan to be brought back to the next meeting.

Action 1649 - Commercial Director to give his view on vulnerable customers at the next meeting.
Action 1646 - Produce a paper on what the policy governance process should be (for May meeting).
Action 1645- Workshops no longer needed given the other risk assessment activity in place.

Action 1631 - Head of Telecoms to confirm that he knows who is responsible for compliance in his

The committee agreed the minutes of the previous meeting and the attached actions subject to the

The committee discussed the updated terms of reference. It was noted that there was

inconsistency in the reporting from sub-committees to the RCC and the committee requested that
an appropriate form of reporting was agreed with the chairs of the sub-committees (Action 1656).

The committee discussed the rolling agenda. The Head of Risk and Assurance explained that it was
based on a meeting frequency of six times a year. It was noted that it had been intended for RCC
meetings to coincide with Group Executive Team meetings, and to take up the last two hours of the
GE meeting agenda, but that this was not yet possible due to current pressures on the GE agenda.
The Committee noted that the timing of reporting from sub-committees needed to be clarified and
that the risk team was working on an incident reporting process.

It was noted that there were a number of the scheduled items which could potentially include
reports on POMS (eg. AML compliance). It was agreed that further discussion was required as to
the interaction between POMS and POL on these items, given that the POMS board would also
require assurance around these matters it was agreed that the Chair would discuss this with the
Financial Services Director (Action 1657).

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

1, Committee Minutes & Actions

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER ONE

Post Office Ltd - Confidential

The committee acon the terms of reference and aa aes

The Head of Risk and Assurance introduced the risk management key principles, noting that
fundamental parts of the principles were:
« A general review of risks and upward reporting to RCC and GE to take place twice a year
« Arisk champion in a frontline role in each part of the business
« Management confirmation that the assessment of risks and controls is accurate (to start in
September 2015).

The committee discussed the principles. The Group People Director noted that the risk
management guidance (Paper 3, Appendix A) that had been issued by the risk team had been very
useful to his team when they were considering their own risks. The committee requested that a

risk management session be provided for the SLT at the next appropriate opportunity (Action
1658).

The committee endorsed the key principles.

The committee discussed the key risks. The committee noted that the aggregation of risks
obscured their meaning and requested that they be disaggregated in order to provide greater
transparency over the individual risk. The committee also asked that the likelihood and impact
scores for each risk be reviewed (Action 1659).

The committee reviewed the proposed approach to Business Transformation Assurance. It was
suggested that the hard reporting line for the two Business Transformation risk and assurance roles
should be to the General Counsel and/or Head of Risk and the dotted line to the Head of
Transformation, which is the reverse of the current situation. Chair and Head of Risk to discuss
with the Transformation Director (Action 1660).

The committee discussed the papers.

The committee reviewed the Internal Audit Plan and requested some amendments (Action 1661).

The committee noted the paper and that the FOI process is under review.

The committee discussed the paper and requested further investigation into the seriousness of the
problem. Group People Director to review the external audit report on adherence to the joiners,
movers and leaver processes. Head of Audit to provide external audit view to Group People Director
(Action 1662).

The General Counsel gave an update on Sparrow.

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 3 of 85
1, Committee Minutes & Actions

RCC 1 MAY 2015

PAPER ONE

Post Office Ltd - Confidential

POL00423564

POL00423564

Date Ref Action Lead By Update

03/15 1662 Provide external audit view Garry 1°* May Done - ACTION CLOSED
on adherence to joiners, Hooton
movers, leavers processes as
referenced in Joiners,

Leavers, Movers Policy to
Group People Director.

03/15 1661 Amend audit plan in Garry 1** May Done - plan approved by
accordance with feedback Hooton ARC in March 2015 -
from committee members ACTION CLOSED

03/15 1660 Discuss reporting lines of Jane 1°* May Done - ACTION CLOSED
Business Transformation risk I MacLeod/
and assurance roles with the I Steve
Transformation Director. Miller

03/15 1659 Revise presentation of Steve 1°t May See agenda item 4
principal risks in line with Miller
feedback from committee
members I

03/15 1658 Provide a risk management Jane 22" june
session for the SLT at the MacLeod/
next appropriate opportunity Neil

Hayward

03/15 1657 Discuss interaction between Jane 1°* May POMS RCC to report to
POL and POMS with regard to I MacLeod POL RCC - format to be
reporting at RCC with agreed.

Financial Services Director

03/15 1656 Develop proposal for sub- Steve 22" june
committee reporting to RCC Miller/
and discuss at GE Alwen

Lyons

01/15 1655 Prepare and implement a Steve 22™ June I Whistleblowing framework
communications plan to raise — Miller currently under review.
awareness of the Action point carried
whistleblowing line. forward to next meeting.

01/15 1653 Gather views from committee I Steve 1°* May See agenda item 5
members on incident Miller
reporting de-minimis limits
and provide an update.

01/15 1652 Prepare note clarifying the Steve 1°* May I See agenda item 3
current approach to Miller
compliance with new the
Corporate Governance Code

01/15 1649 Write to the Commercial Jane 1%* May See agenda item 6
Committee with the MacLeod
committee’s comments on
vulnerable customers, and
request an update for the
next meeting. Updated
March 2015: Commercial
Director to give his view on
vulnerable customers at the
next meeting.

3
4 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
1, Committee Minutes & Actions

RCC 1 MAY 2015

PAPER ONE

Post Office Ltd - Confidential

POL00423564
POL00423564

risks and provide an update
on training on regulatory
matters and the allocation of
accountability for compliance
with General Conditions
within the Telecoms team.
Updated March 2015: Head
of Telecoms to confirm he
knows who is responsible for
compliance in his team.

12/14 1646 Provide a report on the list of I Steve 1°* May See agenda item 7
policies that need to be Miller
approved. Updated March
2015: Produce a paper
Proposing an appropriate
process. I
12/14 1644 Hold a scenario-analysis Steve 22™ june
workshop to try and identify Miller
unexpected risks.
10/14 1631 Brief the Telecoms team on Geoff 1 May Head of Telecoms has
the importance of registering Smyth confirmed that he is the

accountable individual
within POL and provided
the name of the
accountable individual
within Fujitsu. -ACTION
CLOSED

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

@

Risk Management in Post Office
Implementing ‘first line’ risk capability
G1/S0/L0-BuneeW seniWU0D eoue!IdW0D 9 ¥SIY

Contents

* The three lines of defence model

+ The risk management principles

* The risk management principles: actions required by risk owners
¢ Building capability: the risk champion

* Building capability: training and development

* Building capability: timetable for implementation

POL00423564
POL00423564

Zz

10 sajdiouuig

SIs

jueweBeuely »
POL00423564
POL00423564

Zz

The Three Lines of Defence Model 1:

jueweBeuel ySIY Jo saldioud

The Post Office has adopted the Three Lines of Defence Model for risk management. This is the most common risk management
structure implemented by complex organisations today.

The First Line of Defence is provided by employees and support functions in the businesses responsible for providing products
and services and for execution of activities. The First Line of Defence has ownership and accountability for:

- Risk identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting in accordance with established policies, procedures and
guidance, and risk appetite.

- Ensuring appropriate and adequate capability for managing risk
- Implementing the requirements of the risk management principles in business areas.

The Second Line of Defence is provided by areas with independent oversight accountabilities such as in Central Risk Team, ISAG,
Security functions. The Second Line of Defence:
- Establishes the risk management framework and underlying policies and procedures and provides risk guidance

- Provides oversight of the effectiveness of first line risk management practices
- Monitors and independently reports on the level of risk relative to stated risk appetite.
- Oversight of strategic risk through the Group Executive

The Third Line of Defence is primarily provided by Internal Audit and provides independent assurance to senior management,
ARC and the Board on the effectiveness of risk management policies, processes and practices.
The Three Lines of Defence Model 2:

Group Executive Committee (and sub-committees), Audit and Risk Committee, Board of Directors

t

( First line of defence \

Risk Owners

Business and their local
support functions embedded
in the business

Risk assessments, incident
reporting

Reporting risk appetite
metrics / scorecards
Implementing the risk
management principles

ee,

t

/— Second line of >

defence

Risk Oversight
Establish risk management
practice and provide
guidance

- Provide oversight of the
effectiveness of first line risk
practices

- Monitor and independently
report on the level of risk

NX yy,

Ne yy,

Third line of defence

Independent Assurance
Provided by internal audit

- Independent assurance to
management and the
Board of Directors on the
effectiveness of risk
management practice.

POL00423564
POL00423564

Zz

W¥SIY Jo sajdiouug

POL00423564
POL00423564

8 JO OL

FE
&

Risk management principles (presented to RCC 16 March):
These are basic requirements for meeting the UK Corporate Governance Code

Risk Principle First line responsibilities
1 ISponsorship and ownership at the * Demonstrate support and ownership of risk management by providing time and resource.
highest level * Allocate suitably senior resource for risk management to implement a first line risk function

* Have a regular risk management discussion at LT meetings, attended by the central risk team as
relevant.

2 IAdynamic process resulting in * Have processes for tracking changes in the risk profile, made up from the risk assessments, risk

continuous improvement and mitigation] _ incidents and key risk indicators (KRIs).

of the risk inherent in the businesses

Develop timetable to assess business unit risks to meet bi-annual requirement, and using methodology
provided by central risk team.

* Apply risk assessment process to smaller units within business function based on risk exposure.
* Develop a reporting process for incidents to the LT for discussion and then to the central risk team.

* Monitor risk appetite metrics for relevant categories.

& * Demonstrate improvements in the risk profile over an agreed time horizon.
° 3. IClearly articulated performance * Use business objectives in the identification and assessment of risks.
objectives aligned with the risk appetite I- Assess profile against appetite using risk appetite metrics.
4 IFactoring risk considerations into * Include risk evaluation in investment decisions.
decision making * Assess risk evaluation against risk appetite

* Ensure external testing against any risk based forecasting used for investment assessments.

a

Risk management principles (presented to RCC 16 March):

POL00423564
POL00423564

N 41SIY JO

Risk Principle

First line responsibilities

A sound control culture

* Review effectiveness of controls as part of assessing or reviewing risks.

* Assess controls when reviewing risk incidents.

* Implement SMART actions where controls are partially or not effective and allocate owners to actions.

* Track action progress and report to LT

Implementation and monitoring of
risk and control improvements

* Have appropriate control monitoring mechanisms in place (eg. metrics, action tracking, and control
improvements).

* Reduce risk exposure over time by improving control environment (see 5 above).

The completion of the assessment
of risks and control strategies twice
a year including management
representation.

* Develop timetable to review and reassess top business unit risks to meet bi-annual requirement.
* Develop a list of the key business controls, with owners and metrics for monitoring performance.

* Validate and provide bi-annual management representation over the control framework and its
operation (as per the UK Corporate Governance Code).

Resourcing

* Nominate a risk champion for each business unit (a risk champion must be a high enough grade to
influence management effectively to implement the first line risk framework).

* Risk champion to lead risk assessment, implementation of controls and monitoring of effectiveness.

* Allocate time at LT meetings to discuss risks, incidents and metrics.

840 ZL

FE
&

POL00423564
POL00423564

Building capability: the risk champion

Integrating risk management into ways of working and promoting effective risk management enables more informed decision making.
Accritical success factor is building adequate first line risk management capability. The main agents for this are the Risk Champions.

The Risk Champion owns the delivery of the risk management process in specific areas or functions, but is not the risk owner. The Risk Champion
does not have to be a risk expert but should possess a good understanding of risk management principles and be prepared to develop their skills
through training and mentoring.

Key Risk Champion Responsibilities:

- Promote risk awareness and support the central risk function in the implementation of risk management framework.

- Representing risk management and team meetings

- Overseeing the inclusion of risk elements into any business area presentations to GE and Board

- Providing advice and guidance on risk management to colleagues and managers.

- Supporting the risk identification and assessment processes including completion of the business unit risk register, and ensuring risk reporting
is delivered to timescale.

- Reporting incidents and risk appetite exposure metrics to the central risk team.

- Representing the business unit at risk forums and meetings.

g1/S0/L0-Bunaey aaniWg souelIdWog g YSIY

sgjoeL

Building capability: actions for first and second line

POL00423564

POL00423564

Action — for delivery by central risk team Action — for delivery by GE / First line risk owners Due date

‘Announce adoption of risk management principles / three lines of defence (08-May-15)

Imodel by GE
Develop training programme for first line risk capability (31-May-15)
Develop incident management & key risk indicators reporting processes and (31-May-15
\guidance

Allocate senior individual to be business area risk champion (31-May-15)

lInclude risk discussion on Lead Team agenda 31-May-15
Deliver training programme & roll out guidance documentation (risk 30-Jun-15
lassessments, risk incidents & key risk indicators) for first line risk champions

[Develop timetable to meet bi-annual risk assessment requirement. 31-Jul-15

implement incident and key risk indicator reporting processes 31-Jul-15
Review risk appetite and update as necessary (31-Aug-15
Develop policy model and compliance oversight activity

[Develop list of key business controls, identify owners and metrics. (31-Aug-15

[Review control monitoring mechanisms (eg. metrics, action tracking) 31-Aug-15
Develop regular enterprise risk reporting & show trend on risk assessments [30-Sep-15
Review systems of risk management and internal control in each business 30-Sep-15
lunit, and representations from management

Report progress against actions on exception basis to Lead Team (30-Sep-15

IReview effectiveness of controls as part of assessing or reviewing risks. 30-Sep-15

\Complete bi-annual risk assessment and annual representation on state of 30-Sep-15

internal controls under the Corporate Governance Code

[Review requirement for more lower level risk registers within business unit 31-Oct-15

Annual back test of assessments with incidents and metrics 31-Mar-16.

Link bi-annual risk assessments with risks to achieving business objectives [31-Mar-16

a
o
&
g
a
a
o

POL00423564
POL00423564

3. Review Effectiveness of Risk and Internal Control Frameworks

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER THREE

RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

UK Corporate Governance Code: Annual review of the effectiveness of risk and internal
control frameworks

A. Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to provide the Risk & Compliance Committee (R&CC)
with an assessment of the extent to which Post Office has carried out the annual
review of the effectiveness of risk and internal control frameworks required by the
UK Corporate Governance Code.

2, Background

2.1 The UK Corporate Governance Code the states (at C.2.3) that in order to comply
with the Code:
The board should monitor the company’s risk management and internal control
systems and, at least annually, carry out a review of their effectiveness, and report
on that review in the annual report. The monitoring and review should cover all
material controls, including financial, operational and compliance control

2.2 The old Turnbull guidance also required the board to review the effectiveness of
the company’s risk management and internal controls.

2.3 This review has not been undertaken in the past year, mainly due to disruption in
the nature, focus and approach to developing a framework to comply with the
code.

3. Current status

A top down view of current status is given by the table at Appendix A, which lists

the questions boards should ask in completing a review (based on the most recent

guidance — October 2014) along with

a) The response we would be able to make to the question based on existing
status.

b) Current common practice in making a response as outlined by PWC.

4. Action

The Committee is asked to note:

41 We have not conducted a review this year.

4.2 That, prior to performing a full gap analysis against the risk management
sections of the code, the attached schedule sets out a brief snapshot of
position and current common practice in performing the annual review.

43 We have engaged with PWC to determine current best practice.

Steve Miller
1 May 2015

14 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
g1/S0/L0-Bunaey aaniWg souelIdWog g YSIY

Sg jocL

RCC 1 MAY 2015

The Code: Questions for board to consider in its annual assessment process

PAPER THREE

Risk appetite and culture

Status

Common Practice (PWC)

1 How has the board agreed the
company’s risk appetite?

With whom has it conferred?

Appetite paper agreed by the Board in
January 2015

Currently awkward to implement; more
useful as statement of intent.

There is an opportunity to re-present at the
time of the interim statement and produce a
more quantitative approach to facilitate
assessing risk exposures.

The Board needs to satisfy itself that any potential breach of
its appetite would be identified before it occurred; monitoring
arrangements will need to be defined.

Although not a requirement, the Board could consider
disclosing risk appetite in the annual report and accounts.
Defining the early warning indicators for principal risks, setting
tolerance levels and monitoring metrics as part of the
oversight conducted by Risk Committee and the Board.

2 How has the board assessed the
company’s culture? In what way does
the board satisfy itself that the company
has a ‘speak-up’ culture and that it
systematically learns from past
mistakes?

The PO has a whistleblowing policy, code
of conduct and key behaviours set out.
Employees are represented by union
leadership, and other representative
organisations.

We are seeing many businesses defining the desired culture
and associated behaviours in order to have a reference point
for review, monitoring and taking action.

3 How do the company’s culture, code of
conduct, human resource policies and
performance reward systems support the
business objectives and risk
management and internal control
systems?

There is a risk management policy and
RCC has TOR setting out roles and
responsibilities,

Code of conduct refers to risk appetite.

Risk management accountabilities to be defined, agreed and
communicated covering the Board, ARC, GE, Risk Function,
Internal Audit, business areas, management and staff.
Adjust performance management system to measure
behaviours for individuals and rewards and sanctions
determined as a result.

4 How has the board considered whether
senior management promotes and
communicates the desired culture and
demonstrates the necessary
commitment to risk management and
internal control?

Board, ARC and GE refer risk management
approach in PO and desire for improvement
in risk framework; including the design and
implementation of an enterprise risk
management framework

See point 2 above

5 How is inappropriate behaviour dealt
with? Does this present consequential
risks?

Disciplinary process and policies.

There may indeed be consequential risks although
unaddressed inappropriate behaviour will have a bigger risk
impact

POL00423564
POL00423564

eo
Pa
2
g
iy
e
3
g
8
8,
Fs
g
2

$8 JO OL

a
%
°
g§

SL/SO/L0-Bunaa; een

RCC 1 MAY 2015

PAPER THREE

How does the board ensure that it has
sufficient time to consider risk, and how
is that integrated with discussion on
other matters for which the board is
responsible?

ARC / Board timetable.

Strategic risk — policy on articulating
strategic risks in update papers for the
board.

The Board (as a minimum) should debate the following on an
ongoing basis:

- The strategic risk profile, transformation risk profile

- Horizon scanning for emerging risks

- Deep dive on all strategic/principal risks

- Risk management maturity and progress of how the risk
framework is being embedded across the business

- Risk appetite and risk appetite breaches
- The effectiveness of controls in place to manage key risks

- The extent, source and effectiveness of assurance over
the risk management and internal control system and key
controls

Risk management and internal control
systems

To what extent do the risk management
and internal control systems underpin
and relate to the company’s business
model?

Strategy papers and updates require an
outline of the key risks.

The internal control system is embedded in
the policies, procedures and processes
used to manage the day to day activities of
the PO. These are designed to facilitate
effective and efficient operation of the
processes required to achieve the PO
business objectives, and to respond
effectively to risks.

There are gaps in reporting effectiveness
and efficiency of control operation to
provide management with sufficient
oversight and transparency of the control
systems.

The key here is if risk management is appropriate and
proportionate to the business model and the extent of
inherent risk the business model presents.

The annual assessment could consider a statement on
proportionality and relevance.

In addition this also asks how risk management is embedded
in strategic planning and the relationship to strategy and
objectives. This poses questions about what the strategy is,
and how risks have been identified and assessed.

Does risk identification and assessment coincide with strategy
setting, does strategy formulation determine the need for risk
assessment and do we monitor changes in the business
environment that impact strategy?

POL00423564
POL00423564

©
g
a
e
3
3
g
2,
FS

Wog *@ ¥SIM

/Lo-Bunsey aan

Susi

$B JO ZL

RCC 1 MAY 2015

PAPER THREE

9 How are authority, responsibility and Risk policy, RCC ToR. Clear risk management accountabilities should be defined,
accountability for risk management and _I Local policies for control ownership and agreed and communicated across the Business covering the
internal control defined, co-ordinated and I management. Board, ARC, GE, Risk Function, Internal Audit, Business
documented throughout the 1 Divisions, management and staff. These accountabilities form
organisation? How does the board Ree TARC Bieler it Key an essential component of the risk management framework
determine whether this is clear, ” — and should be agreed by the Board and GE.
appropriate and effective?

10. I How effectively is the company able to APOL wide risk assessment has been The Code asks for an assessment of risks that happen at the
withstand risks, and risk combinations, undertaken, and the results presented to same time (risk in aggregation) so scenario analysis should
which do materialise? How effective is GE. be considered which should include high impact low
the board’s approach to risks with ‘low Further work on evaluating mitigating probability risks.
probability’ but a very severe impact if actions was prepared as a result. The Code also requires inherent and residual assessment of
they materialise? risk to determine the extent of control effectiveness.

Deep dive risk reviews should consider this specifically.

11. I How has the board assessed whether Risk owners periodically called to The risk framework document is key and when agreed,
employees have the knowledge, skills committees to discuss risk and actions for communicated across the business.
and tools to manage risks effectively? incidents Training should be provided on the framework.

The Board should consider Internal Audit’s role in providing
assurance over the application of the framework and receives
reports on this as part of their annual assessment.

12. I What are the channels of communication I Whistleblowing policies. Outside the formal process of whistleblowing, this is really
that enable individuals, including third down to culture and how open communication is being
parties, to report concerns, suspected encouraged.
breaches of law or regulations, other Are there other communication channel exist and are these
improprieties or challenging being used effectively?
perspectives?

13. I How does the board satisfy itself that the I ARC / Board timetable. See point 6 above

information it receives is timely, of good
quality, reflects numerous information
sources and is fit for purpose?

Strategic risk — policy on articulating
strategic risks in update papers for the
board.

POL00423564
POL00423564

puke ysIy Jo SseUaATOaYyT manag “E

09 [eu

n
3
g
S
$8 Jo et

Wog *@ ¥SIM

/Lo-Bunsey aan

Susi

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER THREE

14. I What are the responsibilities of the board I Crisis management procedures and How frequently tested?
and senior management for crisis business continuity policy
management? How effectively have the
company’s crisis management planning
and systems been tested?

15. I To what extent has the company External commissioned review of recent
identified risks from joint ventures, third joint ventures (Titan — Grant Thornton).
parties and from the way the company’s I Clear procedures for risk with third parties
business is organised? How are these (Bol) and engagement.
managed?

16. I How effectively does the company Bi-annual risk assessment process.
capture new and emerging risks and Risk assessed in strategic plans.
opportunities?

17. I How and when does the board consider I See above. Explicit articulation of risk and reward to be included in the
risk when discussing changes in strategy I Change / projects / commitments; new investment approval process to aid Boards decision making.
or approving new transactions, projects, I business transformation assurance
products or other significant processes, staff and activities.
commitments?

18. I To what extent has the board considered I Currently this has been at a strategic level. I The Code requires Board to assess the effectiveness of
the cost-benefit aspects of different material controls to manage principal risks and whether fit for
control options? purpose and operating as intended.

POL will need to consider conducting detailed control
optimisation work around key controls and processes.

19. I How does the board ensure it Risk registers by area assessed on net This is a key element of the Code’s requirements around

understands the company’s exposure to
each principal risk before and after the
application of mitigations and controls,
what those mitigations and controls are
and whether they are operating as.
expected?

basis.

Controls and actions recorded on register
and presented to GE.

principal risks.

The framework must consider risk, cause and consequence,
inherent assessment, existing controls and control
effectiveness, residual exposure, the need for addition
mitigation to manage risk to tolerated levels.

Also see point 18 above as understanding control
effectiveness and control optimisation is a key part of the
spirit of the Code

POL00423564
POL00423564

©
2
3
g
a
e
3
g
g
2,
2

a
%
°
g§

SL/SO/L0-Bunaa; een

$8 JO6L

RCC 1 MAY 2015

PAPER THREE

20. I Monitoring and Review

21. I What are the processes by which senior I Little control performance data currently. We are seeing internal audit including review of risk
management monitor the effective Incidents / events have been reported at management application and effectiveness as part of Internal
application of the systems of risk past RCC. Audit plan. The Board should consider what this assurance

, 9
management and internal control? No regular risk profile created manta to look like. ; ;
No regular maturity analysis reported This is supplemented by reports from the risk function on
0 regu YSIS reported. framework application.
An ‘assurance map’ outlining the key sources and
effectiveness of assurance over key controls is increasingly
common place in large organisations.

22. I In what way do the monitoring and A number of false starts in getting a The risk functions prepare a set of questions for the Board,
review processes take into account the common practice have taken place. ARC and Risk Committee to ensure effective challenge.
company’s ability to re-evaluate the risks I Risk profile data has been sporadic, as has_I Re-evaluation also needs to consider the implications of
and adjust controls effectively in ___ I assessment of effectiveness of controls changes in risk appetite and tolerance.

Meee oS te oatemateruromacnts. I Recent assessment does asses controls; I The Risk Committee and Board should also monitor the early
further work required on validation. warning metrics defined for each of the principal risks

23. I How are processes or controls adjusted I See point 22 above. See point 22 above.

to reflect new or changing risks, or
operational deficiencies? To what extent
does the board engage in horizon
scanning for emerging risks?

The Risk Committee should debate emerging risks as a
standing agenda item and report the findings of this review to
the Board bringing key issues to their attention

POL00423564
POL00423564

©
g
a
e
3
3
g
2,
FS

$8 J0 OZ

g1/S0/L0-Bunaey aaniWg souelIdWog g YSIY

RCC 1 MAY 2015

PAPER THREE

24.

Public reporting

25.

26.

How has the board satisfied itself that
the disclosures on risk management and
internal control contribute to the annual
report being fair, balanced and
understandable, and provide
shareholders with the information they
need?

How has the board satisfied itself that its
reporting on going concern and the
longer term viability statement gives a
fair, balanced and understandable
overview of the company’s position and
prospects?

Draft annual disclosures in process.

The Code is requiring specific disclosure in a number of

areas:

- Acknowledge that the Board is responsible for the risk
management system and reviewing its effectiveness and
disclose that there is an on-going process in place

- Report on the review of the risk management system, the
effectiveness, main features, any significant failings and
actions taken to address them

- The extent to which the system accords with the Code

- Report that a robust assessment of the principal risks has
been conducted (also required by the Companies Act
2006)

- Disclose the principal risks and their mitigation, ensuring
tisk descriptions are sufficiently specific to understand
how it might affect the entity

POL00423564
POL00423564

puke ysIy Jo SseUaATOaYyT manag “E

a
3
3
3
3
a
a

Appendix A: Principal Risks

Risk Title

A I Risks to

underperformance
in income

Risk Description

Threats to market share, sales, profitability, and cost
base rely for mitigation on managing a number of
variables with critical dependencies.

* Ml quality and accuracy fails to provide adequate
information for decision making.

* Organisational inability to respond quickly and
effectively to opportunities and threats

* Competitors erode market share across all target
product areas

* Lack of effective and timely product and service
development; offer to partners and customers not
sufficiently attractive

* Strategy not aligned with key partners (RMG, BO!)

* People capability and capacity insufficient to meet
market challenges.

* Lack of effective and timely technological response
means network changes do not deliver expected
increases in profitability (e.g. Front Office
deployment)

Actions

Trading Committee and Commercial Committee review performance
and Marketing/Sales action plans regularly

Sales pipeline and performance measure ratios in place and embedded
at all levels to reinforce sales model

Improved performance management process deployed in crowns

Streamlined and clarified performance measures ownership and
improved decision making processes

Programmatic approach introduced for network sales activities and sales
capability
New crown area manager structure deployed

Digital and Data Revenue plan for 15/16 being deployed and 3 year plan
in development

Training and rollout of Customer Relationship Managers and
deployment of Guiding Coalition in agency branches

Project to develop short term financial MI solution

Mails strategy review

End to end review of customer experience/journeys for each product
Effective stakeholder plans and governance processes for key partners

Product Profitability Programme to optimise profitability by product
across all pillars

POL00423564
POL00423564

Underlying risks
8, 9, 11, 13, 14,
16,17

PR2, PR4, PR7

Transformation not
delivered in full

Cost savings may be delayed or not achieved, or overall
service compromised.

*  IT replacements and upgrades not timely leading to
increased costs or infrastructure failure

* Inaccurate investment assessments lead to costly
errors in new product / customer solutions or structural
changes

* People capability / capacity inadequate to deliver plan

or compromised by industrial action

Embed risk management in programme. Transformation assurance plan.
Create design framework for FO application

Review reward structure and develop PO vision and change narrative
Re-invest in systems

Communicate change requirements and implement IR strategy

Project to develop short term financial MI solution

Roll out improved proposition across branch network

th 2pehCh 7h
14,17

PR1, PR2, PR3,
PR4, PRS, PR6,
PR7, PR9, PR11,
PR14

a

Appendix 1: Principal Risks

POL00423564

POL00423564

Risk Title Risk Descripti Actions
External Achange in political administration may change the shareholder’s view I * Include solvency requirements for identified critical risk
environment I of POL. exposures
* Uncertainty over the availability of funding beyond 2017/18 * Communicate change requirement to stakeholders PRS, PR6
* Support required for changes in network transformation (‘Cliff’) may I * Implement IR strategy; secure Unite agreement
risk industrial action * Planning for new government with investment case
* Stakeholders are unclear surrounding the limits to commercial
sustainability for a public purpose Post Office
* Ability to respond to evolving shareholder request
Operational / I Post Office operates under an extensive and varied regulatory * Upload historic contractual information into new systemI 6, 10, 12,
Legal / environment, and is increasing the size and scope of the heavily and review Si
Regulatory regulated financial services business (which includes direct FCA * Clarify approach to policy setting and strengthen central
risks authorisation). compliance management
* Regulatory/legal breaches or failures in the operational control * Review ISAG policy set and plan compliance programme
framework lead to financial and/or reputational loss. + Improved contract management
* Risk of aggressive FCA enforcement; potential for disaffected
‘whistle-blower’ in high change environment triggers FCA investigation
* High change environment may compromise manually based control
framework
Market, Changing market developments, competitors response and changing * Work with BOI to minimise any limitations on growth 11, 13; 14,
macro- consumer needs may lead to a mis-directed strategy. * Build negotiation strategy and modelling 16,17
economic and I* Response to market (product design and delivery) may not be * Roll out CRM and develop improved customer
environmental I adequate or timely enough to prevent loss of market share experience
risks * BOI financial position may change and restrict support of POL * Guiding coalition of agency mails specialists to be
* Network propositions to retailers not commercially or operationally deployed to increase mails sales
attractive; restrictions policy impacts on potential multiple partners * Roll out improved proposition across branch network.
* Stronger focus on and improvements to retailer
proposition

SHSIY [edIOUL “b
a
~

Highest rated risks from business area risk registers

POL00423564
POL00423564

© OMINDAUEWNR

Category Score Owner Principal Risk
Delivery of new Front Office application delayed Operational Lesley Sewell B
People capability and capacity are inadequate to deliver the strategic plan Strategic Neil Hayward B
Business transformation doesn't deliver objectives Strategic Transformation Cttee I B
Failure of infrastructure and application environments Operational Lesley Sewell B
Unintentional breach of contractual terms Legal Jane MacLeod D
Government funding is insufficient to enable POL to operate until 2018 Financial Al Cameron Cc
Risk of strike action Operational Neil Hayward BLE
Risk of doing too much in a competitive field (FS) Strategic Nick Kennett A
Poor quality financial data and inadequate evaluation processes results in sub-optimal . .
. . Financial Al Cameron A,B
investment decisions
Non-compliance with law and regulation Legal Jane MacLeod D
Bol financial situation will not provide capability to support POL Strategic Nick Kennett A,E
Inadequate controls around the management of information result ina breach of
Legal Jane MacLeod D
company data
Ineffective relations and agreement with Royal Mail External Martin George A,E
Proposition to agents/retailer becomes unattractive (leading to unsustainable network) Operational Kevin Gilliland A,B, E
FS mis-selling risk: non-compliant product distribution, design or marketing or tougher .
. Legal Nick Kennett D
regulation
Loss of market share in mails due to inability to respond quickly to market developments . .
. Strategic Martin George AE
leading to loss of revenue
Delivering customer experience and propositions that customers want Operational Martin George IS Eble
Risk that sales capability fails to deliver on FS growth targets Financial Nick Kennett A

Top Risks

Highest rated risks from business area risk registers: Heat Map

Impact

POL00423564

POL00423564

Risk Impact I Likelihood I Score
1_IDelivery of new Front Office application delayed 4 4 16
People capability and capacity inadequate to deliver plans 4 4 16
3_IBusiness transformation doesn't deliver objectives 4 3 12
4 IFailure of infrastructure and application environments 4 3 12
5 IGov't funding not sufficient to continue operations 4 3) 12
6 [Unintentional breach of contract terms 4 3 12
7_IRisk of strike action 3} 3 9
8 _IRisk of doing too much in a competitive field 3 3 9
9 IFinancial data and evaluation gives sub-optimal investments 3 3 9
10 INon compliance with law or regulation 3 3 !)
11 IBol financial situation not capable of supporting POL 4 2 8
12 IInadequate control of information 4 2 8
13 [Ineffective relations and agreement with RMG 4 2 8
14 IParts of network become non-viable 3) 2 6
15 IFS miss-selling 3 2 6
16 ILoss of market share in Mails 3 2 6
17 IDelivery of marketable customer propositions 3 2 6
18 IFailure to deliver on FS growth targets 3 2 6

Likelihood

POL00423564
POL00423564

b

Syste [edioun,

Highest rated risks from the Transformation Portfolio risk register

Category Score Owner Principal Risk

Transition Legacy IT Landscape Operational Lesley Sewell
Manage complexity of change (capability) Operational Neil Hayward B
CWU/Unite don't buy in to organisational change Stakeholder Neil Hayward BAG
Strategic Objectives misalignment Strategic David Ryan B
Transformation function not designed and operating effectively Strategic David Ryan B
Benefit realisation (including Success Criteria) Strategic David Ryan B
Manage volume of change (capacity) Operational Neil Hayward A,B
Competitive threat Strategic Martin George A,B
Shareholder Agreement (Misalignment between programme and shareholder
objectives)

National Federation Sub Postmaster (NFSP) disrupts service Stakeholder Neil Hayward B,C

a

Strategic David Ryan A,B

23 32)

Highest rated risks from the Transformation Portfolio risk register

Impact

POL00423564

POL00423564
Risk ImpacILikelihoo I Scor
PR1 ITransition Legacy IT Landscape 3) 4 12
PR3 IManage complexity of change (capability) 4 3 12
PRS ICWU/Unite don't buy in to organisational change 4 4 12
PR9 IStrategic Objectives misalignment 4 3 12
PR11 ITransformation function not designed and operating effectively 4 3 12
PR14 IBenefit realisation (including Success Criteria) 4 4 12
PR2_IManage volume of change (capacity) 3 3 9
PR7 ICompetitive threat es) 3 9
pra ‘Shareholder Agreement (Misalignment between programme and 3 3 9
shareholder objectives)
PR6 INational Federation Sub Postmaster (NFSP) disrupts service 4 2 8

Likelihood

4, Principal Risks

RCC 1 MAY 2015

Business risk 2014/15

The information below details the key business risks, their

how the Post Office manages them.

POL00423564

POL00423564

PAPER FOUR APPENDIX B

potential impact and

Risk Title

Risks to
underperformance in
profitable income

Post Office faces both
opportunities and threats
to profitable income. The
mails and parcels market
remains intensely
competitive and has seen
some high profile market
failures due to inadequate
margins.

Government Services are
impacted by increased
use of digital channels in
an environment of
reduced public spending.

Business
Transformation not
delivered in full

Savings may be delayed
or not achieved, or overall
service compromised due
to inadequate capability,
capacity and scale of
change or withdrawal of
support from
stakeholders.

IT development
programmes not
delivered in full

IT replacements and

Impact

Inability to reduce reliance
on government subsidy.

Project costs may have to
be written off.

Any major project issues
would damage reputation.

Project costs may have to.
be written off.

Any major project issues

Mitigation

The business strategy is
customer focussed
embracing new market
and technological
developments (a number
of which feature in the
Annual report)

Focus developments are
aligned to key business
accelerator areas.

Regular monitoring of
business performance is
undertaken by the
General Executive and
Board.

A new programme
management office is
being established and
assurance and oversight
enhanced.

There are detailed plans
in place to manage the
transformation and
ensure it is delivered
within budget and on
time.

A comprehensive
engagement programme
with unions, staff and
postmasters is in place to
engage our people in our
vision and strategy.

A new design framework
is being created for the
Front Office application,
and will be subject to the

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15

27 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

4. Principal Risks

28 of 85

RCC 1 MAY 2015

PAPER FOUR APPENDIX B

Risk Title

Impact

Mitigation

upgrades not timely
leading to increased costs
or infrastructure failure

would damage reputation

transformation assurance
plan.

Oversight will be
embedded in the new
Programme management
office.

Operational / Legal /
Regulatory risks

The Post Office operates
under an extensive
regulatory environment,
including areas such as
financial and postal
services, procurement,
competition law and data
security.

This environment
continues to evolve,
particularly in the financial
services arena and we
need to ensure that the
changing requirements
continue to be identified
and met.

Customer losses and
inconvenience. Fines,
financial losses, regulatory
censure or litigation.

Loss of ability to trade in
certain markets or
products.

Our corporate services
team works closely with
the relevant business
owners in identifying new
requirements.

Training and development
of staff on the
requirements.

Regular compliance tests
and monitoring are
conducted.

External review by
regulatory principal for
financial services
business.

Market, macro-
economic and
environmental risks.

Market developments,
competitors’ response and
changing consumer needs
are changing at a faster
pace.

The 2015 actuarial
valuation of the RMPP is
due to complete shortly
and there is a risk, given
market conditions, that
the cost of the scheme will
rise substantially

Parts of the strategic plan
may become outdated and
sub optimal.

Post Office is working
closely with commercial
partners to meet market
and technological
developments and to roll
out an improved customer
experience throughout all
distribution channels.

Business diversification
gives Post Office different
response options if there
are significant threats to
one business area.

Strategic development
and sustainability

Costs of social
responsibilities impact the
ability to create

Balancing conflicting
purposes may impact
operational efficiency and
reduce our ability to
become commercially

Communication of
changes with stakeholders
including investment case
and identification of
solvency requirements for

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15

4. Principal Risks

RCC 1 MAY 2015

POL00423564

POL00423564

PAPER FOUR APPENDIX B

Risk Title

Impact

commercial sustainability.

Stakeholders are unclear
surrounding the limits to
commercial sustainability
for a public purpose Post
Office; withdrawal of
support from our staff or
postmasters could cause
delays and limit our ability
to meet business
objectives

Ability to respond to
evolving shareholder
requests in a fluid macro-
economic and market
environment.

viable enterprise.

critical risk exposures.

Comprehensive
engagement programme
with unions, staff and
postmasters and events
to involve our people in
our vision and strategy.

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15

29 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

4. Principal Risks

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER FOUR APPENDIX C

PO Annual Report 31 March 2015

Risk Management

Risk Governance

The Post Office Board is responsible for the risk management and internal control systems in the
Post Office, and for determining the nature and extent of significant risk. Responsibility for day-to-
day operations is delegated to the General Executive. The risk management and internal control
systems are based upon what the board considers to be appropriate to the Post Office activities and
are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Post Office strategic
objectives and expansion in its chosen markets. The risk management and internal control systems
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.

The board confirms there is an on-going process of identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks face by the Post Office, and that this has been in place for the year under review and
up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.

The year ahead will see further evolution of the framework to ensure it continues to meet
requirements and support the aims of the strategic plan and transformation of the Post Office.

Risk Management Framework

In order to deliver its objectives the Post Office is required to identify, assess and manage a wide
range of risks. These are managed through an overarching framework in order to apply consistency
and transparency of risk management across the organisation. The framework identifies roles and
responsibilities of key parties in the risk management process, the policies for how risks are
managed, the tools and processes used and the reporting outputs that are generated.

Risk governance

Oversight of risk management is carried out by the Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Post
Office Board. The Risk and Compliance Committee provides oversight on behalf of the Group
Executive Committee over the risk management framework including the risk management policy
and the management of the key risks for Post Office. This Committee is chaired by the General
Counsel and reports to the Group Executive Committee. The Committee comprises members of the
Group Executive Committee, including the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.

Progress

The Group Executive Committee has identified and manages the top risks in the organisation,
focusing on those that affect the 2020 strategy. These risks, with their response plans, are reviewed
at the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee to assure the robustness
of risk assessment and management.

30 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
4. Principal Risks

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER FOUR APPENDIX C

Risk Appetite

The Post Office has articulated and agreed a series of risk appetite statements with associated
metrics with a view to provide clarity to the organisation in terms of taking risks in managing new
opportunities and/or the management of existing risks.

Business Continuity

As part of the Post Office approach to risk management, the Post Office brings together a wide range
of business continuity arrangements throughout the Group under one central policy and governance
framework to ensure that the business is capable of withstanding any significant threat to its on-
going operations. The Post Office is committed to ensuring its business has adequate resilience and
planning that protects its customers, clients, brand and reputation from business continuity threats,
risks and incidents.

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15

POL00423564
POL00423564

31 of 85
4, Principal Risks

32 of 85

POL00423564

POL00423564

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER FOUR

RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Review of principal risks

1. Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to update the Risk & Compliance Committee (R&CC) on
the review of Post Office’s principal risks for the 2014/15 Annual Report.

2. Background

The principal risks which were first presented to the RCC meeting in March were
substantially revised in line with members’ feedback and discussed at the GE meeting
on 16 April 2015. Further changes have been made after discussions with risk owners
and an updated version of the principal risks is presented in Appendix A. POL’s
principal risks for inclusion in the 2014/15 Annual Report have been updated accordingly
(see Appendix B) and a revised risk section for the Annual Report has been drafted (see
Appendix C).

3. Action

The Committee is asked

To review the revised principal risks in Appendix A,

2. To review the proposed principal risks for the Annual Report in Appendix B
3. To review the proposed wording of the risk section for the Annual Report in
Appendix C.

Steve Miller
4 May 2015

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

5. Risk Incidents Reporting Process

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER FIVE

RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Risk incident reporting process

i, Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to update the Risk & Compliance Committee (R&CC) on the
proposed incident reporting process.

2. Background

Risk incident data can provide information on the effectiveness of controls and the likelihood
that risks will materialise. Guidance on identifying and reporting risk incidents has been
produced by the central risk team for use by front line risk champions (see Appendix A).
This guidance was tested with a selection of front line risk champions and amended in
response to their feedback.

A number of risk incidents were gathered by members of the central risk team and some
examples are included in the guidance. Once the risk incident reporting guidance is
embedded and operating risk champions will report incidents to the central risk team, and
the most significant will be reported to the Risk and Compliance Committee. Risk incident
owners may be requested to attend the RCC to discuss the actions taken as the result of an
incident.

3. Action

The Committee is asked to approve the proposed incident reporting process.

Georgina Blair
1 May 2015

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 33 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

5. Risk Incidents Reporting Process

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER FIVE

Appendix A

Risk Incident Reporting at Post Office
A Practical Guide

The purpose of this document is to provide:

* Anexplanation of how to identify a risk incident
© Anoutline of the risk incident reporting process

34 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

5. Risk Incidents Reporting Process

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER FIVE

1.0 Introduction

Collecting risk incident data is an important part of understanding Post Office’s risk profile. While a
risk assessment helps to identify risks and the controls in place to manage them, risk incidents and
indicators provide information on the effectiveness of controls and the likelihood that risks will
materialise. When a risk incident occurs it is often because a control has failed or is absent.
Identifying and discussing the causes of risk incidents is an important part of developing a proactive
risk culture within Post Office.

‘Toolbox’ element I What it means

Risk assessment Assessment of risk and mitigation (controls)

an Examples of individual risks materialising (quantitative
Risk incidents

data)
Key risk indicators __I Trend data about related indicators risks (quantitative
(KRI) data)

Key reasons for recording risk incidents

*  Tolearn lessons from what has happened and to identify mitigating controls to help prevent a
similar incident from happening again.

* To treat it as an opportunity to improve our processes and to reduce operational risk exposure
and drive value for the Post Office.

* To understand the root causes and establish whether other areas of the organisation could
have an exposure.

2.0 Definition of a risk incident
Post Office’s risk management framework defines as risk incident as:

Any event which causes or may cause an interruption to or reduction in the quality of a service, or
which causes financial loss, or any other operational failure.

Some examples of incidents are listed in the table in section 3 below. Not all risk incidents need to
be reported to the central risk team. Once a number of incidents have been reported the central
risk team will produce some guidance on de minimis limits but until then please report any incident
you feel provides some information about missing or inadequate controls, or which may have
implications for other areas of the business.

Note that reporting a risk incident is in addition to the normal management process for dealing with
each type of incident; this process does not replace any existing reporting process.

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 35 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

5. Risk Incidents Reporting Process

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER FIVE

3.0 Reporting a risk incident

Risk champions in each business unit are responsible for reporting risk incidents to the central risk
team. When reporting an incident the following details should be included:

© nature of the incident
impact (financial or otherwise)

© management action taken/planned
© details of the incident owner

The central risk team will review each report and determine whether the incident should be
discussed at the next Risk and Compliance Committee (RCC) meeting. Risk incident owners may be
invited to come to the RCC to explain the actions taken as the result of an incident and to help
identify lessons which can be learnt in other parts of the business.

Figure 1 Examples of risk incidents

Event Cause Impact Actions
Customer contacted to Incorrect process Moderate risk of ISAG

inform that after registering I within the service. regulator taking action. I investigation
for Post Office Home Phone on-going
they received a with project
confirmation email team.

containing their full bank
details.

Post Office Money Website
launch on 5 January
contained numerous landing
page errors

Sub optimal
implementation plan.
Incomplete UAT.

Key website errors
fixed within 24 hours.
Errors made some of
the website FCA non-
compliant for this
period as well as being
confusing for
customers.

Digital team have met and
undertaken a lessons learned
exercise. They assess that
lessons will be learnt prior to
next major exercise (re-
brand 30 July) with many of
the changes already
implemented .

Robbery by intruder who
hid in branch and appeared
after office closed.

6" Dec Ipm

South Norwood

Failure to check office
and retail area before
closing the branch.

Loss of £103,764
Trauma to staff who
were locked in the safe
until released by police

Branch visited - security
hardware failures found.
Considered suspicious as
similar to previous incident

Failure to meet the
requirements of disabled
customers at two separate
Crown Offices

Unable to reach the
pin pad/ unable to
enter the branch due
to lack of ramp.

No clear business
strategy on how to
meet the needs of
disabled customers

Brand & reputation
damage as widely
covered in the media
including TV coverage
Minister of State for
Disabled People noted
the event and wrote to
CEO to raise concerns

Tethered pin pads to be
installed in Crown branches/
possibility of installation of
ramp being investigated
Post Office
diversity/disability strategy
group to be established

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

7. Review of Policy Approvals Process

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER SIX APPENDIX A

Policy Governance in Post Office

1. Purpose
To define and explain the framework within which company policies are developed, approved,
updated and communicated.

2. Scope
Applies to all company-wide policies which impact all or the majority of: management, staff, key
operations and relationships with third parties.

3. Overall principles

Business areas (Directorates) are responsible for developing draft policy in areas they own. The
Risk and Compliance Committee (R&CC) will review all finalised policies before submitting them to
the Post Office Executive Committee (ExCo) for approval.

3.1 Policy development and drafting
Each business area is responsible for developing the policies required by their area. Each policy
requires a senior policy owner who is able to affect and substantially influence the policy and take
responsibility for its outcome.
Business areas must consult all key stakeholders (including Risk and Internal.
drafting process. A policy template is available from riskandcompliance@
Each policy should:

e — Reflect a high level view

e — Refer to supplementary documents for processes and detailed procedures

e Be subject to version control

e — Include review dates and details of how to update the policy.

3.2 Approval of policies

All finalised draft policy documents should be submitted to the R&CC for approval.

The R&CC will review policies either in session or by e-mail and determine whether the ExCo
needs to approve the policy overall or note it as approved by the R&CC.

3.3 Communication and publication of policies

Once approved, the policy owner is responsible for ensuring all relevant parts of the business are
made aware of the policy by using appropriate communications channels and will be published on
the Corporate Policies Sharepoint site. Policy owners should ensure there are processes in place
to communicate policy to new joiners and contract staff where relevant.

3.4 Revision to policies

Minor changes or updates to approved policies after review should be notified to the R&CC. At
each meeting the R&CC will receive a list of all policies that were notified during the preceding
period.

Major re-writes to policies need to go through the draft approval process as for a new policy.

The Risk and Compliance Committee
August 2013

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 37 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

7. Review of Policy Approvals Process

38 of 85

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER SIX Appendix B

Appendix B
List of policies and other documents which should contain a reference to POL’s risk appetite.

The risk team will work with each policy owner to determine a suitable timeframe for reviewing
the policy, including appropriate consideration of risk appetite and reverting to the committee

where appropriate.

Name of policy/ other
documentation

Risk appetite category

Policy owner

Acceptable social media use Stakeholder Martin George

guidance

Atos Service Management Technology Lesley Sewell

Report

Audit reports (internal / external I Operations Gary Hooton

/ third party)

Code of Business Standards Legal & Regulatory; People; I Neil Hayward
Stakeholders

Data security/management Operations Julie George

incidents (ISAG and Atos)

Financial (credit, market, Financial Alisdair Cameron

liquidity) risk standards

Information security policy Technology; Operations Julie George

Investment / new product Customer; Market; Financial I David Ryan

assessment / project

assessments

ISAG Incident Register Technology; Legal & Julie George

Regulatory

Outsourcing due diligence
procedure

Technology; Operations

Alisdair Cameron

Outsourcing policy

Technology; Operations

Alisdair Cameron

Procurement policy

Financial; Technology;
Operations

Alisdair Cameron

Recruitment policy (including People Neil Hayward
staff vetting)
Security policy Financial Alisdair Cameron

AML Policy

Legal & Regulatory

John Scott

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15

POL00423564
POL00423564

7. Review of Policy Approvals Process

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER SIX

RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Review of policy approvals process

1. Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to update the Risk & Compliance Committee (R&CC) on
the operation of the policy approvals process in Post Office over the past year and to
suggest improvements to the process.

2. Background

The R&CC approved a policy governance framework in August 2013 (see Appendix A).
The framework states that all policies are to be reviewed by the R&CC prior to
submission to ExCo for approval or noting, and gives guidance on the content of
policies.

3. Review of the process

In the year to 31 March 2015 only one policy was presented to the R&CC for approval
(and it did not receive approval) and the Committee has not received updates of any
minor revisions to policies during the year. Five policies have been submitted to this
meeting.

4. Actions planned

In order to match the approach to the resources available the central risk team has
identified a number of policies and other documentation in the business which should
contain reference to risk appetite. Risk business partners will work with policy owners to
review and update the policies and other documentation accordingly (see list of policies
and other documentation in Appendix B).

There is a more substantive piece of work to be completed. This includes defining a
suite of top-down policies for management of specific types of exposure (Legal, HR,
Security etc.) and developing appropriate implementation, compliance and oversight
arrangements. This includes communication of policy governance requirements to the
wider business and a review of the existing policy suite. This will require dedicated
resource from within Corporate Services which has currently not been identified.

5. Action

The Committee is asked

To approve the proposed approach to the review of policy governance,

2. To agree the policies submitted for approval

3. To approve the approach to phased implementation of risk appetite via the list of
policies attached.

Steve Miller
4 May 2015

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 39 of 85
G8 4° Ob

g1/S0/L0-Bunaay aang souelIdWog g YSIY

Post Office Internal Audit RCC Report - April 2015

1. What we will do - Next 3 Months

Management
Information

Drop and Go
(Lessons)

Telecoms

Assurance
Framework

IT Towers
delivery on-
going
assurance
review

Fujitsu exit

Alisdair
Cameron

Martin
George

Martin
George

Jane

MacLeod

Lesley
Sewell

Lesley
Sewell

Comments

Integrity and reliability of information / data.
Date of initial planning meeting to be confirmed.

Lessons learnt and NPD lifecycle review.
Initial planning meeting held with Mark Siviter.

Mobile offering readiness review to inform GE decision
on launch.
Initial planning meeting held with the Head of Telecoms.

Assessment /review of the assurance providers within PO.

Terms of Reference drafted and shared with Risk team.

Cross towers governance and programme management.
Towers (EUC and potentially FO at the moment)
programme governance, risk mng, obligations, etc.
Terms of Reference drafted.

Controls and mechanisms in place to control Fujitsu
services and minimize exit cost.

Fieldwork

Timing

May

May

July

On-going

On-going

May

Completion

July

June

September

August

July

POL00423564
POL00423564

yodey tipny Iewe}Ul “g
a

Post Office Internal Audit RCC Report - Apr 2015

2. Work in Progress.

Contract 0
Management °
Financial Crime 0

Supplier contract portfolio is not fully known.

Contract Management Framework (CMF) remains in draft (since its
development in 2012) and requires further development, finalisation
and implementation.

Staff have the ability to define their own roles and responsibilities.
Management are unable to effectively foresee and manage expiration
of contracts.

Analysis and management of risks to drive contract management.

Staff are not clear on where and how to report suspicions or concerns.
Effective mechanisms to prevent and detect fraud and corruption are
not incorporated into policies, procedures and systems.

Focus of proactive / reactive activity is directed towards customers
and customer facing areas of the business.

There is no corporate / PO wide approach.

Concerns regarding potential internal staff fraud have been flagged for
further investigation (outside of the audit)

Findings workshops held.
Draft report issued to Colin
Stuart for management
comment.

Wave 2 and changes in
management have delayed
responses.

Fieldwork complete and
findings shared with
management.

Drafting report.

To be reported to ARC in May.

POL00423564
POL00423564

pode jipny [et
POL00423564
POL00423564

HOodey ypny jewsjul “g

Emerging Findings

IT Towers Delivery * Fieldwork commenced
On-going
Assurance

a
&
&
g
2
:
3
3
=
g
a
2
&
z

Ol
OFFICE

SL/SO/L0-6unsaW senLUWOD souRlIdWOD ® ¥SIY

$8 J0 Sb

Post Office Internal Audit RCC Report Apr 2015

3. Other Matters.

Treasury

Change Management

Travel

Business Transformation

Memo has been shared with Treasury management which summarises concerns relating to
arrangements relating to bank accounts currently out of scope of Treasury identified during routine
audit activity.

An update has been shared on stakeholder management within the new Change process.

A significant number of staff are not yet using Capita for hotel and travel bookings. Instead they are
claiming for these expenses through the SAP system. This is allowing the daily overnight rate to be
exceeded (there are instances where this has exceeded £200).

In February 2015, contrary to the Expenses Policy a total of £10K (380 claims) was claimed for train
tickets and £3.2K (46 claims) on overnight accommodation via SAP.

There is a concern that PO are not getting the best value out of travel bookings with repeated
examples, where staff have reclaimed over £350 for daily travel. The Travel Manager (new) is looking
into the reasons for this. The HRSC is also contacting travellers with over £50 spend. Ultimately, Line
Managers are signing off on such claims inappropriately and encouraging the wrong behaviours. This
could be a cultural issue which needs to be gripped.

One FTE Internal Audit resource has been allocated to support independent Business Transformation
Assurance activities (currently away sick). An approach to delivering independent assurance has been
drafted and is in the process of being socialised and agreed with stakeholders. Additional short term
Business Transformation assurance needs will be identified through engagement between the
programme, Risk and Internal Audit during April.

POL00423564
POL00423564

podey pny fewsyul “eg
S840 by

S1/S0/L0-BunaeW aaniuuWiog eouelIdWog @ ySIY

Business
continuity

Identity and
access

Identity and
access

Identity and
access

Identity and

access

Software
Licensing

Software
Licensing

Software
Licensing

Prepare and issue BC guidelines to GE / Top
management

Access rights review control needs to be deployed
for all PO domain accounts

Ensure there is an overview of all access rights per
user.

There is a plan to move to Category base assess
rights linked to Role once the EUC tower is in place

Movers access review control needs to be
implemented

PO needs to define a Software Licensing
management policy defining the roles and
responsibilities for PO, SI and suppliers related to
licenses

SISD will define a SLM process and procedures to
manage the licenses on PO behalf

PO will define its assurance and governance
process around the SISD SLM process. Clear key
performance measurements on SLM process needs
to be defined.

Assigned to

Corporate Services
=Risk Team

IT & Operations -
Dave Hulbert

IT& Operations —
Dave Hulbert

IT & Operations —
Dave Hulbert

IT & Operations -
Dave Hulbert

IT & Operations -
Dave Hulbert

sISD

IT & Operations -
Dave Hulbert

Forecast

mpletion Date

Nov 2014

Jan 2015

Feb 2015

June 2015

Feb 2015

Jan 2015

Feb 2015

Feb 2015

Progress

Guidelines are ready for issue

Closed with condition agreed
with Roger Middleton

Closed with condition agreed
with Roger Middleton

Still open- follow on-going

Completed

Completed

Completed

Completed

POL00423564
POL00423564

podey pny fewsyul “eg
POL00423564
POL00423564

9. Gifts & Hospitality Annual Report

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER EIGHT

RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Annual report on operation of the Gifts and Hospitality procedure

1. Purpose

The purpose of this paper is to update the Risk & Compliance Committee (R&CC) on
the operation of the Gifts and Hospitality procedure in Post Office over the past year.

ra Background

Post Office has had a Gifts and Hospitality procedure in place as part of its anti-bribery
procedures since June 2011. The Anti-Bribery Policy and associated gifts and hospitality
procedure were reviewed and approved by the Risk & Compliance Committee in
January 2014. Employees are required to provide details of all gifts over £25 and all
instances of hospitality, accompanied by evidence of their line manager's approval, to
the Risk team by e-mail to riskandcompliance@postoffice.co.uk.

3. Review of the register

In the year to 28 February 2015, 14 reports of gifts and 190 reports of hospitality
received were made to the register. In the previous year, 23 reports of gifts received and
154 reports of hospitality were made (see appendix 1 for a breakdown by business unit).
In 2014/15 Financial Services made the largest number of reports: 3 gifts and 85 reports
of hospitality received. There was one report of hospitality declined during the year.

4 Need for Improvements and Actions planned

Preparation for this year's report appeared to reveal under reporting in some areas
compared to last year. Financial Services and Commercial were asked to check their
records for details of the gifts and hospitality received in the last financial year. Further
reports were received from Financial Services but members of the Commercial team did
not provide any further reports, and the number of incidents of gifts and hospitality
reported by the Commercial team in the year remain low compared to last year.

Actions planned by the Risk team to improve reporting:

41 an e-mail reminder will be sent to colleagues to remind them of the gifts and
hospitality reporting procedures

4.2 the information on the intranet will be refreshed.
5. Action
The Committee is asked to review the report and approve the proposed actions.

Georgina Blair
4 May 2015

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 45 of 85
POL00423564

POL00423564
9. Gifts & Hospitality Annual Report
RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER EIGHT
Appendix 1

Summary of reports to the Gifts and Hospitality register in the year to 28 February 2015
and a comparison for the year to 28 February 2014

Area 1 March 2014 to 28 Feb 2015 1 March 2013 to 28 Feb 2014
Reports
Reports of IReports of lof Reports of
gifts hospitality gifts hospitality
Total received Ireceived Total received Ireceived
Total Reports IbyGE by GE Total Reports IbyExCo Iby ExCo
Reports Iof members Imembers IReports Iof ImembersImembers
lof gifts IhospitalityI(inclin I(incl.in of gifts hospitalityI(inel in I{incl. in
Business Unit received Ireceived Itotals) _Itotals) _Ireceived Ireceived Itotals) _Itotals)
[Communications 1 0
Commercial 3 3 16
[Corporate Services 27 2 2 18
iCoSec 3
Finance 1 1B 3 4 1 21 10
Financial Services 3 85 i, 29 46 1
PRE 2 2
IT and Change 2 25 2 14 5 15 5 14
Network & Sales 7 18 3 6 19 1
Office of the
Chief Executive 19 19 1 17 1 17
Total 14 190 6 7 23 154 6 43

There were changes in some business units eg IT and Change’ during the year and in the
membership of ExCo to GE members’ as from 1 February 2015. The report reflects where the
membership remained for most of the year.

“IT and Change reports include Information Security for the year
® GE members’ reports include the IT & Operations Director for the year

46 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

10. ID Cards Policy

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER NINE

Post Office ID Cards Policy

Document Control

Overview

Owner: Head of Securit Enquiry point:

Version: FRU = ffective from:

Last updated Last review date:

Review period: Annually or major
change

Revision History

Version Date Author Changes

0.1 21 Jan 14 Terry Folkman Initial draft

0.2 30 Jan 14 Terry Folkman Changes to para
4&10

1.0 11 Jun 14 Julian DiMauro Approval received

from Exco 22
April 14, version
updated.

1.1 09 Apr 15 Diana Maddox Inclusion of
different colour
ID cards for
contractors and
visitors

Version 1.1 INTERNAL Page 1 of 5

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 47 of 85
0.1D

Cards Policy

48 of 85

POL00423564
POL00423564

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER NINE
1 Purpose and Statement

The purpose of this Policy is to set out the framework for managing the use of Post
Office ID cards within Post Office cash centres, stock centre, depots and central
support sites.

2 Goals
The goals of this Policy are to:

e Protection and safeguard of people and assets.

« Define the management of ID Cards.

e Ensure that all Post Office employees, agents/SPMR and contractors are
aware of the framework for the management of ID Cards.

3 Scope

This Policy applies to all areas of Post Office unless an exception is granted
following the process explained in Section 7. This Policy does not apply to directly
outsourced service providers or suppliers.

4 Roles and Responsibilities

The Head of Security has responsibility for ensuring the integrity of the physical
security of Post Office. Day to day deployment will be via the operational line.

All employees and contractors employed within Post Office central support sites,
cash centres and depots also have a responsibility to ensure that only bona fide
individuals are permitted access to these locations and that all personnel display
the correct ID card.

5 Policy Statement

ID cards are an integral part of the defence in depth approach that the Post Office
employs in order to minimise crime and business loss, whilst protecting people and
assets at its cash centres, depots and central support sites. To that end, every
individual, whenever they are on Post Office property or part of a property that
houses Post Office assets, must display a Post Office ID card. This card, if not
handed back in when the individual leaves the Post Office property or property that
houses Post Office assets, must be removed from public view.

There are three colours of ID cards:
« white photographic ID card for Post Office employees and white non-
photographic ID card for “staff”

e lavender (lilac) photographic ID card for all contractors
« Post Office red non-photographic ID card for all visitors.

5.1 Service Provider
Version 1.1 INTERNAL Page 2 of 5

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

0. ID Cards Policy

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER NINE

The Post Office will provide photographic ID cards for Post Office employees and
contractors and non-photographic ID cards for visitors and visiting “staff”.
Appropriate electronic access rights will be granted to these cards as necessary in
accordance with the Post Office ID Card management procedure and the Post Office
Identity and Access Card Application Form and Contractor Access Card Application
Form. Non-photographic ID cards for visitors will not have any electronic access
rights whereas non-photographic visiting “staff” ID cards may afford limited
electronic access rights.

The service provider is to contact Post Office line managers before employee and
contractor ID cards expire. This will allow sufficient time for a new ID card
application to be processed and will act as a form of ID card audit.

When ID cards are reported to the service provider as lost, stolen or destroyed, the
service provider will immediately remove any electronic access rights and record
the ID card as lost, stolen destroyed. Additionally, the service provider is to
maintain records of all issued, destroyed or lost ID cards and is to provide Post
Office with these details on a monthly report.

5.2 Cash Centres and Depots

All Post Office employees employed at a cash centre or depot are to be issued with
a photographic ID card, which may also act as an electronic proximity access
control card. Post Office employees are to display this ID card at all times whilst at
the cash centre or depot.

All visitors to cash centres or depots, including individuals who visit in order to
carry out work, but not including Post Office employees and contractors who
ordinarily work at a different Post Office location to the cash centre or depot they
are visiting, are to be issued with a Visitors ID card by the service provider at the
access control point. This ID card carries no photograph but must still be displayed
at all times when the visitor is at the cash centre or depot and must be handed
back before the visitor leaves. Visitors are to be escorted at all times.

Visitor’s hosts are responsible for the visitor whilst they are on Post Office property.
Therefore, it is the host's responsibility to ensure visitor compliance with this Policy.

All Post Office employees and contractors who visit a Post Office cash centre or
depot, but do not ordinarily work at that cash centre or depot, are to display their
normal Post Office photographic ID card for the duration of their visit.

The loss of any type of Post Office ID card is to be reported immediately to the
service provider.

5.3 Customer Support Centres
All Post Office employees and contractors are to be issued with a photographic ID
card, which may also act as an electronic proximity access control card. Post Office

employees and contractors are to display this ID card at all times whilst on Post
Office property.

Version 1.1 INTERNAL Page 3 of 5

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 49 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

0. ID Cards Policy

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER NINE

All visitors to customer support centres, including individuals who visit in order to
carry out work, but not including Post Office employees and contractors who
ordinarily work at a different Post Office location to the one they are visiting, are to
be issued with a Visitors ID card by the service provider at the access control point
to the individual properties or at the access control point to the Post Office area of
the property. This ID card carries no photograph but must still be displayed at all
times when the visitor is on Post Office property or in a Post Office area of a
building and must be handed back before the visitor leaves the property or the
area. Visitors are to be escorted at all times.

Visitor’s hosts are responsible for the visitor whilst they are on Post Office property.
Therefore, it is the host’s responsibility to ensure visitor compliance with this Policy.

All Post Office employees and contractors who visit a different Post Office site to the
one that they ordinarily work at are to be issued a “Staff” ID card. This ID card
carries no photograph but must still be displayed at all times when the visitor is on
Post Office property or in a Post Office area of a building and must be handed back
before the visitor leaves the property or the area.

The loss of any type of Post Office ID card is to be reported immediately to the
service provider.

5.4 Line Manager Responsibility

Line Managers are responsible for ensuring that all expired photographic ID cards
and ID cards from all employees and contractors leaving Post Office employment
are recovered and destroyed. These ID cards are to be recorded as returned and
destroyed locally in accordance with the Post Office Leavers Checklist.’ Line
Managers’ are responsible for informing the service provider that the ID cards have
been destroyed. Line Managers’ are also responsible for informing the service
provider whenever an ID card is lost.

6 Compliance

Compliance with this Policy is mandatory and will be assessed as part of both
internal and external audit and reported upon to the Post Office Security
Governance Forum (SGF).

7 Exceptions

As per standard policy process, a policy exception must be obtained from the Head
of Security. The appropriateness of these exceptions will be considered and

reviewed by the Head of Security on an annual basis or other appropriate defined
period. Evidence must be retained for the exception and the annual review.

8 Violations

1 Post inception of Grapevine 2014 all expired/returned ID cards will be reconciled and destroyed by the
service provider in order to provide a more accurate audit trail

Version 1.1 INTERNAL Page 4 of 5

50 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
10. ID Cards Policy

POL00423564
POL00423564

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER NINE

Failure to comply with this Policy or any documents referred to within this Policy
constitutes a violation of this Policy.

9 Enforcement

The SGF will regularly assess for compliance against this Policy. Any violation of
this Policy will be investigated and if the cause is found to be due to wilful disregard
or negligence, it may be treated as a disciplinary offence. All disciplinary
proceedings may be progressed in accordance with the Post Office Code of Conduct
coordinated through HR.

10 References

Post Office ID and Access Card Application Form

Contractor Access Card Application Form
Post Office Leavers Checklist

Version 1.1 INTERNAL Page 5 of 5

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 51 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER 10A

@

POST OFFICE
INFORMATION SECURITY
ACCEPTABLE USE
POLICY

"1

Information Security Policies

@

Document Control

Overview

Acceptable Use Policy

POL00423564
POL00423564

Owner:
and Assurance Group

Head of Information Security

Enquiry

ISAG

Approved by:

from:

Version: 0.5

Last
updated:

Revision History

Version Date Author Changes
0.1 09/11/2014 I Andrew Watson Initial draft release
02 21/11/2014 I Andrew Watson Second release post ISAG review ad
feedback
03 24/11/2014 I Andrew Watson Additional changes post feedback from DP
Changes post feedback from ISAG Senior
0.4 26/11/2014 I Andrew Watson Risk and Compliance Manager
Changes made to reflect comments /
feedback. A summary of which are provided
0.5 11/02/2015 I Andrew Watson in Policy Review Tracker and details
provided back to ISWP through document
mark-up
0.6 19/02/2015 I Andrew Watson As above
Reviewers
Version Date Reviewer Comments
0.1 ISAG Mark-up contained within document
0.2 DP Team Mark-up contained within document
0.3 26/11/2014 I Brian Harrison Mark-up contained within document
Feedback from ISWP contained within
0.4 ‘swP Policy review tracker
05 ISwP Feedback from ISWP contained within
Policy review tracker

Quality Control

Next
review date

This document is subject to periodic review and will be reviewed at

least annually or where there are significant changes to the business

and/or its operating environment.

02/12/2015

POLICY

INTERNAL

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15

Page 2 of 13

53 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

11. Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

Table of Contents

Terms and Abbreviations ...

0.

1. Introduction
2. Purpose ...
3. Scope...
4. Protection of Information Assets:

4.1. Information Assets.
4.2. Information Classification

4.3. Portable or Removable Media..........
4.4. Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)...
4.5. Information Retention and Destruction
4.6. Clear Screen Policy...
5. Access Management...

5.1. Identity and Access Management.
5.2. Password Requirements .
5.3. Remote Working ...
5.4. Remote IT Support...
6. Physical Security.
6.1. Physical Access .
6.2. Clear Desk Policy
7. Acceptable Use.
7.1, Malicious Software
7.2. Internet..... +
7.3. Email and Instant Messaging ....
7.4. File Transfer and Storage...
7.5. Social Media.
8. Software Use
8.1. Installing and Configuring Software ......
8.2. Copyright...

9. Business Continuity.
9.1.
9.2. Incident Management...... aa
9.3. Lost or Compromised Information Assets.
9.4. External Communications.

10. User Management...
10.1. Acceptance of Information Assets.......
10.2. Return of Information Assets...

10.3. Information Security Training and Awareness .

POLICY INTERNAL Page 3 of 13

54 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

11. Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

11. Monitoring....
12. I Compliance and Non-Compliance
12.1. Compliance....
12.2. I Non-Compliance
13. Exceptions...
14. Enforcement

15.  Violations..
16. Enforcement
17. References...

Appendix A - Terms and Definitions ..

POLICY INTERNAL Page 4 of 13

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 55 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

0. Terms and Abbreviations
Terms used throughout this document are described at the end of this document in Appendix A.

1. Introduction

The intentions for publishing an Acceptable Use Policy are not to impose restrictions that are
contrary to supporting a culture of openness, trust and integrity. Post Office is committed to
protecting its Employees, customers, Third Party Supply Chain and Information Assets from
damaging or illegal actions by individuals, either knowingly or unknowingly. Post Office enables
this through the development and deployment of Policies, Standards and Guidelines which are
aligned to international best practices. Effective Cyber and Information Security is a team effort
involving everyone in Post Office.

2. Purpose

The Information Security Acceptable Use Policy defines a set of business rules governing fair and
acceptable use of Post Offices’ Information Assets. This document is supported by the
Information Security Handbook (##REF Handbook) which provides guidance for the effective
implementation of this policy.

3. Scope

This policy applies to anyone working for or on behalf of Post Office, including, where applicable,
Third Party Supply Chain.

Policy
4. Protection of Information Assets

4.1. Information Assets

4.1.1. Products purchased by an Employee then paid for by Post Office will be considered Post
Office owned and are subject to Post Office policy.

4.1.2. Products purchased by an Employee which are approved for the processing, storage or
transmission of Post Office Information and/or connection to Post Office Information
Assets will be considered to be BYOD Devices (see 4.4) and are subject to Post Office
policy.

4.1.3. Users remain responsible at all times for the protection of Post Office Information Assets
and must not disclose corporate Information outside of approved agreements.

4.1.4. _ Users must adhere to the requirements of this policy and the Information Security
Handbook (##REF Handbook).

4.2. Information Classification

4.2.1. Documented Information created for and on behalf of Post Office must follow the Control
of Documents Procedure (##REF CoD).

4.2.2. All Information must be identified and classified in accordance with one of the following
four classification levels. Strictly Confidential, Confidential, Internal or Public.

POLICY INTERNAL Page 5 of 13

56 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

4.2.3. All Information must be handled and protected in line with its classification level as set
out in the Information Security Handbook (##REF Handbook).

4.2.4. All Information classified above ‘public’ must be protected when transferred externally as
set out in the Information Security Handbook (##REF Handbook).

4.3. Portable or Removable Media

4.3.1. Information stored on removable media must only be retained for as long as absolutely
necessary and destroyed when no longer required (see 4.5).

4.3.2. Post Office Information must not be transferred to personal Removable media (see 4.4)
without prior written authorisation.

4.3.3. _ Removable Media Devices must be protected against unauthorised access during
transportation and must be sent using recorded delivery (i.e. a traceable service) as set
out in the Information Security Handbook (##REF Handbook).

4.4. Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)

4.4.1. _BYOD Devices may require software installation, configuration or other controls as set
out in the BYOD standard (##REF BYOD standard).

4.4.2. BYOD Devices will be subject to auditing, logging and monitoring (see section 11)
requirements as set out in the BYOD standard (##REF BYOD standard).

4.4.3. _BYOD Devices are subject to Incident Response procedures, may be subject to digital
forensics procedures and may be obtained by authorities if suspected of illegal activity.

4.4.4. End Users are liable for Post Office Information stored, processed or transmitted on
BYOD Devices and must comply with this policy and the Information Security Handbook
(##REF Handbook).

4.4.5. Post Office accepts no liability for loss, damage or corruption of BYOD Devices.

4.5. Information Retention and Destruction

4.5.1. All Post Office Information must be retained in accordance with the Information retention
standard (##REF Post Office Data Retention Standard).

4.5.2. Information must be destroyed at the end of the retention period in line with their
classification and corresponding destruction guidelines (##REF Handbook).

4.6. Clear Screen Policy
4.6.1. Information Assets must have the screen locked before leaving them unattended.

4.6.2. Privacy screens must be used when working in public areas.
4.6.3. Due care must be taken to protect the processing of confidential Information (see 4.2).

5. Access Management

5.1. Identity and Access Management

5.1.1. Post Office issues User ID’s for the purpose of obtaining authorised access to Post
Office Information Assets which must, at all times be unique to you (i.e. not shared with a
group of Users) and must never be shared.

5.1.2. User ID’s and passwords are confidential (see 4.2.2), must only be used for sanctioned
activities and/or communications and must never be written down or stored either
electronically or on paper, transmitted via email or another unsecured communication.

POLICY INTERNAL Page 6 of 13

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 57 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

11. Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

5.1.3. Any attempt made to obtain your User ID, password or Physical ID (see 6.1) either
written or verbal must be reported (see 9.2).

5.2. Password Requirements

5.2.1. Strong passwords are required for securing Post Office Information Assets. Refer to the
guidance (##REF Handbook) on creating strong passwords.

5.2.2. Post Office staff will never ask you for your password. Never reveal your password to
anyone, even if they claim to be from Post Office or an authorised Third Party Supply
Chain member.

5.2.3. Usernames and/or passwords used to access Post Office Information Assets must never
be the same as those used for non-Post Office environments (for e.g. personal websites,
Devices, email systems, social media).

5.3. Remote Working

Anyone wishing to work remotely (i.e. not in Post Office premises) must:

5.3.1. Adhere to the Information classification scheme and ensure that Post Office Information
Assets are physically protected (see section 6).

5.3.2. Maintain discretion whilst conducting business voice communications (e.g. telephone
calls) especially when the contents of the call are confidential.

5.3.3. I Connect to Post Office’s network using an approved method (###REF InfoSec Manual)

5.3.4. _ Never download, install or use any software (see 7.1.1 & 7.2.3), other than authorised
software and/or security updates/patches on Post Office Information Assets when or if
prompted to do so when working remotely.

5.4. Remote IT Support

IT support or service desk, will as required, need remote access to Post Office Information
Assets to resolve issues, in all cases:

5.4.1. Users must ensure that all documents are saved and that all Information and
applications are closed prior to allowing a remote IT connection, and;

5.4.2. Users must accept the incoming remote support request and remain with the Device
throughout the duration of the connection.

6. Physical Security

6.1. Physical Access

6.1.1. Employees and where applicable Third Party Supply Chain members will be issued with
Physical IDs which must be displayed at all times in line with the requirements set out in
the (##REF ID Card Policy).

6.1.2. Post Office visitors and Third Party Supply Chain members must be escorted and issued
with a temporary Physical ID, in line with the ID Card Policy (##REF ID Card Policy).

6.1.3. The sharing of Physical IDs is not permitted.

6.1.4. Employees and Third Party Supply Chain members are obliged to observe local security
requirements and must not attempt to enter Post Office Premises by back doors,
windows, service and goods entrances or any means, other than via the main Office
entrance.

POLICY INTERNAL Page 7 of 13

58 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

Acceptable Use Policy

6.1.5. Unauthorised physical access to IT equipment within Post Office buildings, including but
not limited to, wiring/network closets, server/computer rooms, wiring high rises, is strictly
prohibited.

6.2. Clear Desk Policy

6.2.1. Classified documented Information must be kept clear of desks and working areas and
locked away when not in use, or destroyed by shredding.

6.2.2. Devices must be stored securely or fastened to a desk using a Kensington lock (or
similar lock).

7. Acceptable Use

End Users are required to read the Information Security Handbook which contains the required
guidance to comply with this policy including the acceptable use of Post Office Information Assets
(##REF Handbook).

7.1. Malicious Software

Websites (included trusted sources) can knowingly or unknowingly be harbouring malware
which will attempt to trick the visitor into installing it onto the connecting Device. To protect
Information Assets:

7.1.1. Users must never install, attempt to install software or modify software settings.

7.1.2. Users must never override or attempt to override any Post Office software running on the
Device, e.g. anti-virus software.

7.2. Internet

7.2.1. Users must not visit websites that contain racist, pornographic, obscene, hateful or other
objectionable material and must not make or post indecent remarks, proposals or
materials on the Internet.

7.2.2. _ Users must not Anonymise (i.e. hide their identity or attempt to avoid detection or
monitoring), bypass or attempt to bypass Post Office web content controls or
intentionally interfere with the normal operation of Post Office Information Assets and will
not take any steps that substantially hinder others in their use of Post Office Information
Assets.

7.2.3. Users must not upload or download unauthorised software to or from the internet,

infringe copyright (see 8.2) or execute or accept any software programs or other code
from the internet (see 7.1).

7.3. Email and Instant Messaging

7.3.1. I Users must not send, forward or store material and/or attachments containing images,
video, sound, text or other materials considered indecent, pornographic, illicit obscene,
defamatory or discriminatory or which is intended to annoy, harass, or intimidate another
person and will not present personal opinions as those of Post Office.

7.3.2. Users must appropriately protect all Information with a security classification (see 4.2)
above ‘Public’ (##REF InfoSec Handbook)

7.3.3. Users must not use personal e-mail systems (e.g. Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo) for Post Office
business; this includes forwarding business related emails to personal email addresses.

7.3.4. _ Emails sent or received are retained and stored as permanent records and instant
messaging conversations may be stored as permanent records. Use of email and

POLICY INTERNAL Page 8 of 13

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 59 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

instant messaging is logged and monitored (see Section 11) and all related records may
be accessed by Post Office.

7.4. File Transfer and Storage
7.4.1. Post Office Information must be transferred using business sanctioned methods only.
The use of unauthorised application/web/cloud based file transfer and/or file storage
services are strictly prohibited (e.g. DropBox, SkyDrive, iCloud).
7.4.2. Access to and/or use of known illegal file sharing applications/web sites or other services
is strictly prohibited (e.g. warez sites, torrents, P2P/Darknet or streaming services).

7.5. Social Media

Social media sites, applications and technology including but not limited to: social networking
websites, applications, blogs, community sites, integrated social media and chat forums are
collectively referred to as ‘Social Media’ and are subject to the following requirements:

7.5.1. _ Users must follow Post Office guidance covering the appropriate use and best practices
for using social media (###REF Handbook).

7.5.2. Users must not send or receive any material which is obscene, defamatory or
discriminatory or which is intended to annoy, harass, or intimidate another person and
will not present personal opinions as those of the Post Office.

7.5.3. Anyone publishing Post Office Information using Social Media, for or on behalf of Post
Office, must be authorised and approved and may only publish Information classified as
‘Public’ (see 4.2).

7.5.4. Anyone publishing Post Office Information using Social Media, for or on behalf of Post
Office, which is classified as ‘Internal’ (see 4.2) must be authorised and approved and
the content of the Information must be controlled, approved and released by Post Office.

7.5.5. Information classified as ‘Confidential’ or ‘Strictly Confidential’ must never be published
using Social Media.

7.5.6. Misuse, data leakage or any other contravention of this policy must be reported
immediately following incident reporting procedures (see 9.2).

7.5.7. The use of Social Media is monitored by Post Office and authorised third parties (see
section 11).

8. Software Use

8.1. Installing and Configuring Software
8.1.1. All requests for software and applications must be formally made through the service
desk.

8.1.2. Users must not download, install or attempt to install unauthorised or unlicensed
software or attempt to modify software or application settings.

8.2. Copyright

8.2.1. With the exception of personal data (as defined in the Data Protection Act 1998)
Employees should not have any expectations of ownership or privacy in relation to Post
Office Information.

8.2.2. Copying (including duplicating and any other variant of the copying concept) of anything
(whether a document, digital asset, software, or anything else) other than in line with UK
and international copyright law is explicitly forbidden.

POLICY INTERNAL Page 9 of 13

60 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

8.2.3. Post Office Information Assets must not be used to store, process or transmit pirated
materials, including but not limited to films, videos or music. Piracy is a breach of
copyright law and is illegal.

9. Business Continuity

9.1. Backup
9.1.1. Post Office provides automated backups for Business Information Systems and
Applications (for e.g. E-mail, SharePoint, Network / Shared Drives). Users must ensure
they have a working backup of Information stored on Post Office Devices and/or
approved BYOD Devices (see 4.4). Refer to the backup section of the Information
Security Handbook for further guidance (###REF Handbook)

9.1.2. Backups of Post Office Information must only be performed to Post Office Information
Assets (i.e. not personal computing equipment including but not limited to personal
removable media)

9.2. Incident Management
9.2.1. Post Office maintains and manages incidents in accordance with the Incident
Management framework (##REF ISIM FMWk). If anyone becomes aware or suspects
that an incident is occurring, or has occurred, they must report it immediately to the
Service Desk on 0330 123 0778.

9.2.2. An incident is defined as:

« Suspected, perceived, or actual loss, alteration or disclosure of Post Office
Information Assets.

« Suspected, perceived or actual attacks on Post Office Information Assets
whether or not an attack was successful in corrupting, deleting or stealing
Information.

« Attempted or successful installation of malicious software on Post Office
Information Assets.

« Accidental loss of Information Asset functionality, or any accidental event that
leads to the loss of Availability or Integrity of Post Office Information.

« Any event that leads to the potential compromise of the Confidentiality of Post
Office Information.

9.2.3. Everyone must support the activities and investigations of the Information Security
Incident Response Team (IS-IRT).

9.2.4. _ User must not communicate any details concerning any past or ongoing incident to any
person external to Post Office, without explicit instructions from Post Office (see 10.4).

9.3. Lost or Compromised Information Assets

Lost, stolen or compromised Information Assets, including but not limited to: Post Office
Devices (see 4.1), Portable or Removable Media (see 4.3), BYOD (see 4.4), Physical IDs (see
6.1) or User IDs (see 5.1) present a risk to Post Office. If an Information Asset is lost or stolen
or a User suspects it may have been used to gain unauthorised access then Users must:

9.3.1. Report it immediately (see 9.2).
9.3.2. _ Change all potentially impacted passwords.

9.3.3. Activate any available functionality to ‘remote-wipe’ the Device where such functions are
available.

POLICY INTERNAL Page 10 of 13

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 61 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

9.4. External Communications

9.4.1. I Communications with external parties (e.g. press, media, news agencies, reporters, law
enforcement, legal or regulatory bodies) must be authorised and approved by Post
Office. Unauthorised external communications are strictly prohibited.

10. User Management

10.1. Acceptance of Information Assets
10.1.1. Users will be supplied with Information Assets (for e.g. Physical ID’s, User ID's, laptop,
desktop, BlackBerry, tablet, smart phone) required to perform their role.
10.2.Return of Information Assets

10.2.1. Users are required to return Information Assets upon termination of their employment or
contract. Additionally, Post Office reserves the right to retrieve any asset at any time.

10.2.2. Users are required to remove all Post Office Information from BYOD Devices when
requested and upon termination of employment or contract.

10.3. Information Security Training and Awareness

10.3.1. Post Office will periodically develop Information Security and Awareness training which
must be completed by all Users.

10.3.2. Anyone involved in the processing or personal data or card holder data must complete
Information Security and Awareness training prior to handling this Information.
11. Monitoring
11.1.1. Post Office monitors the use of and access to or from its Information Assets.

11.1.2. Unauthorised monitoring of Post Office Information Assets, communications or
personnel is strictly prohibited.

11.1.3. Post Office reserves the right to access, read, review, modify, monitor and copy all
Information and may access and/or disclose the contents of any Device including BYOD
Devices (see 4.4).

11.1.4. Users accessing personal services (e.g. banking, shopping) do so at their own risk. Post
Office Information Assets are monitored and Post Office accepts no liability for personal
Information which might be obtained and/or corrupted as a consequence.

12. Compliance and Non-Compliance

12.1. Compliance

12.1.1. All Users have a duty of care to ensure compliance with corporate policies, contractual
agreements and applicable laws or regulations.

12.1.2. Requests for personal data under the Data Protection Act 1998, known as Data Subject

foiteam{_ GRO

12.1.3. Requests for Post Office Information under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 must
be directed to Post Office's Information Rights Team foiteam¢

12.1.4. Post Office may periodically audit any business areas against corporate policies,
procedures or standards to ensure on-going commercial, legal or regulatory compliance

POLICY INTERNAL Page 11 of 13

62 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

12.1.5. Use of Post Office’s Information Assets implies acceptance of these conditions and the
conditions set out in this policy.

12.1.6. Use of BYOD Devices for processing, storing or transmitting Post Office Information
and/or connecting to Post Office Systems or Applications implies acceptance of these
conditions and the conditions set out in this policy.

12.2.Non-Compliance

13.

14.

15.

12.2.1. Lost, stolen or compromised Information Assets must be actioned immediately, in
accordance with the requirements set out at section 9.3 of this policy. Any delay will be
treated as a breach of this policy.

12.2.2. Sharing of Physical IDs and/or User IDs is a breach of this policy.
12.2.3. Evidence of misuse and/or unauthorised activity is a breach of this policy.

12.2.4. All breaches or misuse cases will be logged and investigated and could lead to
disciplinary action (see 15). Evidence of illegal activity will be reported to the appropriate
authorities.

Exceptions

All policy exceptions must be obtained in writing from Post Office’s Information Security and
Assurance Group (ISAG). Exceptions will be considered by ISAG at the time requested and
reviewed thereafter on an annual basis. Evidence must be retained for_both the. exception and
the annual review. For further Information please contact: isag¢__

Violations

Compliance with this policy is mandatory. Post Office provides Information Security and
Awareness Training at Induction and at least annually thereafter and will regularly assess
compliance against this policy.

Any violation of this policy will be treated as an incident. A breach of this Policy could lead to
disciplinary action in accordance with the Code of Conduct (##REF CoC) with the possibility of
termination of employment.

References

This document has the following references:

Information Security Handbook
Control of Documents Procedure
ID Card Policy

Code of Conduct

POLICY INTERNAL Page 12 of 13

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 63 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Acceptable Use Policy

Appendix A - Terms and Definitions

ANONYMISE: is an attempt by a User to hide or obscure their identity or their use of Post Office
Networks, Systems, Devices or Information in an attempt to avoid detection, monitoring or logging.
AVAILABILITY: necessitates that Information is accessible when it’s needed.

BRING YOUR OWN DEVICE (BYOD): is any privately owned Device which has been sanctioned by
Post Office for business use in accordance with policy.

CONFIDENTIALITY: necessitates that Information is not disclosed to individuals or systems that are
not authorised to receive it.

CYBER SECURITY AND INFORMATION ASSURANCE (CSIA): is the overall approach to protecting
Post Office’s Information Assets from attack, loss, theft, compromise or damage. It comprises of
policies, standards, procedures and control frameworks, typically referred to as a Management
System, to enable the systematic management of Post Offices Information Assets in order to
establish formal governance, manage business risks and ensure contractual, legal and regulatory
compliance.

DEVICE: is any Device which is capable of connecting to Post Office Networks or Systems and can
be used to store, process or transmit Post Office Information. Examples of Devices are: laptops,
desktops, smartphones (iPhone, Blackberry), tablet computers (iPad).

EMPLOYEE: is anyone working for Post Office whether full-time or part-time and which for the
purposes of this policy includes, but is not limited to, contractors, sub-contractors, postmasters or
temporary staff.

END USER or USER: is anyone (excluding customers) who has been issued a Post Office User ID
and/or has access to Post Office Networks, Systems, Devices or Information.

INFORMATION ASSET. is any asset with value and/or can present a risk to Post Office. Examples of
Information Assets include people, processes, Networks, Systems, Devices or Information.
INFORMATION: is any data which is informative, organised for a purpose, has meaning and/or
relevance to Post Office, its clients, consumers, customers, Employees and/or Third Party Supply
Chain.

INFORMATON ASSURANCE: the practice of ensuring Information is adequately protected and
managed in accordance with Post Office policy, frameworks, standards and contractual, legal and
regulatory requirements.

INTEGRITY: necessitates that Information cannot be modified in an unauthorised manner.
NETWORK: typically described as either a wide area network (WAN) or a local area network (LAN)
providing enterprise-wide connectivity for Post Office enabling voice, data or integrated
communications that supports one or more business systems or inter-connected Devices.
PHYSICAL ID: is any hardware token which is used to identity a person and/or gain physical entry to
Post Office premises.

REMOVABLE MEDIA: is any hardware Device which can be connected to and/or removed from
another Device and can be used for transferring or storing Information. This includes but is not limited
to: mobile phones, digital cameras, digital audio Devices, portable hard drives, CDs, DVDs, Blu-Rays,
SD cards, memory sticks, flash drives or any similar Device.

SYSTEM: is a logical grouping of hardware and software components (for e.g. Horizon, CFS,
SharePoint) which is used in the storage, processing or transmission of Information. They may be
owned and operated by Post Office or one or more Third Party Supply Chain.

THIRD PARTY SUPPLY CHAIN: any individual or company, along with its supply chain network that
provides a product or service to Post Office.

USER ID: is any authentication or access credentials used to gain access to Post Office Networks,
Systems, Devices or Information (for e.g. authentication tokens, computer or application usernames,
wireless or network logons, Active Directory logins).

POLICY INTERNAL Page 13 of 13

64 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

ormation Security Policies

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER 10B

@

POST OFFICE
BUSINESS INFORMATION
SYSTEMS POLICY

POL00423564
POL00423564

11. Information Security Policies

& Business Information Systems Policy

Document Control

Overview

Head of Information Enqui
Own: Security and Assurance A ny ISAG
point:
Group

Effective

Approved by: on

Version: Last updated:

Revision History

Version Date Author Changes
0.1 09/11/2014 I Andrew Watson Initial draft release
0.2 20/11/2014 I Andrew Watson Second draft release post ISAG peer review

Changes made to reflect comments /
feedback. A summary of which are provided

03 12/02/2015 I Andrew Watson in Policy Review Tracker and details provided
back to ISWP through document mark-up.

0.4 18/02/2015 I Andrew Watson As above

Reviewers

Version Date Reviewer Comments

0.1 20/11/2014 I ISAG

02 10/02/2015 I ISWP Feedback from ISWP contained within Policy

review tracker

Feedback from ISWP contained within Policy
ISWP. ;
review tracker

0.3 18/02./2015

Next
review date

Quality Control

This document is subject to periodic review and will be reviewed at
least annually or where there are significant changes to the business 02/12/2015
and/or its operating environment.

POLICY INTERNAL Page 2 of 6

66 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

11. Information Security Policies

& Business Information Systems Policy

Contents

0. Terms and Abbreviations
1. Purpose
2. Scope.

3. Policy...
3.1. BUSINESS APPLICATIONS ......
3.2. IDENTITY AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT.
3.3. SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
3.4. SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE.
3.5. NETWORK MANAGEMENT
3.6. MOBILE COMPUTING...
3.7. ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS ...
3.8. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE seve oe destiatavsnoneuoss eoveer
3.9. PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY

4. Exceptions ............

Enforcement...

5.
6. Violations .....
7.

. References...
Appendix A - Terms and Definitions

POLICY INTERNAL Page 3 of 6

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 67 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Business Information Systems Policy

0. Terms and Abbreviations
Terms used throughout this document are described at the end of this document in Appendix A.

1. Purpose

The purpose of the Business Information Systems (BIS) Policy is to support business
requirements, provide adequate levels of protection for Post Office Information Assets.

2. Scope

The people, processes and technology used for the provision of services to and/or on behalf of
Post Office throughout the enterprise, including Third Party Supply Chain are within the scope of
this policy regardless of physical location.

3. Policy

3.1. BUSINESS APPLICATIONS

3.1.1. Applications must be protected using industry best practice security architecture
principles and standards to ensure the use of consistent security functionality, aligned
with the Post Office’s Business Information Systems Framework (##REF BIS FMWkK)
and risk appetite (##REF RM FMWk).

3.2. IDENTITY AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT

3.2.1. Identity and Access Management (IAM) life-cycle arrangements must be established
throughout the Post Office in line with risk appetite (##REF RM FIMWkK) as per the
requirements set out in the Business Information Systems Standards Development
Framework (##REF BIS FMWk).

3.3. SYSTEM MANAGEMENT

3.3.1. Business Information Systems must be protected using security controls that ensure
they meet Post Office requirements (##REF BIS FMWK) and preserve the
confidentiality, integrity and availability of Information in line with classification
requirements (##REF IAP).

3.4. SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE

3.4.1. An Enterprise Architecture framework that incorporates Post Office Information security
principles and standards (##REF BIS FMWK) must be established to ensure a
consistent risk based Information security management approach (##REF RM FMWk)
across Post Office.

3.5.NETWORK MANAGEMENT

3.5.1. Networks must be protected and managed in accordance with Post Office Information
security requirements (##REF BIS FMWk).

3.6. MOBILE COMPUTING

3.6.1. Mobile devices must be protected and managed in accordance with Post Office
Information security requirements (##REF BIS FMWk).

POLICY INTERNAL Page 4 of 6

68 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Business Information Systems Policy

3.7. ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS

3.7.1. Electronic Communications must be protected using industry best practice security
architecture principles and standards to ensure the use of consistent security
functionality, aligned with the Post Office’s Business Information Systems Framework
(##REF BIS FMWkK) and risk appetite (##REF RM FMWk) to ensure appropriate levels
of protection.

3.8. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE

3.8.1. System Development Life Cycle activities must be secured in accordance with
documented and assured methodologies and processes in line with the requirements
set out in the Business Information Systems Framework (##REF BIS FMWkK).

3.9. PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY
3.9.1. Facilities and access to those facilities must be protected against unauthorised access.

4. Exceptions

All policy exceptions must be obtained in writing from the Post Office Information Security and
Assurance Group (ISAG). Exceptions will be considered by ISAG at the time requested and

5. Enforcement
This policy will be supported by and enforced through Post Office frameworks and standards.

6. Violations

Compliance with this policy is mandatory. Post Office provides Information Security and
Awareness Training at Induction and at least annually thereafter and will regularly assess
compliance to this policy.

Any violation of this policy is an incident. Where incidents are attributed to an Employee, the
individual(s) may be subject to the Code of Conduct (##REF CoC), similarly, Third Party Supply
Chain incidents will be managed through corresponding contracts.

7. References

This document has the following references:

e Business Information Systems Framework
e Risk Management Framework
« Information Assurance Policy
* Code of Conduct
POLICY INTERNAL Page 5 of 6

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 69 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

& Business Information Systems Policy

Appendix A - Terms and Definitions

ANONYMISE: is an attempt by a User to hide or obscure their identity or their use of Post Office
Networks, Systems, Devices or Information in an attempt to avoid detection, monitoring or logging.

AVAILABILITY: necessitates that Information is accessible when it's needed.

BRING YOUR OWN DEVICE (BYOD): is any privately owned Device which has been sanctioned by
Post Office for business use in accordance with policy.

CONFIDENTIALITY: necessitates that Information is not disclosed to individuals or systems that are
not authorised to receive it.

CYBER SECURITY AND INFORMATION ASSURANCE (CSIA): is the overall approach to protecting
Post Office’s Information Assets from attack, loss, theft, compromise or damage. It comprises of
policies, standards, procedures and control frameworks, typically referred to as a Management
System, to enable the systematic management of the Post Offices Information Assets in order to
establish formal governance, manage business risks and ensure contractual, legal and regulatory
compliance.

DEVICE: is any Device which is capable of connecting to Post Office Networks or Systems and can
be used to store, process or transmit Post Office Information. Examples of Devices are: laptops,
desktops, smartphones (iPhone, Blackberry), tablet computers (iPad).

EMPLOYEE: is anyone working for Post Office whether full-time or part-time and which for the
purposes of this policy includes, but is not limited to, contractors, sub-contractors, postmasters or
temporary staff.

END USER or USER: is anyone (excluding customers) who has been issued a Post Office User ID
and/or has access to Post Office Networks, Systems, Devices or Information.

INFORMATION ASSET: is any asset with value and/or can present a risk to the Post Office.
Examples of Information Assets include people, processes, Networks, Systems, Devices or
Information.

INFORMATION: is any data which is informative, organised for a purpose, has meaning and/or
relevance to Post Office, its clients, consumers, customers, Employees and/or Third Party Supply
Chain.

INFORMATON ASSURANCE: the practice of ensuring Information is adequately protected and
managed in accordance with Post Office policy, frameworks, standards and contractual, legal and
regulatory requirements.

INTEGRITY: necessitates that Information cannot be modified in an unauthorised manner.
NETWORK: typically described as either a wide area network (WAN) or a local area network (LAN)
providing enterprise-wide connectivity for Post Office enabling voice, data or integrated
communications that supports one or more business systems or inter-connected Devices.
PHYSICAL ID: is any hardware token which is used to identity a person and/or gain physical entry to
Post Office premises.

REMOVABLE MEDIA: is any hardware Device which can be connected to and/or removed from
another Device and can be used for transferring or storing Information. This includes but is not limited
to: mobile phones, digital cameras, digital audio devices, portable hard drives, CDs, DVDs, Blu-Rays,
SD cards, memory sticks, flash drives or any similar device.

SYSTEM: is a logical grouping of hardware and software components (for e.g. Horizon, CFS,
SharePoint) which is used in the storage, processing or transmission of Information. They may be
owned and operated by Post Office or one or more Third Party Supply Chain.

THIRD PARTY SUPPLY CHAIN: any individual or company, along with its supply chain network that
provides a product or service to Post Office.

USER ID: is any authentication or access credentials used to gain access to Post Office Networks,
Systems, Devices or Information (for e.g. authentication tokens, computer or application usernames,
wireless or network logons, Active Directory logins).

POLICY INTERNAL Page 6 of 6

70 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
In

form:

ation

POL00423564
POL00423564

Security Policies

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER 10C
E>

POST OFFICE
CYBER AND INFORMATION
SECURITY POLICY

POL00423564

POL00423564
11. Information Security Policies
ES Cyber and Information Security Policy
Document Control
Overview
Head of Information Enquiry
seal point: ISAG
ney Last
ie updated:
Revision History
Version Date Author Changes
0.1 09/11/2014 Andrew Watson I Authored and initial Release
0.2 13/11/2014 Claire Davies Peer Review
0.3 14/11/2014 Claire Davies Lead Review
0.4 18/11/2014 Andrew Watson I Final mark-up following ISAG comments
05 20/11/2014 Andrew Watson dete definitions and minor content
Changes made to reflect comments /
feedback. A summary provided in Policy
a6 Tenzi2n1s Andrew Watson Review Tracker and details provided back
to ISWP through document mark-up.
0.7 18/02/2015 Andrew Watson I As above.
Reviewers
Version Date Reviewer Comments
0.1 09/11/2014 ISAG
0.2 13/11/2014 ISAG
0.3 14/11/2014 Julie George
0.4 19/11/2014 Julie George
05 10/02/2015 ISWP Feedback from ISWP contained within
I _ Policy review tracker
Feedback from ISWP contained within
96 TSIN2/2019 ISWE Policy review tracker
Quality Control raviovidata
This document is subject to periodic review and will be reviewed at
least annually or where there are significant changes to the 02/12/2015
business and/or its operating environment.
POLICY INTERNAL Page 2 of 8

72 of 85

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

11. Information Security Policies

ES Cyber and Information Security Policy

Contents

Terms and Definitions

Executive Statement .

Purpose
Scope..

0.
1.
2. Introduction...
3.
4.

5. Policy.
5.1. Information Security Governance ....
5.2. Information Risk Management
5.3. Business Information Systems
5.4. Information Assurance
5.5. Acceptable Use on
5.6. Human Resources Security...
5.7. Information Security Management.
5.8. Incident Management...
5.9. Third Party Supply Chain Management
5.10. Business Continuity Management
6. Exceptions ...
7. Violations .....

8. References...
Appendix A: Terms and Definitions

POLICY INTERNAL Page 3 of 8

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 73 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

11. Information Security Policies

ES Cyber and Information Security Policy

0. Terms and Definitions
The terms used within this document are located and described at Appendix A of this document.

1. Executive Statement

Post Office’s Board and Executive Committee (ExCo) recognise that Cyber and Information
Security threats present significant commercial and operational risk to Post Office and to those of
its subsidiaries (Post Office). ExCo are committed to developing a strategic response to current
and emerging Cyber and Information Security threats as an enabling mechanism for Post Office
to achieve its growth, modernisation, customer focus and Employee engagement objectives
whilst preserving Post Office’s brand, commercial image, reputation, competitive advantage,
revenues, profitability, legal, regulatory and contractual compliance.

This policy sets out the agenda for the establishment, implementation, maintenance and
continual improvement of Post Office’s Cyber Security and Information Assurance (CSIA)
Management System. These requirements will continue to be improved and aligned to any
changes in Post Office’s strategic objectives, operating environment, risk profile, legal or
regulatory compliance and/or in response to incidents or emerging cyber threats.

2. Introduction

CSIA refers to the principles and implementation of defending Post Office against, unauthorised
or unintended access, destruction, disruption or tampering of its Information Assets. The Cyber
and Information Security Policy is a key component of the CSIA programme, which:

e Sets out Post Office’s Cyber and Information Security Governance, Risk and Compliance
(GRC) structure;

« Enables people, processes and technology to operate in a risk controlled environment;
and
« Validates commercial, contractual, legal and regulatory compliance.

This Policy informs three sub-ordinate policies as defined below:

Cyber & Information Security Policy

Acceptable Use Business Information Information Assurance
Policy Policy Policy

POLICY INTERNAL Page 4 of 8

74 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
Information Security P.

POL00423564
POL00423564

olicies

ES Cyber and Information Security Policy

3. Purpose

The pi

jurposes of the policy are to:

Enable Post Offices’ strategic objectives whilst maintaining a level of control and
acceptable risk proportionate to the Board and ExCo’s risk appetite.

Structure CSIA activities within the business's Information Security GRC framework which
covers all Post Office people, processes and technology.

Protect Post Office’s Information Assets from risks associated with the theft, loss, misuse,
damage or abuse whether intentional or unintentional by preserving their Confidentiality,
Integrity and Availability.

Enable the development and maintenance of Post Office’s CSIA capability including
leadership and organisational responsibilities, while ensuring that everyone remains aware
of their responsibilities and understands and adheres to Post Office’s CSIA policies.

Provide corporate policies, standards and guidelines as an enabler for Information;
exchange, security operations, e-commerce, risk management and incident management
throughout Post Office and its Third Party Supply Chain.

Ensure on-going threat awareness, compliance and continual improvement of CSIA within
Post Offices’ programmes and management systems.

4. Scope

The people, processes and technology used for the provision of services to and/or on behalf of
Post Office throughout the enterprise, including Third Party Supply Chain are within the scope of
this policy regardless of physical location.

5. Policy

5.1. Information Security Governance

5.1.1

. The Board of Directors and ExCo under the stewardship of the General Council (GC)
bestow custodianship of CSIA for Post Office to the Head of Information Security and
Assurance Group (ISAG).

ISAG is responsible for Post Offices CSIA strategy (##REF CSIA Strategy), Cyber and
Information GRC frameworks, tactical CSIA programmes, controls, assurance and
countermeasures across the enterprise.

In support of 5.1.2 (above) the Head of ISAG will establish a governing body known as
the Information Security Committee (ISC) attended by members of the Senior
Leadership Team (SLT) from each major business function. The ISC responsibilities
are set out in ISC Terms of Reference (##REF ToR ISC). A subordinate Information
Security Working Party (ISWP) will be established whose responsibilities are set out in
the ISWP Terms of Reference (##REF ISWP ToR).

5.2. Information Risk Management

5.2.1

5.2.2.

POLICY

. _ Information risk assessments must be performed and/or approved by ISAG for all
Information Assets in order to identify the key Information risks, evaluate them, and
determine treatment options.

The Information Risk Management Framework (##REF IS RM FMWK) provides the
context for identifying, assessing and prioritising Information-related risks, alignment to
the Enterprise Risk Management framework.

INTERNAL Page 5 of 8

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 75 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

ES Cyber and Information Security Policy

5.2.3. Risk Registers must be managed to include Information risks. Where an identified risk
is above the acceptable level of tolerance a Risk Acceptance Notice (RAN) must be
completed and where appropriate include ISAG guidance. (##REF RAN procedure)

5.3. Business Information Systems

5.3.1. The Business Information Systems Policy (##REF BIS Policy) will set out the technical
framework for the protection of Post Office’s Information Assets.

5.4. Information Assurance
5.4.1. The Information Assurance Policy (IAP) will set out the framework for monitoring,
protecting, auditing, compliance, assurance and continual improvement of Information
throughout its life-cycle (###REF IAP) including but not limited to any contractual, legal
or regulatory requirements.

5.5. Acceptable Use
5.5.1. Post Offices CSIA policies will be supported by a detailed Acceptable Use Policy
(##REF AUP) and handbook (##REF handbook) that define the way in which everyone
is expected to comply with the use of Information technology and Information
throughout Post Office.

5.6. Human Resources Security

5.6.1. _ Human Resources (HR) will complete standard background checks on Employees
following the latest HR policies and guidance on the intranet.

5.6.2. Induction processes will incorporate Information security requirements, including but
not limited to: deployment of Information assets and user ID’s, acceptance of the
Acceptable Usage Policy (###REF AUP) and the completion of regular Information
security awareness training (##REF IAP).

5.7. Information Security Management
5.7.1. Cyber Security activities and Information assurance requirements must be incorporated
into all business processes (for example business transformation programmes, change
and project management). This will be achieved by integrating Information security
requirements into planning decisions and budgeting activities and will include
Information risk (see 5.2) in business decisions, meetings and audits (##REF IAP).

5.8. Incident Management

5.8.1. In support of this policy an Information Security Incident Management (ISIM) framework
(##REF ISIM FMWkK), owned by the Head of ISAG will be developed, deployed and
maintained throughout Post Office and the Third Party Supply Chain. The ISIM
framework sets out the requirements for incident management, incident handling and
incident response in line with the Post Offices risk appetite (see 5.2).

5.8.2. Incidents and/or breaches impacting Post Office Information Assets must be notified to
ISAG immediately in line with the requirements set out in the ISIM framework (##REF
ISIM FMWk).

5.9. Third Party Supply Chain Management

5.9.1. CSIA requirements set out in Post Office’s policies, frameworks and standards will be
extended to all third parties through procurement and contractual management
processes which must include the requirements set out in the ISAG House Position
(##REF ISAG House Position)

5.9.2. _ New and updated CSIA policies will be issued to the Third Party Supply Chain
immediately after they are approved by Post Office, at which point they will supersede

POLICY INTERNAL Page 6 of 8

76 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

ES Cyber and Information Security Policy

as appropriate (a) previous versions of the policy (b) current contractual requirements.
Third Party Supply Chain must inform the Head of ISAG within 30 days of being issued
a new or updated policy, if they are unable to meet any of the new requirements so
appropriate action(s) can be agreed.

5.9.3. Third Party Supply Chain must obtain and maintain certification to the current version
of 1SO27001 and PCI DSS with a scope agreed by ISAG for the term of the contract.
In line with 5.2.3 (above), any concession, without exception requires the completion of
a risk acceptance notice (RAN).

5.9.4. Third Party Supply Chain service provisions must be monitored, measured, audited
and are subject to continual improvement as set out in the IAP (##REF IAP) and the
Cyber Security and Information Assurance Compliance Framework (##REF CSIA
Compliance FMWk).

5.10. Business Continuity Management
5.10.1. CSIA controls must be resilient before, during or following any incident, breach, crisis
or disaster and Post Office’s Business Continuity Management (BCM) and Disaster
Recovery (DR) planning and/or testing activities must incorporate Post Office’s
Information security requirements.

6. Exceptions
All policy exceptions must be obtained in writing from Post Office ISAG. Exceptions will be
considered by ISAG at the time requested and reviewed thereafter on an annual basis. Evidence
must be retained for both.the exception and the annual review. For further Information please
fe)

contact: isag@

7. Violations
Compliance with this policy and/or any subordinate policy is mandatory. Post Office provides
Information Security and Awareness Training at Induction and at least annually thereafter and
will regularly assess compliance to this policy.

Any violation of this policy is an incident. Where incidents are attributed to an Employee, the
individual(s) may be subject to the Code of Conduct (##REF CoC), similarly, Third Party Supply
Chain incidents will be managed through corresponding contracts.

8. References
This document has the following references:

Cyber Security and Information Assurance Strategy
Terms of Reference - Information Security Committee
Terms of Reference - Information Security Working Party
Information Security Risk Management Framework
Risk Acceptance Notice procedure

Business Information Systems Policy

Information Assurance Policy

Acceptable Use Policy

Information Security Handbook

Information Security Incident Management Framework
ISAG House Position

HR - Code of Conduct

POLICY INTERNAL Page 7 of 8

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 77 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

ES Cyber and Information Security Policy

Appendix A: Terms and Definitions

ANONYMISE: is an attempt by a User to hide or obscure their identity or their use of Post Office
Networks, Systems, Devices or Information in an attempt to avoid detection, monitoring or logging.

AVAILABILITY: necessitates that Information is accessible when it's needed.

BRING YOUR OWN DEVICE (BYOD): is any privately owned Device which has been sanctioned by
Post Office for business use in accordance with policy.

CONFIDENTIALITY: necessitates that Information is not disclosed to individuals or systems that are
not authorised to receive it.

CYBER SECURITY AND INFORMATION ASSURANCE (CSIA): is the overall approach to protecting
Post Office’s Information Assets from attack, loss, theft, compromise or damage. It comprises of
policies, standards, procedures and control frameworks, typically referred to as a Management
System, to enable the systematic management of the Post Offices Information Assets in order to
establish formal governance, manage business risks and ensure contractual, legal and regulatory
compliance.

DEVICE: is any Device which is capable of connecting to Post Office Networks or Systems and can
be used to store, process or transmit Post Office Information. Examples of Devices are: laptops,
desktops, smartphones (iPhone, Blackberry), tablet computers (iPad).

EMPLOYEE: is anyone working for Post Office whether full-time or part-time and which for the
purposes of this policy includes, but is not limited to, contractors, sub-contractors, postmasters or
temporary staff.

END USER or USER: is anyone (excluding customers) who has been issued a Post Office User ID
and/or has access to Post Office Networks, Systems, Devices or Information.

INFORMATION ASSET: is any asset with value and/or can present a risk to Post Office. Examples of
Information Assets include people, processes, Networks, Systems, Devices or Information.
INFORMATION: is any data which is informative, organised for a purpose, has meaning and/or
relevance to Post Office, its clients, consumers, customers, Employees and/or Third Party Supply
Chain.

INFORMATON ASSURANCE: the practice of ensuring Information is adequately protected and
managed in accordance with Post Office policy, frameworks, standards and contractual, legal and
regulatory requirements.

INTEGRITY: necessitates that Information cannot be modified in an unauthorised manner.
NETWORK: typically described as either a wide area network (WAN) or a local area network (LAN)
providing enterprise-wide connectivity for Post Office enabling voice, data or integrated
communications that supports one or more business systems or inter-connected Devices.

PHYSICAL ID: is any hardware token which is used to identify a person and/or gain physical entry to
Post Office premises.

REMOVABLE MEDIA: is any hardware Device which can be connected to and/or removed from
another Device and can be used for transferring or storing Information. This includes but is not limited
to: mobile phones, digital cameras, digital audio devices, portable hard drives, CDs, DVDs, Blu-Rays,
SD cards, memory sticks, flash drives or any similar device.

SYSTEM: is a logical grouping of hardware and software components (for e.g. Horizon, CFS,
SharePoint) which is used in the storage, processing or transmission of Information. They may be
owned and operated by Post Office or one or more Third Party Supply Chain.

THIRD PARTY SUPPLY CHAIN: any individual or company, along with its supply chain network that
provides a product or service to Post Office.

USER ID: is any authentication or access credentials used to gain access to Post Office Networks,
Systems, Devices or Information (for e.g. authentication tokens, computer or application usernames,
wireless or network logons, Active Directory logins).

POLICY INTERNAL Page 8 of 8

78 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
information Security Policies

RCC 1 MAY 2015 PAPER 10D

&

POST OFFICE
INFORMATION ASSURANCE
POLICY

POL00423564
POL00423564
POL00423564
POL00423564

11. Information Security Policies

ES Business Information Systems Policy

Document Control

Overview
Gage Head of Information Security ISAG
and Assurance Group
Effective
Approved by: one
Baers Last
Version: 0.4 updated:
Revision History
Version Date Author Changes
0.1 09/11/2014 I Andrew Watson Initial draft release
0.2 20/11/2014 I Andrew Watson Second release post ISAG peer review
Changes made to reflect comments /
feedback. A summary of which are provided
0.3 1202/2015 I Andrew Watson in Policy Review Tracker and details provided
back to ISWP through document mark-up.
0.4 19/02/2015 I Andrew Watson As above.
Reviewers
Version Date Reviewer Comments
0.1 20/11/2014 I ISAG
02 10/02/2015 I ISWP Feedback from ISWP contained within Policy
review tracker
Feedback from ISWP contained within Policy
03 'Swp review tracker

Next
review date

Quality Control

This document is subject to periodic review and will be reviewed at
least annually or where there are significant changes to the business 02/12/2015
and/or its operating environment.

POLICY INTERNAL Page 2 of 6

80 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

11. Information Security Policies

ES Business Information Systems Policy

Contents

0. Terms and Definitions
1. Purpose ou...

2. Scope.
3. Policy
3.1. INFORMATION ASSET MANAGEMENT .
3.2. INFORMATION CLASSIFICATION ...
3.3. INFORMATION ASSET LIFECYCLE
3.4. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS (IPR)
3.5. INFORMATION SECURITY AWARENESS PROGRAMME ....
3.6. INFORMATION SECURITY MONITORING AND IMPROVEMENT
3.7. COMPLIANCE .............+
4. Exceptions

5. Violations .

6. References............+ 5
Appendix A - Terms and Definitions 8
POLICY INTERNAL Page 3 of 6

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 81 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

ES Business Information Systems Policy

0. Terms and Definitions

Terms used throughout this document are described at the end of this document in Appendix A.

1. Purpose
The purpose of the Information Assurance Policy (IAP) is to support business requirements and
provide adequate levels of assurance to Post Office Information Assets.

2. Scope

The people, processes and technology used for the provision of services to and/or on behalf of
Post Office throughout the enterprise, including Third Party Supply Chain are within the scope of
this policy regardless of physical location.

3. Policy

3.1. INFORMATION ASSET MANAGEMENT

3.1.1. Information Assets must be identified, owned, risk assessed (##REF RISK MGT
FMWkK), and protected in line with the requirements set out in the Asset Management
Framework (##REF Asset MGT FMWk).

3.2. INFORMATION CLASSIFICATION

3.2.1. An Information classification scheme will be established and must be observed
throughout Post Office to ensure the appropriate level of protection is applied to all
Information, this includes but is not limited to Information that is: communicated
verbally, stored in physical or electronic form and electronic communications (##REF
INFO CLASSIFICATION STD).

3.3. INFORMATION ASSET LIFECYCLE
3.3.1. Information will be managed throughout its life cycle in line with the Data Management
Life Cycle (##REF DATA MGT LIFECYCLE).
3.4. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS (IPR)

3.4.1. Software and other third party copyrighted items must only be obtained through
legitimate sources, and only on the basis that the software or copyright licence terms
will be complied with and will ensure that copyright ownership of documents or
software is established through the granting of a license, contract and/or employment
agreements.

3.5. INFORMATION SECURITY AWARENESS PROGRAMME

3.5.1. Asecurity awareness programme must be established throughout Post Office and
tailored security messages must be communicated to End Users.

3.5.2. The effectiveness of security awareness programmes must be monitored and
evaluated.

POLICY INTERNAL Page 4 of 6

82 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

ES Business Information Systems Policy

3.6. INFORMATION SECURITY MONITORING AND IMPROVEMENT

3.6.1. The Information security status of Post Office is subject to regular monitoring, reporting
(##REF CSIA M&R STD), audit (###REF AUDIT FMRK) and performance review to
assess Post Office’s Cyber Security and Information Assurance programmes, policies,
frameworks, standards, controls, risks and Third Party Supply Chain and will make
continual improvement decisions aligned with business risk (##REF RISK MGT FMWK)
and objectives as set out in the CSIA Compliance Framework (##REF CSIA
Compliance FMWk).

3.6.2. Post Office and Third Party Supply Chain members must continually monitor the
external environment for events and threats outside of its control which may adversely
impact Post Office operations and/or capabilities.

3.7. COMPLIANCE

3.7.1. Post Office will protect the rights and privacy of individuals whose Information Post
Office collects and/or processes and will comply with UK & EU legislation, and where
appropriate, international laws. Post Office’s Data Protection and Privacy standard,
owned by the Data Protection Officer (DPO) (##REF DPA & Privacy STD) sets out the
requirements for legal and regulatory compliance.

4. Exceptions

All policy exceptions must be obtained in writing from Post Office’s Information Security and
Assurance Group (ISAG). Exceptions will be considered by ISAG at the time requested and
reviewed thereafter on an annual basis. Evidence must be retained for both the exception and the
annual review. For further information please contact: isagi_ = == GRO 3

5. Violations

Compliance with this policy is mandatory. Post Office provides Information Security and
Awareness Training at Induction and at least annually thereafter and will regularly assess
compliance to this policy.

Any violation of this policy is an incident. Where incidents are attributed to an Employee, the
individual(s) may be subject to the Code of Conduct (##REF CoC), similarly, Third Party Supply
Chain incidents will be managed through corresponding contracts.

6. References
This document has the following references:

Risk Management Framework

Asset Management Framework

Data Life Cycle Management Standard
CSIA Monitoring and Reporting Standard
CSIA Audit Framework

CSIA Compliance Framework

Data Protection and Privacy Standard
Information Classification Standard
Code of Conduct

POLICY INTERNAL Page 5 of 6

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 83 of 85
POL00423564
POL00423564

Information Security Policies

ES Business Information Systems Policy

Appendix A - Terms and Definitions

ANONYMISE: is an attempt by a User to hide or obscure their identity or their use of Post Office
Networks, Systems, Devices or Information in an attempt to avoid detection, monitoring or logging.
AVAILABILITY: necessitates that Information is accessible when it's needed.

BRING YOUR OWN DEVICE (BYOD): is any privately owned Device which has been sanctioned by
Post Office for business use in accordance with policy.

CONFIDENTIALITY: necessitates that Information is not disclosed to individuals or systems that are
not authorised to receive it.

CYBER SECURITY AND INFORMATION ASSURANCE (CSIA): is the overall approach to protecting
Post Office’s Information Assets from attack, loss, theft, compromise or damage. It comprises of
policies, standards, procedures and control frameworks, typically referred to as a Management
System, to enable the systematic management of the Post Offices Information Assets in order to
establish formal governance, manage business risks and ensure contractual, legal and regulatory
compliance.

DEVICE: is any Device which is capable of connecting to Post Office Networks or Systems and can
be used to store, process or transmit Post Office Information. Examples of Devices are: laptops,
desktops, smartphones (iPhone, Blackberry), tablet computers (iPad).

EMPLOYEE: is anyone working for Post Office whether full-time or part-time and which for the
purposes of this policy includes, but is not limited to, contractors, sub-contractors, postmasters or
temporary staff.

END USER or USER: is anyone (excluding customers) who has been issued a Post Office User ID
and/or has access to Post Office Networks, Systems, Devices or Information.

INFORMATION ASSET: is any asset with value and/or can present a risk to Post Office. Examples of
Information Assets include people, processes, Networks, Systems, Devices or Information.
INFORMATION: is any data which is informative, organised for a purpose, has meaning and/or
relevance to Post Office, its clients, consumers, customers, Employees and/or Third Party Supply
Chain.

INFORMATON ASSURANCE: the practice of ensuring Information is adequately protected and
managed in accordance with Post Office policy, frameworks, standards and contractual, legal and
regulatory requirements.

INTEGRITY: necessitates that Information cannot be modified in an unauthorised manner.
NETWORK: typically described as either a wide area network (WAN) or a local area network (LAN)
providing enterprise-wide connectivity for Post Office enabling voice, data or integrated
communications that supports one or more business systems or inter-connected Devices.
PHYSICAL ID: is any hardware token which is used to identify a person and/or gain physical entry to
Post Office premises.

REMOVABLE MEDIA: is any hardware Device which can be connected to and/or removed from
another Device and can be used for transferring or storing Information. This includes but is not limited
to: mobile phones, digital cameras, digital audio devices, portable hard drives, CDs, DVDs, Blu-Rays,
SD cards, memory sticks, flash drives or any similar device.

SYSTEM: is a logical grouping of hardware and software components (for e.g. Horizon, CFS,
SharePoint) which is used in the storage, processing or transmission of Information. They may be
owned and operated by Post Office or one or more Third Party Supply Chain.

THIRD PARTY SUPPLY CHAIN: any individual or company, along with its supply chain network that
provides a product or service to Post Office.

USER ID: is any authentication or access credentials used to gain access to Post Office Networks,
Systems, Devices or Information (for e.g. authentication tokens, computer or application usernames,
wireless or network logons, Active Directory logins).

POLICY INTERNAL Page 6 of 6

84 of 85 Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15
POL00423564
POL00423564

Supplementary Documents

Post Office Ltd
Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting

1 May 2015
Location:
Boardroom 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, England, EC2Y 9AQ, United
Kingdom
ATTENDANCE LIST
ATTENDEES SIGNATURE

MacLeod, Jane

Alwen, Lyons

Cameron, Alisdair

Hayward, Neil

Lambert, Gavin

Nick, Kennett

Paula, Vennells

Risk & Compliance Committee Meeting-01/05/15 85 of 85
