POL00448080
POL00448080

POST OFFICE LIMITED
CI) 6 Transaction Disputes "

- 30 unique actions and it should be noted that all the original actions have been completed.

- 24 (80%) actions are complete and can be demonstrated via evidence
- 6 (20%) actions require improvements.

Whilst it is clear that there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate the actions have been delivered and the evidence reviewed demonstrates their
sustainability. Improvement areas have been identified, one action in particular around call recording needs attention to ensure POL is able to provide
call recordings or a log of calls to/from the Postmaster. The area for improvement includes root cause analysis that will help to improve oversight and
governance and further identify where improvements can be made for Postmasters.

Subject Assurance finding Recommendation/Improvement opportunity

Puzzel Whilst their is call recording in place and majority of calls are Ensure call log for Non-recorded Puzzle calls is implemented
recorded, with QA happening, there is a gap in that the log for
non-Puzzel calls is not in use.

Root Cause Analysis Currently there is no root cause analysis of the data to enable Improvement opportunity - to remediate root cause analysis
the team to identify why Postmasters are disputing transaction I and investigations dashboard.
corrections.

The Investigations dashboard provides an oversight of the
number of cases and resolutions timelines achieved. There is a
tab labelled root cause, however the data shows the cause No
root cause analysis is completed currently to understand the
reason for the errors.

Complaints The complaints dashboard does not provide qualitative Include qualitative information in the complaints dashboard
Dashboard information particularly in relation to Transaction Corrections regarding Transaction Corrections

which indicates if postmasters are seeing a positive change on
the ground or not.

Policy Review Controls within the policy are not controls. How are the Pick up as a thematic in the final report.
processes monitored to ensure the policy is working?

Strictly confidential Page 1 of 1
