POL00316829
POL00316829

Sent: Mon 08/06/2015 2:01:02 PM (UTC)

To: Melanie Corfield

Ce: Lesley J Sewel _—
Goulden Graham,
Angela Van-Den

Subject: RE: Panorama

Hi Mel

Thanks for this information and your conclusion.

Let me know if you need further support from Fujitsu.
Regards

Pete

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
Pos Fujitsu UK&l

E-Mail GR’
Web: hitp://uk fujitsu.com

I £/VinIe

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homelessness charity

f55"7 Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Melanie Corfield [mailt
Sent: 08 June 2015 14:58

To: Newsome Pete

Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Shaw Nigel; Goulden Graham; Bell Gavin; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Patrick Bourke
Subject: RE: Panorama

Hello Pete

I picked up your message regarding Panorama’s areas of questioning and below is what we have so far. This is in
hand of course and I will keep everyone updated.

I would just underline we are not going to indulge various theories that might be put to us about the system itself and
what might or might not be possible with computers etc — we are focusing on what we have done to address the
individual complaints and what the investigations actually show i.e. that there’s no suggestion that Horizon has not
worked properly in these cases.

Mel
Panorama initial request — areas of questioning:
- the integrity of the Horizon system and the source of disputed losses

- the disclosure of information regarding Horizon’s performance
- The Second Sight reports, the working group and the mediation scheme
POL00316829
POL00316829

- The Post Office’s practice of investigating and prosecuting without going through the CPS
- The possibility that miscarriages of justice may have taken place
- The explanations that you (i.e. Paula) and the Post Office have given to Parliament

Subsequent Panorama correspondence — more detailed lines of enquiry

1. The Post Office’s prosecutions policy

- whether the Post Office followed the prosecutors code, in particular the need for sufficient evidence before a
charge is brought

- whether the prosecution powers and investigative resources of the Post Office are appropriate

- how far investigators try to determine the cause of financial losses before prosecuting

- whether theft charges have been used to pressure subpostmasters to plead guilty to false accounting

N

Provision of information to independent investigators

- the provision of emails at the request of Second Sight for their report that related to Post Office staff based at
Bracknell in 2008

- the provision of prosecution files to Second Sight at their request

- the disclosure of evidence about the Horizon system to expert witnesses for the defence in legal proceedings

w

. The operation of the Horizon computer system

- the information available to the subpostmaster to determine whether losses for which they are liable have
arisen

- the information available to Post Office and Fujitsu to determine where losses for which subpostmasters are
liable have arisen

- whether it was in Fujitsu’s financial inerest to report software and hardware problems to the Post Office

- the amount of software and hardware problems discovered by Fujitsu

4. Remote access to branch terminals

- the possibility of remote access to branch terminals without the knowledge of the subpostmaster
- the possibilitity of fraud from remotely accessing the branch terminal

- the account of Michael Rudkin and the response of the Post Office

-  Fujitsu’s transparency with the Post Office about remote access to branch terminals

w

. Disclosure of material that relates to prosecutions and convictions

- whether the Post Office has met its legal duty to disclose any information that could indicate that a
miscarriage of justice has occurred

- whether the Post Office should have disclosed the minutes of a meeting with Fujitsu in August 2010 which
discussed a software bug within Horizon

6. Treatment of subpostmasters
POL00316829
POL00316829

- whether individual subpostmasters were routinely told they were the only ones claiming to have problems
with Horizon
- whether the length of the mediation process has pushed some cases beyond the statute of limitations

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may

be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
