POL00043641
POL00043641

Working Group for the Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

Key points and actions from the conference call at 1pm on 31 October 2013

Present:

Sir Anthony Hooper (SAH) Chair

Kay Linnell (KL)JFSA

lan Henderson (IH) Second Sight

Ron Warmington (Ron W) Second Sight
Andy Parsons (AP) Bond Dickinson
Claire Parmenter (CP) Bond Dickinson
Shirley Hailstones (SH) Post Office
Rodric Williams (Rod W) Post Office
Belinda Crowe (BC) Post Office

Suzie McGregor (SM) Post Office

1. New Applications. The Working Group agreed:

a. Applications M066, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 74, 75, 76, 77 and 78 to be accepted onto the
Scheme.

b. M073 (currently subject to legal proceedings). Further information on the status of the
proceedings, and how they would interact with the Scheme, is to be obtained before a
decision is taken as to whether or not to accept the applicant onto the Scheme.

Action: AP to circulate an email during the week commencing 4 November setting out

how best to handle the application.

2. Matters arising from existing applications. The Working Group agreed:

a M023 — the applicant is content with the outcome of Post Office's internal investigation.
The Working Group agreed that Second Sight will write to the applicant to confirm that
she wishes to withdraw her application. Action Ron W

b M017 — the application did not contain sufficient detail to be entered onto the Scheme
and the applicant was asked to send additional information. The applicant has indicated
that further information will be provided by the end of the month. The Working Group
agreed to await receipt of further information from the applicant.

3. Completed case questionnaires. The Working Group agreed:

a. The submissions in case questionnaires for applications M01, 9, 22 and 28 are
sufficiently detailed to proceed to the next stage.

b. MO32 — the level of detail within the applicant's case questionnaire is not sufficient. It
appears to have been prepared by the applicant without the assistance of the
professional advisor. The applicant's professional advisor is yet to return the funding
agreement. The Working Group agreed that Second Sight is to notify the applicant that it
is waiting for a response from the applicant's professional advisor. Action Ron W

4. JFSA guidance for applicants. A review of the applications received to date shows that some
professional advisors are not detailing all losses the applicant may have suffered. The Working
Group agreed that the JFSA, with the assistance of Second Sight, will draft a guidance note to
assist professional advisors which will be posted on the JFSA website. The guidance note will be
circulated to the Working Group. Action KL and Ron W
POL00043641
POL00043641

Applicants in bankruptcy. A number of potential applicants are currently/or have been subject
to bankruptcy proceedings. As a result the rights in any potential claim may no longer lie with the
applicant but with Trustee in Bankruptcy. The Working Group agreed that bankrupt or previously
bankrupt applicants may be accepted onto the Scheme, but the investigation of those claims will
be paused until the ownership of any claim has been clearly established.

Next Meetings: The Working Group agreed that the next Case Review call will be 1pm
Thursday 7 November 2013

Action: SM to email members to confirm arrangements for Thursday's conference call.
