POL00085538
POL00085538

Message
From: Paul Gardner [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PAUL.GARDNER66E412E7-2EAS-4AFB-B67 1-381959F587D6]
Sent: 10/06/2011 11:
To: Anita L Turner uk]; John Breeden
Shaun Turner
Subject: ‘Team “Audit Process Review 2011 - Your help would really be appreciated

Attachments: All Audit Process Chapters.zip; Lose Change Keep NST.doc
Importance: High

Dear all

Please see request from Sue Richardson below, I have sent this on to yourselves as I believe you may have
relevant feedback to make on the audit process manuals?

If you do, can I ask you to let me have your responses by 4"" July at the latest as I need to summarise and supply
to Sue in readiness of her review meeting with her team.

If you want to discuss etc, let me know?

Thaukes Pat

From: Sue Richardson

Sent: Tuesday, May 31, 2011 04:04 PM

To: Dawn Brooks; Paul W Martin; Julia Marwood; Paul Meadows; Tracy Marshall; Susan Crichton

Cc: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Subject: Network Services Team -Audit Process Review 2011 - Your help would really be appreciated

Dear Stakeholder

We in the Network Services Team, are currently reviewing our audit process manuals, and would appreciate
your input as a stakeholder. I have attached copies of our current audit chapter/s and would really appreciate
your help in cascading these to individuals within your directorates, who can review and offer any feedback that
they feel will enhance the current approach, (a list of people with whom we have engaged in the past is included
at the beginning of each Chapter). We will be considering all feedback during July and August with an
intended project completion date of Sept 2011 for roll-out from the beginning of Q3.

Please complete the attached sheet in regard to what you would like to see us:
e Keep
e Lose
e or Change
We have used this format in our recent review of our new entrant training offer and it has proved useful in

directing our thoughts around the best way to deliver our activities, putting the customer at the forefront of
everything we do.

POL-0082596
POL00085538
POL00085538

Our aim is to ensure that we protect, maintain and account for all our assets, both those we own and those we
look after on behalf of our stakeholders, ensuring that all our staff and agents operate their Post Office®
branches in accordance with legislative regulations as well as conforming to our operating licence and to
customer charter standards, so protecting our business reputation.

A little of your time to give us your thoughts would be much appreciated and will contribute to a robust refresh
of our audit practices and effectiveness in terms of delivering your requirements as a stakeholder.

A response by Monday Ist July would be much appreciated.
Please send all replies to sue.richardson{

Regards
Sue

Sue Richardson

Network Support Project & Standards Manager
Post Office Ltd — Network Services Team

10 Meadowgate Vale,

Lofthouse,

Wakefield,

West Yorkshire

WF3 3SP

¢ see below _

SueTIChardson:

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (s) and may contain confidential and
privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient,
please contact me by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message.

POL-0082596
