POL00168919
POL00168919

From: Matthews, Gavin
Sent:
To:

Parsons,

Subject:
Attachment: _DOC_27438118(1)_Note of Conference with Brian Altman QC.DOCX

Dear All

With apologies for the delay in sending this on, please find attached a note of the conference with Brian Altman QC on
9 September.

There are a number of action points from the conference which are still outstanding so for ease of reference I set them
out below.

1. CK to provide to Brian the spread sheet that he advised be compiled at para 24(i) of his interim review of
2/8/13 — Brian has indicated that it may be helpful if a schedule of sifted cases as against fully reviewed cases
is compiled as not only is he interested to see how many have gone up for full review but also he does not
wish to be unsighted by the detail of the cases that have not passed the initial sift. In so far as the sifted cases
are concerned he is looking for an idea of why the case was refused a review, and what, if any, the issue in the
case had been or appeared to be.

2. CK to provide to Brian the final 3 full reviews which he did not have at the conference. If the number has since
increased, CK to provide all the outstanding reviews. Brian would also like to know how many more full
reviews there are/may be so that he can ensure he has seen a statistically significant amount of them by the
date of his written review (15 October 2013)

3. POL (Rodric?) to provide to Brian a reconciliation between the Second Sight spot reviews and CK's reviews.

4. POL (Rodric) to make enquiries of whether there is any material of an historic nature which would explain
RMG/POL prosecution history.

5. POL (Rodric/Jarnail) to make enquiries of whether POL has any statistics or management records (not merely
financial) of its prosecution function ie numbers covered annually etc

Please let me know if any of the above actions is likely to cause a delay as this will impinge on Brian's ability to
prepare his report by 15 October.

Please also copy me in on anything you send to Brian so that I can keep tabs on what has been sent to him.
Kind regards
Gavin

Gavin Matthews
Partner

for and on behalf of

POL00168919
POL00168919

Follow Bond Dickinson:

iin)

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this emai

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential an, privileged and protected by law. rodric.wi
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rodric. williams I. please notify gavin.matthewsI nm
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying ofthis Communication or attachments is probibited and ay be unlawful

only is authorised to
possible and delete any

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
‘hich may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered

office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
