POL00133591
POL00133591

From:

Sent:

To:

Ce: robert worden (7

Subject: RE: Post Office: Receipts and Payment Mismatch
Attachment: Receipts/payments mismatch: requests (24.9 KB)

Jonny, Lucy

Thanks for arranging this meeting. Could you please confirm that Gareth and Pete have received the note we sent to
Jonny and Andy requesting additional information (attached for ease of reference).

Regards
Chris

From: Lucy Bremner <
Sent: 08 May 2018 14: 19

To: Lucy Bremner; pete.newsom:
Emery; Jonathan Gribben; gi.jenkins
Subject: Post Office: Receipts and Payment Mismatch

When: 09 May 2018 14:00-15:00 (UTC+00:00) Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, London.
Where: Skype Meeting

robert worden

> Join Skype Meeting
Trouble Joining? Try Skype Web App_
Join by phone

(UK) English (United Kingdom)
Find a local number

Conference ID: 861905

Forgot your dial-in PIN? IHelp

US Only Toll Free Number)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachn only is authorised to access

this e-mail and any attachments. If you a

not GRO please notify P Tuey, rem s soon as possible"and delsie any copies. Unauthorised use
dissemination, distribution, publication ar copying ofthis mem omer attachments is prohibited dT fer be Tafa

Any files attached to this e-
loss or di

ail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before

¢ Which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out you

transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any

wn virus checks before opening any attachment.

wusiness of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

mber 0C317661. Our registered office
ember of the LLP, or an employee

is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales w
we London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, wher
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT

a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term p:

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which e
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entit
can bind or oblig

sists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
wrate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
e, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (Intemational) Limited doe

kinson.com/legal notices for further details.

jot practice law, Please see
www.womblebor

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
