POL00423695

POL00423695
Agenda
POST OFFICE LIMITED
Meeting: Risk and Compliance Committee
Date: 16 March 2021
Time: 10.00 - 13.00
Location: Via Microsoft Teams
Present: Attendees:
Alisdair Cameron (Chair) Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit)
Helen Rhodes (Head of HR Organisation Effectiveness Mark Baldock (Head of Risk)
Project Lead)
(deputising for Lisa Cherry (Group Chief People Officer))
Ben Foat (Group General Counsel) Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director)
Amanda Jones (Group Retail and Franchise Network Tom Lee (Financial Controller)
Director)
Cathy Mayor (Finance Director, Commercial) Rebecca Whibley (Senior Assistant Company Secretary)
Jeff Smyth (Group Chief Information Officer) Tony Jowett (Chief Information Security Officer): Item 5

Peter Mitchell (Treasurer - Tax, Treasury and Supply
Chain Finance): Item 6

Sarah Gray (Group Legal Director): Item 7 & 8

Jonny Lonsdale (Business Continuity Manager): Item 9
Martin Hopcroft (Head of Health & Safety): Item 9
Andrew Goddard (Managing Director, Payzone): Item 10
Mark Siviter (Product Portfolio Director - Mails, Retail,
PUDO & Gov services): Item 11

Andy Kingham (Franchise Partnering Director): Item 11
Dan Zinner (Group Chief Operations Officer): Item 12
Emma Conroy (Interim Head of Strategic Partnerships):
Item 12

Tim Perkins (Service and Support Optimisation Director):
Item 13

Sally Smith (Money Laundering Reporting Officer & Head
of Financial Crime): Item 14

Barbara Brannon (Procurement Director): Item 15

Apologies:

Dial In Detail

Join Microsoft Teams Meeting
ih GRO. United Kingdom, London (Toll)

Conference 1D: 264 657 434#
Pin (if applicable): 58042

Time Item Owner Action
1. Welcome & Conflicts of Interest Chairman Noting

10.00 I 2. Previous Meetings Chairman
2.1 Minutes (12 January 2021) Approval
2.2 Action List Discussion

10.05 I 3. Combined Risk, Compliance and Audit
Update

10.05 3.1 Risk Report (dashboard) Mark Baldock Noting
(onward submission to ARC)

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 1 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513
POL00423695

POL00423695
Agenda

10.15 3.2 Risk Appetite Statement: Legal Ben Foat & Approval
& Compliance Jonathan Hill (onward submission to ARC)
10.25 3.3 Compliance Report Jonathan Hill Noting
‘onward submission to ARC)
10.35 3.4 Internal Audit Report Johann Appel Noting
(onward submission to ARC)
10.45 I 4. Internal Audit Plan 2021/22 Johann Appel Noting & Approval
‘onward submission to ARC)
10.55 I 5. IT Updates Jeff Smyth/ Noting
Tony Jowett (onward submission to ARC)

10.55 BL PCI-DSS Jeff Smyth

11.05 5.2 Cyber Security Tony Jowett
11.15 I 6. Foreign Currency and Hedging Tom Lee & Noting

Peter Mitchell
11.25 I 7. Bi-Annual Legal Risk Review (Non Ben Foat/ Noting
GLO/Starling) Sarah Gray (onward submission to ARC)
11.35 I 8. Law & Trends Update Sarah Gray & Noting
Ben Foat (onward submission to ARC)
11.45 I 9. Business Continuity Jonny Noting
Lonsdale/Martin (onward submission to ARC)

Hopcroft
11.55 I 10. I DeepDive: Payzone Governance Andrew Noting
Goddard (onward submission to ARC)
12.05 I 11. I DeepDive: Dangerous Goods Andy Kingham Noting
/ Amanda (onward submission to ARC)

Jones / Mark

Siviter
12.15 I 12. I Strategic Partner Financial Stability Emma Noting
Update Conway/Dan (onward submission to ARC)

Zinner
12.25 I 13. I Procurement Compliance & Governance Barbara Noting
Brannon (onward submission to ARC)
12.35 I 14. I Policies for Approval: Jonathan Hill Approval
14.1 _I Summary Paper (onward submission to ARC)

14.2 Health & Safety
14.3 Procurement Policy

12.40 I 15. I Postmaster Policies Tim Perkins Approval
15.1 Guide to Policy Standards for (onward submission to ARC)
Postmasters

5.2 Postmaster Complaints
Handling Policy

Strictly Confidential

2 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0001
Agenda

POST OFFICE LIMITED

POL00423695
POL00423695

Network Transaction
Corrections Policy
15.4 Network Cash and Stock
Management Policy
15.5 Postmaster Appeals Policy
15.6 Postmaster Training Policy
15.7 Postmaster Onboarding Policy
12.50 I 16. I Whistleblowing Policy Sally Smith Discussion & Approval
12.55 I 17. I Review of draft Audit, Risk and Chairman Noting
Compliance Committee (ARC) meeting
agenda 30 March 2021
13.00 I 18. I Any other business Chairman Noting

Next RCC Meeting: Tuesday 4 May 2021 at 10.00 to 13.00 in 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20

Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

3 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0002
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

POL00423695
POL00423695

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

MINUTES OF A MEETING OF THE RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF POST OFFICE
LIMITED HELD ON THURSDAY 12 JANUARY 2021 AT 10:00 VIA MICROSOFT TEAMS

Present:

Attendees:

Alisdair Cameron (Chairman) (AC)

Lisa Cherry (Group Chief People Officer) (LC)

Ben Foat (Group General Counsel) (BF)

Rob Wilkins (Cloud Services Director) (RWI): Item 3.4 & 4

I Tony Jowett (Chief Information Security Officer) (TJ): Items
485

Russell Hancock (Supply Chain Director) (RH): Item 6

Amanda Jones (Group Retail and Franchise Network Director)
(A)

Cathy Mayor (Finance Director, Commercial) (CM)

Jeff Smyth (Group Chief Information Officer) (JS)

Sally Smith (Money Laundering Reporting Officer & Head of
Financial Crime) (SS): Item 7

Maxine Cross (Head of Reward and Pensions): (MC): Item
8

Helen Rhodes (Head of HR Organisation Effectiveness,
Project Lead) (HR): Item 8

Regular Attendees:

Andy Jamieson (Head of Tax) (AJ): Item 9

Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit) (JA)

Mark Baldock (Head of Risk) (MB)

Tim Perkins (Service and Support Optimisation Director)

(IP): Items 10, 11 & 12

Declan Salter (GLO Director) (DS): Item 13

Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director) (JH)

Tom Lee (Financial Controller) (TL)

Rebecca Whibley (Senior Assistant Company Secretary)
(RW)
Apologies:

Graham Hemingway (Historical Matters Portfolio Lead)

I (GH): Item 13

Barbara Brannon (Procurement Director) (BB): Item 16
Sarah Gray (Group Legal Director) (SG): Item 17

N/A

1.

Welcome and Conflicts of Interest

Action

The Chair opened the meeting and advised that all papers would be taken as read.
No conflicts of interest were declared.

Minutes and Action Lists

21

The minutes of the Committee meeting held on 12 November 2020 were
APPROVED.

2.2

Progress on completion of actions as shown on the action log was NOTED as follows:

Action 1 from 12 November 2020 para 3.1 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update

k Dashboard: These changes have not been made for January 2021 due to the
Risk Team having moved off the RSA Archer system and are now building ServiceNow
(IRM Pro) system. As such it was difficult to run Dashboards. The reporting in the
new ServiceNow system would be built to take account of this action where possible.
The action remained open.

Action 2 from 12 November 2020 para 3.1 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update

- Risk Policy: These changes were made and the policy was approved by the Audit,
Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC) at its meeting in November 2020 and then the
Board in January 2021. The action was closed.

Action 3 from 12 November 2020 para 3.3 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
= Compliance Update (Anti-Bribery & Corruption Training): Current HR figure stands

4 of 155

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

Page 1 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238513_0003
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

POL00423695
POL00423695

at 92.4%, which includes contractors. Work was being undertaken to ensure
contractors complete the training. The action was closed.

Action 4 from 12 November 2020 para 3.3 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update

= Compliance Update (Access to Cash): The submitted version was sent by Martin
Kearsley to the GE on Thursday 26th November 2020. The action was closed.

Action 5 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
= Internal Audit (Effectiveness of the Second Line): A update on this work was
contained within the Compliance Paper (see paragraph 3.3 below). A further update
will be provided when further work has been undertaken. The action remained open.

Action 6 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
= Internal Audit (Joiners, Movers, Leavers): IT have worked through the leavers and
work was continuing on the movers. This work would be completed prior to the
January 2021 ARC meeting. The action remained open. The Committee also
requested that a list of what is required to be put together and for this to be tracked
against for the next Committee meeting.

Action 7 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
= Internal Audit (Actions): These changes were made to the report which was
submitted to the ARC for its meeting in November 2020. A separate paper on the
data privacy action was provided to the ARC for noting and it was agreed by the ARC
that the management action would be revised in line with the solution that was
presented to the ARC. The action due date will be re-set to 31 March 2021. The action
was closed.

Action 8 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
~ Internal Audit (Special Investigation): A verbal briefing was provided in confidence
to Al Cameron on 19 November. The action was closed.

Action 9 from 12 November 2020 para 3.4 Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit Update
~_Internal Audit (Deletion of Data): Ben and Jeff have met to discuss the rules
regarding data preservation in “legal-hold” situations and we have confirmed that
there is no automatic deletion of any Outlook Email, SharePoint or OneDrive based
data. Data access was deactivated in employee leaver situations but that data was
still retrieval on request by line management or other authorised requestors. Data
Protection have recommended that to keep within Post Office risk appetite that IT,
in conjunction with Compliance, need to start working towards an initial purge of the
emails systems and the implementation of an auto delete solution when the Legal
Hold is removed. The action remained open. The Committee also requested that a
clear plan of action was developed for the next Committee meeting.

Action 10 from 12 November 2020 para 4.2 Cyber Security (Phishing Training): This
will be provided to all GE members ahead of ARC paper submission on 18 January
2021. The action remained open. Committee commented that this list should be
provided asap and that there should not be a reluctance to call people out when they
have not completed mandatory training.

Action 11 from 12 November 2020 para 4.2 Cyber Security (Phishing Comms): This
was highlighted to the Leadership Group and mentioned in a 10@10. The action was
closed.

Action 12 from 12 November 2020 para 4.2 Cyber Security (ARC Paper Update): This
was included in the paper for the ARC in November 2020. This action was closed.

TJ

BF/JH

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

Page 2 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238513_0004
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

POL00423695
POL00423695

Action 13 from 12 November 2020 para 4.2 Cyber Security (Culture Shift): Initial
meeting has been held with Juliet Lang in People team and plans are in development.
An update will be provided at the March Committee meeting. The action remained
open.

Action 14 from 12 November 2020 para 4.3 Joiners, Movers, Leavers: This was
included in the paper for the ARC in November 2020. The action was closed.

Action 15 from 12 November 2020 para 4.4 Belfast Data Center (Horizon) Disaster
Recovery Post Test Briefing: This item is targeted to be presented to the GE for a
decision on 20 January 2021. The action remained open.

Action 16 from 12 November 2020 para 5 Suspense Accounts: The ARC was asked
to approve disclosure and felt it necessary to refer to the Board. This was therefore
discussed and approved by the Board in November 2020. The action was closed.

Action 17 from 12 November 2020 para 6 Notification of Transaction Error: Since the
last RCC, Post Office has completed a Request to Quote (RTQ) process and raised a
Purchase Order for work to be completed to prevent duplicate auto transaction
corrections from being issued in the future. This work would also include a non-
related enhancement that will prevent any transaction correction narrative from
being cut off after 500 characters. These enhancements would cost £9,860 and were
due for completion by 19 March 2021. The action remained open.

Action 18 from 12 November 2020 para 8 Agreed Upon Procedures: This change was
made to the paper which was submitted to the November 2020 ARC. The action was
closed.

Action 19 from 12 November 2020 para 9 Historical Matters Unit (HMU) Governance
Review: This change was made to the paper which was submitted to the November
2020 ARC. The action was closed.

Action 20 from 12 November 2020 para 11 Terms of Reference: These were
approved at the December GE meeting and were available on the intranet and in the
Diligent Reading Room. The action was closed.

Action 21 from 12 November 2020 para 12 Deepdive: Multiple partner financial
stability update: Commercial Partners were faced with the same challenges of all
retailers in this current climate, however, there were no significant concerns.
Reduction in trading hours were being discussed with some Commercial Partners but
none fall below the minimum/core trading hours. From the 1st January, WHSmith
have reduced to core trading hours in 102 of their Post Offices (Monday to Friday
9am to 5:30pm; Saturday 9am to 12:30pm; Sunday closed) to ensure commercial
viability, and a PO service offering. Increased hours would be reviewed in line with
customer demand. In regard to resignations, CJ Lang (SPAR retailer) resigned on 28
of their Post Office branches during July/August last year, all but 4 of these would be
closed this financial year. This was not driven by COVID-19, but the non-commercial
viability of the PO in these sites. The retail continues to trade, and the PO would be
replaced by a Food to Go offering. WHSmith have resigned on 10 of their Post Office
branches, which has been driven by commercial terms not reaching agreement
between WHSmith and their Landlord. Where commercial terms were agreed,
WHSmith will renege on the Post Office termination. If no terms agreed, both the
WHS retail and Post Office would close. Out of the 10 pending terminations five will
close in Q4 (this financial year); three in Q1; one in Q3 and one in Q4 2022. With

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

Page 3 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238513_0005
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

POL00423695
POL00423695

regard to the specific recourse for the closing branches, it has been confirmed that
there is recourse for Post Office and this being worked through with Legal. The action
was closed.

Action 22 from 12 November 2020 para 16 Data Governance (Data Storage
Contracts): Procurement have advised that the only providers are Box-It/Oasis &
Postal Museum. The action was closed.

Action 23 from 12 November 2020 para 16 Data Governance (Data Search): The
action was set out in the Data paper that was noted by the ARC in November 2020
and was being actioned. An update was provided in the Compliance paper (see
Paragraph 3.3). The action was closed.

Action 24 from 12 November 2020 para 16 Data Governance (Data Retention Policy
Implementation): This was addressed in the Compliance paper (see paragraph 3.3).
Progress was being made and the primary focus was to provide information as
required for Group Litigation Order (GLO) disclosures on 5 February 2021 (deadline
date for disclosure for the 41 past convictions referred for appeal by the CCRC to the
Court of Appeal (Criminal Division)). A further update would be provided at the March
Committee meeting. The action remained open.

Action 25 from 12 November 2020 para 17 Procurement Governance & Compliance
Report: This paper was prepared for the ARC and was shared offline with Lisa
Harrington (only member of the Board who does not attend ARC meetings). The
action was closed.

Action 26 from 10 September 2020 para 4 Pensions Assurance: The Trustee has now
received reconstructed pensionable pay and allowances data. This was being
reviewed to assess both the differences to the 2017 data that formed the basis of
the Rothesay buy-in and the quantum of the overpayments. A report was expected
to be presented to the Trustee Board in March 2021 along with the Trustee
rectification plans. The regulator has been updated and is expecting more information
from POL at the end of the March. The action remained open.

Action 27 from 13 July 2020 para 3.5 Compliance Report (Fairness): The Committee
requested that this action remained open until such time that the sale of the business
had been completed. The action therefore remained open.

Action 28 from 13 July 2020 para 10.6 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO)
Report: The HMRC supervisor who took over when the previous supervisor retired in
May 2020 moved to a new role in the summer. A further supervisor was appointed
in August 2020 and an initial virtual meeting has been held, but due to continuing
COVID-19 restrictions, HMRC were not undertaking any supervisory visits or
meetings, and it was unclear when this will recommence in 2021 or what the
frequency or format of meetings will be with this new supervisor. The Committee
requested that this action remained open, noting that there was also a requirement
in the action to talk to retail on enforcing the three lines of defence and this needed
to be done. The action therefore remained open.

Action 29 from 11 November 2019 3.2 Supplier Contracts out of Governance (SSK):
Commercial and legal negotiations were ongoing but were on track to complete a
compliant support renewal of the legacy SSK estate by end of January. The action
remained open.

Strictly Confidential Page 4 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

Tol

POL-BSFF-0238513_0006
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

POL00423695
POL00423695

Action 30 from _11 November 2019 3.2 Supplier Contracts out _of Governance
(Brands/RAPP): A compliant tender process has been run and the contract has been
awarded to the incumbent provider, with operational costs reduced. The contract has
been signed and is available on Web3. The action was closed.

Risk, Compliance and Audit Update

Risk

3.1

Mark Baldock introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were highlighted:

- The report was an interim report as the team were presently moving from
Archer to ServiceNow. The March Report would therefore have data from
ServiceNow which was due to go live on 18 January 2021 and would be rolled
out to the business in March/April (subject to the business case approval).

- The paper gives helicopter review of big risk groups, alongside narrative round
each risk

- The paper also sought approval for the differentiation of risk reporting to the
Board and the ARC. The proposal was that the Board would oversee enterprise
risks with ARC focussing on policy compliance, trends and three lines of
defence. This was discussed and it was agreed that the approach should more
be about the nature of the risk concerned. ARC should deal with any risks
relating to audit, controls or compliance. The Board should oversee risks
relating to the commercial side of the business, including where regulatory
changes might affect this. In the first instance this should be addressed at GE
and then the Board if necessary.

- It was requested that the report be updated to reflect the change in risk profile
due to the signing of Master Distribution Agreement 2 (MDA2) with Royal Mail
before it was submitted to the ARC.

- Work was being undertaken to review the risks given the new purpose and
the business was being challenged to explain the impact of each risk on
Postmasters. It was also requested that a risk should be added about whether
the business was doing enough on day-to-day support for Postmasters to
ensure a network was sustained (for the March 2021 meeting).

- Cathy Mayor questioned how the business could be encouraged to think about
risks more regularly and proactively. Mark Baldock explained that this was
phase two of his work and there would be a carrot and stick approach. The
approach was to be presented to the Committee and the ARC in March 2021.
The Chair noted that the Group Executive (GE) should also discuss this once
a quarter.

- Jeff Smyth also noted that there needed to be a specific risk around the Telco
sale and behavioural changes this had caused for BAU. It was agreed Jeff and
Mark Baldock would discuss this further for update a the March 2021 meeting.

Accordingly, the Committee:
i. NOTED the current status of key risks and Governance, Risk & Compliance
(GRC) tool implementation; and
ii. APPROVED an approach to the role of the Board and the RCC/ARC with
respect to oversight of risk management that was issue based whereby:
- the ARC would oversee risks relating to audit, controls or compliance;
and
- the Board would deal commercial risks;
for onward submission to the ARC.

MB

MB

MB

MB/JS

Risk Appetite Statement: Legal & Compliance

3.2

Ben Foat introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read, noting it was about the Risk Appetite for legal and regulatory risks, not risks
for the Legal, Compliance and Governance directorate. The following points were
discussed:

8 of 155

Strictly Confidential Page 5 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0007
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 2.1 Minutes (

- Appendix A to the paper (setting out ARC approved Risk Appetite Scale) was
conservative view of risk appetite and as such, the ARC would be asked to
confirm it is content with this approach at its meeting on 26 January 2021.

- The paper was still a work in progress to be finalised before submission to the
ARC and it would also be submitted to the Chair prior to the ARC, as per her
request.

- The process to prepare the paper had been intensive and the Chair questioned
how useful the document was for making decisions, given the effort involved.
It was explained that it would not give an answer to each and every decision
but it would provide a benchmark for decision-making. Jeff Smyth noted that
the outcome needed to be real and actionable, modulated against how much
recourse and investment was available to manage the risks identified. Ben
Foat also highlighted that it must remain up-to-date and as such should be
reviewed regularly to remain useful.

- Lisa Cherry raised the People risks mentioned in the paper, specifically
relating to Modern Slavery and payment of the minimum wage. The appetite
was adverse to Modern Slavery (for example), but there was concern that this
implied controls would be put in place which would require investment.
However, the approach was more monitoring and as such there seemed to be
a misalignment between the appetite and the action to be taken. Ben Foat
explained that the position was that Post Office was adverse and, as there
were criminal sanctions for Modern Slavery, controls needed to be put in
place. The risk appetite discussion was useful in that it helped to draw out
these issues. The Modern Slavery Statement was normally addressed in the BF
autumn (which was too late to address the controls requirement) and as such,
this should be addressed in the Risk Appetite Paper.

Accordingly, the Committee APPROVED the draft corporate Legal & Compliance Risk
Appetite Statements (subject to the points raised in its discussions) for onward
submission to the ARC.

Compliance

3.3 Jonathan Hill introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were discussed:

Controls Framework: The Chair and Ben Foat raised concerned about the lack of
progress in this area and that there did not appear to be a coherent, funded
programme. It needed to be on the prioritised Change list for next financial year and I AC/BF/JH
it was agreed the Chair, Ben Foat and Jonathan Hill would discuss further how the
Framework would work for update at the next Committee meeting. The Chair stated
that the Framework needed to be based on self-assessment by the Control owners.
Jonathan Hill confirmed that this is the principle of the Framework, with assurance
being provided by Compliance.

Jonathan Hill explained:

- That he has agreed with Tim Perkins and the new HMU Operations Director
to accelerate the controls work with operations for completion in early
February, pending the HMU’s deep dive on process maps.

- HMU was looking at what activities have been done to address individual
points raised in the Common Issues Judgment (CIJ) and Horizon Issues
Judgment (HIJ) and the Stamps work.

- Process maps were also being built by the HMU team, but this took
considerable time. building process maps.

- Compliance was responsible for checking with business owners what controls
were in place and ensuring that there was the right reporting/management

Strictly Confidential Page 6 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 9ol

POL-BSFF-0238513_0008
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

10 of

POL00423695
POL00423695

information (MI). The Controls Framework includes a guidance document to
support business owners.
The Chair requested that this work be fed into the Deloitte programme and requested
that Jonathan Hill link in with the Chair, Ben Foat, Tom Lee and Johann Appel (for
update at the next Committee meeting), asking the controls project should
useServiceNow.

Jeff Smyth also noted that IT were engaging with Procurement on sourcing support
to enhance the IT controls infrastructure. It was agreed that there would be a
collective decision on any support partner and Jonathan Hill was asked to discuss this
with Jeff Smyth for update at the next Committee meeting.

Data Management: The Chair highlighted the request to approve the
recommendation to establish a Post Office-wide Data Governance framework and
SteerCo, based on the Digital Data Governance framework but extended to
encompass all forms of data. It was agreed that this was a matter for the GE and
that a paper should be presented that sets out the purpose and how this could work
(including the wider implications of the Framework, the cost and the accountabilities).

Cookies: The Chair highlighted the request to approve the recommendation to assess
the impact on Post Office’s approach to cookies of new European regulatory rulings
against Google and Amazon. Jonathan Hill explained that the suggestion was that
the Digital and Compliance teams work together to consider the commercial
implications of the rulings. It was agreed that this should be done, but that it was a
commercial decision for Owen Woodley (Group Chief Commercial Officer) and, if
necessary, the GE.

Financial Services: Jonathan Hill was requested to provide the final report relating to
Multi Principal Review of 1* line controls to the Committee before the next Committee
meeting.

Jonathan Hill was also asked to add deadlines to the agreed way forward for
continuing with mystery shopping before the next Committee meeting.

Accordingly the Committee NOTED the Compliance update, in particular:
. The Controls Framework update;
. The Data Management activities;
. Post Office’s approach to cookies;

and;

APPROVED the recommendation for the Digital and Compliance teams to assess the
impact on Post Office’s approach to cookies of new European regulatory rulings
against Google and Amazon and that any decision on a change in approach was for
Owen Woodley (Group Chief Commercial Officer) and, if necessary, the GE.

JH

JH

JH

JH

Internal Audit

3.4

Johann Appel introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were discussed:

IT Control Framework: The five P2 audit actions were driven by absence of single
individual and this has been mitigated by taking away the key person dependency.

Mails and Parcels: The Chair raised a concern that it did not seem that someone was
taking responsibility for these actions. Johann Appel explained that the actions were
being discussed with Mark Siviter (Product Portfolio Director - Mails, PUDO, Retail

a

Strictly Confidential Page 7 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0009
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 2.1 Minutes (12

and Branch Identity Services) to try and make more specific. Johann Appel was
asked to address this before the ARC or amend his paper to note that this report was JA
not supported by the Committee.

Historic Matters - CU) Operations Improvement Programme (Interim Report): Johann

Appel explained that the actions arising from this report were due to be completed
by the end of February and if they were to go beyond this date, there needed to be
a good reason and a clear timetable for completion. It was also noted that there were
actually only two P1 actions outstanding and Johann Appel was asked to update the JA
report with the latest action numbers and management comments before the January
ARC meeting.

In response to a questions from Ben Foat, Johann Appel confirmed that audit was
also tracking the completion of the HMU actions, including the RACI model and it was
highlighted that this needed to be within the next couple of weeks and not wait until
March (when it was currently due).

Belfast_Exit Follow-up & PCI Compliance (Programme Assurance): Jeff Smyth
explained that the management comment was in train.

Post Office Insurance: The Chair felt that the summary table provided was not helpful JA
and more detail as required as to the outcome of reports. It was agreed that the
audit report rating would be added to the table and if the rating was adverse, there
would be an explanation as to why.

Audit actions: The majority of the actions were to be completed before the January js
2021 ARC. The action to “agree the list of Crown Jewels with Post Office’s GE” was
to be done by Jeff Smyth before the January 2021 ARC meeting.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED the Internal Audit update, specifically progress being
made with delivery of the Internal Audit programme and completion of audit actions.

4. PCI-DSS and Cyber Security Update
PCI-DSS Programme Update
4.1 Rob Wilkins introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was

taken as read. The following points were raised:

- In response to a question from the Chair, it was confirmed that progress was
being tracked by this Committee as it was a quasi-regulatory issue.

- There was a major risk of Santander not responding in time for the May
delivery date. This was an issue because Santander transactions could not be
split out from those of other banks easily. It was requested that this be
escalated by Cathy Mayor to Owen Woodley (Group Chief Commercial Officer) cM
and Nick Read (Group CEO). It was also noted that this was to be discussed
the GE on 13 January 2021.

- The retail pilot was running successfully and the banking accreditation with
Vocalink was also working well.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED the progress made since the last reporting
period and the key risks as outlined in the paper.

Cyber Security

4.2 Tony Jowett introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. In response to questions from the Committee, Tony Jowett explained
that Post Office was not particularly exposed to attacks similar to that of Solar Winds
but more work was needed, including on the frequency of scanning the network and
more data from Third Parties who attest they have scanned their networks. The

Strictly Confidential Page 8 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 11 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0010
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

12 of

POL00423695
POL00423695

Crown Jewels analysis was also part of this work. Jeff Smyth noted that IT certainly
wanted to do more and any projects would be added to the Change list for next year.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED the status and plans regarding the reduction of
risk associated with Cyber Security including the Crown Jewels analysis for onward
submission to ARC.

Joiners Movers Leavers (JML)

4.3

Tony Jowett introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read.

The Committee NOTED the status and plans regarding the reduction of risk
associated with JML) - in particular those associated with Joiners during the current
hybrid operating model for onward submission to the ARC, subject to the paper being
updated to remind the ARC of the inherent risk across each JML area, how it has
been reduced and what was still to do.

TJ

IT Controls Assessment

Tony Jowett introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. In response to a question from the Chair, it was explained that 10%
of controls were not working, but 4 these were not working because of the absence
of a key person and not having a disaster recover manager in place. This had now
been resolved.

The Committee otherwise NOTED the status and plans regarding the reduction of
risk associated with IT Controls for onward submission to the ARC.

Supply Chain Historical IT Risks

a

Russell Hancock introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The Chair questioned how the business can ensure there are no further
instances of “off network” IT equipment being used and the following points were
raised:

- Tony Jowett explained that IT had started a scan of all Supply Chain locations
as well as in person audits to check all equipment.

- Jeff Smyth noted that there was a “bring out your dead” exercise and it was
agreed that that a questionnaire would also be developed to ask the relevant
locations what equipment they had in place and identify anything that might
be “off network.” It was flagged that these questions should include examples
and be as simple as possible. It was further explained that ultimately it came
down to whether the equipment was supported by the Post Office IT team.
The key was to encourage vigilance.

- Russell Hancock also suggested that Post Office IT equipment should include
asset numbers as this would be a clear sign if something had not been
provided centrally.

- It was also highlighted that some of the supply chain teams still had
discretionary spend and there needed to be increased governance around this.
Unfortunately, monitoring the discretionary spend could not have been used
to discover the present issue because the records did not go back far enough,
but moving forwards this could be monitored.

It was also confirmed that Data Protection team were engaged on the present issue.

The Committee NOTED the issues highlighted, the steps being taken to identify and
reduce any potential risks, AGREED the next steps and requested that a further
update be provided to the Committee at its next meeting in March 2021.

Strictly Confidential Page 9 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

Js

RH

POL-BSFF-0238513_0011
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 2.1 Minutes (

7. Money Laundering Annual Report
Sally Smith introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The following points were discussed:

- Resources: There were some resourcing issues within the Financial Crime
team caused by (1) structural changes in the business meaning things that
were no longer being picked up elsewhere and had to be picked up by the
team and (2) a massive increase in issues within the general Financial Crime
landscape (in December 2019 there were 219 Suspicious Activity Reports
(SARs), but in December 2020 this figure stood at 700). The Committee felt
that too much of the financial crime work was being centralised and it needed Lc/ss
to be properly distributed within the business. As such, Lisa Cherry and Sally
Smith were asked to discuss if there were enough people across the business
with the accountability for Financial Crime controls, noting that it was the
Financial Crime’s team to simply check if these controls were good enough
and report accordingly.

- Banks & Money Service Businesses (MSBs): The 2020 National Risk
Assessment (NRA) released in December 2020 had stated to quite a lot of
noise and momentum for the banks to do more to prevent financial crime. In
response to questions from the Chair, Sally Smith confirmed that
responsibility for checking customers are genuine did rest with the banks, but
Post Office, as a regulated entity, needed to demonstrate that it had controls
in place to deal with high risk businesses. Work was being done on improving
the mechanism by which the banks confirm that customers were genuine.

It was requested that Sally Smith write to the banks and make it clear that
MSBs cannot be used through the Post Office network. It was agreed that a ss
deep dive on the issue was required. Both actions were to be updated for the
next Committee meeting.

- Capita: It had transpired that the contract was not clear on the ability to exit
a reseller arrangement under Capita and the legal advice was that, as Capita
had been using MSBs for a number of years, there was deemed acceptance
of the practice. As such, commercial negotiations were required for the
practice to cease. This was being undertaken by Alison McMullen (Payzone)
and would be escalated to the GE-1 Contract Owner as required. Ben Foat
requested to see the legal advice on the Capita contract.

- Amazon Vouchers: The potential for these to be sold in a way that was being
used fraudulently needed to be urgently addressed and accountability taken
within the Bill Payments/Payzone team. Part of the issue was that the cCM/SS
relationship was managed by Payzone and they did not have access to Post
Office systems. This needed to be resolved. Cathy Mayor and Sally Smith were
asked to follow up with Andrew Goddard and provide an update at the next
Committee meeting.

Sally Smith was also asked to ensure that the report properly addressed the three
questions asked in the report within the conclusion and ensure that the actual ss
remediation steps were articulated as well as the materiality and scale of each issue.
This should be done prior to the report being submitted to the ARC.

Jeff Smyth also questioned what controls under the PCI-DSS programme could be
used to the support the financial crime controls work. It was agreed that Sally Smith ss/js
and Jeff would meet to discuss this further, to update the Committee at its next
meeting.

Strictly Confidential Page 10 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 13 o

POL-BSFF-0238513_0012
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

14 of

POL00423695
POL00423695

Otherwise, the Committee:

i. NOTED the annual report and its conclusions as part of its role in
monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s anti-money-
laundering systems and controls which ensures Post Office’s meets its
regulatory obligations under the Money Laundering Regulations; and

ii. APPROVED the recommendations within paragraphs 9 - 25 of this report
and paragraph F of the Annual Report of the Money Laundering Reporting
Officer, prior to the Annual Report being issued to our regulator, HMRC;

for onward submission to the ARC (subject to the amendments as set out by the
Committee in their discussions).

HR Update

Pensions Assurance

8.1

Lisa Cherry introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The Chair raised concerns about the potential liability and timescales
of this issue, noting that it might need to be escalated to Nick Read (Group CEO).
Lisa Cherry explained that ultimately, the issue was caused by a Post Office mistake
and as such, it was vital a good relationship with the Trustee was maintained. There
was a Trustee meeting on 23 March 2021, which Lisa Cherry was attending and it is
after this point that any escalation to Nick Read would be considered.

The Chair also highlighted that the longer this was left, the greater the liability
became and there needed to be communication with those affected. Maxine Cross
explained that there was already a comms plan in place to advise those affected that
there might be a problem. In addition Lisa Cherry was working closely with the team
to ensure conversations were taking place at the right level with the CEO of the
Trustees in advance of the Trustee Board meeting in March. Disclosures regarding
the issue might need to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts and as such,
comms would need to be released before such disclosures. The liability was not likely
to be understood until March/April and the ARC Chair indicated that this might need
to considered by the Board in April.

Ben Foat also requested more information on the data and how far it went back. This
was to be provided to Ben directly outside of the Committee before its next meeting
in March 2021.

The Committee otherwise NOTED:
- the progress on Project Assurance, the programme of work to resolve the
closed defined benefit scheme errors;
- the progress against actions from the previous ARC; and
- the continued reporting/dialogue with The Pensions Regulator (TPR);
for onward submission to the ARC.

Lc/Mc

Success Factors

8.2

Lisa Cherry introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was explained that the Success Factors system configuration was
likely to cost £250,000 and this was already on the change list. It was noted that
this was a legitimate cost as it was for improving controls and reducing errors.

The Committee NOTED the progress of the process improvement work ongoing in
People Shared Service Centre (PSSC) (including Success Factors) for onward
submission to the ARC.

Tax Update & Tax Strategy

Andy Jamieson introduced the paper , which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The Committee NOTED the Tax Update and APPROVED the annual
review of the Tax Strategy for onward submission to the ARC.

10.

Update on branch losses and balances on Postmaster accounts

a

Strictly Confidential Page 11 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0013
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

POL00423695
POL00423695

Tim Perkins introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. The Chair noted that there had been much improvement in this area
and also praised Russell Hancock’s team for their work on cash in this area. The
following was raised:

- A proper piece of analytical work was required to identify the route cause of
discrepancies. The capability to do this was to be built within Tim Perkin’s
team but HMU were supporting.

- There were numerous approved change budgets relating to service
improvements for Postmasters and it was agreed that these budgets should
be added together and an activity prioritisation list prepared such that the
budget could be properly prioritised. It was noted that the Deloitte programme
would be the overarching programme in this area, with smaller programmes
under this.

- Jeff Smyth highlighted that changes to Horizon were also needed. Tim Perkins

explained that Simon Oldnall (Horizon & GLO IT Director) was already
engaged on this and highlighted the need to get data all in one place such
that checks for discrepancies could be run.
Jeff Smyth also noted that the thinking seemed to be solidifying quickly but
the solution cost was not. This needed to be addressed quickly. Tim Perkins
concurred, noting that the goal was to move to a proactive and preventative
model.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED the update on balances posted to Postmaster
customer accounts for onward submission to the ARC.

AJ/TP

11.

Postmaster Policies

12.

Tim Perkins introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was confirmed that:
- The policies had been agreed with HMU, the National Federation of Sub-
Postmasters (NFSP) and Legal, Compliance and Governance (LCG).
The policies were broad with the underlying processes being narrower.
- Approval of these policies would close off some outstanding actions within the
Internal Audit Common Issues Judgement report.

It was agreed that the operationalisation of the policies was key and Tim Perkins
would provide an update on the controls implemented to the Committee at its next
meeting.

The following policies were APPROVED for onward submission to the ARC:
« Postmaster Account Support Policy;
* Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution Policy; and
« Network Monitoring and Audit Support Policy;

and that, moving forwards, these policies be reviewed and approved annually by the
Committee only.
Mails Fraud Update

TP

Tim Perkins introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. Two points were discussed:

There was a sense that Post Office was always “coming from behind” when
identifying these issues and there needed to be analytical capability in house
to support identification. Tim Perkins explained that change funding had been
assigned and consideration was being given as to how to procure the best
people for this work. Johann Appel also explained that his team were currently
recruitment a data analytical manager who could support this work. Tim
Perkins, Jeff Smyth and the Chair agreed to discuss the need for more

TP/3S/AC

Strictly Confidential Page 12 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

15 0

POL-BSFF-0238513_0014
Tab 2.1 Minutes (

POL00423695
POL00423695

analytical capability with Dan Zinner (Group Chief Operations Officer) and
provide an update to the Committee at its next meeting.

- Post Office was now dependent on Royal Mail to continue the investigation (to
allow Horizon data to be consolidated against the actual mail) and as yet they
had not provided a date as to when this investigation would be conducted.

Accordingly, the Committee NOTED a mails fraud identified on 25 November 2020
through a whistleblow received by an Area Manager from a member of staff in an
agency Post Office.

13.

Historical Matters Unit: Fraudulent Claims Controls & Delegation of
Authority

Graham Hemingway introduced the paper, which had been circulated previously and
was taken as read. It was highlighted that:

- The action relating to responsibilities, accountabilities and decision-making
authorities (including the extent of delegation of authority) to be clarified via
completion of a RACI matrix was ongoing due to discussions with UK
Government Investments (UKGI) and the Department of Business, Energy
and Industrial Strategy (BEIS). It was thought this would be ready for the
ARC on 26 January 2021 and it was requested that the matrix was sent to the
Committee before being submitted to the ARC.

- In response to questions from the Committee, it was explained that risks by
workstream were reported to the Board and Declan Salter was to report to
the GE once a month. As such it was agreed that this topic need not be
reported through to this Committee and the ARC, but that the GE report
should include risk and controls.

Otherwise, the Committee NOTED how are risks relating to fraudulent claims being
managed in the Historical Shortfall Scheme (and the Stamps Scheme) and that
controls are in place to confirm the eligibility of claims for onward submission to the
ARC.

GH

DS/GH

14.

Policies for Approval

Jonathan Hill presented the paper, which had been circulated previously and was

taken as read. The following was highlighted:

- Cyber and Information Security Policy: This was a regular annual update with
minor changes included in the updated policy.

- Vetting Policy: The original has been considerably updated and split out into
two separate policies for employees and Postmasters/Assistants as the vetting
procedures were considerably different.

- Investigations Policy: This was a significant revision. The policy set the
minimum standards for investigation practices across the business and where
there were other specific policies which specific requirements (i.e. relating to
Postmasters) those policies would take precedence. An investigations group
would be set up to create effective minimum control standards and
management information (MI).

The following policies were APPROVED for onward submission to the ARC:
- Cyber & Information Security;
- Investigations (subject to Jonathan Hill/Ben Foat checking the reference to
reporting concerns to the CEO as raised by Amanda Jones); and
- Employee, Postmaster & Postmaster Assistant Vetting Requirements (subject
to the policy being reviewed to ensure that the job titles included were up-to-
date following the recent restructure).

JH/BF

3H

15.

Subsidiary Policy Mandate

16 of

a

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

Page 13 of 15

POL-BSFF-0238513_0015
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 2.1 Minutes (

Jonathan Hill presented the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was explained that all Group Policies were, by default, to be adopted
by Post Office’s subsidiaries unless there was a legal, regulatory or other material
reason why they could not. It was also confirmed that Payzone were presently
working through the Group Policies to establish which could be adopted. The Payzone
Board had discussed the adoption of policies and concluded that Payzone should not
adopt different policies to those of the Group where at all possible. Lisa Cherry also
highlighted that it must be clear that Post Office Limited only People policies should
not apply to subsidiaries, although this would be addressed by being clear that the JH
mandate applied to Group Policies only. It was agreed that this would be rectified
before the paper was presented to the ARC.

Otherwise, the Committee APPROVED the following Subsidiary Policy Mandate:

i. Subsidiaries must adopt all Group Policies unless it cannot do so for a
legal, regulatory or other material reason;

ii. Where subsidiaries cannot adopt a Group Policy for one of the above
reasons, subsidiary shall adopt its own policy in that area that is aligned
to the Group Policy;

iii. This adapted subsidiary policy must be reviewed and approved by the Post
Office Limited (POL) Compliance team and the POL Policy Owner, who shall
confirm alignment to the Group Policy; and

iv. This process would not apply to Post Office Insurance (POI) regulatory
policies, being Risk, Conduct Risk, Vulnerable Customers, Ex Gratia,
Remuneration and any other policies as required by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA). Where these policies are adopted by the POI Board, the
Company Secretariat shall notify POL Compliance of the adoption such
that their records can be updated;

for onward submission to the ARC (subject to the amendment of the paper to define
“Group Policy” within the paper).

16. Procurement Compliance & Governance

Barbara Brannon presented the paper, which had been circulated previously and was
taken as read. It was highlighted that the GE were due to discuss the proposed nine
month extension to the contract for Cheque Processing for Postal Orders and
Camelot, which was required to make the contract co-terminus with the existing
Corporate Banking contract as the would be operational issues if the services from
separated. The Corporate Banking contract was due to be re-procured in Q3 2021
and the cheque processing services would be brought within the scope of this re-
procurement. Overall, Procurement Compliance was an improving area.

The Committee NOTED the Procurement Compliance & Governance report
specifically, the Procurement Risk Exceptions submitted to the Post Office Limited
Group Executive and Board since November 2020 and the contracts in the
Procurement pipeline.
17. Law & Trends Update
Ben Foat presented the paper, which had been circulated previously and was taken
as read. The following was highlighted:
- New guidance has been published on Data Subject Access Requests
- (DSARs) and there was “stop the clock” provision which allowed the business
to ask questions of requestees
- The London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) would change to Sterling
Overnight Indexed Average (“SONIA”) later in 2021, which would have an
impact on commercial loan agreements.
- There were some areas of concern which were being monitored relating to
property litigation.

Strictly Confidential Page 14 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 17 0

POL-BSFF-0238513_0016
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 2.1 Minutes (12 January 2021)
The Committee NOTED the Law & Trends report and the new or proposed material
changes to laws and regulations since its last meeting for onward submission to the
ARC.
18. Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee meeting agenda for
26 January 2021
The draft ARC agenda for 26 January 2021 was NOTED. The Chair suggested that
the Mails Fraud paper could be noted at the ARC (without presentation) if the ARC
Chair agreed.
19. Any other Business
There was no other business.
Strictly Confidential Page 15 of 15
18 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0017
Post Office Limited
Risk & Compliance Committee
OPEN ACTIONS

cs Taton Acton Owner] Due Date Comment
169703/2021" Commercial negotiations did nat conclude as planned due to GOPR
[complexities and the contract has been extended on an Interim basis again to end
March. The completed contract was received on Monday is now awaiting review and
[approve from POL legal. This review is expected to complete prior to 22nd March in
lorder that the risk is closed by the submittal ofthe ARC paper. Further update to be
provided atthe next Committee meeting
ation I Merch 2021 anc I22001/2021: Cathy Mayor removed from Action Owner as no longer within her ares.
Sherratt / Nick I (update at May
05/01/2021: Commercial end legal negotiations are ongoing but are on track to
Wade /cathy I 2021 RCC) I Icomplete 8 compliant support renewal ofthe legacy SSK estate by January end
Mayor /
or stall an ‘ecohaion-by-ond-I-civity wil sit under the Network Strategy workstream., Automation forms a clear
ecDonale/Ba back to Board in January with an update on Automation and Technology (this Includes
cranes inI Gone a Sang [SPM dependencies ond route to procure). In elation to the exiting estate the
wonanse I tcanaten ond or erat enna rstontng a MR comlun outete maken te cork
[estate and potentiel procurement of new with 2 target resolution date of 29/01/2021,
Previous: The SSK Procurement Project ison hold at present. This work wil now form
part of NEO Work Package 5, whichis due to report to Board in June and July on
Network Shape and Formats and Propositions respectively. NEO WPS wil return to
Board in September with the Technology port of the work stream, the direction from
which wil form part of the Procurement. The project wl return to PRE to resume
work folowing the September Boars
ORTOSTEODT HRC are SUT ROT COMUCTNG BAY TOOTS
12/01/2021; The Committee requested that the action remained open
31/12/2020: The HMRC supervisor who took over when the previous supervisor
toe-m lUpdate @ May 2021Iretired in May 2020 moved to a new role in the summer. A further supervisor was
3 0.6 - Monay NCC Meeting [appointed in August 2020 and an na vital meeting has been hel, ut due to
4 2 I savosa020 I retttntetta,. er, ss and a tak to retal on entorang three Ines of defence and) Sally Smith / ‘ren. [Contig Cov restacion, HMRC are not undertaking any superisry vats or
2 poring Ofer escorted BF attend a mestng with HMR Jonathon Hi meetings and es unclear when this wl acorimance i 2021 what th frequency
: #0) As Jor format of meetings will be with this new supervisor.
lo2/11/2020: HMRC are stil conducting any meetings ~ action to be updated et next
meeting (January 2021).
loa/a7/2020: HMRC are not conducting meetings at present due to Covi, but Sally
a rs a solr ipa ree
. 7 i ; es
_ I _ _ - -
oe : S ia “Tesuested this — I
_ = eee : are
“favor “WRC Ne aa nn
I i _ oo - there ig an error in the minutes o
ot _ se cartes a

POL00423695
POL00423695

nN

nD
POL-BSFF-0238513_0018

POL00423695
POL00423695

We nt RMPP what we believe to be final date, This will form the
sis for the Trustee's report to the Trustee Board on 23rd March, We have requested
ladvanced sight of the data to be presented. This is expected to give us initial view of
Ithe quantum of the errors. We are preparing a paper for Project Assurance Steerco on
lsth April that will bring together the data our obligations and wider considerations so
that an approach to discussions with the Trustee can be agreed. A further update will
be provided at the next Committee meeting,

}05/01/2021: The Trustee has now received reconstructed pensionable pay and
lallowances data. This is being reviewed to assess both the differences to the 2017
[deta that formed the basis of the Rothesay buy-in and the quantum of the
loverpayments. A report is expected to be presented to the Trustee Board in March

Update @ May _I2021 along with the Trustee rectification plans. The regulator has been updated and
2021 RCC Meeting Iis expecting more information from POL at the end of the March.

‘pe The Committe requested 9 timetable and proposed quantum ahead of a cherry ) I UPdte-t torch
4 I soyosya0z0 I 4 Pensions line ac meeting, but noted that LC was due to meet the Chai of ARC I LS2,CMErTY/ I aga nce-atectng [06/11/2020: Project Assurance Steeco has bash crated and willbe meeting monthly
neparatelyto discuss this issue Update-@-Joruory-Ifllowing the Intl meeting an 30th October 2020
2621-RCE Meeting

September- [Initial sets of reconstructed data were shared with the Trustee and Willis Towers.

(Watson, POL's scheme advisors, Bath wonderad if the scheme rules had ben correctly
interpreted which led to legal advisors for both POL and the Trustee reversing an
learlier view about the application of the scheme rules. Data is being recalculated in
laccordance with the later view and is now expected to be completed in mid-November
with POLs reviews expected to conclude at the end of November 2020.

We intend to notify The Pension Regulator of this delay to the rectification timetable
following their acknowledgement of our br

in October, the POL Board was advised of a potential liabilities stemming from
ovision in the Pension Administration Agreement.

COMPLETE

oe RECIARE in 4/2024 wth deta derived

oe *
et
Cee eine age

2 SS See eg

I 6  . fv system il ba built to take action where possible, I

es aaa = =a Co hui eon

CF  LLmLmLmLmLULmLDLmrDrrrrlrrrrr ll i iS i *I

. oe oe _ . I I ne a eo  e : onthe. Accordingly, the I

oe I tC. atexnal Audit: Ffectivenc tin I — ee on ee

anit : cls oe

fee = I

_..
I
i

ee _ 7 elites
ine lect ecommena
a me coe tana

See ee”

ou oo

oe

nN

nD
POL-BSFF-0238513_0019

POL00423695
POL00423695

i BURS-alate CapAbITRY Ts BUBIECE
1/22,

josmasrais Fart
Update tobe funding, which
provided @ May
2021 RCC —_I06/01/2021: Ben and Jeff have met to discuss the rules regarding data preservation in
3.4 Risk, I Internal Audit: Further, it was requested that: Ben Foat and Jeff Update-to-be-_I*legal-hold’” situations and we have confirmed that there is no automatic deletion of
8 12/11/2020 I Compliance & ISmyth discuss offline the rules around deleting/not deleting data for hag vy Outlook Email, Sharepoint or Onedrive based data, Data access is deactivated in
Audit Update _ {legal reasons. 282iREe employee leaver situations but that data is stil retrieval on request by line
Update-to-be-Imanagement or other authorised requestors. Data Protection have recommended that
to keep within POL risk appetite that IT, in conjunction with Compliance, need to start
2oarrce —_I working tow:

‘action by TT to creat
be reviewed during 2

en Foat & Jeff

auto ds
ae ca mi re ao
oo Q oe oe
_ : ee —_—
_ _ a 20, peg, nal
Ee cre rave bear spread with Pane anc

lAccenture. The date for completion is to be confirmed (should be confirmed by RCC),
but will be later than 19/03/2021 as indicated in previous updates,

IThe subsequent Branch Focus article will also be delayed. Further update to be
provided at the May RCC.

12/01/2021: The Committee requested this action remained open.

Uodate tobe [Laer
ved @ ny. [ESheatheast Cc, Post fc hes complted an RT process and raed 8
Notification of Transaction Error: It was agreed that the outcome ofI La
12 I szpuaan I F..acson Eva [Me estonon i the error shoul be pubishedin the interests of I Tim Perkins I ystaeaebe-_Icoracion om seg waved nthe Mure, The work ae nce fore
vray - provided-@January enhancement that will prevent any transaction correction narrative from being cut off

by 19/03/2021,
2.Once these enhancements are completed, a Branch Focus article will be published

to explain the enhancements and to give Postmasters reassurance that when Post
loffice identifies issues that impact them, it will respond by clearly publicising the issue
land making changes that ensure the issue cannot recur. Given the expected
Icompletion date for the enhancements, the Branch Focus article should be published in
late March 2021

nN

nD
POL-BSFF-0238513_0020

POL00423695
POL00423695

[Data Governance: Accordingly, the Legal, Data Protection, IT and
Rat hat (i 8 nate Director) were asd ta work on 9 coherent unaave@ may 2021280212021: Tis wl be aeresed In Compliance Papert be presented tothe
November 2020 ymeniktee meeting.

33 I azy112020

30/11/2020: The Data Governance paper was updated as requested and submitted to
the November 2020 ARC for noting.

ee ene

Hee ee nien cron Greenies pen contene (02/03/2021: The Date Governance steerco is already established for the data strand
recommendation to establish ¢ Post Ore lUpdete @ May 2021] nd is up and running, We are cutrenty in the process of recrlting e dedicated Deta
ramework and SteerCo, based on the Digital Data Governance Jonathan Hil

20 3.3 Compliance ROC/ARC. [Governance lead role. This person wil take over the ownership of data governance

1ryor/2ezt I “Update IfTamework but extended to encompass all forms of date. Itwas agreed) (Matthew I Update-@-March- land pick up the intial work already conducted inthis area e.g identification of date

that this was e matter forthe GE and thet s paper should be presented] Warren) I “2oas'recjane owners / stewards / SME's etc. Further update to be provided atthe next Committee
that sets out the purpose and how this could work (including the wider owners Pr
Implications of the Framework, the cost and the accountabilities) *

nN

ND
POL-BSFF-0238513_0021
POL00423695
POL00423695

a ae va a
t : eel Pca od, tecemcery ae I ee

sy commoner [nancial Services: Jonathan Fil was requested to provide the Prat May 202. Saat We fing the frst craft oF this rinapals, we
2 12/01/2021, Undue report relating to Multi Principal Review of ist line controls to the Jonathan Hill ‘March-2021- [have chased for a response, which is expected within the next 2 weeks. Further

Committee meeting,

Comrnites before the next Cammattes pest paste to be growded atthe next
An

gett Smyth noted that there was &
ring out your dead” exercise and it was agreed that that a 10/03/2021: IT have developed a "shadow IT” questionnaire and are testing this,
Iquestionnaire would also be developed to ask the relevant locations Update @ May 2021 approach locally within IT, This activity will be completed by 30th April 2021. We will
30 I a2oxy20an I 6: Supply Chain Iwhat equipment they had in place and identify anything that might be I so ven Rec Ithen progressively use the same "amnesty and sweep” approach across the wider
Historical IT Risks I"off network.” It was flagged that these questions should include vy Update-@-March- Ibusiness to determine scale and importance of non-IT supported systems. Report back
lexamples and be as simple as possible. It was further explained that 202ERCC [to May RCC on IT progress findings with a proposal for how to rollout across wider
ultimately it came down to whether the equipment was supported by busines.

the Post Office IT team. The key was to encourage vigilance,

nN

nD
POL-BSFF-0238513_0022
POL00423695
POL00423695

-
oo -
oe eed ae 8 : ee ae Hae
i oe a oe _
Banks & Money Service Businesses (MSBs): The 2020 Natio:
Risk Assessment (NRA) released in December 2020 had stated to quite
Ja lot of noise and momentum for the banks to do more to prevent I09/03/2021: Following the last meeting, there has been more movement at an
financial crime. In response to questions from the Chair, Selly Smith industry level on driving focus on resolving the issues with cash deposits, with several
confirmed that responsibilty for checking customers are genuine did banks now being more proactive and have tightened their controls. Martin Kearsley
rest with the banks, but Post Office, as a regulated entity, needed to epdate@ may 2021Iand Say Smith nave had several meting with UK Finance and the NECC Projet
33. I tzo12021 I 7: Annual Money [demonstrate that it had controls in place to deal with high risk sally smith ladmiralty 's now meeting monthly. The NECC are also meeting with UK Finance and
Laundering Report businesses. Work was being done on improving the mechanism by Update @-Hareh- [gly Smith co scss further wey to crivecontelImprovemants. At ths stage, the
hich the banks confirm that customers were genuine 202ERCC issue with MSBs has not been raised specifically with the banks, as if they implement
required controls, this ceases to be an issue for Post Office. We are also aware of
te was requested that Selly Smith write to the banks and make it clear [ongoing Law Enforcament/Regulator activity with certain MSBs which wil ikely result
that MSBs cannot be used through the Post Office network. Tt was in better controls. A further update will be provided to the next Committee meeting,

agreed that a deep dive on the issue was required. Both actions were
to be updated for the next Committee meeting,

[DELOS/QUZLz PZBP are progressing changes, but do not yet have implementation dates]

{Kevin Hereith is assisting PZBP wth rasing the system changes via Service Now, a8
P28 do not hove access), trarsacttanelchonges and mts tothe produc ae als
The potential for hese tobe sod na way that beng pursued by EPay, but they have net yet cone dete of changes, Finance
tos beng used revdulently needed to be urgently aderessed ond sat I saute @ may 202i)time have requested thot PZBP press EPay foro delivery date, or‘pause sales ofthe
7. Annual Money [2¢countability taken within the Bill Payments/Payzone team. Part of Smith/Cathy I ¥P¢ ce y product.
a4 I rzyoxa0an I,7 Annual Money lene insue was tat the rlaonahip wos managed by Payzone and they I Mayor
-aundering Report aid not have access to Post Office systems. This needed to be resolved. (Andrew ‘202 RCC IPZBPL Update: Weekly meetings are scheduled with the FC team are ongoing to
Eathy Nyor and Sally Smith were asked to follow up vith Andrew I Goda) Jersure progression. Toes wth epay an Amezon regarding Freud migatons ere
odders and provide on update at the next Commitee meetin contin wth feedback expected forthe next meeting. Ake Res bee Flsed wth

[Service Now for a pop up message.

A futher uadate wil be orovided to the next
ee co  ..rmhrUCr a
x : ee ae pened
—Cr—“‘_‘_ONONONOOCOONOCOCOC:C*C:iCiéitC;(CizéC;

ntrols under the © @ March
tal crime co pRcc
freee mee

nN

nD
POL-BSFF-0238513_0023

POL00423695
POL00423695

.

dbethe

ee

ea

ae

IAnalytical Capability: There was a sense that Post Office was slvays
P'coming from behind” when identifying these issues and there needed
to be analytical capability in house to support identification. Tim
Perkins explained that change funding had been assigned and
12. Malls Fraud Iconsideration was being given as to how to procure the best people for
Update [this work. Johann Appel also

recruitmant data analytical
ITim Perkins, 3
ytical capability with Dan Zinner (Group Chief Operations

10/03/2021: The scope for this work is being looked at in the wider context of a
forensic capability being stood up within Horizon IT; There are natural synergies
jaround the set of capabilities to provide analytical services across a broad range
processes and these can leverage off the work being looked at around rapid surfacing
If transactional data. Further update to be provided in May 2021

Tim Perkins/3eft

‘Smyth/Al
Cameron I Update. ge tereh-

lUpdate @ May 2021
Rec

39 I szyox/20a1

nd provide an update to the Committee at its next meeting.
The action relating to responsibiities, account
13, Historical [and decision-making authorities (Including the extent of delegation of 09/03/2021: A draft RACID matrix was shared with Historical Matters Committee on
Matters Unit: authority) to be clarified via completion of @ RACI matrix was ongoing lUpdate @ May 2021I18 February 2021 and with GE w/e 22 February 2021. Additionally, draft RACID
40 I vzyox/20an. I Fraudulent Claims Idue to discussions with UK Government Investments (UKGI) and the Greham Rec [shared with internal audt for feedback, Feedback from CFO is being reviewed and
Controls & [Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BETS). It wasI Hemingway I Prior to-January- Idiscussions are ongoing with Finance and with Strategy and Transformation Director
Delegation of _Ithought this would be ready for the ARC on 26 January 2021 and it 202-AR€ [relating to governance arrangements which will then be incorporated into an updated
Authority Iwas requested that the matrix was sent to the Committee before beingI ACID,

oe

shes es es le

- ce °
I gst ove oo oy cere 71s a era a mao ARE Racor Sr
i y a ne nie Le Z  . ed
_ oo __ __ ll

9 the ARC: Cr
osurater tes

C
ce oe
. a .
—r—

nN

nD
POL-BSFF-0238513_0024

POL00423695
POL00423695

@

Central Risk Dashboard
RCC

16 March 2021

Strictly Confidential

»

=

POL-BSFF-0238513_0025
IZ/C0/9I-SenIWWOD soueIIdWOD PUE ySIY - PAIL! BOLO 1S0d

SSL JO LZ

POL00423695

POL00423695

1. Overview

Summary
Risk Status

556 active risks (14 enterprise, 90 intermediate, 453 Local). 6 risks rated 20 including:

Commercial (Customer requirements not met): Risk existing/emerging requirements of Post Office (new and existing) customers across the various sectors are not met such that
customer demand declines rapidly

People (Industrial Action (DMB): Risk of DMB IA in 6-7/2021 and/or ‘go-slow’. Dispute resolution in place including GOLD teams to mitigate. CWU conversations ongoing to ensure
transparency.

External Fraud: Given substantial levels of cash and stock in Network risk of fraud being carried out by external parties.

H&S: Risk to postmasters & supply chain employees’ mental and physical safety given their visibility and accessibility and the ongoing demands of the pandemic. Safety video on
Branch Hub and increasing the number of Health Check calls to branches.

Other Risk activity

Strategy: risk dataset to be reviewed in light of launch of revised Strategy in 4/2021, - do not anticipate major changes

Future of the Workplace: Review of emerging risks as a result of plans for post-pandemic return to the workplace

Postmaster-centric risks: work underway to recalibrate some existing risks to articulate more clearly postmaster impact

HMU: Early set of HMU risks now included in risk data set. Work ongoing

People: HR proactively reviewing their risk data set. Updated data to be included in next reporting period

Telco: following sale majority of Telco risks now inactive

POI: looking to migrate POI risks data onto ServiceNow over next few weeks

Working with Comms to ensure all existing risks with CSR impact articulated accordingly - will provide business with a thematic view

Risk Appetite

LCG risk appetite update paper tabled for RCC/ARC 3/2021 meetings. Following initial noting, formal ARC approval now sought on approach. Initial supporting KRIs identified,
along with potential data sources and indicative tolerances. Plan to including latest LCG appetite and KRI trends in standard RCC/ARC Dashboard from 5/2021.

In discussion with Retail and Franchise Network around Operational risk appetite (given this will cover postmaster-centric risks). Plan is get to an internally agreed position by end
of 3/2021 with ARC approval sought in 5/2021.

ServiceNow GRC Phases 1 & 2
Phase 1 completed on time in 1/2021. 550+ risks migrated from RSA Archer to Service Now GRC platform. Central Risk initial training on product. Training material (Slides, Quick
Reference Cards, Videos and supporting processes) nears sign-off. Will support wider deployment.

Phase 2 Business Case finalised (including enterprise licence). Subject to internal approval will allow rollout of risk capability across the business (over 4-5 months) and the
onboarding of Finance, IT and SPO controls. Rollout targeting 4-10/2021 period. Initial pilot in 4/2021 (IT, Comms and Legal seen as potential candidates). Standard controls user
requirement nears sign-off. Will allow GRC tool to support the onboarding of additional controls emanating from Compliance-led wider Control Review.

Strictly Confidential

(pueoqusep) yodey ¥sIu L¢ deL

POL-BSFF-0238513_0026
SSL JO ez

IZ/C0/9I-SenIWWOD soueIIdWOD PUE ySIY - PAIL! BOLO 1S0d

2. Ratings, Categories & Response

‘ete Rah by Real Bak ating ©

Summary

Residual Ratings: Banding satisfactory. Will be assuring 6 very high
risk ratings are compliant and, if so, secure detailed mitigations. 28
risks have no rating. These are in the Tech/Security space as just been
added to the system. Now being addressed.

Risk Category: Shows 109 risks (of 556) are in Legal & Regulatory
space. Although recent risk appetite work has seen an increase in the
number of such risks classification to be reviewed in next report. It is
expected this will result in a more equitable spread across the
categories. Cross-thematic report to be included in next Dashboard.
Risk Response: 168 risks have an ‘accept’ response. Need to align this
with the RAS. In most cases the residual rating is low but some are not.
Challenging in next reporting period.

17 risks do not have a response ~ the majority are result of internal
risk transfer where importing business unit need to formally reconfirm
response. To be addressed in next period.

Strictly Confidential

°

Risks member by rk category

‘sk ReiponseSommary ©

POL00423695
POL00423695

(pueoqusep) yodey ysIu 1"¢ GEL

POL-BSFF-0238513_0027
LZ/E0/91-BanWWD souerIdwioD pUe ¥SI - PAIIWIIT BO1LIO 180d

SSL Jo6z

3. Risk numbers

POL00423695
POL00423695

Summary

This table provides a corporate ‘horizontal’ view of the Post

Office’s 556 active risks by number. The ‘x’ axis lists the

individual GE Commands with the ‘Y’ axis providing the

enterprise risk categories.

Key headlines

+ This is work in progress and is influenced by the accuracy
of risk allocation (by GE Group and individual
classification). Central Risk now assuring this data so there
may be some further recalibration

+ Group Commercial: has a material number of Legal &
Regulatory risks (generally in the non-compliance space)

+ Group Finance: a reasonable spread but interestingly has
no Change or Technology risks

+ General Counsel: not surprisingly has a significant number
of Legal risks in part influenced by the recent work on
appetite. Central Risk will be check this allocation

+ Group Information: a high proportion of risks are in the
(cyber) security space

+ Group Operations: a material number of change related
risks but little classified as operations as these are picked
up within Retail & Franchise Network

+ Group People: a reasonably equitable spread

+ Group Historical Matters: very light on the number of
identified risks. Central Risk in proactive discussions to
ensure increased articulation in the next reporting period.

(pueoqusep) yodey ysiy Le qe

Post Office Risks Number (by GE command and Enterprise Category)

Business
Unit

lcategory

Change
Commercial
Financial
Governance

Health & Safety
Information

Legal & Regulatory
Marketplace & Brand

Strictly Confidential

=

POL-BSFF-0238513_0028
SSL JO 0¢

IZ/C0/9I-SenIWWOD soueIIdWOD PUE ySIY - PAIL! BOLO 1S0d

4. Risk weighting

POL00423695
POL00423695

Summary

This table complements the earlier table by providing a

corporate ‘horizontal’ view of the Post Office’s 556 active risks

but this time by average risk rating (i.e. a summary total of

the individual risk ratings divided by the number of risks).

The ‘x’ axis lists the individual GE Commands with the ‘Y’ axis

providing the enterprise risk categories.

Key headlines

+ As before this is work in progress as the data is influenced
by the accuracy of risk allocation. Central Risk now fully
assuring this data so there may be some recalibration at
end of the next period

+ Group Commercial: their 108 risks are equitably spread
but have a higher weight in the Financial, Security and
Strategy space

+ Group Retail & Franchise : their 57 risk have a higher risk
weighting in H&S, Legal and People in part because of the
work underway around postmaster risks

+ Group Historical Matters: even though very light on the
number of risks the risk weight is relatively high compared
to other GE Groups. This is not surprising and is likely to
increase as more risks get articulated.

(pueoqusep) yodey ysIu 1"¢ GEL

Post Office Risks Number (by GE command and Enterprise Category)

Commercial
Financial
Governance
Health & Safety
Information

Legal & Regulatory
IMkt.place & Brand

Operational

People

Reputation

Strictly Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0029
AIIWI] BOLO 1S0q

dwiog pue ¥sI -

5. Enterprise Risks: Summary

Residual Risk Heatmap

RKO.
020
005

RKO
020
08,

RKO
020
006

RKO
010
RKO

020
017

RKO
020
014

RKO

11

Owen
Woodley

Martin
Hoperoft

A
Cameron

Ben Foat

Gary
Walker

Richard
Taylor

Owen
Woodley

Enterprise Risk Title

‘Commercial: Risk the Post Office Comm
propositionis unattractive because the existing products
are too complex or confusing, new product are cost
ineffective, unable to be scaled and unattractive to the
market.

Health and Safety: Risk that the Post Office business
and its staff are adversely impacted by health and safety
event (e.g. pandemic), detrimental business actvities
and/or physical security.

Financial: Risk that the Post Offices has insufficient
funding and/or uncontrolled costsin the short-, medium
and long-term.

Legal: Risk the Post Office is unable to comply with
legislative and regulatory changes.

Technology: Risk that the Post Office is unable to
deliver a new Front Office system and has an ineffective
Disaster Recovery regime.

Reputation: Risk that the Post Office reputation
becomes severely damaged as a result of perceived
ethical violatons and/or adverse stance to corporate
social responsibilty

Marketplace and Brand: Risk the demand for Post
Office services and products across the various sectors,
deciines and/orloyalty to the Brand reduces.

POL00423695
POL00423695

dou 4SIY Le GEL

(a/ay ary =

fem [om I om I =»

Summary

14 enterprise risks of which 11 have a rating of 16+. These risks are the apex of the overall risk data set with their ratings shaped directly by their downstream risks and the
effectiveness of their mitigating activity. These risks tend to get managed through the aggregated activity at the intermediate and local level. Key risks in this area include:
Commercial: Risks the Commercial proposition is unattractive because existing products are too complex or confusing, new products are cost ineffective, unable to be scaled and

unattractive to the market.

Health & Safety: Because of external H&S events (e.g. pandemic), detrimental business activities and/or external factors there is a risk that the Post Office business and its staff

are adversely impacted.

Financial: Risks the Post Office has insufficient funding and/or uncontrolled costs in the short-, medium and long-term such it is unable to deliver its strategic objectives.
Legal: Risks the Post Office is unable to comply with legislative and regulatory obligations and/or the outcome of other external legal activity (i.e. litigation, Disputes).

Strictly Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0030
POL00423695

POL00423695
8 7
8 -
8 a
Q o
a
a =
3
g
6. Intermediate Risks: Summary ¢
A
Hi
eS
ee a
Ll w Enterprise Risk Title Trend -
Q RKO by Group _Nen-compliance with Pricing Super-Complaint
2 020 Fitton Commer FCAnotice: Risk that POI is not ready orhas (0/4) I) (5/4)
= RKO f Group ish the Post Office not be able fer
g (i) (ees [editicaI ech eee Commo >
1 Ws) Gal remains relevant to the market.
2
emote " ey = 4 a ene Gi Decline in Network Engagement: Risk that a
aos nat . channel.
RKO Henk Group _—_-Reduced income from Digital products and
RKO Henk Group Services: Rsk met Dostome dgtal podicisand i rn
to physical products and services.
020 F4.j, Commer Insurance EBITDAS contnbuton s snficenty below [RCM MCE Meza [>

Summary
90 intermediate risks of which 37 have a rating of 16+ including:
POI (Non-compliance with Pricing Super-Complaint): Risk that POI is not ready for new FCA price walking regime rules go live. Central Risk working with the business on detailed
mitigation plan. POI Board paper on dealing with FCA changes and winning within market. Key controls include project plan, project quality control and development of strategy
for maximising return within the market. .
POI: Risk Post Office Insurance product sales remain significantly below forecast resulting in reduced revenue Travel product back on sale. Significant uncertainty remains around
rate of recovery. quarantine restrictions increase doubt. Branch sales continue to be at low level.

: Risk existing/emerging requirements of Post Office (new and existing) customers across the various sectors are not met such that
customer demand declines rapidly. Central Risk working with the business on detailed mitigation plan
Commercial (ID Services): Risk may not be able to offer a relevant ID Service if requisite Government funding is not forthcoming. Reviewing a faster roll out of the tablet services
to ensure ready for the travel bounce-back period. Discussing an awareness campaign with Marketing. Regular meetings with Government Departments on role PO can play

POL-BSFF-0238513_0031
7. Local Risks: Summary

POL00423695

POL00423695

dou 4SIY Le GEL

Residual Risk Heatmap
G
os Service & Mental and physical health and safety through
Tim Support crime such as, violence and hate crime: Risk to . c is
s G22 Perks Spimsat hermenalandphysataety oooh come sich AA i >
Bs ion as, violence and hate crime
3 20) yea) (eee ear nee wry I ery =>
8 ion
3 Financal aie en
= RKO Performa Insufficient liquidity (COVID & BREXIT
g 020 HEX. nce& that Post Office is facing months ofexceptionally poor [CUD a MEGA). »
f 188 78¢°P\ Business trading conditions.
a Analysis
&
g RKO Andrew Franchise
q Health and Safety Breach - Branch Network:
a
9 Service & s P z
& RKO tim Sport Non-compliance with GLO findings: Risk of non ‘ , t
3 detinood 920 Perkins Opumsat ¢Mplance with the findings of the GLO across GR 04/4)
RKO ua
Brian Tax & —_Net Liabilities: Risk that the group mayenter 2 7
Historical Matters overturned convictions: Risk
RKO Declan ang Legal that the Post Office is perceived as dishonest, >
020 Salter £931 disrespectful or incompetentin its dealings with its
employees, Agents, partners and/or customers
Summary
453 local risks of which 51 have a rating of 16+ including:
H&S: Risk to postmasters & supply chain employees’ mental and physical safety given their visibility and accessibility and the demand of the pandemic . Safety video on Branch
Hub and increasing the number of Health Check calls to branches.
Net Liabilities: Risk that Group may enter a position of Net Liabilities which may trigger a number of events such as default on commercial agreements and funding arrangements.
Situation is being closely monitored along with pre-emptive action for impacted arrangements if required
Non-compliance with GLO (Service Support) findings: Rating recalibrated this period. Mitigations include removal of maintained error limits, removal of Limit on settling centrally
<£150, review of ATM transaction corrections and investigation of Camelot data integrity issue.
Historical Matters overturned convictions: Because of ongoing Group Litigation actions the Post Office is perceived as dishonest, disrespectful or incompetent in its dealings with
its employees, Agents, partners and/or customers which leads to loss of sales and and/or increased costs through fines and legal fees.

strictly Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0032
POL00423695

POL00423695
3.2
Corporate Legal & Compliance Risk
Appetites: An Update 1s Parent £625,
Jonathan Hill, Director of
Compliance Ben Foat, Group General! Counsel
Sarah Gray, Group Legal Director

Noting & Approval
The Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC) is asked to:
i. note the latest position on the Post Office’s appetite to corporate Legal &
Compliance risks and our response to the comments provided by RCC/ARC in
1/2021, and along with our proposed Next Steps and timeline;
ii. approve the Post Office’s appetite position to corporate Legal & Compliance risks,
for onward submission to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC).

RCC/ARC are asked to note we

RCC/ARC are asked, in light of the above, to approve the Post Office’s appetite position to
corporate Legal & Compliance risks.

Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0033
POL00423695
POL00423695

Report
. What is the latest position on the Post Office’s appetite to corporate Legal & Compliance

risks and the minor comment provided by RCC/ARC in 1/2021? 3.2
. What are our proposed Next Steps and the timeline?

Background
1.

Update

2. Both RCC and ARC whilst formally noting the paper also expressed the view, in advance
of formal approval, they were broadly content with the approach and the conclusions
reached. They made a small number of comments on which they asked for an update
to be provided subsequently. This is the purpose of this paper.

Statutory & Regulatory Obligations (Modern Slavery)
3.

Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0034
POL00423695
POL00423695

6.
Be -

Statutory & Regulatory Obligations (Competition Law)
A

10.

Contract & Transaction Management Obligations
11.

12.

Key Risk Indicators & Ongoing Monitoring

3
Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0035
POL00423695
POL00423695

3.2

Next Steps
17. The RCC/ARC are asked to
. note the latest position on the Post Office’s appetite to corporate Legal &
Compliance risks and our responses to the comment provided by RCC/ARC in
1/2021;
. approve the Legal & Compliance risks appetite position in light of our response;
and,
° note proposed Next Steps and the timeline.

Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0036
Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

POL00423695
POL00423695

38 of 155

Title: Compliance and Audit Report a 16 March 2021

Jonathan Hill, Director, Compliance Al Cameron, Group Chief Finance
Author: Johann Appel:, Head of Internal Sponsor: Officer

Audit Ben Foat, Group General Counsel

Input Sought: Noting & Decision

The Committee is asked to:

1. note the Compliance update.
2. note the Internal Audit update, specifically progress being made with delivery of the
Internal Audit programme and completion of audit actions.

for onward submission to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC).

Executive Summary
This paper provides an update on key and emerging risks, compliance matters and an update
on the latest internal audit position.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0037
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report
Compliance
3.3

1. Following a decision made by members of the Investment Committee in February, the
Controls Project work was stopped, pending a review at the end of the summer.
2. The value of having one master controls framework and IT enabling tool was recognised
in the Investment Committee sub-group discussion. Although the approach was to be on
a modular, tranche basis, carrying out controls and process mapping in parallel, it was
decided that;
i. The business has enough to focus on now, especially with the Public Inquiry,
ii. in order to put controls in place, the business first needs to have processes mapped,
and
iii. it needs to have a clear standardised process framework on which to put controls.

Summary of work completed:

3. A Controls Framework was designed together with the user requirements for an
operational controls ServiceNow-based system. Deloittes had agreed to review and
benchmark the Controls Framework and offer advice on the design and use of the controls
tool. This work has been put on hold pending the review in the summer.

4. Recruitment of 3 Controls Analysts to support the project to review, assess and assure
the controls identified. The initial scope of work was to capture controls for process
improvements that had been put in place following the GLO.

5. It had been assumed there would be process maps in place for each of the business units
impacted by the Common Issues judgement (“CIJ”) and Horizon Issues judgement (“HIJ”),
which the analysts could review for controls. However, few process maps were identified
and where they did exist, they were not up to the required standard, with some being out
of date.

6. During the period November - December, ahead of a comprehensive Controls tool being
built in ServiceNow, a temporary Power Apps workflow tool was developed. This tool
would ‘house’ the controls and allow self-assessment by the business prior to assurance
by the analysts. Following testing of the system, a training pack was produced to support
the system users.

7. The Business Analysts in the Historical Matters Unit CIJ team started workshops with
business units in January; the first being the Branch Reconciliation team (BRT).

8. Further sessions were held with the business areas to gain more information on the
controls and provide training on the use of the Power Apps tool.

9. The Controls team also started work with the Postmaster Onboarding Team. An initial
review indicated that more work was required to create effective process maps and
document controls.

10. As at 19" February, 40 Branch Reconciliation controls had been added to the Power Apps
tool and were awaiting assessment by the Controls Analysts.

Data Protection in relation the Telecoms Sale to Shell

11. As part of the Business Purchasing Agreement, Legal, Compliance and IT have engaged
with the transaction team to define process for identifying and reviewing data required for
BAU activity to continue post-completion. This was agreed on 22" February and guidance
issued to impacted employees. The majority of employees have identified what they
require from OneDrive, e-mail and SharePoint. These documents will then be reviewed

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 39 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0038
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report

@

40 of

by DMEs to ensure only information essential for the continuation of the telecoms business
is transferred. This is targeted to be completed by 8" March.

12. Compliance is working with the transaction team to establish a post-completion BAU 3.3
process for management of Subject Access Requests (SARs), including requests regarding
personal data for ex-customers of the Telecoms business, for whom Post Office will remain
responsible. The transaction team is working with Shell to ensure this process before the
completion date of 15" March.

13. During the transaction it was identified that that c5,000 ex-customers were still using a
Post Office provided e-mail account. All impacted customers with closed accounts were
contacted on 15th February to inform them that their email accounts were expired and
that they would be deleted in 28 days’ time. The incident and investigation documents
have been updated to reflect this closure task

14. Data Sharing Agreement (DSA) —- Compliance and Legal are in the process of reviewing
and updating the DSA to clarify where Shell and Post Office are acting as Controllers or
Processors (or Post Office as a as sub-processor). The DSA is currently with external
counsel to make the necessary changes.

Ofcom

15. Communications Incident - There has been no response back from Ofcom yet regarding
the comms incident reported in September 2020. Ofcom is reviewing whether it wants to
open a formal investigation into the incident and whether to issue a fine. Ofcom is aware
of the sale but this may continue post sale should Ofcom decide to open an investigation.
If this happens, there are clauses in the contract that require Shell to provide information
to Post Office for the purposes of responding to information requests. Meredith Sharples
will be available for a short period after the transaction to deal with Ofcom requests but
following his departure additional resource may be required to support this.

16. Complaints data - Ofcom will continue to publish the details of Post Office complaints in
this year’s annual service report because it focuses on historical information. Ofcom has
not yet decided when it will remove Post Office from the quarterly complaints reports as
the Post Office brand will remain in use post sale for up to 12 months.

17. Information requests - there is one outstanding information request due before the sale
completion date, which is on track for successful delivery. If any subsequent requests are
received from Ofcom, the contract allows Post Office to request this information from
Shell.

18. PSD2 - The FCA has approved the ECE notification and received the first audit. Further,
it has agreed that Post Office can submit its second audit early (covering FY 20/21) and
this will be conducted on 8"? March.

Data Management - Remote Location / Back Office and Oasis Searches:

19. A project ran in conjunction with Legal, the Historical Matters Unit and Compliance has
been progressing since Q3 2020.

20. The objective of this was to provide an assurance to Post Office, our legal team and the
Courts that we have conducted reasonable and appropriate searches for any relevant
information and have considered any documentation that may be found

21. A review of the boxes identified was completed with all relevant material assessed by the
appropriate external law firms for relevance to the various work streams.

22. Any in-scope materials were added to disclosure packs or further analysis was carried out
to test for significance to the various workstreams.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0039
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report

@

23. This work is now completed for the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC), the Post-
Conviction Disclosure Exercise (PCDE) and Starling. An assessment is to be run for
applicability for applicants to the Historical Shortfall Scheme (HSS) with a recommendation 3.3
due to go the Historical Matters Committee the week commencing 15" March.

Record Retention

24. All Data Owners were identified and provided with a copy of the Retention Schedules,
Remediation Logs and copies of the Document Retention and Disposal and Protecting
Personal Data policies.

25. The Compliance and CISO teams are starting to work with the business on the remediation
logs. There are concerns around the remediation plans and how these can be progressed
with initial thoughts that a remediation project may be required.

Record management in branches

26. Compliance, Property Services and the Network team are in the process of standing up a
mini-project to implement a change programme for Records Management with the
Branches. This project will look to:

27. There are several outstanding issues on this yet, these are:

e Designing a robust indexing system based on the products and services offered in
branch so that we can be sure that the right information is being archived

e Designing the correct Standard Operating Procedures for the indexing, boxing up and
transporting of boxes to Oasis

e Identifying the best method for transportation of boxes and a decision on where the
funding is being provided for associated costs

e Procuring enough boxes to ensure that we can cover the entire network

¢ Developing Comms to go out to PMs on this project.

e Create a new process for record archiving on a regular basis and not just on the closure
of a branch as is the process today

28. Given the demands to complete the Data Management exercise for 22" February for the
CCRC this project is due to start in late Q4 2020-21 or early Q1 2021-22

Post Office Ltd approach to Cookies:

29. As agreed at the January Committee meeting, the DP team is working with the Digital
Team in Commercial to determine the commercial impact of making further changes to
our cookies approach in order to stay middle of the pack. We are meeting with the Digi
Team at the beginning of March to identify a roadmap for how Post Office’s solution could
evolve over the next 6-12 months.

30. Whilst Post Office continues to remain middle of the pack, as more organisations are
changing their approach, Post Office’s current position is at risk of falling below the
average.

e We have started to receive external queries with regards to Post Office's
implementation of cookies since the last RCC. These queries are in relation to the
transparency of our cookie solution and effectiveness.

e The way in which cookies are implemented in the UK is evolving, with more granular
solutions frequently implemented and whilst our solution was good at the time of
implementation there is a risk that this will be seen to be less effective as industry’s
approach changes.

General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Contract Remediation

31. The Contract Remediation project was formally closed at the end of July as reported to
the previous RCC. Work is ongoing on and the number of outstanding contracts is 3 fewer
than reported at the previous Committee meeting.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 41 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0040
Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report

@

POL00423695

POL00423695

42 of 155

32. We now have an agreed approach on the Fujitsu Horizon Contract and, as part of the
Telecoms sale, a signed Data Processing Agreement for Fujitsu Telecoms.

33. Monthly Contract Review Group meetings continue to monitor progress and support

negotiations. This will continue until all outstanding contracts are finalised.
Freedom of Information Requests:

3.3

34. Asa direct result of the GLO, HSS, the public inquiry and having Postmaster seats on the
Board we are seeing a change in the number and complexity of Freedom of Information

requests.

Freedom of Information Requests (1* September 2020 — 2" March 2021)

Historical Matters
Related Requests

General Requests

Total Requests

35.

36.

37.

01.09.20 — 02.11.20 12 27 39
03.11.20 — 02.03.21 25 35 60
Total Requests 37 62 99

The more complex cases deal with information which may be either Legally Privileged,
Commercially Sensitive, Provided in Confidence or containing Personal Data. There is a
balancing act between transparency and protecting Post Office’s commercial and legal
interests.

As a result of this complexity, Legal and Compliance are having to prepare briefs for GE
and Board as many of the requests involve sensitive subjects such as the decision by POL
to seek to have Justice Fraser recused during the Common Interests hearing.
Compliance and Legal meet on a weekly basis with internal and external counsel to ensure
that any released information is in line with information released to the Inquiry and to
responses made for similar requests by BEIS/UKGI.

Compliance with Money Laundering Regulations

38.

39.

40.

Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) continue to rise, with 2,955 between 27'" October 2020

to 25 February 2021 (compared to 1,074 in the same period last year). The rise is

primarily driven by:

e The continued identification of cases linked to complex banking investigations

e Branches raising concerns about customers undertaking multiple consecutive high
value cash deposits, and

e Reports from cash centres concerning an increase in branches returning high volumes
of Scottish and N.I notes.

e¢ We also continue to see an increase in suspicious activity from Bureau de Change
transaction monitoring despite international travel restrictions and lockdown.

In this same period there were 375 Financial Crime investigations (compared to 218 in
the same period last year), 38 of these were cash deposit cases (up 65% on 2019/20).
We continue to work with the National Economic Crime Centre Project Admiralty and the

Banking Framework members to address the risks of cash laundering via Post Office.
Cases include:

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0041
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report

@

e Chinese nationals depositing high values onto numerous cards belonging to multiple
partner banks at branches located in Scotland advising that the funds are to pay
university tuition fees 3.3
e c.£7.4m deposited at 9 branches in Birmingham
e Significant cash deposits at c.50 branches in Leicester, which has also been the subject
of a Section 7 request submitted by the National Crime Agency (NCA)
« We have also been advised of arrests and cash seizures in relation to some of the
Money Service Business (MSB) cash deposits in East London.

41. The risk assessment process was presented at the Commercial lead team meeting in
October 2020, and this led to an improvement in stakeholder engagement, however, this
has since declined. We are engaging with the product teams to refresh the approach.

42. Payzone - Capita’s contract with PIPIT was exited on 31° January and remaining re-seller
contracts are being reviewed as part of ongoing Bill Payment and Payzone assessments.

43. The product team is continuing to progress controls for Amazon vouchers, with basket
limit controls and pop-up warning being deployed in March, albeit further controls are
needed. 39 transactions by 12 customers totalling £27.8k were identified in SAR reports
in February, of which c.£11.3k was refused and prevented by branches following targeted
training and awareness via Area Managers.

44. As highlighted in the 2021 MLRO report, the accredited Financial Investigations Officer
within Security Operations who assisted with the review of SAR disclosures relating to
possible Post Office employees and postmasters left the business at short notice in
December and the replacement resource will not have the required accreditation. The
Financial Crime team are monitoring volumes and assessing resource impact and at the
time of writing this report there are a number that are awaiting initial review.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) update

45. An issue was reported in December in relation to a Network employee who received a gift
from a customer, which included £60 in cash. This was not identified until after the
customer left the branch. The branch was advised to return the funds to the customer
but as they have not returned to the branch the branch has been advised to give the cash
to charity and provide evidence that this has been done.

Whistleblowing Update
46. Please refer to the separate agenda item.

Fit & Proper (F&P) update

47. Redeclarations for Cohort 1 were completed in good time, with a large number of sole
traders completing via the new Branch Hub option. This option is not yet available to
limited companies and partnerships, and there is currently not a timescale for delivering
this solution. A number of issues were fixed with the release of the changes to
accommodate MoneyGram-only and ‘paused’ branches, but there are still some
outstanding issues and a meeting is planned to understand the extent of these and ensure
a smooth handover to the new team responsible for agent F&P declarations.

48. Work continues with HR and recruitment to implement better processes for direct
employee F&P tests, and there have been no issues in the last 2 months.

External Threats

49. The FCA have started a consultation into Strong Customer Authentication (SCA) and they
are exploring the option of increasing the contactless limit from £45 to £100. The risk of
increased card fraud has been assessed and it is not believed that this will pose a
significant financial crime risk to Post Office.

6
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 43 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0042
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report

@

44 of 155

50. MT Global Limited, a Money Service Business, was fined £23.8 million by HMRC for
significant breaches of the regulations between 2017 and 2019. This is the largest ever
fine issued by HMRC. The failings related to risk assessments and associated record 3.3
keeping, policies, controls and procedures. We do not believe Post Office is at risk as the
Compliance team carries out risk assessments before product and service go-live and
periodically throughout their lifecycle, as stated in the group policy.

Supply Chain Compliance

51. During the remote Supply Chain assurance work at the end of 2020, it was identified that
there were issues with the Note Circulation Scheme Bond, with incorrect values being paid
in. Subsequently it was established that there were 14 late Bond incidents over the last
year. These have now been investigated, root causes established and corrective actions
to prevent recurrence have been implemented. Compliance has undertaken assurance
reviews at both Birmingham and London to ensure new controls are effective and no
further issues were identified. A formal response to the Bank of England was sent on 26"
February. The Bank will decide if the incident warrants losing the late Bond facility, issuing
a fine or if they take no action.

52. A number of issues were also raised in the remote assurance relating to H&S, many
relating to fire door issues. Six are on track to be resolved by end February and the
remaining one is likely to be resolved in March, all other fire door issues have been
resolved.

Multi Principal Review of 1* line controls.

53. This was reported at the previous meeting. We are still awaiting the first draft of this
review from our Principals, we have chased for a response, which is expected within the
next 2 weeks.

ATM strategy and Post Office LINK membership.

54. As part of the Post Office strategy of taking over the Bank of Ireland (BoI) ATM estate it
has become clear that 2"° and 3" line oversight needs to be in place for this business
activity. In particular LINK membership, which is required as part of this programme,
requires control obligations to be met, as ATMs are part of the UK's critical infrastructure
and LINK is overseen by the Bank of England.

55. Compliance and Internal Audit are working closely with the 1% line product team through
workshops to determine both the type and amount of 2" line oversight that will be
required for both LINK membership but also more widely over our running of the ATM
estate.

56. The first milestone will be the end of April 2021 when Post Office will send a draft
application to LINK for membership. This will need to include identified controls.

Compliance Monitoring

57. With the implementation of the latest Covid-19 lockdown we agreed with our Principals to
suspend branch mystery shopping. Following the Government announcement of the
planned easing of restrictions, our mystery shopping company is undertaking a survey of
their mystery shoppers to see when they would be willing to commence activity. This is
unlikely to be before mid-April and subject to national variations within the UK.

58. Sales of Travel Insurance are currently suspended in branch; all of our other financial
services products remain on sale and promotional activity is ongoing for both protection
and savings business. As with previous lockdowns, we have been focussing on remote
monitoring measures to review performance such as cancelations, complaints and

7
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0043
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report

@

customer validation calls and regular governance meetings with the Principals remain in
place.

FS Key Regulatory updates

59. A summary slide of the key future developments is included in the reading room at
Appendix 1.

60. As part of the Government and FCA’s focus on access to cash, the FCA is assessing what
role it should play in overseeing Post Office as part of this critical cash infrastructure. Nick
Read is meeting with the Chief Executive of the FCA to discuss this on 22" March 2021.
In advance of this meeting Ed Smith, the Head of FCA Retail Banking Supervision, has
asked for some additional clarity from Post Office in relation to the wide array of financial
and related services we provide and their regulatory status. We have provided a response
to the FCA with the support of legal and external counsel. Our hope is that this summary
information provided will give FCA a rounded view of our services in this area rather than
leading into further scrutiny and regulation. This dialogue needs to be managed carefully.
Compliance and external counsel are providing advice and a brief for the 22" March
meeting.

Vulnerable Customer FCA Forward Guidance publication in February.

61. The published guidance has followed the lines of the previous vulnerable customer
consultations. The FCA expects regulated firms and its Appointed Representatives to
ensure the interests of vulnerable customers are protected throughout the product life
cycle. There are no new hard rule requirements, but it expects to see firms meet good
practice by following the guidance and it has outlined examples of good and poor practice.

62. Post Office has had vulnerable customer on our agenda for some time and we have a
number of good practices we put in place, particularly during the pandemic. However, our
Principals are undertaking a gap analysis on the guidance to assess if there is anything
additional, that they or the Post Office should be doing.

63. The Overall Compliance Dashboards (Appendices 2 and 3) are included in the reading
room.

3.3

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 45 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0044
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report

Internal Audit

Progress against Internal Audit plan 3.3

64. Delivery of the 2020/21 programme is making good progress, with a further three audits
completed in the current reporting cycle.

65. Current delivery status is as follows:

POL Internal Audit Plan POI Internal Audit Plan
Status: Total Audits = 28 Status: Total Audits = 6 @
7
28 6
= Completed = Fieldwork
= Completed = Reporting
= Planning Deferred

(Target number of reviews based on revised plan for 2020/21 approved by ARC (18 Internal control reviews & 10 change assurance reviews).
Details of the aucit plan status are included in the reading room (Appendix 7).
'2)P01 ARC approved baseline plan for 2020/21. One additional audit is currently being planned for delivery in @4/Q1.

66. A re-prioritised Internal Audit programme was approved at the May ARC meeting in
response to Covid-19. A more dynamic (quarterly rolling) audit plan was adopted and is

being reviewed at each ARC. Further revisions to the plan was approved at the September
ARC meeting and is included in the reading room (Appendix 7).

67. An urgent request was received from the GE to support the IDG in assuring all
improvements (c.400) in preparation for the Inquiry. Three reviews from the 2020/21 IA
plan have been deferred in order to create capacity to support this work.

68. The following audits are in progress or planned for delivery in Q1:

Review Sponsor Timing _I Status
1 I HD) Operations Improvement Programme Declan Salter Feb Fieldwork
2 I Change Controls Effectiveness Dan Zinner Feb-Mar Fieldwork
3 6 Support & Assurance - Phase 1 (2020/21 Dan Zinner Feb-May I Fieldwork
4 I Third Party Revenue Data Assurance Al Cameron Feb-Apr_I Fieldwork
5 I IDG Support & Assurance - Phase 2 (if needed) Dan Zinner May-June I Not Started
6 _I Historical Shortfall Scheme - Claims & Dedan Salter April Not Started
Payments
7 I Note Circulation Scheme (BoE Controls) Al Cameron May Not Started
8 I Payzone Control Environment Owen Woodley June Not Started
9 I Treasury Operations Al Cameron June Not Started
10 I Strategic Platform Modernisation (SPM) Set-up Zdravko Mladenov I April-May I Not Started

Confidential

46 of Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

a

POL-BSFF-0238513_0045
POL00423695

POL00423695
3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report
Internal Audit reviews completed
69. The following POL audits were completed during the current reporting cycle: 3.3

ny Historic Matters - CIJ Improvement Programme (Final Draft Report)
Historic Matters - Set-up & Governance (Final Draft Report)
Postmaster Reporting (Management Information) (Final Draft Report) I

2
3

70. Our findings and observations from these reports are summarised below (para. 71-73),
with the full reports available in the reading room (appendices 4-6).

Historic Matters - CIJ Operations Improvement Programme (Ref.2020/21-15)

Following the judgments from the Group Litigation Order, Post
Not Rated Office has undertaken a programme of improvements to
. . overhaul culture, practices and procedures throughout every
Progress with completion of I part of the business. In addition to launching the Historical
NRF recommendations: Shortfall and Stamps Schemes, as part of its operational
improvement plan, and to address issues which arose from
group litigation concluded last year, Post Office has
established a new Historic Matters business unit (HM) to
oversee and deliver the programme of improvements.

34 Work on formally implementing operational improvements as
a result of the CIJ findings has been ongoing since June 2019
and has involved teams from across the whole of POL’s

operations.
mComplete Min Progress This report is not rated due to the evolutionary nature of the
Postponed audit work. Our interim report was issued in January 2021

and this has since been adopted as a management tracking
tool to drive actions. The Ops Improvement Project was

Sponsor: originally planned to have concluded their work in December
Declan Salter 2020, but the complications introduced by the OE activity
have meant that the project had to be extended until March

Audit actions: 2021.

5

Whilst the remaining actions will not be fully completed until
the end of March 2021, there is a clear route to ensure that
this deadline is achieved (detailed in the body of the report).
A key lesson to be learned by the Ops Improvement Project
and HMU is around the need for robust handover processes
when passing changes into BAU operations.

1
i}
6

Appendix 4 Internal Audit will continue to track and validate the
remaining actions as part of the assurance provided to IDG in
preparation for the Inquiry.

Management Comment
Final draft - comment pending

10
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 47 of

POL-BSFF-0238513_0046
Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report

@

POL00423695
POL00423695

48 of

a

72. Historic Matters - Set-up and Governance (Ref.2020/21-15)

Not Rated
(Advisory Review)

Sponsor:
Declan Salter

Appendix 5

Following the judgments from the Group Litigation Order, Post
Office has undertaken a programme of improvements to overhaul
culture, practices and procedures throughout every part of the
business. In addition to launching the Historical Shortfall Scheme,
as part of its operational improvement plan and to address issues
which arose from group litigation concluded last year, Post Office
has appointed a new Director, reporting to Tim Parker and Nick
Read, to head up a separate business unit responsible to implement
the claims schemes and the programme of measures that will
oversee the delivery of the operational improvements to address
the criticisms from the Common Issues Judgment (CIJ) and the
Horizon Issues Judgment (HIJ).

Historical Matters Business Unit (HMBU) has been through a period
of clarification and refinement of its governance and structure. The
design and implementation of the operating model has taken
significantly more time and effort than initially anticipated and was
initially under-resourced. It has not yet been fully formalised,
agreed and embedded.

However, this does not mean that HMBU is operating without
governance and control. The claimant schemes activities operate
within well-defined governance principles supported by the
adoption of core ‘change’ controls since they were launched. As
such, key activities could be carried without an overarching HMBU
level governance being present. The core ‘Change’ controls are
being phased out, but its transition has not been well structured
and clearly articulated.

Working in collaboration with HMBU, we have identified areas that
require management focus in order to deliver a clear, complete and
agreed operational model which must be clearly communicated
across Post Office. In addition, we have made suggestions and
proposed improvements intended to assist management in their
efforts.

Although there are key elements pending completion, in our
opinion, HMBU is implementing the elements of governance
required, although, its pace of delivery must be increased.

Management Comment

Final draft - comment pending

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

11

3.3

POL-BSFF-0238513_0047
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report
73. Postmaster Reporting (Management Information) (Ref.2020/21-19)
This audit assessed the provision of management information to 3.3
Postmasters and the controls in place to ensure that the Postmaster .
has the means to effectively manage and develop their business.
The scope included assessment of data accuracy, integrity &
reliability, management information presentation, variation &
usability, and ease of accessibility.

Needs Significant Improvement I We conclude that the provision of management information to
Postmasters in its current form, is not fit for purpose. The
frequency and quantity of information provided to Postmasters

Sponsor: varies depending upon their volume of weekly customer sessions,
Amanda Jones with all branches categorised according to a three tier system. The
. . area manager structure was revised in April 2019 to ensure every
Audit actions: branch receives support. Each area manager is responsible for
2 between 75 and 125 branches of all types and sizes and is the main
E} source of provision of management information for those branches.
1 The three tier system means that, of necessity, there is a greater
6 priority afforded to the needs of the busier branches, leaving the
smaller branches feeling unsupported. There is limited information
available to Postmasters on a self-serve basis, largely due to a
Appendix 6 legacy of under-investment which imposes a significant
administrative burden on the area manager population and results
in disparity in the frequency that branches receive management
information (with smaller (tier 3) branches receiving information as
infrequently as once every six months.
Our audit also considered the output from the recent Postmaster
consultation, where participants indicated that readily available
access to more and improved management information is a
priority for the majority of Postmasters. Additionally Internal
Audit have directly consulted with Postmasters to understand their
perspective and requirements for management information.
Management Comment provided by Amanda Jones (Retail and Franchise Network Director)
“I am pleased that this audit has identified the current limitations we have in being able to provide relevant
and timely MI for Postmasters, in a format that works best for them; this finding is consistent with one
identified by the current Deloitte review. Having access to key Management Information is critically
important to enable Postmasters to operate their Post Offices effectively and for POL to support them to
thrive.
The report notes that MI provision of MI is limited due to the variability of Area Manager visits (eg smaller
branches receive visits less frequently). Whilst this statement is true, the limitations are largely driven by
the lack of MI specifically developed for Postmasters. For example, when an Area Manager visits a branch
face to face, they will go through the Branch Insight Tool data with the Postmaster, but aren’t able to
electronically send it to them, neither is the PM able to self serve. Other reports such as Sales reports, will
be emailed to Postmasters if a face to face visit isn’t due . This has been the only way to share MI whilst
Area Managers have been remote working due periods of lockdown. Therefore it is important to note that
whilst it is timely to review the appropriateness of the current branch tiering support model, this in itself
will not address the issue of limited MI for Postmasters.
Being able to provide meaningful MI to Postmasters will require input and investment from across business
areas. As part of the ‘Hot-Housing’ programme which started in 2019, a piece of scoping work was
completed to determine the MI requirements for Postmasters as-well as the Area Manager. Some progress
was made, for example enhancing the Branch Insights Tool. I expect much of this scoping is still relevant
so we are not starting from scratch. Successfully addressing the MI requirements for PMs will require
appropriate data expertise and systems investment to develop MI in a format that is easy to use and on
channels that are easy for PMs to access such as Branch Hub,
12
Confidential
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 49 of

POL-BSFF-0238513_0048
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report
Post Office Insurance (POI) Audit Programme
74. The table below shows the status of the POI audit programme: 3.3

50 of

Review Timing I Status / Rating
1 I Cyber Security (POL-POI Gap Analysis) Aug
2 I Incident and Breach Management Aug Reporting "1
3 I Data Governance: Ethics, security and privacy
«Phase 1 - Third Party Data Security Sept Complete (interim report)
«Phase 2 ~- Data Governance Dec Fieldwork
4 I Special Investigation (Confidential) Sept Complete (not rated)
5 I Pricing: Principles, policies and process Nov
6 I Financial Promotions Communications Jan Reporting
7 I Effectiveness of Risk Management - original plan Q4 Planning
8 I Channel review: Non-branch sales - original plan Cancelled (no longer
compelling).

NI This audit was delayed due to special investigations undertaken at management request and with POI ARC approval.

Status of Audit Actions

75. The movement and ageing of audit actions are shown in the table below (status at 9

76.

March 2021).

Audit Action Status (POL):

Open actions at last ARC 35
Less: Actions closed in period 16
Add: New actions in period 15
Total open actions 34

Ageing:

Open (not yet due)
Overdue (<60 days)
Overdue (>60 days)
Total open actions

Following is a summary of the overdue action and status update:

Description of audit finding and GE owner
‘iori i and due
Priority rating ata

Action Owners and Status Update

(Cyber Security Maturity Assessment (2020)

Finding (P1): Documentation around jeff Smyth
current and recommended security
architecture is not complete or readily Priginal date:
accessible. 1/12/2020

(Action: Document POL's current Revised date:
‘security architecture and patterns to [28/02/2021

support POL going forward.

paper.

(Owner: Dave M King
An initial draft security architecture
document has been received; however
further work is required before it can be
inalised. Management expects to complete
[this action by the end of April and progress
ill be covered in the Cyber Security Update

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

13

POL-BSFF-0238513_0049
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 3.3 Compliance and Internal Audit Report
Appendices*
' 3.3
Compliance

Appendix 1: FS Regulatory Calendar
Appendix 2: Compliance Dashboard summary
Appendix 3: Compliance Dashboard

Internal Audit

Appendix 4: Internal Audit Report: Historic Matters - CIJ Improvement Programme (final
draft)

Appendix 5: Internal Audit Report: Historic Matters - Set-up and Governance (final draft)

Appendix 6: Internal Audit Report: Postmaster Reporting (Management Information) (final
draft)

Appendix 7: Internal Audit Plan for 2020/21

1 Appendices are accessible in the Diligent Reading Room.
14
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 51 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0050
Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2021/22

@

POL00423695
POL00423695

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title: 2021/22 Internal Audit Plan Meeting Date: I 16 March 2021
maton Johann Appel: Head of Internal Sponsor: Al Cameron: Chief Finance
“I Audit . . Officer

Input Sought: Noting & Approval
The Committee is asked to:

e note the draft audit programme for 2021/22;

« consider if the proposed reviews individually and collectively represent an appropriate
programme to support management in their activities and to provide assurance to the Audit,
Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC) over key risks to Post Office;

¢ approve the 2021/22 Internal Audit plan, for the onward submission to the ARC.

Previous Governance Oversight

Previous RCC and ARC meeting requests for internal audit reviews have informed the proposed
audit programme. Input was also received from GE and Senior Management.

Executive Summary

An integrated audit plan has been prepared to provide assurance over principal business risks
and significant change activities. This paper sets out the process followed to identify and select
the audit candidates.
The proposed internal audit programme for 2021/22 consists of 24 audits (16 internal control
reviews and eight change / programme assurance reviews). In addition, we will also perform
around five audits in POI.

Confidential

52 of

a

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0051
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2021/22

Introduction

1. The Post Office annual risk-based Internal Audit plan for 2021/22 (2021/22) has been
prepared in accordance with the applicable requirements of the Internal Audit Charter as
approved by the ARC in May 2020, as well as the professional standards of the Chartered
Institute of Internal Auditors (CIIA).

2. The proposed Internal Audit Plan was developed with input from Post Office GE and the
wider business, and was benchmarked against industry.

The Planning Context

3. Post Office risk profile is impacted by continued and significant internal change, increased
regulatory scrutiny and market pressures. The 2021/22 Internal Audit plan is designed to
provide assurance over the organisation’s principal risks, core processes and material
change activities.

4. The proposed 2021/22 Internal Audit plan is ‘Postmaster Centric’ and supports the new
Purpose and Post GLO improvement activities.

5. In 2017/18 we introduced a three year rotation plan for core processes. Core processes are
usually mature and generally expected to be well controlled, but warrant cyclical validation
due to their pervasive nature and criticality to the business. The first 3-year rotation was
completed in 2019/20; the 2020/21 plan included the start of the second cycle of core
process reviews, however, many of the core process reviews had to be delayed in light of
Covid-19 priorities. The 3-year rotation plan is therefore being re-assessed and
reprioritised. The full three rotation plan is included in para 13.

The Planning Process

6. The following diagram shows the process we followed to identify, assess and prioritise the
processes and activities to be assured in 2021/22:

Source: Strategic Objectives, Legal Entities, Org
= Structure, Business Units (incl. HMU), Products, Core
Processes, Change Portfolio

Postmaster impact, Inherent Risk, Strategic
Priorities, Control Frameworks, Prior audit results &
coverage, Risk Events, Change impact, Brand impact,
Value at Risk, Regulations

Risk Assessment «=

Informed by: Post Office Purpose, Post GLO improvements,
= Industry benchmarking (Deloitte, PwC, KPMG, CIIA), Planning
workshop, Internal Audit ‘Hot Topics’

Benchmark

gino I Input from: Senior Management, RCC, ARC, Alignment with
resource budget, Other 2" line and external assurance activities

2021/22 Audit
Plan +

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 53 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0052
Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2021/22

POL00423695
POL00423695

54 of 155

The Planning Results

7. The proposed list of audits was discussed and agreed with GE members and senior
management and their feedback has been incorporated.

8. The tables below outline the proposed internal audits to take place in 2021/22. Internal
and external events may cause priorities and risk profiles to change, and management
may have additional requests during the year for advisory support or audit assistance. In
consequence, we may consider amending the plan as the year progresses. We will also
re-assess and refresh the plan at least quarterly to ensure it remains relevant. We will
seek ARC approval for all material changes to the plan.

9. Table 1 represents the baseline plan for internal control reviews, including reviews of the

Historic Matters Unit and Post GLO improvement activities.
reviews. High level audit scopes for each review can be found in Appendix 1.

The target delivery is 16

Table 1: Internal Control Reviews (target = 16 reviews)
Rank I Proposed Review GE Sponsor(s: RESET icf
Pp p (s) Impact? Timing
Priority Audits
1 IDG Support & Assurance - Phase 2 I Dan Zinner Direct Qi
GLO Historical Shortfall Scheme -
2 Claims & Payments Declan Salter Direct Qi
3 Note Circulation Scheme (BoE Al Cameron No Qi
Controls)
4 IDG Support & Assurance - Phase 3 I Dan Zinner Direct Q2
5 GLO Stamp Stock Scheme Declan Salter Direct Q2
Rolling Plan
6 Payzone Control Environment Owen Woodley No ql
7 Treasury Operations Al Cameron Indirect Qi
Effectiveness of Second Line — ,
8 Financial Crime Function Ben Fost Indirect Qe
9 CFS Application Controls Al Cameron No Q2
10 Effectiveness of Compliance Ben Foat Indirect a2
Function
at IML Deep Dive Jeff Smyth Indirect Q3
12 IT Operations and Incident Jeff Smyth Indirect a3
Management
13 Cyber Security Maturity Jeff Smyth Indirect Q3
14 ATM Link Scheme Assurance Owen Woodley No Q4
15 Third Party Data Validation Al Cameron Indirect Q4
Business Continuity (Incl. Post- .
al crisis assessment and ITDR) A Carrere Direct 04
3
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0053
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2021/22

10. Table 2 below shows a list of reviews with a Postmaster Focus. We expect that many of
these processes will be covered through our IDG assurance work. We will assess the need
for end-to-end reviews of these areas based on the outcome of the IDG assurance work
and the Inquiry.

Table 2: Alternative reviews with a Postmaster Focus
A Postmaster
Rank I Proposed Review GE Sponsor(s) Impact?
1 Horizon Application Controls (follow I Jeff Smyth (Simon Direct
up KPMG recommendations) Oldnall)
2 Postmaster Journey Follow-up Amanda Jones Direct
(Placeholder)
Postmaster Performance '
8 Management & Offboarding Amanda Jenes Direct
4 Postmaster Issue Resolution Amanda Jones Direct
5 Revenue Protection (Deep Dive) Dan Zinner Direct
6 Postmaster On-boarding Process Dan Zinner Direct
7 Branch Cash Forecasting Al Cameron Direct
8 TransTrack Application Controls Russell Hancock Direct
9 Stamp Stock Controls Al Cameron Direct

11. Table 3 represents assurance provided over Post Office’s change risk. The baseline plan is
for eight change assurance reviews. This is an indicative list based on the current change
portfolio and will be reviewed and updated continuously as the portfolio of change
programmes develop and the risk profile changes.

Table 3: Programme Assurance (target = 8 reviews)
it Postmaster I+,_.
Proposed Review GE Sponsor Impact? Timing
Strategic Platform Modernisation
1 (SPM) Setup Zdravko Mladenov Direct Ql
2. I Belfast Follow-up Jeff Smyth Direct Qi/2
3 I PCI Follow-up - Part 2 Jeff Smyth Direct Q2
4 I SPM Mobilisation/Delivery Jeff Smyth Direct Q3/4
5 I Change Controls effectiveness Dan Zinner No Q4
6 I Belfast Follow-up - Part 3 Jeff Smyth Direct Q3/4
7 I Placeholder Change Project (TBC) TBC tbd TBC
8 I Placeholder Change Project (TBC) TBC tbd TBC
4
Confidential
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 55 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0054
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2021/22

12. Table 4 is our ‘watch list’ of alternative topics and additional areas for consideration during
the year, should either the assurance needs for the priority areas decrease or risk levels
for items on our watch list increase. The watch list will also inform the 2022/23 internal
audit plan.

Table 4: Watch list alternative topics (top 10 items only)

Topic / Area
ITCF Follow up

»

Financial Controls Framework

Management of Strategic Partners

Compliance with Prompt Payment Regulations

Product Risk Assessment (MoneyGram / Lottery Products / ATMs)

Top Down / Overarching People Review / Onboarding Process

ServiceNow Implementation
IT DR (Deep Dive After Belfast Exit - Q4/2021/22)

wolaIn[ala alwln

Effectiveness of IT Security - Operational (2"4 Line)
10 I Management Information (Fit for purpose / standardised / one version of truth)

Three Year Rotation Plan

13. We introduced a rotational audit plan in 2017/18 to assess core business processes over
a three year cycle in order to provide regular assurance on the effective operation of
controls over critical business processes. The rotational plan in the table below has been
based on the last review of these processes, known issues and ongoing remedial

programmes.
Core Processes - 3 Year Rotation Plan
Year 1: 2021/22 Year 2: 2022/23 Year 3: 2023/24

Financial Reporting Controls"? I Financial Reporting Controls Financial Reporting Controls

Third Party Data Validation "1 Third Party Data Validation Third Party Data Validation

Contract Management Supply Chain Management

Sales (Product tbc)

(Strategic Partners) ‘? (CVviT)

Branch Cash Forecasting "? Payroll Employee Expenses
Business Continuity "? Financial Close Process Agents Remuneration

IT Operations + Fixed Assets FS Conduct Management
Cyber Security “* Procure to Pay Recelvabic) freer
Treasury Operations “t Client Settlements Process Sales (Product tbc)

Regulatory Compliance ‘2

N1 ~ Included in 2021/22 rolling plan, _N2 ~ To be prioritised once other priority audits have been completed.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

a

POL-BSFF-0238513_0055
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 4 Internal Audit Plan 2021/22

Post Office Insurance Internal Audit Plan

14. We will carry out a programme of internal audit reviews on behalf of Post Office Insurance
(POI), as per the Master Service Agreement between POL and POI. The 2021/22 plan is
pending approval by the POI ARC, and will be reported to the POL RCC and ARC once this
is done.

Financial Impact

15. The approved headcount for the internal audit team is 6 FTEs. We are currently at full
headcount. The co-source requirement to support delivery of the 2021/22 plan was
estimated at approximately 470 days with a total cost of £523k (excluding POI).

16. The cost implications of the co-source element of delivering the internal audit plan is as

follows:

Number of I Estimated effort (days) I Co-source cost
Category -

audits Total Co-source 2021/22

2020/21

Core Internal Audit 16 610 255 £255k £240k
Change Portfolio 8 375 215 £268k "2 £191k
Total 24" 985 470 £523k £431k

“2 2020/21 plan was for 26 audits.
N2 The increase in forecasted cost for change assurance Is to provide for SME input into complex programmes, such as Belfast Exit, SPM
and PCL.

17. During 2018/19, we benchmarked the cost of providing Post Office internal audit services
against Deloitte’s 2018 Global Auditing Information Network (GAIN) Survey. Post Office
spends around 0.14% of revenue on internal audit, which was found to be comparable with
similar size FS organisations (0.12%) and higher than similar size retail organisations
(0.04%). We believe that the level of spend on internal audit is appropriate for the nature
and size of the organisation and that this benchmark is still relevant.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 57 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0056
J09g

IZ/C0/91-2enIWWOD soueIIdWOD PUE ySIY - PArIU!T BOLO 1S0d

@

Appendix 1 - High level audit scope statements

Rank I Proposed Review

High Level Scope

1 IDG Support & Assurance - Phase 2

GLO Historical Shortfall Scheme - Claims &
Payments

To provide independent validation and assurance over key improvements in
support of the Inquiry. Around 400 improvements have already been
identified, which will be validated for completeness and effectiveness. Testing
will prioritise highest Postmaster impact actions and will be proportionate to
the risk.

Review of the scheme governance arrangements, including oversight,
reporting, escalation and claimant journey. Review of operational controls to
ensure the prompt and proper resolution of claims.

S Note Circulation Scheme (BoE Controls)

Review the controls over BoE notes held in vaults, the process of moving notes
to 'borrow' from BoE and accuracy of declaration to BoE and accounting
treatment.

4 IDG Support & Assurance - Phase 3

Same as item 1. This is a placeholder to validate additional improvement in
preparation of the Inquiry or as a result of the Inquiry.

5 GLO Stamp Stock Scheme

Review of rationale, set up and controls of the scheme, including controls over
the logging, assessment and payment of claims.

6 Payzone Control Environment

To include compliance with POL Group Policies and progress to bring IT
systems, equipment, security and resilience up to an acceptable standard.

7 Treasury Operations

8 Effectiveness of Financial Crime Function

Assess the design and operating effectiveness of end to end Treasury
operations, including Governance, Policies & Procedures, Skills & Capabilities,
SOD, bank mandates, & DOA.

Review of Financial Crime function activities, to include team resilience. Will
consider both first and second line activities, and clear separation between the
lines.

9 CFS Application Controls

Confidential

Review general application controls including OS, Database and application
access, system and change control, IT operations and DR.

POL00423695
POL00423695

4
a

a
z
&
z
2

x
8
8
8
8

POL-BSFF-0238513_0057
IZ/C0/91-2enIWWOD soueIIdWOD PUE ySIY - PArIU!T BOLO 1S0d

Rank

Proposed Review

High Level Scope

10

Effectiveness of Compliance Function

Review of scope vs. expectations across business, particularly of the
interaction between first and second line activities and the split between
compliance and the first line.

11

IML Deep Dive

Review status of JML roadmap, in-depth testing of joiners, movers, leavers,
PAM, RBAC, SoD and re-certification. Review integration/automation, etc.

12

IT Operations and Incident Management

Provide assurance that IT services are delivered consistently, reliably and at
an appropriate level of service. This includes management of infrastructure
changes, monitoring of operational IT infrastructure, and issue diagnosis and
resolution. The backup and recovery of systems in the event of an incident or
service interruption is covered separately under IT DR (incl. in Business
Continuity).

13

Cyber Security (Maturity Assessment)

Assess the implementation of the agreed actions and evaluate the level of
progress towards increased Cyber Security Maturity following the 2019 and
2020 Deloitte assessments. Progress will be assessed across the highest risk
domains and those areas highlighted by the 2020 review to be in most need of
improvement.

14

ATM Link Scheme Assurance

Following the takeover of ATMs from Bol, Post Office need to join the Link
Scheme, which has a requirement for annual attestation by the 3rd line that
the Link Scheme controls were complied with.

15

Third Party Data Validation

Review Business Process and IT controls for key revenue generating third
parties to ensure accuracy, reliability and integrity of data. Perform data
analytics as necessary.

16

Business Continuity (Incl. Post-crisis
assessment and ITDR)

To assess how the learnings from the business response to Covid-19 have
been embedded in BC management. To include a review of overall BCP
processes and focus on ITDR for Horizon.

Confidential

POL00423695
POL00423695

4
a

a
z
&
z
2

x
8
8
8
8

POL-BSFF-0238513_0058
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.1 PCI-DSS

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE REPORT

Title: PCI DSS Compliance Meeting Date: I 16 March 2021
7 Patrick Juan, PCI DSS Programme 7 Jeff Smyth, Group Chief
Author: Manager Sponsors Information Officer

Input Sought: Noting

The Committee is asked to note:
e What progress has been made during the last reporting period?
e What are the key risks?

Previous Governance Oversight

The Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC) has requested a rolling update on PCI-DSS
programme progress.

Executive Summary

The PCI programme has made good progress in several key technical areas, with various
milestones having been completed. However, at the time of submission there are two main
areas for concern that the programme team is working through. The first is an unexpected
delay on Fujitsu exit of SV&I that impacts project delivery by 3 weeks. The second is impact of
resources contention at Fujitsu: various demands on Fujitsu resources impact the programme
significantly, e.g. Cash Management pilot on 5 branches impacting PCI Programme potentially
by an additional 4 to 6 weeks.

The programme consists of 2 core delivery streams:

1. The Point-to-Point Encryption (P2PE) workstream, which encrypts retail and banking
transactions from the Pin Entry Device (PED) to a PCI compliant zone in Ingenico before
onward processing to Global Payments (retail transactions) or VocaLink (banking
transactions).

2. The Target Operating Model (TOM) workstream which addresses use of PCI data by POL
in processes outside of the transactions occurring at the PED.

Retail Payments Pilot: During the last period the pilot has completed successfully. Lessons
learned exercise conducted and major issues corrected in subsequent release to be delivered
once branches are rolled out.

Banking development: During the last period, significant progress has been made by Ingenico.
Their delivery has passed Vocalink pre-accreditation and is about to complete full accreditation
with confirmation of pass expected imminently at the time of writing. However, the Pilot for
Retail Payment and Banking transactions is being delayed by Fujitsu SV&I activities reporting
higher volume of defects than expected. This adds a 3-week delay on pilot date (24/5 latest
expected date of pilot start).

Confidential

60 of

a

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0059
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.1 PCLL

@

The Target Operating Model workstream is progressing well. Discussion with Santander has
progressed and we now have confirmed early July delivery. This will extend the pilot. Project
activities with First Rate (FRES) to make TMC PClI-compliant have started. Bank of Ireland
(Release I) has agreed to change the deposit limit to £10k to support BIN >6 product
harmonisation significantly de-risking the delivery.

Risk of further Costs

A risk that further costs might be incurred was highlighted at the last report. Since then, the
PCI Programme has identified and estimated the cost uncertainties and it is in the process of
requesting a £4.1M drawdown for new funds for the programme. It has been approved by IC
and is to be submitted at the next POL Board meeting. An additional £3M of known risks and
further contingency that may need further funding has been also approved.

Questions addressed

1. What has been the progress since the programme last presented in January 2021?
2. What are the key risks and issues on the programme?

Report
1. What has been the progress since the programme last presented in January 2021?

Summary of key achievements in the last period:

e The Retail Payments pilot completed successfully at 5 branches with end to end
payment process from acceptance to reconciliation with Global Payments validated.
e Banking transactions:

o SV&I activities started but delayed due to extra complexity and high level of issues
being corrected

o Ingenico Vocalink ready software has gone through pre-accreditation successfully
and is about to complete full accreditation with Vocalink (week starting 15/03).

o Agreement with banks regarding institution ID making the switch to Ingenico
solution transparent from a processing perspective de-risking significantly
dependencies on banks readiness.

o Monthly communication to Banking Framework well received.

«¢ Target Operating Model (TOM):

o Santander: Confirmed delivery for 5th July. Impact will be an extended pilot.

o TMC: FRES has initiated project activities and team has commenced work.

o Bank of Ireland: BOI agreed to change the deposit limit to £10k to support BIN
>6 product harmonisation.

o CDE: Development completed.

o Commercials: Finalisation of contracts for PAN key entry, reference data
changes, BIN>6 development, PODG scanning and testing.

o Communications: Branch Focus comms were released for remediation of branch
forms and receipts

« PCI DSS Audit
o Confirmed approach to pre-audit activities with QSA. Central pre-audit scheduled
for w/c 26 April.
o Full audit planning discussion with QSA starting.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 61 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0060
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.1 PCLL

@

¢ Pivot to Cloud. Working closely with the Pivot to Cloud team to manage dependencies
due to overlapping timescales.

2. What are the key risks & issues on the programme?
The following are identified as key risks:

Risk: High risk on delivery timeline slipping due to Fujitsu/Ingenico delays. Recent delays
in SV&I at Fujitsu have introduced a 3-week delay pushing back start of Model Office to
17 May. Refer to Appendix 1 for latest timelines.

Mitigation: Weekly reviews with Fujitsu to identify remediation paths wherever possible
and to ensure no further slippage.

Risk: High risk of delivery time slipping due to Fujitsu resource contention. Fujitsu is being
asked to perform other activities at short notice without consideration of impact on PCI
Programme, e.g. Cash management pilot at 5 branches impacting PCI Programme by 4 to
6 weeks. This may also impact BEX programme similarly.

Mitigation: Ongoing review with Fujitsu to look at any options to remove risk on PCI
Programme. However, priorities to balance business needs and major transformation
programmes must be established at POL.

Risk: Due to the complexity of the solution further funds will be needed. Fujitsu is
forecasting an overspend; further funds will also be needed to accommodate the change
in delivery approach. The contract is T&M and there is a risk of further overspend.
Mitigation: Post Office has challenged the forecast overspend with Fujitsu and will
continue to track and manage this issue. Further funding will be needed.

Mar 21 update: Additional drawdown of £4.1M is being processed. IC review on 8" March
has been approved and is to be presented at next Board session. An additional £3M of
known risks and contingency that may need further funding has been also approved.

Refer to Appendices 2 and 3 for more details on financial summary and IC submission.
Update on other risks reported in January 21 report

Risk: There is a high risk that Santander cannot migrate services to route through
Vocalink within the timescales required and this will significantly affect the programme.

Mitigation: Post Office team is working closely with Santander to produce proposals
including costs and timescales. Santander has allocated resources to scope the work but
this is running at a slow pace. The Post Office Director of Banking Services has been made
aware of the issue and escalation meetings are taking place. Jan 21 update: Santander is
indicating that they cannot implement the required change until Q3/2021. A director level
meeting is scheduled for the first week of January to see if this delay can be mitigated.

Mar 21 update: Santander has provided first version of plan that indicates delivery early
July. This will have an impact on branch pilot as this delivery is a must have but other
risks on overall delivery timeline (see above) may lessen the impact of Santander delivery.

Risk: There is a risk that any changes needed to the Fujitsu/Ingenico software will impact

the plan. Fujitsu and Ingenico have given a commitment to meeting the current timescales
on the basis of no further changes.

Confidential

62 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0061
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.1 PCI-L

@

Mitigation: Post Office has managed to descope some of the changes identified by
working with the business. At steerco it was agreed to implement two of the essential
changes — BIN>6 processing workaround and Ingenico tokenisation. TMC could not be
accommodated and so this will be delivered as a separate release. The steerco decision
aims to keep the implementation of the P2PE solution for banking on track but there will
be a delay to the PCI DSS compliance completion.

Mar 21 update: Agreement with FRES to deliver TMC functionality as part of a subsequent
release (release 3 tracking towards 23/8/21 for Branch deployment). Refer to Appendix 1
for current timelines.

Risk: Bank of Ireland / Instant Saver. Due to the limitation in the Ingenico product to be
able to process BIN ranges greater than 6 digits we have had to ask Bank of Ireland to
implement a £10k deposit limit in their systems. There is a high risk that it cannot
implement this within our timescales which would delay the overall programme.
Mitigation: Post Office is working with BoI/IS to plan the migration. Early information
indicates that their development may not be complete until June 2021 at the earliest which
would directly impact the plan

Mar 21 update:

BOI has agreed to harmonise BOI card products on same BIN range as Instant Saver to
match the £10k deposit limit. On track to meet BIN 6 delivery requirements.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 63 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0062
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.1 PCI-DSS

@

Appendix 1: Programme plan —- Current plan with
built-in delays from various activities, not including
Fujitsu resource contention risk

Today
v
Oct I Dec I Feb I Apr Isun Aug I Oct

Ss ED 22723-2620
Vossinesezeatin complete 05/03/2
Patapie Shea QE 29/3/2151

Vecninceaegetosareaiectten 0 QED 29/272 23/423
Wockikreccedaton @ 19/4/21 23/421

reread fo service Be 02/08/23

Bal ey forsente > 2704723

Modeloftee @ 17/572. 21/9/21
i

asa 20),
Satande ready lor service Be 04/07/21

Gone poten co TD 57721-16701
UAT poaaie 55 ee CED (723-3821

obese 2M Pit
ce Deore
ere ATES POOG BOE SOS et A) ID 92208721

sa

aleve O:TME-SVEI To NNN 37/5/22-2823,
poe ese usu acento 20
nono) aon

ea FT)
trans

270-2370
lease Ge tokens gp At QD 29/3/2272
na

Confidential

64 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0063
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.1 PCI-DSS

@

Appendix 2 Finance Summary

The latest forecast below was presented to the Investment Committee on 8" March.

PCI Programme

Capex & Exceptional Spend 2020/21

F/cast
Actual+F/Cast foe

Spend (to end Mar '20) 2021/22
(2018-2022)

(Apr'20-Mar'21)

£142,589 £598,191 £260,821I
£1,016,232 . £490,917) £541,375]
£3,727,554 £8,548,733 £4,431,145I

£115,000 £0, £0}

Actual / Forecast £5,233,341

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 65 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0064
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.1 PCI-DSS

@

Appendix 3 IC Submission of additional drawdown
and cost risks details

IC submission summary.

PRJO010421 — PCI Programme

Decisions

Background / Commentary

Programme is making good progress and has delivered a
working ingenico Payments pilot to five branches.

. Board approved £15.765m Business Case in May 2020,
Current forecasts indicate the programme needs £19.9m.
‘Some uncertainty in costs remain as work is still being
‘commissioned — currently indicated at a further £1.1m.
Risk of one specific dependency (Santander readiness)
delaying the programme and causing further costs.

Confidential

66 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0065
Tab 5.1 PCI-DSS

POL00423695

POL00423695

The table below shows the breakdown of the £1,104K of identified known risks with their associated risk

profile.
[ian "2 Forecast Coral uri
WorkstreamICosts description ~ ney I Opportunity Jeommentary
(9 Uppertimit I _(%) PRisk()
frrrom [actuals (oan 23) 3308] 3306] 100 © ___[Theseare the cont to date
[costs where PO reised end understood [these costs arewell understood but thereTa 8 amall Tak
JTTOM Iieesource, Vocal.) sod sas]? 1 otanoverspend
save sits fie sore forecast cons are cvtirated tereTs 8 nak thatwe
Peae ale heragel Sy may need further CC packaging or testing rerource, There
hr raining Terting Packaging, POCA Card 455] seal so E> Has oe reel yh
pssoe Sc) required such at Counter Teainingor SCA
7 Ratease? (Remaining Fujisu & Igenico Tal cel 0 Sez [uli forecast TEM costs Rave Been increasing Theres
costs incl. PIN Pad activation costs), ss s a isk of further increases fom Fujitsu and Ingenica
Santander are till scoping out the changes needed and
. save2:Santander budget Provsion ner is a risk these costs wil be higher than provisioned
i fiteeenzssertandec bute an a 70 56 Tw expect the Santander cost to be confirmed mic.Feb
202s,
[here is nak tat the TEM cons for Release may
I aeiease (Fujitsu and ingenico Costs) 363] 338] 90 36 [increase due to further unexpected complexity or longer
delivery timelines
esiease3 Additional Resources to cover the rorecast source cost realigned with the latest
new TMC release (FRES may seek some programme plan and allow tine for PC\ accreditation to
" compensation charge forthe renediaton) iad _ 6 *
and Fujitsu /POL delays Ul to Oec'23)
wc have fully allocated ATOS resources tothe end af
June 2023. ATOS provide very experienced competent
resources. The ATOS exits introducing rskto the
programme [Stenethening the Programme Tear (os) to programme in terms of quality and timescales (atleast 2-
a une’23 ‘ a © Je months). Mitigation steps are being putin place wth
replacement contract ttt. This likely to significantly
impact the programme timeline and quality. Asmall
reserve of £35k would cover some handover
[Snaeen systema Pave bean dented for Obrurcation7
clean-up of data We have started the quotation process
or zomeof there ystems and work's ongoing to obtain
hom Hon Release : clean Up 4sI 1azeI 70 283 Iirmpricing. This cleamup activity i not needed unt
Ja3/2023. We anticipate that firm costs wil be avaliable
im May 2023. There sa riskthat the fer pricing wil
exceed the budget allocated
Tom HOM tease F +r [Clean Room, Mimecart) al —_— saa [Theres 3 sk that urther clan room cont ay Be
and gal Services and Netitude Audit) needed to complete the deliver
[We have a solution identiied forthe BINDS work There l=
rom [TOM Release: Bibs Workaround to ssI x] 70 20 [riskthatwemay ned to fund some Bol change to
gst Sof (nel Bar of esard accommodate this BIN>6 change
19873] __ 20376] 04
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

67 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0066
Tab 5.2 Cyber Sec

POL00423695
POL00423695

rity

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title: Cyber Security Update Meeting Date: I 16 March 2021
. Tony Jowett, Chief Information .
Author: Security Officer Sponsor: Jeff Smyth, Group CIO

Input Sought: Noting

The Committee is asked to note the status and plans regarding the reduction of risk associated
with Cyber Security.

Previ

ous Governance Oversight

Rolling item at each Committee.

Executive Summary

We continue with our programme of work to develop higher levels of cyber maturity.
Progress continues on track in all areas.

We describe the focus of our 21/22 programme balancing the needs for focus on inquiry,
postmasters and cyber maturity increase.

We describe the results from our second desktop cyber incident drill.

Our current cyber operations dashboard and resulting highlights are discussed.

Questions addressed

BYNE

. What is the latest update on the cyber programme?
. What is the focus of our 21/22 cyber programme?
What are the results from the recent cyber incident desktop drill?
. What are the highlights from the current Cyber Operations dashboard?

Confidential

68 of

a

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0067
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.2 Cyber Security

@

Report: Programme Update

1. The Status of the actions from the recent cyber maturity audit is as per the table below
all are complete or on track within target dates

Finding Status Target Date
Target maturity levels for cyber I Completed - target maturity levels I 30/9/20
security should reflect POL's risk I to stay as is unless risk appetite
profile changes significantly

POL's list of crown jewels should I Completed - approved by GE 30/11/20
be agreed with the business
Security architecture is not fully I In progress — first draft requires I 28/2/21
documented further edits revised date
There is no documented long- I Completed - next update Q2 2021 I 31/12/20
term cyber strategy
There is no end-to-end I In Progress - being developed in I 31/3/21

programme defined for Cyber line with 21/22 planning cycle -
programme focus discussed in this
paper
The cyber action tracker requires I Completed 30/9/20
updating
JML processes are not fullyICovered under JML paper - I 31/3/21
integrated requirement is to introduce
automation of workflow where
feasible
There is no documented strategy I Completed 28/2/21
for Cloud security revised date

2. The roadmap for the cyber programme and dependencies is described in the next section.

Report : What is the focus of our 21/22 cyber programme?

3. Since we planned our 2020/21 programme the world of the Post Office has changed
significantly. As per the above table we have developed a new cyber strategy which we
have adapted to focus on three themes:

a. Postmaster support

i. Activities that directly support postmasters which will cover but not
be limited to hardening of counter terminals, detection/prevention of
external fraud against postmasters, fraud detection within the network
and rationalisation of access management controls.

ii. Indirect postmaster support - through providing cyber input to key
programmes that are aimed at keeping postmasters at the centre of what
we do e.g., SPM, PCIDSS, Banking Framework

b. Inquiry-related improvements - resulting from the CIJ, HIJ and other
inquiry-related activity

c. Group-wide Cyber maturity increases - those activities that reduce the
overall risk to the whole organisation and help ensure that the Post Office
exists/is not taken out for a significant amount of time. The Group functions
cannot exist without postmasters and vice versa. These improvements are
aimed at us reaching our cyber maturity targets.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 69 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0068
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.2 Cyber Security

@

70 of

4. A one-page view of the programme is at Appendix 1.

5. The programme is now going through portfolio and financial approval.

Report : What are the results from the recent cyber incident desktop
drill?

6. We previously reported to the committee that, whilst we had confidence in our defences,
we were keen to perform a number of desktop incident drills. We have recently completed
the second of these and this is described below.

7. We engaged Nettitude (our red team and pen test supplier) to run the test for us using
skilled personnel to simulate potential large-scale loss of customer data.

8. The test was designed to be as realistic as possible and was run remotely due to COVID
restrictions. The following constraints applied:
a. No malicious code was to be introduced by Nettitude during the incident.
b. Any PII data used during the exercise was fake and randomly generated.
c. Nettitude would not provide any 3rd party Incident Response resources - we
could only use our own and other third party if we had them.

9. The scenario we tested was as follows:

a. You have this morning received communication from a freelance security
researcher at email address stumpyuk1@ sent via the “Contact Us”
web form on the Post Office website.

b. The researcher claims to have found some interesting data on the internet: An
individual who posted the data on the paste site claims to be in possession of
full dump of customer data from the Post Office.

c. The researcher has sent you 3 x sample of records. The security researcher has
copied and pasted the message in his message to the Post Office.

10. During the exercise a number of interruptions were made by Nettitude as the incident
progressed with new and emerging facts.

a. Inject 1 - You are unable to find the claimed information online. After
communication with the security researcher, he enquires if Post Office offer a
bug bounty and if so suggests 0.1 BTC might be a suitable bounty to pay in
return for the URL to the paste site.

b. Inject 2 - The Post Office may pay the bounty or convince the researcher to
supply the URL (or completely disengage with the researcher). If more
interaction with researcher, they send the URL to the paste.

c. Inject 3 - The Post Office confirm that the 2x samples are consistent with data
that they hold. The samples claim to come from The Post Office and the paster
has provided an email address and demand for 0.1BTC for full copy of the dump.
Researcher eventually discloses the URL: Pastebin.com/VEBjcYBB

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0069
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.2 Cyber Security

@

d. Inject 4 - Multiple Post Office customers contact The Post Office claiming that
they have received phishing emails that contain specific and accurate
information only held by the Post Office.

11. The results of the test are discussed below - taken directly from the Nettitude report with
no edits.

12. The scenario presented to the Post Office was complex and contained uncertainties along
with issues that cut across multiple departments. As such, representatives from the
Cyber Security Team, Major Incident Management Team and Data Protection Team were
involved in the exercise.

13. In terms of People, The Post Office staff performed to a very high standard during the
exercise. They were presented with a wide range of complex issues and they were quickly
able to identify the risks and develop strategies for managing the risk. They closely
followed the processes documented in relevant policies. Each of the relevant stakeholders
demonstrated that they had an excellent grasp of the documented policies that they were
responsible for. The decision making, based on available information was also excellent.
All the representatives on the exercise pooled their knowledge in order to work their way
through an increasingly complex set of problems.

14. In terms of Process, during the exercise, documented processes were tested to their
limits and withstood complex issues that progressively escalated in severity. It was
apparent to Nettitude that a lot of thought and planning had gone into the development
of the documents. As the scenario progressed The Post Office correctly escalated their
response at the appropriate junctures, and seamlessly handed off ownership to the correct
stakeholders. In the previous tabletop exercise delivered to the Cyber Security Team, gaps
were found in the documented Cyber Security Incident Response processes. Those gaps
have now been closed, thus during the initial phase of the incident, the incident was
correctly categorised and subsequently correctly escalated into the Major Incident
Management Team. The participants in the exercise were able to identify which team had
overall ownership of the incident during its progress and were able to identify the correct
organisations and Post Office stakeholders to notify at the correct time.

15. In terms of Technology, In respect of this specific incident, it was noted that whilst The
Post Office have strong policies in place around how Personal Information is stored and
shared, they have no technical solution for locating Personal Information within their
network, thus ensuring that Data Protection policies are being adhered to. Within the
scenario presented to them, The Post Office identified the need to establish where within
their network that customer Personal Data was held, they had no technical means to
achieve this. In addition, the identification, procurement, and deployment of such a
solution would likely take weeks or months, thus be of limited value to The Post Office.
Nettitude’s experience is that quickly deploying data discovery tools to scan a network of
The Post Office’s size would cost upwards of £1.5 million pounds. The Post Office should
therefore assess the impact of a large-scale breach of their customer data and consider if
there is value in purchasing a data more reasonably priced solution ahead of any such
potential event.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 71 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0070
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 5.2 Cyber Security

16. In summary

a. The Post Office Cyber Security, Major Incident and Data Protection staff
successfully completed the tabletop exercise.

b. Gaps previously identified in the Post Office’s Cyber Security Incident Response
documentation were confirmed to have been closed.

c. No gaps were found in respect of the Post Offices current documentation for
managing security incidents.

d. Gaps were found in The Post Office’s technical capabilities to quickly identify the
location of Personal Information within their network. The need for this capability
will be assessed as part of programme planning for FY21/22

Report: What are the highlights from the Current cyber dashboard?

17. Appendix 2 shows the current cyber operational metrics dashboard.

18. Key points to note:

a. Controls maturity increases have slowed due to focus and funding being applied
to inquiry and postmaster activities.

b. We have completed the insource of our Security Operations Centre (SOC) from
Verizon at a net annual saving of £450k.

c. There is an increase of activity around managing security of our 3" parties with
particular emphasis on Fujitsu but with broader application to follow.

d. We completed the follow up with GE members on the recent fake phishing
attack. Those who clicked on the link but did not complete the follow up 5
minute training task have been individually contacted by the relevant GE
members.

Confidential

72 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0071
IWOD PUE ¥SIY - PATIL! BOLO 180d

SSL JOEL

Appendix 1 Cyber 21/22 Programme & Alignment with Priorities

IP __

Security Incident and
Event Monitoring (SIEM)
enhancement

Data Loss Prevention

Service Now Integration

User authentication

Outbound Email security

Device authentication

Reviews and Red Teams

1AM/JML

Postmaster Security

Cyber Behaviours

Cyber Risk

Confidential

Expand our capability to cover PO Group plus Horizon,
Expand our capability to cover Office 365 and AWS by integr:
Expand to cover fraud and branch network monitoring

their native toolswith ours

Build capability to block personally and commercially sensitive data leaving the organisation

Delivery of modules to provide integrated incident ticketing risk assessments and IT controls against Post Office
asset database

Delivery of a password management tool to help users store and r
Estate
Delivery of Multi-Factor Authentication capability to reduce the risk of unauthorised access

jn complex passwords across the POL

Use of DMARC/DKIM technology to stop spoofing of emails to customers and postmasters

Deployment of Network Access Control to stop unauthorised devices connecting to the Post Office network —
corporate and retail

Real-life friendly hacking of our defences to enable hardening
Benchmark and maturity assessments of all cyber defences vs Deloitte Standard

Re use of capability developed by GLO team to become persistent and POL Group-wide

‘Automation of HR/IT JML processes to reduce risks associated with JML

Hardening of the counter terminals
Detection/prevention of fraud against postmasters—
Fraud detection within the network

Rationalisation of access management controls

Develop capability and tooling to produce interventions and measure change in people's behaviours around
cyberand data protection

Representation of Cyber risk in monetary terms
Ifa ransomware attack happened to POL, what would be the impact £EE£

POL00423695

+ =H

x
*

+ oo xbox ot Oot OE

*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
ww
*
ww

POL-BSFF-0238513_0072
GGL JO pL

JWOD PUE ¥S!A - PAWN! BOLO 1SOd

LZ/E0/9L-SenIWWOD soul

Cyber Operations 1

Appendix 2 Cyber Dashboard

POL00423695

POL00423695

Threat Landscape (Cyber Perspective)

Insider Threat Vulnerability Alert Management
& Culture Protection and Maturity
Perimeter External Threat
Protection Protection

Overall Securitv Posture

The existingcontrolsare
providingprotection across all
areas and IT Security visibiityis

‘Curent, increasing month on month,
where controls are applied.

Little to no maturity gain as the cadence of change slows, pressures on
fundingand operational demands from GLO. Small increases in Maturity in
‘coming months as alert use cases in SIEM toolingnow under SOC control are
developed.at pace. Additional loadto SOC due in April with onboarding of PCI
to scope. Centralised Vulnerability management via ServiceNow ITSM tooling.
willbringenhanced intelligence to view.

ities (Accenture and CC)

Excludes Fi Horizon and
Verizon data

Sep-20 Oct-20 Nov-20-Dec20Jan-21—Feb-24

©—TOTAL - Logged SLA Critical —®—TOTAL- Logged SLA High
O—TOTAL - Open SLA Critical “-@-TOTAL - Open SLA High

‘Common Digital Platform (Status 12th Feb 2021)

‘Qualys scan was completed on 30th Jan 2021, report has been released on
2nd Feb 2021

‘All critical and high vulnerabilities have been already
remediated/addressed since report released on 2nd Feb

*Dutstanding Medium and Low vulnerability will target to be remediated
in agreed patching/release schedule

Back Office (Status 12th Feb 2021)

Qualys scan was completed weekly basis, report has been extracted on
46th Jan 2021

+201 out of 345 total vulnerabilities have been already
remediated/addressed since report extracted on 16th Jan

*Butstanding Critical and High vulnerabilities will target to be remediated
in approved patching schedule

‘Risk Escalation Form has been submitted for Credence EOL RHEL servers ~

Threat Intelligence

300

250 ——
200

150

100

50

Sep-20 Oct-20 Nov20 Dec-20Jan21_—Feb-21

Dismissed ——Resolved ——In Progress

Phishing Protection (Al and SOC)

“a I_I
—

a
Sep-20 Oct-20 Nov20 Dec-20 Jan-21_—Feb-21

1 (500) User Reports
© ($0¢} prevented Phishing

' (50¢) Investigation Required
(Al) Matware/ohishing links mit
(Al) Auto Mitigated Span Phishi

"= (S0C) Resolved as No Threat
'= (50) blocked Spam

(Al) Federation Reported
(Al) Impersonation Attempts

Page Break

Confidential

AD 7S GEL

9S 18q)

Ayuno:

POL-BSFF-0238513_0073
POL00423695
POL00423695

AKO 2

UNdBS 48

Cyber Operations 2

POL Security Operations Centre Ticket Mgmt (Cyber Major Incidents of ne
2500
2000 2- SIROO10755- Unauthorised Accoss ~ Alert triggered for Impossible travel - user flagged with aocess from AWS in

‘America, requested password & AV scan on device

0 ‘$3 - SIROO10690 - Inapropiate software use; Access to TeamViewer —user flagged with brief connections to team viewer,

een removed,

Nov-20 Dec-20 Jan-24 Feb-21 are is not required by user and has now

Sep-20

‘Phishing Emails Investigated S1.-SIRoooa000xx - Two Strictly Confidential investigations with People Management and Data Protection underway

PKI Platform

ed (Incidents Investigated)
Catalogue Enquiries / Tickets (approval

[oreviously ASOC stat

Insider Threat
KPI 001 - Personal E-Mail Send w/Attachments User Base Breach % - 6 months

Mail Filtering

1200000
11000000 A count of unique users each week who have breached the policy, divided by the total active user
population count in that period.
800000

200000

°
Sep-20 Oct-20 Nov-20 Dec-20 Jan-24 Feb-21

ound Email

‘Automated Rejections mM Legit in-bound Email —=—=Total Ou

Page Break

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0074
POL00423695
POL00423695

Fy Fi

: &

- a

a iv

a (o]
g
>
§
2
i
:
§
<

Cyber Compliance

s Covid-19 Tracked Major changes Last 4 Phishing paigns

3 == = fe a

S [scorns ara eae mney i ec ring nn 4 ay ‘Campaign 4 (Covid Tax / —< I

Q a nite uroraa hes Ceoerscenoeatwnt ean Quarantined Mail)

Fy fe loinc sadere pane wath steve teenth eth Rieter he

[coat eoman pa

re nharrison Campaign 3 (Covid) 0 as
ane
Amazon)
Oe
Coffee - Cake)

© 1000 2000 3000 ©4000-5000
Reported  miLured sm Did not report Phishing

[sani tnmine voor gonna

D
3 PCI DLP Trends InfoSec Assurance Actions ISMF Actions
° 80 I 3s 35
g as .
g 30 x0 P
.
3 6 I os 25
2 ¢
3 wo I 2 20
za 15 "i ° ‘o——«'
g 10 °
Ss 20 10
Nv 5 °)
I ole (kk 2 °
Sep20 Oct-20 -—Nov20.=—ee 20 dant parr — a uk Sep20 Oct-20 Nov20—Dec20— dant
No new ofAions sm Actions older than 3 months
sm oachiog escort Ee oeNbgeneed snow of Actions ee
Latin a acts Gmmact sckder than’ eh (mmm Actions closed =*=Open Actions
opesamtend: =tenén talon tm Actions cosed Cpewdatore

On Hold

Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0075
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 6 Foreign Currency and Hedging

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title: Foreign Currency and Hedging Meeting Date: I 16 March 2021

Author:

Tom Lee, Financial Controller

Pete Mitchell, Treasurer Sponsor:

Al Cameron, Group Chief
Finance Officer

Input Sought: Noting

The Committee is asked to note:

The process of revaluing foreign currency and the hedging of foreign exchange risk at Post
Office.

The summary of issues identified in year, the manual fix implemented and planned changes
to create a better process.

Executive Summary

1.

Post Office have a requirement to hold foreign currency inventory of notes and coins to
support the travel business. They buy and sell foreign currency both centrally from First
Rate Exchange Services via Hemel and at individual branch level. The Group's foreign
currency risk management objective is to minimise the impact on the profit or loss account
of fluctuations in the exchange rates. The Group hedges its foreign currency risk through
external forward contracts.

The foreign exchange movements are recorded at individual currency level, by branch, in
the Core Financial System on the SAP platform. Foreign currency holdings as at the end of
December 2020 were manually revalued. This manual revaluation demonstrated issues with
the auto-revaluation programme causing a £1.4m understatement of realised exchange
differences in profit and loss account. A catchup posting was made in P9 to recognise this
amount and a manual fix has been put in to mitigate this risk going forward. Post Office
paid Accenture to design and implement the FX programme in SAP. A project is currently
underway to fix these issues within the FX programme.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 77 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0076

POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 6 Foreign Currency and Hedging

Questions addressed
1. How is foreign currency revalued at Post Office?
2. Is our hedging strategy and processes fit for purpose?

Report
1. The aim of this paper is to provide an overview of foreign currency revaluation at Post Office
and how the Group seeks to hedge against its exposure for foreign currency risk.

Foreign Currency

2. Post Office branches hold numerous foreign currencies that may be bought from, or sold
to, customers. Reserves of foreign currency are held at the cash distribution centre in Hemel
Hempstead. The bulk of foreign currency holdings relate to Euros (c.65%) and US Dollars
(c.20%). Foreign currencies are supplied to Post Office by First Rate Exchange Services,
the joint venture with Bank of Ireland.

3. Accounting standards require foreign currency holdings to be recorded at the spot exchange
rate between the functional currency (for Post Office, this is Pounds Sterling) and the
foreign currency at several points in time:

a. Initial recognition (purchase of foreign currency).

b. Reporting date (period end and year end).

c. De-recognition (sale/settlement of foreign currency).
Exchange differences arising on the revaluation of foreign currency holdings at period or
year end are considered unrealised and are not immediately recognised in profit or loss.
Exchange differences arising on the revaluation of foreign currency when it is sold or settled
are considered realised and are immediately recognised in profit or loss. Any unrealised
exchange differences relating to the sold or settled foreign currency are also now recognised
in profit or loss.

4. In February 2020 an auto-revaluation programme was implemented in the Group’s Core
Finance System (“CFS”). Accenture built and tested the programme, with review and final
sign-off performed by Post Office. The programme executes every weekend.

5. Subsequent to implementation, several interrelated issues were identified with the auto-
revaluation programme, namely:

a. The programme does not realise exchange differences in profit or loss unless the
branch holding is zero when the programme is executed on a weekend.

b. The programme assumes that exchange differences should only be realised in profit
or loss if the sale results in a branch holding of zero for said foreign currency. Due
to this, if the branch holding remains above zero then the exchange difference is
treated as unrealised. There is no partial recognition of exchange differences in profit
or loss for currency sold during the week.

c. When the branch holding is zero at the point of revaluation, the programme realises
exchange differences in profit or loss. However, there is no associated posting to
clear out the unrealised exchange difference to profit or loss. Due to this, the
unrealised value builds up on the balance sheet, even if the associated foreign
currency has been sold.

6. Foreign currency holdings as at the end of December 2020 (P9) were manually revalued
and have been revalued monthly since. This suggested that the issues with the auto-
revaluation programme had caused a £1.4m understatement of realised exchange
differences in profit or loss. A manual journal adjustment has been posted into CFS to correct

2
Confidential
78 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0077
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 6 Foreign Currency and Hedging

@

the profit or loss account, which was effectively a catchup journal for balances which should
have flowed within the year.

7. POL were reliant on Accenture’s design of the FX programme and hence guided by them on
the initial proposal. A common approach adopted by many organisations who do not have
internal expertise

8. Accenture have been re-engaged to investigate and correct the issues identified in the auto-
revaluation programme. This work is currently underway and is expected to deliver a
solution by [year end]. We are working closely with Accenture to ensure that the revised
programme is thoroughly tested and addresses all issues identified.

9. In addition, the foreign currency revaluation process at Post Office has been reviewed, and
the following improvements are to be implemented by [year end]:

a. Responsibilities consolidated into Treasury, facilitating more oversight and control
over the end-to-end process.

b. Bi-monthly manual revaluation performed, providing a timely sense-check against
the auto-revaluation programme so that discrepancies can be quickly escalate and
investigated.

c. New validation checks and re-calculations built into the balance sheet reconciliations
for foreign currency general ledger accounts, providing additional assurance over
the accuracy of the auto-revaluation programme.

Hedging

10.The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk resulting from balances held to operate Bureau
de Change services. The Group’s foreign currency risk management objective is to minimise
the impact on the profit or loss account of fluctuations in the exchange rates. The Group
hedges its foreign currency risk on Euros and US Dollars, principally through external
forward foreign currency contracts to cover near-term future revenues with a number of
providers, including First Rate Exchange Services Holdings Limited.

11.FX hedging strategy has been reviewed and benchmarked. POL are hedging 80-120% of
their exposure, up to a five weeks in the future. This in line with market practice using FX
forwards to manage the exposure. Minor adjustments could be made to both the length
and the percentage of hedges, this would not have negated the issue.

12.The FX hedging process is split into 2 parts, the calculation of the hedge is prepared by the
Commercial team and executed by the Treasury team. Up until December 2020 when the
FX issue was highlighted there was minimal review and oversight by the Treasurer. A
monthly review with the commercial team is now in place. We are also discussing the options
to give Treasury more control of the end to end process. All hedges are currently recorded
on a spreadsheet, which is saved on a secure SharePoint site, however, this opens up risk
to manual errors when recording the hedges and is not best practice. We currently place all
hedges with one bank and the process is managed by Email and telephone, this is not best
practice.

Conclusion

13.The hedging strategy and processes are not the reason for the FX issue, there is some room
for improvement but there is no material issue or risk with the hedging.

14.The SAP FX programme implemented by Accenture in February 2020 to revalue the Balance
Sheet and post realised gains and losses is not working as expected, overstating the cash
position and understating the Profit and Loss, as a result of not sweeping balances to the

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 79 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0078
Tab 6 Foreign Currency and Hedging

@

POL00423695
POL00423695

Profit and Loss. The issue was not discovered early, due to the cumulative nature of the
problem and reduced trading levels, masking the issue.

15.A good implementation partner should have manually revalued the solution for us, for at
least three months post Go Live, to ensure programme was working in different levels of
trading. We are paying a premium to Accenture for their depth of expertise.

16.POL were reliant on Accenture’s design of the FX programme and hence guided by them on
the initial proposal. A common approach adopted by many organisations, who do not have
internal expertise to lean on. Other Treasurers and SAP experts I consulted share my view
on this. We pay Accenture because they are the experts in SAP development and solution

design.
Actions
Action: Owner Completion Date
Realised Gains and Losses for the identified Tom Woodhouse Monthly until fix in place
calculation errors manually recalculated
Create Request to Quote (RTQ) for Accenture I Pete Mitchell/Tom 19/03/2021
containing the Target actions Woodhouse
Accenture to quote time and cost to complete I Accenture 26/03/2021
the Target actions
Treasury to start 2nd review of Balance Sheet I Pete Mitchell 12/03/2021
reconciliations associated with FX movement
Implement automated FX trading process Pete Mitchell 23/04/2021

Confidential

80 of

a

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0079
POL00423695
POL00423695

H2 Legal Risk Report 20/21 16 March 2021

Sarah Gray, Group Legal Ben Foat, Group General
Director Counsel
Noting

The RCC is asked to note this report and endorse current actions designed to mitigate the risks
identified and suggest any further actions that should be implemented.

Previous Annual Legal Risk Reports 2017- to date
Post Office RCC meetings in March 2020 and September 2020; and
ARC meetings in March 2020 and September 2020.

4. Appendix 1 contains a high-level commentary of those risks, the current controls in place

to mitigate against those risks and the further work that has been undertaken in the
2020/21 financial year and the future actions to enhance those controls.

Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

1.
3

POL-BSFF-0238513_0080
POL00423695
POL00423695

Questions addressed

1. What are the key legal risks?

2. What governance and assurance is in place to control those risks?

3. What is the overall position and is further action required?

Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0081
POL00423695

POL00423695
Key Legal Performance of Risks Control Environment Post Control Future Actions and
Risk Impact Responsibility

Assessment

Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0082
Key Legal
Risk

Performance of Risks

Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

Control Environment

Post Control
Impact
Assessment

POL00423695
POL00423695

Future Actions and
Responsibility

POL-BSFF-0238513_0083
POL00423695

POL00423695
Key Legal Performance of Risks Control Environment Post Control Future Actions and
Risk Impact Responsibility

Assessment

Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0084
POL00423695

POL00423695
Key Legal Performance of Risks Control Environment Post Control Future Actions and
Risk Impact Responsibility

Assessment

Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0085
Key Legal
Risk

Performance of Risks

@

Control Environment

Post Control
Impact
Assessment

POL00423695
POL00423695

Future Actions and
Responsibility

Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0086
POL00423695

POL00423695
Key Legal Performance of Risks Control Environment Post Control Future Actions and
Risk Impact Responsibility

Assessment

Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0087
POL00423695
POL00423695

Key Legal Performance of Risks Control Environment Post Control Future Actions and
Risk Impact Responsibility
Assessment

Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0088
POL00423695

POL00423695
Key Legal Performance of Risks Control Environment Post Control Future Actions and
Risk Impact Responsibility

Assessment

10
Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0089
POL00423695
POL00423695

@

Key Legal Performance of Risks Control Environment Post Control Future Actions and
Risk Impact Responsibility
Assessment

11
Strictly Confidential & Legally Privileged

POL-BSFF-0238513_0090
POL00423695

POL00423695
& Trends Upd
POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
Title: Law & Trends Report Hiei 16 March 2021
Author: Sarah Gray, Group Legal Director Sponsor: Ben Foat, Group General Counsel

Input Sought: Noting

The Board is asked to note the new or proposed material changes to laws and regulations since
the last Risk & Compliance Committee (RCC), for onward submission to the Audit, Risk &
Compliance Committee (ARC).

Executive Summary

There are 6 matters for the Committee to note (details of which are set out in the Appendix):

1. The Restriction of Public Sector Exit Payments Regulations 2020 revoked
The Restriction of Public Sector Exit Payments Regulations 2020 (“the Regulations”) came into
force on 4 November 2020 and set a £95,000 cap on exit payments (“the Cap”) for public sector
authorities. After extensive review of the application of the Cap, the Government has concluded
that the Cap may have had unintended consequences and the Regulations were revoked from 12
February. HR have identified one former employee who was affected by the Cap and will be
entitled to the additional sums that would have been paid had the Cap not been applied.

3.

Public Contract Regulations (“PCR”) Post-Brexit

The key changes to PCR following the UK’s separation from the EU are mostly practical changes
which will impact how POL conducts its new procurements from 1 January 2021, including
limitations on the enforceability of EU law and treaties; introduction of “Find a tender

service” the new UK e-notification service to replace OJEU; and inflight procurements, new
procurements and concluded frameworks. Procurements inflight as at 1 January will continue to
be subject to the unamended PCR regulations. New procurements will be subject to the
amended PCR regulations. Also, the operation of framework agreements concluded prior to 1
January will be subject to the unamended PCR regulations. POL is compliant with the post-
Brexit requirements.

Strictly Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0091
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 8 Law & Trends Update

>

State Aid - Update

A consultation (closing at the end of March) has been launched on the proposed approach for
establishing a new subsidy control regime to replace the state aid regime of the EU. POL is
preparing a response.

a

FCA finalised Guidance on the Vulnerable Customer

The FCA have issued finalised Guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers.
The Guidance highlights the actions firms should take to understand the needs of vulnerable
customers to make sure they are treated fairly. This has become a key focus for the FCA due to
the impact of coronavirus. Post Office Compliance Team have been aware of the guidance and
are considering the collection of vulnerability data to assist with their review of current practices.

7

; Trial Witness Statements in the Business and Property Courts

From 6 April 2021, witness statements for use at trial in the Business and Property Courts onl

nor will it have any
impact on the Public Inquiry. It was introduced following judicial disapproval of witness
statements crafted by lawyers containing extensive reference to documents rather than
embodying the language of the witness. It makes substantial changes to the preparation and
content of witness statements. POL Legal will put a guidance document on the LCG Academy
intranet page.

Questions addressed

1. What new or proposed material changes to laws and regulations should the Committee
be aware of?

2. What are the implications to the Post Office business?

Report
See Appendix.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 93 of

POL-BSFF-0238513_0092
Appendix 1

1. Law & Trends Report: New material updates

POL00423695

POL00423695

Supreme
Court rules

Uber drivers
are workers

that Post Office “must not” pay exit
payments (such as those due upon
redundancy) at amounts in excess
of £95,000. As such they purport to
override employees’ —_ existing
expectations (some of which are
contractual) to redundancy
payments.

However, the Government revoked
these Regulations on 12 February
this year.

Future exits by senior employees may cost.
Post Office more as a result of the revocation
of these Regs.

Issue I Why it matters? Latest Developments Impact on Post Office Action

1. The As reported at RCC in November I A former employee has been identified I As the Regulations have only been in force I The Government still has the power to
Restriction I 2020, a Cap of £95,000 on exit I who was directly affected by the Cap I for a short period of time, Post Office does I implement legislation and they have
of Public I payments in the public sector was I whilst it was in force. They will be entitled I not have significant steps to undo/ reverse. I indicated they may have another
Sector Exit I introduced and applied to I to request from Post Office as their I Payment to a former employee who exited I attempt at bringing in similar
Payments employees’ exit payments from 4 I former employer, the amount they would I during the period the Regs were in force the I regulations. Post Office HR will continue
Regulations I November 2020. have received had the Cap not been in I sum they would have been due [£x] had the I to monitor any developments.
2020 place. Cap not been in place.
revoked The Regulations provided It is anticipated that if they do revisit

exit cap regs, that they will only apply
to new joiners rather than existing
employees.

Strictly Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0093
180q

F
8

POL00423695

POL00423695

4

F

S

2

ge

=

Issue Why it matters? Latest Developments Impact on Post Office Action RAG g

S

®
Public Post — Brexit, PCR 2015 remains I The key changes are: For the time being, there is no reason to see I To ensure compliance, POL'’s Web 3
Contract but, the Public Procurement why the current changes would not work or I solution for contract management/e-
Regulations I (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) I 1, The UK’s new “Find a Tender” how they would not be anything but I procurement tool has been re-
(PCR) post- I Regulations 2020 has been service for publishing contract favourable for POL. configured so that it interfaces with the
Brexit published as a UK statutory notices went live on 1 January Find a Tender Service. Procurement

instrument to amend procurement
legislation to reflect necessary
changes required by the UK leaving
the EU.

2021, replacing the Official Journal
of the European Union (only for
United Kingdom).

2. EU references have all been deleted
from PCR.

3. The Government have published
new guidance for Below Threshold
Contracts allowing for more
flexibility. This will allow POL the
option to reserve contract
opportunities by location;
and/or reserve contracts to
SMEs/VCSEs only (subject to
restrictions).

4. Cross-Border Interest test - no
longer applies to England, Wales
and Scotland contract opportunities.

5. EC Treaty Principles - no longer
applies to England, Wales and
Scotland contract opportunities.

As a result of the NI Protocol Agreement
where POL procures below threshold
supplies into NI and there is cross border
interest (ie from a supplier in a EU
Member State) POL must advertise the
contract opportunity and conduct a
competition in accordance with the EC

POL may want to support local business and
have the option to procure from local
suppliers, subject to complying with POL
internal procurement guidance. POL still has
the option to contract with a supplier across
the border but would have to follow the old
process of advertising in the OJEU with the
burden adhering to the competitive EC Treaty
principle process.

Gov Guidance in Procurement Policy Note
11/2 Reserving Below ‘Threshold
Procurements will allow POL to reserve
procurements by location and or to
SMEs/VCSEs. Certain restrictions apply (eg,
ensuring value for money, management of
risk, use of model contracts) and POL must.
also comply with its own _ internal
procurement policy.

notices can therefore be published
direct from Web 3 into the new e-
notification hub. POL is otherwise
ensuring compliance with the changes
to PCR (of which there are few
procedural changes) and the business
may take advantage of the new
freedom to reserve procurement.

Separately, the Government has issued
a Green Paper consultation on reforms
to procurement law. The aim is to
streamline tendering procedures, make
them more open, flexible (to replace
negotiated and competitive dialogue)
and limit tendering (in crisis or extreme
urgency). There are proposals for
publication of annual pipelines and any
contract amendments. The Government
also aims to carry out a review of the
court process and introduce a Tribunal
System for some challenges and
remedies other than damages.

The consultation closes on 10 March
2021. The Procurement Director
(Barabara Brannon) is _ currently
reviewing the Green Paper and co-
ordinating a proposal for the
consultation. Anyone who wishes to
contribute, should contact Barabara.

Strictly Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0094
POL00423695
POL00423695

4
3

-
®
2
=

SS1 JO 96

Action
Thereafter, POL is to await publication
of response to consultation and update
accordingly.

Issue Why it matters? Latest Developments Impact on Post Office

Treaty Principles and POL’s internal
procurement policy.

aiepdn spua.

4, State Aid -
Update

From 31 December 2020, the State I From 1 January, until the UK establishes I The new regime consists of a subsidy control I POL is currently coordinating a response

Aid (Revocations and Amendments) I detailed rules for a domestic subsidy I system and consists of: to the Consultation.

(EU Exit) Regulations 2020 revokes I regime, it will be now operating under an + long-term replacement for the EU's

EU State aid rules and the EU no I interim subsidy regime. After 1 Jan 2020, prescriptive state aid regime,

longer has any power to investigate I when awarding —_ subsidies, _ public + more dynamic in providing support

and take decisions on state aid I authorities should take into account: to businesses to encourage job

measures granted by the UK. creation and growth across the UK,

1. Giving a subsidy correctly + based on principles ensuring
(subject to __ international delivery of strong benefits and good
obligations)- a subsidy is value for money in a timely and

[The exception is state aid that
affects trade between Northern

Ireland and the EU - this would be
subject to the Protocol on
Ireland/Northern Ireland. ]

currently defined as a measure
which is given by a public
authority; makes a financial or
in-kind ‘contribution to an
enterprise; and —_—_ affects
international trade;

effective way,

local authorities, public bodies and
the devolved administrations in
Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast will
be empowered to decide if they can
issue taxpayer subsidies.

2. Whether the subsidies are
prohibited; and

3. Whether the subsidy meets the
terms of the principles in the UK-
EU Trade and Cooperation
Agreement (if over £350,000).

a
&
Q
3
Fi
8
3
a
2
Ed
8
a
9°
g
3

a

The Government has launched a public
consultation to consider and inform the
further development of its new Subsidy
Control regime. The Consultation closes
on 31 March 2021.

In its consultation the Government is
asking for views on:

+ whether the UK should apply its
own additional principles on
subsidy control, as well as those
set out in the UK-EU Trade and
Co-operation Agreement

+ how best to ensure transparency
across the system

+ the possible roles and
responsibilities of the
independent body that will
oversee the new system

Strictly Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0095
POL00423695
POL00423695

4
3

-
®
2
=

a
&
Q
3
Fi
8
3
a
2
Ea
8
a
9°
g
3

SSL JO 26

Issue Why it matters? Latest Developments Impact on Post Office Action
+ how this independent body could
have some role in supporting
enforcement of the principles,
alongside normal judicial review
standards
+ how the system could seek to
introduce exemptions consistent
with our international
obligations (for example, natural
disaster relief or in response to
global economic emergencies).
FCA Following consultations in July 2019 I The FCA has now finalised its Guidance I The FCA’s view of vulnerability is as a Tt should be noted that this is guidance
finalleed and 2020, the FCA published a for firms on the fair treatment of spectrum of risk. All customers are at risk of I rather than mandatory and there is no
draft consultation Guidance for vulnerable customers. The Guidance becoming vulnerable, but this risk is immediate requirement to implement
guidelines Firms on the Fair Treatment of aims to provide a framework that allows increased by having characteristics of any changes.
Vulnerable Customers. The firms to accurately assess whether they vulnerability. These could be poor health,
on the
Guidance is on how regulated firms I are treating vulnerable consumers fairly, such as cognitive impairment, life events
Vulnerable I would meet the FCA Principles for I ensuring consistency across the financial I such as new caring responsibilities, low
Customer _I Business and they apply to POMS, I services sector. The Guidance sets out _ resilience to cope with financial or emotional
Capital One, BOI and POL (as an the FCA's expectations on: shocks and low capability, such as poor Notwithstanding the above, our two
appointed representative of POMS). I understanding the needs of vulnerable _I literacy or numeracy skills. As such, one key I principals are both doing a gap
Since then, the business have been I consumers; ensuring that frontline staff I requirement for POL is to better understand I analysis to review processes to
considering further work, notably I have the necessary skills and capability I our customer database. evaluate where the needs of vulnerable
around culture and understanding I to recognise vulnerability; and for firms consumers have not been met, so that
the makeup of our customer base. I to consider the characteristics of Post Office would be required to consider improvements can be made.
vulnerability present in their target anything that would have an impact on
The FCA considers 47% of the market or customer base and how they I vulnerability. Consideration needs to be
population could be regarded as can meet customers’ needs through the I made across the whole life cycle of a
potentially vulnerable. design of products and services, their product from its design to distribution and
customer services and their thereafter. For example in POMS call centres they
communications: will be asking customers to self-
POL has provided vulnerable customer identify their vulnerability.
training on SuccessFactors and produced
accessibility guidance.
T Post Office is a public body subject I Applicability of the PD Post Office staff should keep in mind that if I POL Legal to produce a guidance note.
Witness to scrutiny, and particularly so at + Applies to witness statements I they are ever required to give a witness
the moment. On occasion, Post for use at trials in the Business I statement to assist in a trial, there is now I The RAG is green on this issue as it is
Statements I Office colleagues have to produce and Property Courts signed on or I more emphasis placed on witnesses’ own I not considered to be a material legal
fathe witness statements to assist with after 6 April 2021. recollection and human memory in order to I development affecting the business.
matters going before the Courts. + It does not matter when the I avoid over-reliance on documents. InI The changes to witness statements
Business claim was issued. summary: do not argue, stick to the point, I which the new Practice Direction
6

Strictly Confidential

aiepdn spua.

POL-BSFF-0238513_0096
POL00423695
POL00423695

Issue Why it matters? Latest Developments Impact on Post Office Action
and + It does not apply to affidavits, or I refer to documents only where necessary, I necessitates are limited to statements
Property to other types of witness I explain your recollection and ensure that I issued in proceedings before the

statements. certificates of compliance are given. rty Courts. Both the
Courts land impending public
The content of witness statements. inquiry fall outside the scope of the

+ Should set out only matters of Practice Direction. Therefore, at this
fact of which the witness has stage, it is just a legal development to
personal knowledge and are note so in the event that, in the future,
relevant to the case a POL employee is required to give

+ Should list the documents evidence in a matter before the
referred to Business & Property Courts, they are

+ But not quote at length from any aware of the latest obligations in
document referenced producing witness evidence.

+ Should not seek to argue the
case or contain a commentary
on other evidence in the case

+ must now be produced in
accordance with the Court's
‘Statement of Best Practice.

Sanctions for non-compliance
If a party fails to comply, the Court can
+ Refuse permission to rely on
some/ all of the evidence
+ Order the witness statement to
be redrafted
+ Make an adverse costs order
+ Order a witness to give some/ all
of their evidence-in-chief orally.

As regards the public Inquiry, as this is a
matter for public record and does not
constitute formal proceedings brought before
the Business & Property Courts’, again to the
extent any witness testimony is to be given
ahead of the Inquiry commencing, this will be
unaffected by Practice Direction 57AC.

Given, however, the purpose of the Practice
Direction is to mitigate the judicial concern
around witness statements being crafted by
lawyers containing extensive reference to
documents rather than embodying the
language of the witness, it may be the case
(from a horizon-scanning perspective) that
we see similar changes made to the delivery
of witness evidence more widely in other
courts in the future.

Strictly Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0097
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 9 Business Continuity
POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
Title: Business Continuity Gap Analysis Meeting Date: I 16 March 2021
ATthae Jonny Lonsdale (Business Sionsave Alisdair Cameron, Chief Finance
. Continuity Manager) r . Officer

Input Sought: Noting

The Committee is asked to note the summary findings of the Business Continuity Gap Analysis
review for Post Office Group for onward submission to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
(ARC).

Executive Summary

Background: In an effort to determine the status of the Business Continuity Management
System (“BCMS”) the Business Continuity Manager has completed a gap analysis on its
alignment to the BSI ISO 22301 (Business Continuity) standard. The folders of documentation
provided by Tim Armit have been assessed as part of this review.

Standard: A BCMS aligned with ISO 22301 is based on Business Impact analysis and takes
into consideration the organisation as an entirety. It includes disaster recovery and business
continuity plans that focus on the recovery of specific activities, operations, functions, sites,
services,etc.

Conclusion: The Gap Analysis has found that the overall status of the Post Office BCMS is non-
compliant with some aspects of the industry standard, and in particular the most concerning
gaps are in the following areas;

1. Business Impact Analysis
2. Business Continuity Plans
3. Governance Framework
4. Exercising and Testing

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 99 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0098
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 9 Business Continuity

Questions addressed

1. Does PO have a fit for purpose BCMS in line with the BSI 15022301 standard?

2. What changes are needed to the BCMS to meet the requirements of the standard?

Report

Audit, risk and control

4. Post Office does not have a detailed Business Impact Analysis for each department;
therefore, the organisation does not have a process of determining the criticality of business
activities and associated resource requirements to ensure operational resilience and
continuity of operations during and after a business disruption. Although the Post Office
does not have documented BIA’‘s, the RCC and ARC should take assurance that disruption
to key activities have been limited during the pandemic and its work from home strategy
which displays that the organisation is aware of its key activities.

5. Not recognising the critical activities in an organisation prevents identification of risks which
need to be prioritised in preparedness for a major incident resulting in an unacceptable
standard of resilience. However, the Post Office manages major incidents effectively through
its escalation process and should have some comfort in the response to the pandemic
outbreak which limited impacts to the continuity of its products and services.

6. A departmental business continuity plan allows those accountable to design their own
recovery strategy. This includes the minimum business continuity objective (staff resource),
the time of which to resume the key activities and location. Although I have seen some
departmental plans (Supply Chain) which detail response procedures and alternative
locations, this is not replicated through the business and if we do not have these
documented procedures our ability to respond to incidents will be impacted.

Stakeholder and workforce engagement

7. A group of Business Continuity Plan owners and BIA Champions have been identified to roll
out the refreshed BCMS. These stakeholders will be required to complete a Business Impact
Analysis and Business Continuity Plan with the guidance of the Business Continuity Manager.
Completion of these sessions will be held on a 1-1 meeting basis to ensure the information
is completed effectively and consistently.

Critical Systems
8. It is also noted that the critical branch supporting system, Horizon, has not been fully
disaster recovery tested therefore confidence in that the system would remain operational

in the event of a Data Centre outage is not established. Testing on Horizon is planned for
this year and it is expected a full failover test will be completed.

Financial Impact

3. There is limited financial impact to implement the refreshed BCMS. However, a Service
Now module has been identified as a useful tool to aid the BCMS effectiveness although

Confidential

100 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0099
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 9 Business Continuity

@

this is in the early stages of discovery therefore no business case has been put forward
for approval.

Risk Assessment, Mitigations & Legal Implications

4. The present work area recovery strategy for the Chesterfield office is to relocate to the
SunGard site in Leicester. This contract expires on the 31%t March and a decision has been
made not to extend the contract. The Post Office is aware of the risks associated with
ending this contract and have plans in place to mitigate this. With many colleagues now
working from home this decision will have limited impact. If laptops are damaged in an
incident, there may not be enough spare laptops in storage to replace a large number. A
desktop strategy is currently being considered with IT in order to mitigate this risk and for
colleagues to leave laptops at home when coming to work in one of the offices.

5. There is no defined list of up to date critical suppliers of products and services that support
the strategies of the BCMS. This may result in not identifying risks associated with
suppliers which could be mitigated or used to plan contingencies if they become
unavailable. For example, COVID response, impacts and business resilience.

6. A list of our most high value or most dependent external partners have not been
established which prevents appropriate Business Continuity strategies being developed to
ensure we meet the needs of those customers. By creating this list, we can identify our
SLAs and ensure these timescales can be achieved in the event of a Business Continuity
incident.

Stakeholder Implications

7. Each department or team will be required to complete a BIA during Q1 with the assistance
of the Business Continuity Manager. Each BIA will take approximately 1 hour to complete
with an additional hour for the Business Continuity plan.

8. There is a risk that due to the lack of training and awareness for colleagues in regard to
the identification of Business Continuity risks we currently a number of unknown risks
which require mitigation in order to ensure the Post Office can continuity to provide its
products and services at an agreed level. A competency matrix will be established to
identify what training would be the most appropriate for the BCMS stakeholders.

9. Once BIA’s and Business Continuity plans have been created, a series of scenario-based
testing exercises will be scheduled that each Business Continuity plan holder will require
to attend. The Gap Analysis found that one department of the organisation has a robust
testing and training programme of Business Continuity activity in place which was Supply
Chain.

10. An annual audit should be agreed for our Internal Audit team to review the BCMS against

the BSI 22301 standards to ensure a degree of compliance is achieved and improvements
measured following this gap analysis.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 101 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0100
Tab 9 Business Continuity

POL00423695

POL00423695

@

Other Options Considered

11. Implementing a BCMS framework is to inform and drive continual, effective, cross-
functional, multi-level continuity planning through holistic, integrated risk management
practice in the following ways;

12. Establish a control environment to link corporate governance, risk management, business
planning and operational performance to the Post Office strategic direction (business
continuity programme);

13. Invest time, tools and techniques to ensure BCMS is a fully embedded, auditable business
management process;

14. Provide senior managers with opportunities to obtain a sound understanding of business
continuity management and requisite skills to implement business continuity effectively;

15. Ensure the framework is sufficiently flexible to meet the challenges of scalability, different
department business profiles and various geographic needs coupled with governance,
regulatory and legal regimes;

16. Assist and manage events that require information and resource coordination across
multiple business functions;

17. Uphold a resilience philosophy in which the Post Office business continuity capability

always reflects the needs, technology, structure and culture of its business.

Next Steps & Timelines

18.

For Post Office BCMS to achieve compliance with IS022301 standard the following BCMS
schedule of work is to be completed over the course of the next 12 months;

Creation of BIA Create BC Plans Testing Schedule Plan Internal Audit
of BCMS
BIA Roll Out Create Internal / Create Competency I Create BCMS annual
External Incident Matrix for workflow
Communications Stakeholders
statements
Identify Key Create BC Create Improvement
Suppliers & Review Sharepoint site for Tracker
BCP Status document repository
Identify Contractual I Training &
Obligation Awareness Sessions
Create Framework Create BCMS
Document invocation Severity
Matrix
4
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0101
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 9 Business Continuity

@

Review and update Review Business
BC Risks in Risk Continuity Policy
Register (SNOW)

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 103 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0102
Tab 10 DeepDive: Pa

POL00423695
POL00423695

zone Governance

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

104 of

Title: Reson Bill Payments Deep Dive I meeting pate: I 16 March 2021
muthar Michelle Embrey, Quality & Risk Sponsor: Andrew Goddard, Payzone Bill
Manager Payments Managing Director

Input Sought: Noting

The Committee is asked to note the Payzone Risk & Compliance Update report for onwards
submission to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC).

Previous Governance Oversight
This is a follow up action for a deep dive from the previous ARC meeting on 22" Sept, 2020.

Executive Summary
This paper provides a summary of the following items within the Payzone Bill Payments (PZBP)
business:
e Key risks and mitigations
Internal governance
Compliance with regulation
Internal audit
Complaints and whistleblowing
Customer and employee satisfaction

A comprehensive risk register exists within PZBP, with mitigations in place and reviewed
monthly by the senior management team. Improvements in the internal governance have been
implemented in the areas of risk management, change control, business continuity and
information security as well as the ongoing project to align key PZBP policies with the Post
Office (POL). The internal audit conducted by POL concluded that the control environment in
PZBP is appropriate for the size and complexity of the organisation. Ownership of the PZBP
legal register has been transferred from POL group legal to PZBP and reviewed annually at the
PZBP Board.

Complaint handling improvements have been identified to incorporate feedback from
customers, retailers and client. The overall Trustpilot scores remain high at 4.5, reflective of
strong retailer and customer helpdesk support, with some of the highest scores in the last 12
months in Period 11. Employee satisfaction levels remain positive, with small negative changes
in wellbeing during the lockdown, and engagement following the first of two major
organisational restructures within 6 months.

Overall, the business has progressed significantly in incorporating controls, policies, and risk
management practices, with further improvements identified and resourced.

Questions addressed

1. What are the key risks within PZBP and what are the mitigations for these?
2. How is the internal governance embedded into the PZBP operation?
3. Are PZBP fully compliant with relevant regulations?
4. What is the complaints and whistleblowing process?
1
Confidential
55 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0103
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 10 DeepDive: zone Governance

@

5. What are the customer and employee satisfaction levels?

Report
1. Key Risk

The following risks are extracted from the PZBP risk register that is aligned with the POL
risk register;

a. Intermediate Risk - the ability for PZBP to deliver the 5 yr plan (risk score 9)

This risk has been promoted to become the intermediate risk at group level. The 5-
year plan on revenue and cost lines has been re-forecasted as a response to the
changing priorities due to the demands on the business from the Covid-19 pandemic.
At this stage, we continue to monitor the changes in customer buying behaviour (cash
to digital) and the requirements / desire of clients to enter into exclusive contracts as
well as plans to migrate to digital payments.

b. Poor trading conditions in the current pandemic (risk score 9)

The lockdowns during 2020/21 have had a significant impact on the bill payment trading
conditions with performance running behind original budget whilst holding up against
LY at 95%, and 96% of target (year to date week 49). Performance has been impacted
due to vulnerable customers shielding at home, clients working with customers to offer
credit and payment holidays, and branch and store closures/reduced opening hours
driving non-cash customers to pay through alternative means. We have continued to
negotiate with key clients by signing new Energy clients in Bright and Jersey and driven
new volume from agreements re-signed with E.On, EDF and via our energy platform
partners, Siemens and Itron, and we will drive additional revenue from new deals with
Allpay and Capita.

c. The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on clients (risk score 6)

We are starting to see some of the smaller Energy companies struggle and fail due to
bad debt and cash flow impact. Their customers however are being absorbed by the
big 6 suppliers e.g., Robin Hood Energy taken over by British Gas, and this will drive
transactions into our networks. The transport industry has been significantly impacted
and will continue until people can travel freely, albeit we have positive engagement
with the likes of National Express Coach & Bus, GoAhead, First Group, Transport for
Wales, and Lothian Bus.

d. The long-term impact of the pandemic on finances (risk score 6)

Notwithstanding the changeable impact from Covid-19, the actions completed within
the PZ credit management function has resulted in a reduction in retailer debt to below
the levels seen pre-pandemic at only 0.5% for failed direct debits and a collection rate
at 99%. Close daily monitoring and integrated credit, helpdesk and field support have
resulted in the improved performance.

e. The dependency on third parties (risk score 6)

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 105 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0104
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 10 DeepDive: zone Governance

@

Throughout the 12 months of the pandemic there is a risk to business-critical activities
that have a high dependency on third parties which have a possibility for high exposure,
for example, PLS which provide PZBP’s device engineering resource. The key suppliers
were contacted and requested to complete a questionnaire to understand their business
continuity plan arrangements in place to enable service levels to resume during the
pandemic situation. Regular calls are in place with key suppliers to monitor the service
during this changeable situation.

2. Internal Governance
a. Responsibilities

The PZBP Board of Directors are responsible for the overall business strategy and
ensuring that an efficient system of internal controls are in place. These functions
include risk management, compliance, internal audit, change control, financial
accounting, information security and business continuity.

The senior management team are responsible for overseeing the process of
communications with the board by regularly reporting and informing on relevant
aspects and be actively engaged with the business to enable well informed decisions.
The senior management team also oversees the implementation of the strategy, the
risk culture, code of conduct and the integrity of the financial information. The senior
management team identify, manage and mitigate actual or potential conflicts of
interest.

b. Framework

PZBP have ensured that the organisational framework is suitable, effective and
transparent. The effectiveness is a result of appropriate human resource allocation.

A particular focus being on the improvement of the following internal controls:

° Improvement of the risk culture and management

° Change control with the implementation of the change advisory board and will be
further enhanced with the introduction of the gating process

. Business continuity and information security evidenced by PZBP’s ability to
efficiently continue operations in the current pandemic crisis and the achievement
of the UKAS accredited certifications ISO 27001 information security and ISO
22301 Business continuity.

The overall framework and relationship with POL governance is detailed in the process
flow map in Appendix 1.

c. Policy Update

In an effort to align the key policies within PZBP, a gap analysis exercise was conducted
comparing PZBP and Post Office policies. The result of this was a list of 28 policies that
should be adopted, or PZBP specific policies created where adoption is not possible.

This paper provides a summary of the current status of the review with full detail in
Appendix 2. The recommendations put forward to the PZBP board are as follows:

. Adoption of 19 policies with no addendums or variations which will be submitted
to the PZBP April Board meeting

Confidential

106 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0105
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 10 DeepDive: zone Governance

@

. A variation required for 1 policy (the variants of Modern Slavery and Vulnerable
Customer have already been approved by PZBP board), to be actioned by the July
PZBP board meeting

. There are 5 policies that are currently classed as under review and will be
implemented by the July PZBP board meeting

3. Compliance with Regulation

Compliance with regulations within PZBP is externally audited by a UKAS accredited
certification body as part of the ISO 27001 Information Security and ISO 45001
Occupational Health and Safety certifications. PZBP were found to be compliant with
applicable legislation.

A dedicated PZBP legal register is now managed by PZBP Legal Counsel and linked into
the POL legal register and is reviewed annually by the PZBP Board.

4. Internal Audit

An internal audit was conducted within the finance and IT functions by the POL audit team
in 2019. This audit concluded that the control environment in PZBP is appropriate for the
size and complexity of the organisation. There were 15 findings raised and of these only
2 are ongoing (See Appendix 3), to be completed by August 2021. PZBP are due to be
audited again in Q1 of the 2021/2022 auditing schedule once the schedule is approved by
ARC.

PZBP have 2 internal auditors responsible for the internal audit programme across all
functions within PZBP. This process assesses the quality of the internal control framework
by reviewing existing policies and procedures to ensure they remain suitable and comply
with the requirements of the ISO certifications. PZBP is also externally audited as part of
the UKAS accredited ISO standards. PZBP are currently certified to the following ISO
standards:

. ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Systems

. ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems
. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems

° ISO 27001:2013 Information Security Management Systems

. ISO 22301:2014 Business Continuity Management Systems

5. Complaints and Whistleblowing

The total number of customer complaints logged during 2020 were low, with an average
of just 2 complaints per month.

There are a series of improvements to the made that have been instigated and will be
completed by Q3 2021

. SLAs to be introduced on response and completion

* Targets should be introduced and linked into business KPI's

° Complaints to be formally defined to ensure all complaints received are logged

. Technical upgrade to CRM system to capture complaints

. Complaint reporting to be included in business performance KPI's regularly
communicated to the senior management team.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 107 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0106
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 10 DeepDive: zone Governance

@

There have been no instances of whistleblowing within PZBP during 2020. However, a
number of improvements have been identified, including adopting the group
Whistleblowing policy, appointing a whistleblowing officer and improved awareness of the
process. This will be completed by the July PZBP Board meeting

6. Customer and Employee Satisfaction
a. Customer Satisfaction

The customer satisfaction is currently evaluated via a monthly customer satisfaction
survey and ongoing Trustpilot reviews. The results from the 2020 data show that customer
satisfaction is high with a Trustpilot score of 4.5 and the customer satisfaction survey
producing an average satisfaction level of 94%. Appendix 5 highlights the improving
Trustpilot scores with P11 showing the highest scores in the year against categories such
as friendly, going the extra mile, and overall satisfaction. Any retailers that are highlighted
via these channels that have provided a customer with a poor service are issued an
etiquette form and followed up, and this process needs to be enhanced.

There are a series of improvements that are currently being implemented and are
scheduled for completion August 2021

e Alignment of the PZBP surveys to the POL survey
e Customer satisfaction follow-up process and reporting
« NPS improvements

b. Employee Satisfaction

PZBP has assessed employee satisfaction via two pulse surveys in both April and
December 2020. The individual pulse surveys showed an increase in mental and physical
wellness from April to December and also showed a slight increase in individuals’
productivity in this same period. This increase from April to December is likely to be a
reflection of employees accepting the working from home requirement that was introduced
in March 2020, in response to the pandemic crisis. There was also a major restructure
implemented in September 2020 which explain the few areas that saw a minor decrease
in satisfaction (see Appendix 4). The high-level responses collated from these pulse
surveys were presented to the management team. Engagement champions were involved
in order to generate and implement the action plan.

A further pulse survey will be released in April 2021 and full engagement survey will be
released in November 2021, and then annually thereafter.

Next Steps & Timelines

7. The key group policies recommended for adoption to be submitted for approval to the April
2021 PZBP Board meeting, with the physical security variation and review of the remaining
key group policies submitted to the July 2021 PZBP Board meeting.

8. The implementation of the complaints process improvements scheduled to commence May
2021, customer satisfaction improvements to be implemented by August 2021, pulse
survey in April 2021 and the engagement survey will be released in November 2021.

Confidential

108 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0107
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 10 DeepDive: Payzone Governance

Appendix 1: Governance Framework

-—

2

E

2. ———I

a

Senior Management
6
Confidential
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 109 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0108
Tab 10 DeepDive:

ayzone

vernance

POL00423695
POL00423695

Appendix 2: Policy Update

Department
Confit of Intarect wv
Corporate contract execution v
Governance
Curent statement cannot be adopted dveto PZ not having
Modern clovery tatement ME:, PZBP could be included in future erations with
amendments
Fick Appetite Statement v
Risk
Ri v
Financial crime v
‘Anti-money laundering & WA
Financial [counter tetroricm funding
Crime I Vsnenble custoner Current poly cannot be adopted duc to PZ not having
Valnerable cuz cone
HMA Tek proper
standards
Antisbibery % corruption
Business I Bucineze continuity v
Continuity I maragement
Legal igations policy
Pare ed ee
Freedom of information v
Data
Protecting perzonal data
Protection ad v
Document tention policy I
Internal Audit I internat audit charter ¥
[ror v
Cyber Security} Cyber &information ecurty I
Procurement I Procurement Procurement policy iin draft Form
Heath&
ity _[ealth & safety Diccuscion with MH with regoed to applisbty te PZBP
Physical
Physical secur
Security 7"
Conduct Code v
Code af business
Human I standards SZ
a Hera WBS Fe WS EAE PL SRST HERS
Resources I whistieblowing blowing manager wed contact tala”
Equality diversity & ar
inclusion
Finance _ I Post Difice treasury Further review by an individual with <pecifc experience
Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/0

POL-BSFF-0238513_0109
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 10 DeepDive: Payzone Governance
Appendix 3: Internal Audit
Finding neem dction Date Response Status
Finance

Scope Area: Governance

Financial policies
and processes do
not fully reflect the
current operation

Stephenie
‘Smith

Scope Area: Core Financial Processes

Client Trust bank
accounts remain in
the name of PZUK

Confidential

Stephenie

31/12/21
9

25/10/2

The main process are documented.
Further work required regarding VAT and
debtman but these are due to changes.

Completion date scheduled for July 2021

Ongoing

ATSA is in place with Takepayments. A Ongoing
project is underway to enable the

separation of the banking structure.

Completion date scheduled for Aug 2021

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

111 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0110
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 10 DeepDive: Payzone Governance

Confidential

112 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0111
Tab 10 DeepDive: Payzone Governance

@

Appendix 4: High-level Pulse Survey Results

POL00423695
POL00423695

December 2020 Pulse Survey

April 2020 Pulse Survey

53% response rate

75% response rate

100% of respondents are feeling between
great and okay physically

93% of respondents were feeling between
great and okay physically

98% of respondents are feeling between
great and okay mentally

94% of respondents were feeling between
great and okay mentally

93% of respondents say their current
working environment enables them to be
productive within their role

91% of respondents said that their current
working environment enabled them to be
productive within their role

83% of respondents say that their work
schedule is flexible enough for them to
balance their responsibilities between
family & personal.

91% of respondents said that their work
schedule was flexible enough for them to.
balance their responsibilities between
family & personal

93% of respondents say that their manager
listens to their ideas and feedback

95% of respondents said that their
manager listen to their ideas and feedback

84% of respondents say that their line
manager creates an environment which
encourages team collaboration and clarify
of direction

91% of respondents said that their line
manager creates an environment which
encourages team collaboration and clarify
of direction

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

10

113 of

POL-BSFF-0238513_0112
Tab 10 DeepDive: Payzone Governance

Pe

POL00423695
'OL00423695

Appendix 5: End user Customer Satisfaction Results

EEE Diver score Friendly — [Professlonal [Know [Understanding [Efficiency Ee aiae [clean a Tidy]
Period 220RI 91.50% 210% Bed 92.908 Sis] 53.20%] eas0%I sor
Period 02 95.50%I 95.80% 96.30% 35.40% 35.60% 35.00%I 36.00%] 92.90%] 58.00%]
Period 03 93.60%I 94.20% 93.50% 33.50% 93.50% 33.20%I 53.00%] _s2.0%I 69.90%
Period oa 95.20%I 95.60% 35.00% 38.705 95.205 35.a08I 95.20%] 98.208eI 91.0%
Petiod I 94.50%) 95.30% 94.50% 94.10% 93.40% 35.00%] saso%I 9340%I 94.605
Period 06 35.60%] 95.20% 36.00% 35.00% 35.50% 36.20%] 35.60%] 93.20%I 51.805
Periodo7, 36.10%I 96.20% 96.30% 36.00% 36.00% 36.00%] 36.00% 94.10%I 53.805
Period os 93.50%] 94.20% 33.80% 32.70% 93.80% 33.10% 93.60%] 93.10% 52.00%]
Period 9 38.40% I 93.50% 35.00% 33.70% 94.80% 38.10%] 95.00%] 92.20%] 91.605
Period 10 3 sso CET sce

year 200n/n [efod 3 35.70%I 97.10% 37.00% "5.80% 35.90% S508] 96.20%] 93.70%] 92.0%]

ime [Clear Directions [Average [PERCEIVED WAIT TIME) [Extra Mile [Opportunity [Response
Period 1 96.00%I 90.80% 77.50% 74.10% 32.708 3.55 Ez) 13] 524]
Period 02 97.a0%I 95.30% 35.80% 74.10% 34.70 37 70 10] 10
Period 03 95.50%I 92.30% 33.20% 77508 52.60% 3.23 339 5
Period os 37.80%] 94.0% 83.00% 32.305 33.80% 27] asl 20] ag
Period 05 96.70%I 92.50% 35.50% 36.00% 94.305 254 2374 A a2]
Period 06; 38.50%] 93.50% 35.50% 36.80% 98.10% 235 za 3 235
Period 07, '97:90%I 95.40%) 88.40% 38.50% 95.80% 236] I 3258 I 23] 1,553]
Period os 95.80%I 92.00% 35.10% 32.20% 92.90% 2.04] zoey 1] 550]
Period 9 52.90% 37.10% Tir 93.30% 3.52 336] n 264]
Period 10 210% 35.00% 7s s2a0% FRC x ct =f)
Period 1 96.00% 89.20%) 24.20% 95.2055 273 7097 10] _1.285]
‘TRUSTPILOT REVIEW BY STAR RATINGS
11
Confidential

114 of 155

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0113
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 11 DeepDive: De

gerous Goods

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Schare Prohibited and Restricted Items ‘ .
Title: Progress Update Meeting Date: I 16 March 2021
Author: Mike Elliott, Network Sales Secor Andy Kingham, Franchise
. Development Manager Li . Partnering Director

Input Sought: Noting
The Committee is asked to note:

i. the activity undertaken and planned in order to improve conformance to the required
process; and

ii. the anticipated improvement in mystery shopping conformance as a result of the
proposed system changes.

Executive Summary

Since 2012, Post Office has contracted with Royal Mail to help meet its obligations to the CAA
(Civil Aviation Authority) for checking the list of prohibited and restricted items and any
applicable packaging, volume, quantity, labelling and product restrictions that apply prior to
posting any item. Royal Mail provides a comprehensive A-Z list that gives detailed information
about the things that cannot be posted with us, or where restrictions are in place and covers
all our UK mail and International mail services. This list of prohibited and restricted items
reflects Royal Mail’s general terms and conditions.

During the most recent audits, the CAA have highlighted that Post Office Ltd. can only act in
the capacity as the first line of defence regarding the acceptance or refusal of prohibited and
restricted items. Whilst the ultimate responsibility lies with Royal Mail, Post Office Ltd. takes
this responsibility seriously.

To monitor compliance levels for Prohibited and Restricted Items (P&RI), Mystery shopping is
completed on a monthly basis by IPSOS. Since its inception, POL results have been inconsistent,
falling below acceptable levels in most months. Over the last 6 months compliance levels for
International performance peaked at 77% and inland 56% - (latest wave was Period 9, due to
mystery shopping being paused due to the pandemic).

This paper provides an update on the progress to date to deliver performance improvements
and outlines the next steps we are and need to take to improve compliance levels further for
the acceptance of Dangerous goods items.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 115 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0114
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 11 DeepDive: Dangerous Goods

Questions addressed

. Why do we need to improve conformance levels for Prohibited and Restricted items?

. What is the impact of not doing this?

. What steps have been implemented since the last update (July 2020) to address this?
. What additional steps are planned to improve compliance further?

. What is the current focus in the network to address this?

eport

1. Why do we need to improve conformance levels for Prohibited and Restricted items?

URWNE

iz

To comply with national and international regulations governing the carriage of mail, and to
ensure that mail in transport does not present a danger to the general public, we restrict or
prohibit certain items from entering our network and the Royal Mail pipeline.

We want to ensure the mail is safe for everyone, with many items, such as batteries, aerosols,
nail varnish and perfumes (amongst other items and substances), considered as dangerous
goods under transport legislation. For items posting overseas, other postal administrations may
have different prohibitions and restrictions. All the individual and country specific restrictions
and prohibitions add further complexity to the transaction at the counter.

Area Managers have continued to focus their efforts on driving increased awareness and
understanding in order to deliver improvements in conformance as BAU activity on branch visits
and Teams calls. This has been underpinned with additional training where required and
through frequent communications.

The latest mystery shop results described below, show performance levels for Inland continue

to remain static ranging between 44% and 55%* with International between 65% and 90%*.
*number of branches correctly following the correct process based on mystery shopping

2020/21 YTD Mystery Shop Performance - periods 3:10
(N.B. limited P10 data due to cessation of Mystery Shopping mid-period)

MS Performance

P

eIniand = Internationa’

Confidential

116 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0115
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 11 DeepDive: Dangerous Goods

@

The graph below shows the number of parcels disposed of per 100,000 items of mail accepted,
as a result of the parcel containing a prohibited or restricted item. This data is provided by
Royal Mail. This shows an improving trend year on year as follows:

2018/19 1.7 items disposed of per 100,000 items of mail
2019/20 1.6 items disposed of per 100,000 items of mail
2020/21 YTD 1.1 items disposed of per 100,000 items of mail (Period 11 0.6)

The target for 2021/22 is 0.5 items per 100,000 items, and we are confident that this will be
achieved following on from the planned Horizon system updates. Area Managers will continue
to make targeted interventions with branches using the Branch Insight Tool (BIT).

2. What is the impact of not doing this?

The Civil Aviation Authority may withdraw the authorisation of individual PO Branches to sell
parcels in the event of non-compliance. The limitation of POL liability to an aggregate amount
of £20 million per year - although POL has not to date received any claims for compensation
from RMG for non-compliance with the MDA dangerous goods compliance requirements. In
addition to this, there are reputational risks to the POL brand in the event of an incident
occurring as a result of mail accepted in branch.

3. What steps have been implemented since the last ARC update (July 2020) to address this?

A meeting was held with RM and the CAA to discuss performance at the end of April, this was
attended by senior members of the POL mails and network teams. POL and RM have continued
their monthly Dangerous Goods working group to discuss performance and monitor
improvement activities.

Following these meetings, and after several consultations with Postmasters during lockdown 1,
there were a number of suggestions made for improvements. All improvements were scoped,
prioritised and are being tracked in a project plan, some of which have already been
implemented as part of phase 1 and some are in flight within phases 2 and 3. Following the
implementation of each phase, we expect to see marked improvements across all Prohibited
and Restricted metrics.

We are confident that the planned system changes described below, will drive a significant
improvement in conformance as we are minimising risk by removing the reliance on the counter
colleague to follow the correct process.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 117 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0116
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 11 DeepDive: Dangerous Goods

@

Phase One:

¢ Horizon System Changes - We will be able to offer a Horizon menu-based alternative to
the manual scanning of the dangerous goods laminate. The Dangerous Goods process
will be integral to the Mails transaction and will form a key part of the Mails conversation
with customers without the need to use additional support aids such as the existing
Dangerous Goods laminate. The current process relies on the colleague remembering to
use the laminate. This new process is currently going through Network gateway for UAT
testing and Postmaster feedback. We anticipate this will be going live in a trial capacity
before the end of this financial year with the potential of a full roll-out across the entire
network by the end of quarter one 2021/22.

(Accompanying this paper is a PDF document that demonstrates the changes from the existing
to the new Horizon customer journey (appendix 1)).

¢ Branch Insight Tool (BIT) enhancements - The initial review in July 2020 identified the
need for improved management information to support the identification of ‘At Risk’
branches. Following this review, from Q3 of last year, individual branches are now scored
and ranked to prioritise those branches with significant non-conformance. This is based
on overall Mails volumes, interception volumes, previous mystery shop results and
Dangerous Goods laminate scan percentages. This development within the BIT tool, now
provides Area Managers with improved visibility of overall performance across their
areas. Looking forward, this will facilitate both reactive and pro-active actions to drive
improvements in conformance.

4. What additional steps are planned to improve compliance further?

Phase Two (subject to CAA approval):

e Labels Compliance - We are working on a solution to enable the Horizon system to print
both the ID8000 and Lithium battery label. Our worst performing mystery shop scenario
is where these labels are required. Forcing the label to print during the transaction will
drive further improvements in conformance by removing the option to add the label at a
later stage. (Anticipated to go live is Q2 2021/22).

Phase Three (subject to business case):

e Simplification - We have requested a quote to update Horizon from our IT suppliers to
see if we can move the DG transaction start point to earlier in the Post Mail items journey
and will be subject to costings and appropriate finance approval.

e Customer Self-Confirmation —- Further system changes are planned as part of phase 3
leading to a requirement for customers to confirm their self-declaration using Pin-Pad
devices for Mails items. (Anticipated to go live Q2/Q3 2021).

5. What is the current focus in the network to address this?

The current focus in the network is as follows:

« Postmaster Engagement - The Horizon system changes, (described in phase 1) above,
are now ready for testing and we have engaged with Postmasters to seek their input
regarding the original needs analysis and whether the new system design will deliver
against these needs.

Confidential

5 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0117
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 11 DeepDive: Dangerous Goods

@

e Targeted Activity - Conformance Champions are in place across the 9 regions and they
have been asked to lead regular sessions with their teams to increase focus and
awareness across each area. Area Managers are now contacting their worst 20 branches
based on zero scans of the Dangerous Goods laminate which highlights marginal/non-
existent activity at the counter. This activity will continue ongoing which will lead to
greater reach and positive impact across the network in the worst performing branches.

e Contractual Intervention - Work is progressing to agree and deploy a formal contractual
process, where following three interventions and support provided by Area Managers, a
branch continues to be non-conformant. We expect this to be in place by the beginning
of the new financial year.

Conformance improvements expected

As a result of the anticipated Horizon improvements we expect to see a significant
improvement in conformance to the process, as the necessary prompts and interventions are
systems generated and will address current failure points.

For phase 1 we expect to see conformance improve as follows:

« Increase inland dangerous goods conformance to c.70%
« Increase international dangerous goods conformance c.85%

For phase 2 we anticipate conformance for inland and international dangerous goods
conformance to improve to c.90%.

The anticipated improvements from the implementation of phase 3 changes would see
conformance improvement to c.95% with the inclusion of customer confirmation.

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 119 of

POL-BSFF-0238513_0118
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 11 DeepDive: Dangerous Goods

@

Appendix 1: Dangerous Goods Technical Improvements Phase 1 Horizon Menu based
alternative to DG laminate

Confidential

120 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0119
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 12 Strategic Partner Failure Update

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Strategic Partner

Title: Financial Stability update Meeting Date: 16 March 2021
Emma Conroy, Interim Head of
lauthor: Strategic Partnerships / Ed Dyer, sponsor: [Dan Zinner, Group Chief OperationsI

orking Capital & Cash Management (Officer

Lead

Input Sought: Noting

The Committee is asked to note the partner financial stability update for onward submission
to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC).

Previous Governance Oversight
ARC papers Mar 20 and Nov 20

Executive Summary

ae At the ARC meeting Nov 20, discussion was held as to the rigour around the monitoring
and tracking of Strategic Partners, the ask was to provide the committee with confidence
that the business had a robust solution in place to support monitoring and mitigation of
risk and to come back to you in May, we are on track in delivering this for the May
committee.

2. This paper provides an update specifically on McColls where risk has been greater over
the past 18 months. We update on the current trading position of McColls, where some
positive news has been communicated in the last few weeks, and given previous
concerns, this news should provide the business with some comfort around the stability
of trading conditions within the McColls estate. Appendix 1 provides an updated
Dashboard on McColls.

at WHS has also been cited by the committee in similar regard by way of level of risk, no
material change has been seen since the last update, albeit news in the last few days
has been positive in terms of Jan & Feb trading vs PY performance up at 74% & 84%
retrospectively. Interim HY results are due from WHS on 29 April, therefore we propose
to provide a further update at the ARC meeting in May.

Questions addressed
4. What is the current financial status & risk to the most concerning of our strategic partner
McColls?
1
Confidential
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 121 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0120
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 12 Strategic Partner Failure Update

Report

What is the current financial status & risk to the most concerning of our
strategic partner McColls?

McColls (status: AMBER)

5 McColls’ preliminary results for the 53-week period ended 29 November 2020 are due to
be published on 23 March 2021. The trading update published on 10 December 2020
pointed to adjusted EBITDA pre IFRS 16 of between £29m to £30m (FY19: £32.1m).
Revenue growth of 2.3% has been offset by margin pressures driven by a change in
shopping behaviours during the pandemic to deliver EBITDA lower than the previous
financial year.

6. McColls continues to suffer from an overleveraged balance sheet, with a net debt to
EBTIDA ratio of c.3.1x as at 29 November 2020.

a Importantly, McColls announced support from its banking syndicate on 1 March 2021
which has agreed to amend McColls’ facilities to offer improved headroom against
covenants, a realigned amortisation schedule and an extended maturity date to February
2024. The updated facility consists of a £100m revolving credit facility and an amortising
£67.5m term loan. This follows the sale of its head office for £7.3m in January 2021,
which appears to have been a condition of the debt facilities restructure.

8. In the same update, McColls announced new terms with Morrisons to become the single
wholesale supplier to the whole of the McColls estate until January 2027. The agreement
also covers the conversion of 300 stores to the Morrisons Daily format over the next
three years. Whilst McColls expects this to drive improved profitability, it raises its key
partner risk.

9. The market reacted positively to the 1 March 2021 announcement with McColls’ share
price increasing from c.24p before to trading around c.31p as at 9 March 2021.

10. Prior to the extension of its banking facilities, Experian’s reporting of supplier payments
beyond terms showed McColls delay payments to suppliers on a growing basis from 63
days in February 2020 to 156 days by January 2021. This suggests cash conservation in
order to comply with banking covenants. The support from McColls’ banking syndicate
should enable the business to improve payments to suppliers, which we will monitor over
the coming months.

11. McColls continues to deliver against its closure plan announced last year which has seen
the Post Office branches reduced from 608 to 522, with a view to this reducing to 456
by June 2021. We are currently collating with the network a RAG status report by partner
of those locations that are critical / important / managable risk, to ensure we understand
at any one time the level of critical risk within the partner estates.

12. In conclusion, the recent announcement from McColls is positive as it provides a period
of stability to deliver against the turnaround plan. However, it is important that POL
remains alive to the risk of failure given McColls overleveraged financial position which
leaves it vulnerable to trading downsides or adverse shocks. We will continue to monitor
McColls closely.

Confidential

122 of 15!

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0121
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 12 Strategic Partner Failure Update

Appendix 1
McColls risk overview & update

McColl’s Red Flag Report: Mar-21

McColl’s Retail Group ple £m Red flags:
Reverut Nov-8 12187 = Announced plans to close 300 stores in Feb-20 (including 152 PO branches).
Operating Proft/(Loes) Nov-18 (90.4) = Bank debt of c.£168m is approx. 5.7x pre-IFRS 16 EBITDA of £23m-£30m,
which is high relative to typical lending limits of 4x.
Net DebYEBITDA Nov-20 0 3a
+ Supplier payments being stretched (see graph below), suggesting cash flow
Net assets 2eMay-20 262 exes.
Market cop 08-Mar-21 352 + Obtained support from its banking syndicate on 1 March 2021 to offer
= improved headroom against covenants, a realigned amortisation schedule and
[Expenen Deiphi Score (out er 00) TE) si extended maturity date to February 2024, The updated faciity consists of 2
lexpenien - Cade otFaiure (next i2menths) 26:1, £100m revolving credit facility and an amortising £67.5m term loan. This
. follows the sale ofits head office for £7.3m in January 2021, which appears to
fesve ot eutstention CC® B77 have been a condition of the debt facilities restructure,
Member of POL Branches 522). Delayed release of interim results from 14 July to 4 August (indication that
IPOL Income YTD (Em) 25.6 something needed resolving).
lPOL Income YY (54) 105%I «4 of the 8 directors appointed in 12 months: Giles David (CFO), Richard
lPOL Income YTD v Target (%8) 107%6I Crampton (CCO), Benedict Smith (Non-Exec) and Dominic Lavelle (Non-Exec).

‘ear end: November
Interim period end: May

1-year share price trend Supplier Payments Beyond Terms

Operating profit in y/e Nov-19 driven by £98.6m goodwill impairment.

Whe

2 oo PP Pe

PEP MPO 2 ’
CPE SF ot at oF oo

= —MeColls —Industry average
‘Scurce: Hargreaves Lansdown Source: Experian’ G)}—

Post Office” Post Office Limited — Commercial in Confidence

Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 123 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0122
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 13 Procurement Compliance & Governance

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Procurement Governance &

Title: " Meeting Date: I 16 March 2021
Compliance Report

muthar Barbara Brannon, Procurement Sponsor: Alisdair Cameron, Group Chief
Director Finance Officer

Input Sought: Noting

The Committee is asked to review the report and note the Procurement Risk Exceptions
submitted to the Post Office Limited Group Executive and Board since January 2020 and to
consider and give direction in respect of the contracts in the Procurement pipeline which are
high value and at risk of being awarded or extended non-compliantly.

Previous Governance Oversight

e September 2020 - Board Report
e November 2020 - RCC & ARC Report
e January 2021 —- RCC & ARC Report [no Board submission required]

Executive Summary

As a business in receipt of public funds Post Office Limited (POL) is bound by the Public Contract
Regulations (2015). PCR 2015 oblige POL to behave in a fair, objective & transparent way when
contracting with 3" party suppliers. Additionally, set procedures must be followed for spend
above £25k and £189k.

The purpose of this report is to set out both breaches to Post Office governance and key controls
around contracts and compliance to PCR regulation in the award of contracts.

The aim of collating this information is to drive improvement in awareness and compliance
behaviour across the organisation. The second and primary aim is to work with GE and Business
Units to commence commercial reviews in a more timely way ensuring POL obtains value,
commercial and contractual flexibility fitting the requirements and business strategy of the
organisation.

In March 2020, Post Office Board requested prior approval of all Exceptions. This was revised
in September 2020 to above threshold Exceptions >£189k only in a revision to existing
governance. From November 2020 sub threshold exceptions will be submitted to the Group
Executive for prior approval and reported retrospectively to RCC and to ARC.

A Procurement Risk Exception Note is required to accompany all Exception Requests and a
Legal Risk note for requests >£189k.

Strictly Confidential

124 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0123
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 13 Procurement Compliance & Governance

Questions addressed

1. How many and what types of procurement risk exceptions have occurred in the past
quarter?

Since the last RCC report at the end of January there have been two Procurement Risk
Exceptions submitted to the Group Executive for approval.

e NCR SSK Support - Interim extension of 30 days to 28.02.2021
NCR SSK Support - Interim extension of 30 days to 31.03.2021

We also have a lapsed contract with our auditors, PWC which is an internal governance
breach. A compliant extension option exists to extend but they are currently working at
risk preparing an audit plan for 2020/21 while commercial terms are negotiated. This has
not been resolved since the last RCC report in January.

2. What are we doing about it?

Active reviews continue with Business Units with the highest values relating to non-
compliance.

Our overall non-compliance value has reduced from £27.7m in July, £9.2m in November
and is now £7.7m.

A visual breakdown on all Open incidents at 5/03/2021 is available in Appendix 1.

3. What is in the current Procurement pipeline which is high value and at risk of being
awarded or extended non-compliantly?

A number of Procurement Risk Exceptions will be submitted for GE review and onwards to
Board in March if approved.

a) £100-150k pa. Cheque Processing for Postal Orders and Camelot.

The Corporate Banking Services contract expires in March 2022 and is due to be
retendered in Q3 2021. There are operational consequences for Post Office should we
split the services across two banks and so Procurement are proposing to extend
clearing for Postal Orders and Camelot cheques and include into the scope of the
Corporate Banking Contract. Subject to GE approval a decision has been taken to
amalgamate these two services. An interim extension will be put in place while a tender
process is completed in Q2 of FY 2021/22.

b

Lexington Communications — Circa £500k.

The PR&Comms team wish to extend the existing non-compliant contract [£173k] with
Lexington Communications out to September 2021 in order to cover immediate
business requirements relating to GLO.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 125 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0124
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 13 Procurement Compliance & Governance

@

Aggregated value is forecast at circa £500k to September 2021.

c) Digidentity - TBC

Contract and settlement negotiations with Digidentity are continuing. A full commercial
overview and risk analysis will go to GE and Board in due course, noting that by
accepting a non-compliant extension from GDS, and therefore, commercially entering
into an extension with Digidentity to provide the services, a Procurement Risk
exception must be considered and approved.

Conclusion

Risk Exceptions are subject to extensive internal governance, legal and risk review, in line with
POL governance guidance on value and risk. This is reflected in the material reduction in the
value of open risks over the past 3 years.

Individually, all large value non-compliant contracts have been reviewed by appropriate Post
Office governance forums with agreement on next steps and actions towards remediation
allocated where appropriate and/or available.

Executive support towards moving POL towards a more compliant footing is very strong, but
equally as important there is extensive support towards the cultural change required to ensure
that Procurement activities and outcomes will support longer term business strategies and we
reduce commercial risk making our 3" party arrangements fit for purpose.

Report

4. What are the potential consequences of non-compliant awards?

a) Pre-contractual remedies overview: During a Procurement, an aggrieved party can
seek an interim injunction suspending the tender or the implementation until the court
decides on an outcome.

b) Post-contractual remedies: The court can order an ‘ineffectiveness order’ rendering
the contract void &/or can award damages.

5. Why are these incidents of non-compliance occurring, and what can be done about it?

Non-compliant awards may be made for a number of reasons at the Post Office.

a) Low value, time constrained or highly sensitive/specialist engagements are not
uncommon.

b) Large commercial arrangements cannot often be easily competed or unravelled
without operational impact, and re-procurement may be subject to a pending evolution
of a supporting Business Strategy and/or completion of large, and complex technical
programmes of work to maintain or enhance services prior to a possible exit.

c) The contractual arrangements may pre-date PCR 2015 regulations or the contract
novated during separation from RMG, automatically becoming non-compliant at the

13

3
Strictly Confidential

126 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0125
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 13 Procurement Compliance & Governance

@

renewal point. Non-compliant awards are frequently made on a tactical basis to extend
contractual services while public tender processes are executed.

d) Delays to public sector panels of suppliers becoming available. The Post Office makes
extensive use of this low-cost route to market and new/refreshed panels are subject
to frequent delays from Crown Commercial Services. Single interim extensions [of
periods under 12 months] while tender processes are run are considered to be low
risk legally.

e) Changes in scope or value over the term of a contract may render the extension or
renewal of services non-compliant. Material changes to the scope of a contract may
render the whole contract non-compliant.

f) Disregard for, or lack of understanding of the regulations.

6. Why are we receiving this report?
A decision to collate this information into a single location was taken in the Autumn of
2016. The aim is to track and improve our overall compliance and commercial results as
an organisation, while also ensuring perceptions are accurate. However, it should be noted
that it will facilitate timely responses to Freedom of Information requests which adds risk
to the Post Office commercial landscape.

7. Are any of these breaches arguable on regulatory grounds or are they all breaches?

A full explanation of the individual compliance breaches for direct awards over £189k
[previously £164k & £181k] threshold is attached in Appendix 1. Each entry details the
nature of, and the value of the breach. The threshold is altered every two years based on
the FX rate between GBP and the Euro.

The Procurement Compliance Register does not at present give an indicative risk level
attached to the award. This information is provided to the accountable executives under
internal governance processes in the form of a PCR risk note before a contract above
threshold is entered into, and if necessary, under Legal Privilege. In addition, all
signatories to a contract have sight of the Risk note as part of the Contract Authorisation
Form [CAF].

All entries are compliance breaches. A period of challenge applies to each PCR breach once
an aggrieved party becomes aware or ought to have become aware. This risk finally
expires at 6 years from the date of breach. The defensibility of a legal challenge is outlined
within a Risk Note.

8. How many of the breaches were approved in advance and how many retrospectively?
All contracts entered into during this period were compliant with internal governance
processes on contract and commercial review.

9. I Why were the approvals given?
The rationale for approval is relevant to the individual service and is detailed within
Appendix 1.

10. What were the unapproved, material breaches?
There were no unapproved, material breaches during this period.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 127 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0126
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 13 Procurement Compliance & Governance

@

11. Describe what you are doing about the breaches. Where we are in breach, do we have a
plan to come back into compliance and over what time period will that plan take effect?
a) A forward view of material contracts falling under each Business Unit is currently

prepared by the relevant Procurement Manager for discussions with their key
stakeholders. The maturity of this look ahead view does vary currently and is
consistently a high priority activity within the team.

b) Sourcing options papers are prepared for review by contract managers and key
stakeholders [risk, legal, security] with routes to market agreed. In many cases these
are dependent on evolving business and operating model strategies and the
Procurement team are actively involved helping to advise and review options as
thinking evolves.

c) Where a non-compliant award is proposed due to time pressure, Procurement are
actively working on long term mitigation with awards made on an interim basis to
meet urgent operational needs.

d) Each RCC member now receives a regular report on compliance within their business
unit[s].

e) A Risk & Governance process requires a Risk Exception report to be created for non-
compliant direct awards with GE sign off.

f) Awards over £189k must have prior Board approval before being entered into.

g) All Professional Services engagements must be approved in writing in advance by the
CFO/COO. A compliant panel of preferred consulting partners has been appointed and
proposed engagements outside of this panel are subject to additional review and
challenge.

h) Procurement provides training as part of the revised Induction process for new staff.
Training packs are being updated for existing staff and a new training module made
available on Successfactors. Ad hoc training sessions for interested Business Units are
also run.

i) Anew Intranet site has been launched for Procurement to improve visibility of process,
regulation, and the panels of approved compliant suppliers available to POL business
units.

j) Arevised POL Procurement Policy and supporting processes is in progress giving more
granular guidance.

k) Using Crown Commercial Services frameworks, panels of Preferred Suppliers are being
refreshed and updated across a wide range of spend categories to reduce time to
market, improve compliance and greatly improve commercial outcomes and legal risk.

!) A planned change to operational systems will, once live, give Procurement earlier
visibility of potential compliance issues eg: contractual value thresholds.

Risk Assessment, Mitigations & Legal Implications

12. As a business in receipt of public funds POL is bound by the Public Contract Regulations
(2015). PCR 2015 oblige POL to behave in a fair, objective & transparent way when
contracting with 3" party suppliers. Additionally, set procedures must be followed for
spend above £25k and £189k.

13. Failure to abide by the legislation or “slicing and dicing” contracts exposes POL to risk,
both as far the commercial outcomes of the contracts as well as the reputational damage,

Strictly Confidential

128 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0127
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 13 Procurement Compliance & Governance

@

legal remedies, censure & fines that can follow the discovery of a breach. Our compliance
to PCR can be requested under a Freedom of Information request at any time.

14. The PCR Compliance Register allows for the tracking of breaches to PCR regulations at the
Post Office and internal governance processes. One aim of collating this information is to
drive improvement in awareness and compliance behaviour across the organisation. The
second and primary aim is to work with GE and Business Units to commence commercial
reviews in a more timely way ensuring POL obtains value, commercial and contractual
flexibility fitting the requirements and business strategy of the organisation.

15. Contract and financial governance policy and processes at Post Office are set by the Legal,
Risk and Governance team with clear guidelines for staff availably on the Company
Secretariat team intranet site. This sets out steps to be taken to obtain financial and
contractual approvals prior to making a binding commitment to an external party. Non-
compliance to internal governance processes are also captured within this report.

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 129 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0128
SSL JOOEL

dog pue ¥SIy - PAyIW] BOWJO 1S0d

IZ/€0/9L-2enIWWOD eour

POL00423695

POL00423695
“4
3
&
a
3
3
2
i
. . . g
Appendix 1 - All Open Material Incidents 5
i]
3
8
ge
2
8
2
g
Category PCR Threshold 3
10/01/2018 IT Software Retail & Franchise ‘Amanda Jones ‘Annual maintenance and support previously provided under
(interim) Regulation 32 exemption for IPR. Cover is now expired and a
I I compliant route found. Negotiations are underway.
23/12/2019 IPR (Corporate Affairs & Comms Richard Taylor ICardew Group I £ Direct award - no procurement engagement
27/03/2020 IIT Software IT ‘Jeff Smyth Interchange I & POL inherited the Galaxy system and support contracts from Royal
(interim) Mail was part of, then descoped from compliant OJEU tender for
Back Office in 2015
29/03/2020 iT Software iT Jeff Smyth (CSM Accent Fa Part of the Galaxy solution for Swindon stods, the future of
(interim) Swindon has been under consideration for sometime and these
licenses and support contracts have been rolled over year on year
I I I Lin the absence of a long term direction
29/03/2020 IMedia Marketing & Brand Emma (Carat £ Contract extended to cover OJEU process time line which has been
Springham extended due to Covid 19. Completion due March 2021
29/03/2020 IMarketing Marketing & Brand Emma icac £ No frameworks and no appetite in business for full OJEU. Limited
Springham ‘other suppliers who have access to the market or simillar
software. Software Reseller not an option. Approved by Board
I I I [March 2020
21/05/2020 [Supply Chain ‘Operations & Supply Chain (Alisdair Cameron IKings Secure I Interim contract put in place while POL exits ATM terminals from
I I Technologies IWHSmiths. Board approval granted
21/05/2020 (Operations & Supply Chain ‘Alisdair Cameron ICardtronics £ Interim contract put in place while POL exits ATM terminals from
I I I WHSmiths. Board approval granted
25/06/2020 iT SaaS Marketing & Brand Emma Splash £ Medium threshold IRe-procurement exercise was underway but due to Covid-19 and
Springham budget restraints this exercise had to be put on hold. Also require
input from solution architect and workload has prevented this

Strictly Confidential

POL-BSFF-0238513_0129
POL00423695

POL00423695
a
S
3
2
8
g
s
3
3
3
8
ge
Date Broarernent Function GEMember Supplier Name Value Mitigation Breach Type 1 Reason for Breach ®
Category PCR Threshold 8
25/06/2020 [Banking Services _IRetall & Franchise ‘Owen Woodley [Barclays . Contract extended with Barclays beyond the limits the OJEU gs
2 I I allowed. Fy
& 25/06/2020 IBanking Services _IRetail & Franchise ‘Owen Woodley [Barclays £ Postal Orders/Camelot cheques. Service originally with Co-Op. 3
Q they terminated the contract in order to exit cheque clearing
Fg market. Barclays stepped in to pick up service as very similar to
= ‘cheque clearing. Work underway to review if it can be tendered
3 I I I alongside the main cheque clearing services.
5 10/07/2020 Public Affairs (Corporate Affairs & Comms Richard Taylor Lexington £ [Medium threshold IDirect award for GLO related PR services. Board approval given.
7 Communications
a 10/07/2020 Marketing Marketing & Brand Emma (CPA global £ Medium threshold IDirect award - trademark services. Contract transferred across to
g Springham Marketing but compliance status was unknown and it was too late
2 I ‘to retender. WIP for 2021
a 10/07/2020 Professional Services _IFinance ‘Alisdair Cameron ILexus Nexus I £ Medium threshold Threshold breached - was previously compliant
g 02/11/2020 [Auditors Finance ‘Alisdair Cameron IPwC £ ‘A compliant contract isin place but has lapsed during contract,
3 negotiations. 1-2 year extension should have been signed before
October. This hasn't happened as we have not agreed fees for
next years audit with PwC thus far.
(01/09/2020 [Professional Services [Commercial ‘Owen Woodley Grant Thornton I £ [Medium threshold [Urgent financial support required in relation to HPBB sale
11/11/2020 I Professional Services IFinance ‘Alisdair Cameron ISmith & Te Medium threshold IBoard requested additional professional advice support to form an
Williamson independent view of the way in which the Group's funding.
agreements, financing arrangements, headroom limits, cross-
defaults, commercial contract implications and net lability
exceptions (the “Facilities”) have been forecast
16/12/2020 Professional Services [Commercial ‘Owen Woodley Grant Thornton I £ 125,000.00) [Medium threshold [Urgent financial support required in relation to HPBB sale
£ 8,906,018.81
£_7,706,018.81_ excluding Audit Value

Strictly Confidential

a
g,

sg

POL-BSFF-0238513_0130
Tab 14.1 Summary

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

POL00423695

POL00423695

132 of

Title: Policy Update Meeting Date: I 16" March 2021
Reena Chohan Jonathan Hill, Director of
Author: I People and Policy Compliance Sponsor: Compliance / Ben Foat, Group
Manager General Counsel

Input Sought: Approval

The Committee is asked to review and approve the following policies:
i. Health & Safety Policy; and

Procurement Policy

for onward submission to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.

Executive Summary

This paper provides a summary of changes that have been made to the policies below as part
of their annual review process for the RCC to consider.

Questions addressed in this paper

1. Which policies were updated in this annual cycle review?

2. What updates were included and why?

3. What is Compliance’s assurance view of the status / Minimum Controls Standards for each
policy?

Which Group policies were updated in this annual cycle review?

In this review cycle the following group policies were revised, reviewed and updated as per
the annual review process.

14.1

Policy Last Reviewed Updates IGE Sponsor Governance
Approval Body
Health & Safety Policy [April 2020 Updated into policy formatIGroup ChieffRCC & ARC
IFinance Officer
Procurement Policy july 2020 Regulation update due IGroup Chief IRCC & ARC
to Brexit and changes _ [Finance Officer
jto the Risk Exception
Process which were
jproposed after the ARC
meeting in Sept 2020.
histleblowing Policy july 2020 JTo be discussed in a IGroup General IRCC & ARC
feparate paper by Sally [Counsel
Smith.
Confidential 1
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

55

POL-BSFF-0238513_0131
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 14.1 Summary

What updates were included and why?

A summary that identifies the changes and updates to the policies and statements have been
added below:

Health & Safety Policy: The policy does not contain major changes, but it has for the first
time been written into the Group policy format, including the required minimum control
standards. The operating practices in Appendix A are what was included as the ‘policy’
previously.

Poli mpliance View

The minimum control standards whilst ‘new’ are based on well-established Post Office
processes. Compliance has not had a chance to test these. But bearing in mind the COVID-19
health emergency it would be prudent to test whether these practices and controls worked.

Procurement Policy: Brexit has altered the regulations, therefore the policy, the
procurement manual and the P-suite of contracts have been amended to bring them up to date
and in line with the correct terminology. Further changes have been made to the Policy post
ARC approval which took place in Sept 2020, the areas updated in the policy include:

a) Risk Exception;
b) The removal of Appendix A within the policy;
c) The compliance section and application section of the policy.

Given the above changes and updates to the policy which are subject to governance, full re
approval of the policy is being sought from both the Risk & Compliance Committee and the
Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.

Whistleblowing Policy: To be discussed in a separate paper submitted by Sally Smith
(MLRO)

Postmaster Policies: To be discussed and approved in a separate paper, presented to the
Committee by Tim Perkins (Service and Support Optimization Director).

Approval is being sought on a further set of postmaster policies. This include policies dealing
with postmaster complaint handling, management of cash & stock in the network, issuing of
transaction corrections and how a postmaster appeals a decision to terminate their agreement.
Full summaries are provided in the Postmaster Policies submission document.

Assurance 14.1

Working with the Policy Owner of the Conflicts of Interest Policy we have now completed the
pilot assurance process and sample test of the policy on a risk basis to review the policy
standard and policy compliance. We reviewed a sample check of 4 Minimum Control Standards
stated within the policy (Gifts and Hospitality, Reporting, Incentive Payments and Training &
Competence). This included:

Confidential 2

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 133 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0132
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 14.1 Summary

@

e Asample check of any relevant registers to ensure any breaches/conflicts of interests have
been identified, disclosed and effectively managed.

« A review and sample check to see if the business has complied with the relevant legal and
regulatory requirements stated in the policy (in this review the assurance was based upon
the Public Contract Regulations 2015)

¢ Sample testing the process for identifying, disclosing and managing conflicts of interest and
how transparent it is.

« Sample testing how clear the guidance is around how to report conflicts of interest or
concerns related to them.

The overall review of the above-mentioned control standards and regulation within the COI
Policy, confirmed that they are deemed as fit for purpose and working with a few minor gaps
identified, which relate to minor control weaknesses or process inefficiencies. The gaps have
been addressed within the report, which is currently being reviewed by the policy owner and
CoSec, compliance are awaiting feedback and approval.

Other Developments

The Internal Policy Template which is used by policy owners to draft their policies on has now
been finalised to reflect current working practices as the previous one was outdated. The new
template now includes guidance notes for policy owners, to help assist them in writing their
policies. This is to ensure we have a consistent approach to policies been written and aligned
in the same format throughout the Group. The template and guidance notes have been
uploaded to the policy hub on the intranet.

Whilst for the first time in a while we have a group policy suite that is current, up to date,
owned and approved we are working with both the Company Secretary and the Chair of the
Audit Committee on refining this list and ensuring the appropriate level of governance approval
as the business and its controls evolve.

Conclusion

We continue to work with Policy Owners and Company Secretariat to ensure we maintain our
policy governance responsibilities and undertake assurance that the polices are working as
expected. This is a key part of the wider Post Office controls work.

14.1

Confidential 3

134 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0133
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 14.1 Summary
Appendices
1. Health & Safety Policy (New format)
2. Health & Safety Policy (Previous version 2020)
3. Procurement Policy (Clean)
4. Procurement Policy (Track changed)
Please see separate paper for the Whistleblowing Policy and Postmaster Policies.
14.1
Confidential 4
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 135 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0134
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 15 Postmaster Policies

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title: Postmaster Policies Meeting Date: I 16 March 2021

Amanda Jones, Retail and
Franchise Network Director

Tim Perkins, Service and

Author: Support Optimisation Director

Sporisor Reviewed & approved by

sponsor for presentation to the
Committee.

Input Sought: Decision

The Committee is asked to approve the six new Postmaster policies (set out in the Appendices),
for onward submission to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee (ARC) and to be effective
from the date of ARC’s approval:

Postmaster Complaint Handling Policy

Network Transaction Corrections Policy
Network Cash and Stock Management Policy
Postmaster Termination Decision Review Policy
Postmaster Onboarding Policy

Postmaster Training Policy

The Committee is asked to separately approve the issuing of a policy guide for postmasters
(also set out in the Appendices), considering the legal advice, for onward submission to the
ARC and to be issued from a date to be confirmed after ARC’s approval:

« Postmaster Guide to Policies

Executive Summary

Following the Group Litigation Order (GLO), Post Office set about ensuring that its processes
complied with the findings of the GLO.

The focus on processes delivered a large number of changes to the support that Post Office
offers postmasters but these processes were not necessarily governed by a policy at the point
of process changes being made. Primarily this was the case because no policy existed in the
first instance or the policy was so dated that it was irrelevant to the processes undertaken pre
or post the GLO.

Having policies in place for the support Post Office provides postmasters will bring Post Office
in line with best practice franchise businesses. The purposes of the policies are to provide
guidance, set down principles and highlight risk areas, while also ensuring that Post Office is
able to support postmasters effectively and compliantly with the GLO.

As part of an overall review of postmaster support policy requirements, this paper seeks
approval for four new postmaster policies to reflect how Post Office will provide support to
postmasters as well as a guide to policies that will be made available to postmasters.

Internal

136 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0135
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 15 Postmaster Policies

Questions addressed

1. What policies are required to support the changes made to postmaster support following
the GLO?

2. What policies have recently been developed and now require approval?

3. What further policy work is required to ensure there is a full complement of postmaster
support policies in place and how will these be continually reviewed in the future?

Report
Background

1. Following the Common Issues Judgment and Horizon Issues Judgment in the GLO, Post
Office focused on improving processes to ensure compliance with the outcomes of the
judgments.

2. Whilst process improvements were delivered, Post Office has identified that there was an
absence of overarching policies for these processes to sit under. Where policies previously
existed, they were often very aged and did not bear relevance to the processes that Post
Office had improved.

3. As such, Post Office has set about developing a set of postmaster policies across key areas
of postmaster support.

Postmaster Policies

4. Post Office has identified that a comprehensive suite of postmaster policies is required to

demonstrate and ensure GLO compliant support to postmasters in the following areas:
e Network Monitoring and Audit Support
e Network Cash and Stock Management
¢ Network Transaction Corrections

Postmaster Account Support

Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution

Postmaster Contractual Performance

Postmaster Suspension

Postmaster Termination

Postmaster Termination Decision Review

« Postmaster Complaint Handling
e Postmaster Training
« Postmaster Onboarding

5. The policies relating to Network Monitoring and Audit Support, Postmaster Account Support,
Contractual Performance, Postmaster Suspension and Postmaster Termination are already
approved and in use.

6. The policy relating to Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution is ready for ARC approval
by written resolution following offline reviewing with members of the ARC and legal.

7. This paper seeks approval of the policies relating to Postmaster Complaint Handling,
Network Transaction Corrections, Network Cash and Stock Management, Postmaster
Termination Decision Review, Postmaster Onboarding and Postmaster Training. These
policies can be found in the appendices to this paper.

8. This paper also seeks approval of the Postmaster Guide to Policies which can be shared with
postmasters. This document can also be found in the appendices to this paper.

Internal

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 137 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0136
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 15 Postmaster Policies

@

9. Previous papers to the RCC and ARC indicated that a Postmaster Accountability policy would
also be developed. Following a review of the requirements for this particular policy, the
requirement for such a policy has been de-scoped.

10.All policies and the policy guide have been reviewed by Post Office internal stakeholders,
the National Federation of Subpostmasters (NFSP) and have had external legal oversight
from Herbert Smith Freehills or Norton Rose Fulbright.

Policy Overviews

11.The Postmaster Complaint Handling policy sets out the standards relating to the
management of postmaster complaints, that a fair process is followed for all postmaster
complaints and that any complaint raised is taken seriously and investigated fully. It also
gives guidance on the identification of whistleblowing reports.

12.The Network Transaction Corrections policy details the standards behind how Post Office
identifies and issues Transaction Corrections and Transaction Acknowledgements, ensuring
that postmasters are notified without undue delay and that support is provided to
understand the reasons behind the issuing.

13.The Network Cash and Stock Management explains the principles to ensure that postmasters
are supported effectively in managing cash and stock provisions in branch.

14.The Postmaster Termination Decision Review policy sets out how Post Office will deal with
any situation whereby a postmaster does not agree with a decision to terminate their
agreement, either by notice or immediately.

15.The Postmaster Onboarding policy details the principles that ensure that new postmasters
are supported effectively in their early days, ensuring that the onboarding process meets
regulatory and contractual obligations.

16.The Postmaster Training policy sets out the standards for ensuring that postmasters receive
a comprehensive training provision to support the effective running of their branch(es).

Postmaster Guide to Policies

17.The Postmaster Guide to Policies is a document that can be shared with postmasters and is
a guide to the principles that Post Office teams need to follow and how these principles are
linked to specific policies.

18.A legal review of this document has identified some legal risks in the publication of this
document. These are:

e That the guide is not necessarily required from a good faith perspective;

e That postmasters may consider the contents of the guide to be obligations of Post
Office - and that the guide will make it easier for postmasters to claim that Post Office
has not complied with its obligations under the guide or the policies themselves;

e That Post Office’s obligations under the guide go further than its contractual
obligations; and

e That it will be difficult to maintain the confidentiality of the internal policies as a result
of the publication of the guide.

19.These risks have been mitigated to some extent by including wording in the guide and each
policy to state that they do not form part of the contract with postmasters, and through
ensuring that the guide will not be issued to postmasters prior to them entering into a
contract with Post Office.

20.These risks should also be taken in perspective with Post Office’s desire to provide
reassurance to postmasters that Post Office has robust policies in relation to postmaster
support following the GLO and its desire to be transparent in its dealings with postmasters.

3
Internal

138 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0137
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 15 Postmaster Policies

Next Steps & elines

21. Following approval of the six policies, Post Office will ensure that:
e all relevant teams are fully trained on the new policies by the end of April 2021.
e the policies will be reviewed annually, for approval at RCC, beginning April 2022.
22.Policies previously approved at RCC and ARC in 2020 and 2021, will be updated and
resubmitted with a list of changes at the RCC meeting to take place on the 4" May 2021, in
line with the annual review requirements of the policies.
23.Following approval of the policy guide, Post Office will ensure that:
e the guide is published to postmasters in line with the re-issue of the Postmaster
Support Guide.
e the guide is made available for postmasters to access online.
e the guide will be reviewed annually in line with policy approvals at RCC, beginning
April 2022.

Internal

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 139 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0138
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 15 Postmaster Policies
Appendices
1. Postmaster Complaint Handling Policy
2. Network Transaction Corrections Policy
3. Network Cash and Stock Management Policy
4. Postmaster Termination Decision Review Policy
5. Postmaster Onboarding Policy
6. Postmaster Training Policy
7. Postmaster Guide to Policies
5

Internal

140 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0139
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 16 Whistleblowing Policy

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED
RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT

Title: Whistleblowing Policy Review & I Meeting Date: I 16" March 2021
Report
Author: Sally Smith Sponsor: Ben Foat

Input Sought: Discussion & Approval
The Committee is asked to:

- review and discuss the whistleblowing review and its conclusions as part of its role in
monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s whistleblowing systems and
controls; and

- approve the proposed amendments to the whistleblowing policy and the appointment of
the Whistleblowing Champion.

Previous Governance Oversight
Annual Whistleblowing report and policy review July 2020.

Executive Summary

Post Office is able to demonstrate that it has good policies and procedures in place which have
been followed. The preliminary view is that there is no evidence of detriment to whistleblowing
reporters. This is based on an analysis of certain whistleblowing records performed by a lawyer
from Herbert Smith Freehills LLP (HSF) working with the Whistleblowing Team. We are
continuing our work with HSF to form a concluded view on this before the Audit and Risk
Committee later in March. Whistleblowing engagement including training needs particular
attention, together with operational improvements which are being addressed in April and May
2021.

As a result of the review of whistleblowing policy, processes and culture, there are a number of
recommended enhancements to improve and mature these areas, including the creation of a
Non-Executive Board Director Whistleblowing Champion.

Questions addressed

1. Are the current whistleblowing arrangements adequate in light of the GLO and the Public
Inquiry?
Is there any evidence of detriment to whistleblower reporters or subjects?

3. What improvements are required to enable anyone who is aware of, or suspects,
wrongdoing which affects others (e.g. Postmasters, customers, members of the public,
colleagues or the Post Office) to raise their concerns and be confident that those concerns
will be acted upon

CONFIDENTIAL,

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 141 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0140
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 16 Whistleblowing Policy

Report

4. Anumber of improvements have been implemented since 2017, these include:

e Enhancing Post Office policy and procedures, including attendance by whistleblowing
team at industry forums to learn best practice

e Raising awareness through communications and posters (which in turn has led to an
increase in reports received)

e Developing monthly MI and providing to key stakeholders

e Regular reporting to RCC and ARC, including an annual whistleblowing report which
summarises all whistleblowing reports received over the previous 12 months,
compared to the prior 12 months. This report also details any issues or outcomes,
together with key activities delivered to drive reporting

However, it was recognised that more could be done to improve the maturity of the Post
Office approach and as part of the review of this, Post Office approached Protect (the UK
whistleblowing charity) for support. This has included a self-assessment and industry
benchmarking of the regulatory requirements, current industry best practice and Protect’s
Code of Practice on effective whistleblowing arrangements, and a training workshop which
was attended by some GE members and senior managers.

5. A review of high-level summaries of the 163 whistleblowing reports and investigations
received since 2013 was undertaken to identify if there was any evidence of ‘detriment’ to
reporters and specifically Postmasters. These cases were also considered, at a high level,
for conformance to Post Office’s obligations arising from the Common Issues Judgment from
the GLO. The preliminary view from this review (summarised in Appendix 1) is that there
have been no instances where detriment to a reporter has been suffered, although there
are 15 cases where it was alleged, or could potentially have been suffered by the subject
of the report. There are also 9 cases which are being further considered for conformance
to the Common Issues Judgment in connection with suspension pay, although the
suspensions appear to be justified by the circumstances. We are working with HSF to reach
a concluded view on these matters before the ARC.

6. The monthly MI pack produced on whistleblowing has been updated to provide more
granular data on issues that are raised by or about Postmasters.

7. As part of the work reviewing Postmasters complaints and issues handling, a review has
also been undertaken to ensure that there is sufficient understanding across teams that
interact with and capture those complaints and issues, so that any that are in fact
whistleblowing reports are passed to the Whistleblowing Team and investigated and
resolved in accordance with the whistleblowing policy.

It is agreed that we should have a dedicated Whistleblowing Manager within the Compliance
Team to manage whistleblowing but also to assist in the conduct of investigations. In
addition, an approach was made to the ARC Chair to discuss creating a Whistleblowing
Champion at Non-Executive Director level, following which Zarin Patel has been asked to
fulfil this role, and has agreed, subject to RCC and ARC approval.
2
CONFIDENTIAL,

142 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0141
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 16 Whistleblowing Policy

@

9. Following migration of the external speak up line and website to the new Navex Global
EthicsPoint platform, call enhancements have been implemented to include an IVM that is
specific to Post Office and provides reassurance to callers as below:

e Thank you for calling the Post Office Whistleblowing Speak Up line. Post Office is
committed to ethical behaviour in all our business dealings and your call and any related
reports will be treated confidentially and respectfully to the extent legally permissible.
Protecting our colleagues, Postmasters and customers is the number one priority for
Post Office, and this includes protecting those that raise concerns. To maximize
confidentiality, this Speak Up line is operated by NAVEX Global, an unaffiliated, third-
party service provider.

10. To address the lack of formal training, a new module is being developed in Success Factors
and will be rolled out to all employees on 15 March 2020 for completion by 1* April 2020,
together with a number of communications for employees and Postmasters to raise
awareness.

Self-assessment and benchmarking

11. The outcome of the Protect self-assessment and industry benchmarking was in line with
expectations given that the benchmark is modelled around best practice and the bar is
deliberately set very high.

12. Post Office achieved a score of 86% for its written policy and procedures and there were
no specific recommendations, indicating that the basic foundations put Post Office in a good
place to improve.

13. It was in the areas of training, engagement and communications that further work was
identified.

14. The need for formal training and awareness in Post Office had already been recognised,
with budget to develop a training module included in 2020/21.

15. The table below shows the overall performance of Post Office v. organisations with a
comparable number of employees and also within the financial services sector which has a
more mature approach to whistleblowing, given the additional regulatory obligations for
this sector (see Appendix 2 for scores within these overall areas):

Governance 72% 67%
Engagement 24% 39%
Operations 36% 55%
Total 46% 60%

e It should be noted that nearly all organisations come out very poorly for Engagement
the first time they do self-assessment - this is because the main resolution for this area
is training which is generally costly, and most often not seen as a priority. Usually
selected people and teams have some form of training, but not enough and not company-
wide. Also, there is a heavy score weighting for Line Manager training, and this is an
area that Post Office was unable to demonstrate.

« Organisations also tend to score poorly in the area of Operations and there are a number
of factors here:

CONFIDENTIAL,

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 143 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0142
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 1

Whistleblowing Policy

@

o Whistleblowing process maturity tends to reflect the cases organisations have had to
deal with — if an organisation has not had any cases that are material/significant, or
had whistleblowing reporter claims of detriment, then they are less likely to have
matured their processes.

o Included in this area are questions about seeking feedback from whistleblowers about
their experiences or doing ‘tests’ or ‘stress tests’ of the whistleblowing processes —
most organisations do not do this, but it is best practice.

« A number of organisations re-run the self-assessment and benchmarking exercise
annually to help them demonstrate continuous improvement as part of their Board
reporting which means the benchmark is continually rising as organisations improve. We
will re-run the self-assessment in June 2020 (and annually thereafter) following the
implementation of planned enhancements to show how Post Office is building on its
improvements.

Whistleblowing Policy Review

16. In addition to further enhancements suggested by the Protect self-assessment work and
the changes to whistleblowing roles, a comprehensive review of the Whistleblowing policy,
alongside the Investigations and Postmaster Complaints policies has been undertaken by
HSF. A review of the BEIS Guidance and Code of Practices for Employers published in March
2015 was also undertaken. A number of enhancements have been incorporated and are
summarised below.

17. The policy has been amended to reflect the following new roles and governance oversight:
e The creation of a Non-Executive Director Whistleblowing Champion to oversee that:

o A 'whistleblowing culture’ is promoted across Post Office, ensuring employees are
genuinely encouraged to speak openly and honestly about their concerns and
misgivings

o The current arrangements are always challenged and assessed for areas of
continuous improvement

o Employees are always supported in raising a concern
o Barriers to speaking up are uncovered and addressed

o The whistleblowing team, senior managers and leaders receive training on the
importance of whistleblower support

o Root cause analysis is undertaken for all cases and issues, so that continual
improvements can be made in the relevant areas

e The creation of a new dedicated Whistleblowing Manager to manage whistleblowing
processes and investigations, triaging reports and assigning to investigating managers,
completing root cause analysis and ensuring any corrective controls are implemented,
designing and delivering a programme of training and awareness

18. A number of amendments and additions have been made to reflect best practice, enhance
the policy and help encourage reporting. These include:

e Removal of some duplication and clarifying the definition of whistleblowing, the
investigations process and the treatment of reporters

e Providing more information to reporters (e.g. other external advice available)
¢ Clarification of some of the definitions used in the policy

CONFIDENTIAL,

144 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0143
Tab 1

POL00423695
POL00423695

Whistleblowing Policy

@

¢ Clarification that reporters do not need to provide evidence and the different reporting
types along with the benefits and disadvantages of open/confidential/anonymous
reporting

e Anew minimum control standard for line managers.
e Anew minimum control standard for checking that whistleblowers feel supported

Conclusions and Recommendations

19. Post Office has a good policy and reports received have been managed in accordance with
that policy, although clearly further work on engagement including training together with
operational improvements are needed and are being quickly remediated Whilst the policy
and process were intended to cover employees and the protections afforded them under
the law, reports have historically been received from postmasters, their teams, customers
and the general public, and these reports have always been investigated and managed
under the whistleblowing policy. Improvements to communications and awareness have
been made in recent years, but the lack of training for all employees and, in particular, line
managers needs addressing.

20. The work with Protect has highlighted that whistleblowing process maturity tends to reflect
the cases organisations have had to deal with. To date, Post Office has not had any material
reports, or found evidence of significant or material (or disclosable) wrongdoing through
the whistleblowing channel. By quickly implementing the recommendations within this
report, management believes that it would put Post Office in a good place.

21. Prior to the Protect self-assessment, it had been recognised that a training and
communications programme was required in 2020/21 and this was budgeted for, although
this was hampered by Covid, and the loss of the role supporting this work in November
2020.

22. The following lists the recommended activities to be delivered in 2021/22 (see Appendix 3
for full actions and timescales):

¢ Continue to work with Protect to identify improvements and enhancements
e Provide the monthly whistleblowing MI pack to all GE members to ensure visibility

¢ Quarterly meetings with the Whistleblowing Champion to review cases and activities,
together with monthly meetings with the postmaster and customer complaints teams to
ensure that complaints or issues they receive that are in fact whistleblowing, are
appropriately identified and investigated.

e Work with the People Function and L&D to enhance on-boarding and line manager
training relating to whistleblowing

e Review and update the Whistleblowing Team’s procedures, including those relating to
the whistleblower and mechanisms to obtain feedback from whistleblowers

e A programme of continual communication and awareness, including refreshing posters
for office locations as staff return to work locations following Covid

e Update Settlement Agreements to remove potential ambiguity

« The Protect self-assessment benchmarking should be undertaken again in June 2021 and
annually thereafter to test and demonstrate improvements achieved from planned
activities

CONFIDENTIAL,

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2 145 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0144
@

Appendix 1 — Whistleblowing Report Review

POL00423695
POL00423695

Number of Whistleblowing Records Reviewed (From 25/04/2013 to 25/01/2021)

REVIEW FOR DETRIMENT

Number of cases ongoing (no apparent detriment and no CI) breaches identified in investigation of complaint to date).

Number of historic cases where information is insufficient for assessment
These predate whistleblowing falling under the remit of the Financial Crime Team. The most recent record is 23.09.2017

Number of Whistleblowing Reports NOT within Scope of the Whistleblowing Policy
« Employment matters between Postmaster and the Postmaster’s employees: 5
Properly dealt with outside of Whistleblowing channels e.g. dignity at work: 11
Properly referred to external organisations such as RMG: 5
Other cases which did not meet WEB criteria (These cases are quite varied but include for example, PMs are calling for advice from the

Security team; a report raised by a known individual harassing branch staff, and errors/mistakes relating to applications for hardship
grants): 9

.

Number of Whistleblowing Reports WITHIN scope of the Whistleblowing Policy
* No detriment suffered by the Reporter, the Subject or anyone associated with the Report: 103, including
6 cases where inadequacies with POL’s policies and procedures alleged but where no specific detriment to an individual identified
(for example, two complaints related to the same alleged incident of sexual harassment which took place outside of POL
premises. The reporters were not the victim of the alleged incident; one of the POL managers was present at the time and the
reporters were concerned that the manager didn’t take any action/ provide support when the alleged victim returned to work. HR
could not investigate any further due to lack of information).
1 case where reporter withdrew complaint due to slow response time. The Reporter was subject to a grievance which was raised
by the Subject of the WB report. Legal advised the WB disclosure should be investigated subsequent to the grievance being
heard. The POL employee who was due to investigate the WB disclosure left the business without informing the WB team which
caused delays. The WB team did contact the Reporter to encourage them to pursue the case, but did not receive any response.
«  Detriment suffered by the Subject, with Detriment justified based upon evidence and rationale: 15
© 12 cases where PMs have been suspended and/or terminated due to ongoing operation issues.
© 2. cases where the agent assistant/clerk was dismissed by the PM for suspected/admitted theft.
© 1 case there were formal consequences for the Branch Manager, which were justified upon investigation. In addition, in this case,
the Subject was said to have obtained copies of witness statements which, had the WB disclosure not been made anonymously,
could have compromised the Reporter's identity. Enquiries were made but these were not able to determine how or if the witness
statements had been shared with the Subject.

CIJ CONFORMANCE REVIEW

118

CI) Issues NOT relevant

142

CONFIDENTIAL

POL-BSFF-0238513_0145
9 aouelIdwiog pue ¥SIY - PAYILU!T BONO 180d

POL00423695
POL00423695

gL qeL

CI) Issues ARE relevant: 21 (including 1 case still ongoing)

o Dealt with in a GLO conformant Manner: 12 (including 1 case still ongoing)
© Not dealt with in a GLO Conformant Manner: 9 - While suspensions appear to be justified by the circumstances, the PMs were
suspended without pay (predates the CIJ).

21

CONFIDENTIAL

POL-BSFF-0238513_0146
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 16 Whistleblowing Policy

Appendix 2 - Protect Review Recommendations

Section Score

Accountability 61%
Written Policy and Procedures 86%
Review and Reporting 59%
Total 72%

Accountability - 61% Considers the roles different individuals have and their engagement
with the whistleblowing arrangements. Clear accountability structures will help staff better
understand their roles in relation to the whistleblowing arrangements. Active engagement from
senior leaders may improve staff trust and confidence in your whistleblowing arrangements.

Recommendation - You have a good score in this area. In order to improve on this score in line
with best practice, you need to show how senior leaders within your organisation engage with
the whistleblowing arrangements and actively demonstrate a commitment to workers raising
concerns without fear of reprisal. You also need to ensure that designated personnel (for
example the whistleblowing champion and team) clearly understand their roles and
responsibilities.

Written Policy & Procedures - 86% A well drafted whistleblowing policy helps to provide
staff with a clear understanding of what whistleblowing is and the processes by which an
individual can raise and/or escalate a concern. It will also provide staff with assurances about
victimisation and confidentiality

Recommendation - You have achieved a good score in this area and there are no specific
recommendations at this stage

Review & Reporting - 59% Considers the processes by which you review and report on
whistleblowing arrangements. Conducting reviews enables organisations to practically see
whether whistleblowing arrangements are effective in practice and action learning points.

Recommendation - You have achieved a good score in this area, but additional work should be
considered to strengthen governance. When reviewing the arrangements, recommendations
should be assigned ownership with a timeline for completion. Serious concerns raised and
positive outcomes from whistleblowing cases should be reported to the Board. These should be
redacted in order to protect the identity of the whistleblower. You could consider incorporating
an overview of management information on whistleblowing in published data e.g. annual
reports.

CONFIDENTIAL

148 of 155 Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0147
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 16 Whistleblowing Policy

Communications 30%
Training 8%
Total 24%

Communications - 30% Engaging regularly with staff is essential to building a strong speak
up culture. Staff will not have confidence in whistleblowing arrangements if they are not aware
of them.

Recommendation - This section requires improvement. We recommend that you review your
communications materials to ensure that you engage with different staff groups and cultures.
Messages encouraging staff to raise concerns might be included in various media such as
posters and staff training. Finally, think about how you test staff awareness and confidence in
the whistleblowing arrangements (for example by using staff surveys, focus groups and exit
interviews)

Training - 8% Clear and detailed training on whistleblowing provides your workforce with a
good understanding of arrangements. Training can help embed the importance of
whistleblowing and key policy messages.

Recommendation - This section requires improvement. We recommend that staff, designated
managers and line managers receive in-depth training on whistleblowing. In most
circumstances line managers or named designated contacts are the first people to receive a
whistleblowing concern. Accordingly, line managers should receive appropriate training in order
to accurately identify concerns and effectively handle the individual raising the concern. This
minimises the likelihood that concerns will be escalated further and helps make best use of
your resources. You may wish to review how you provide training to your workforce (e.g.
instructor led by e-learning).

Support and Protection 41%
Recording and Investigations 56%
Resolution and Feedback 18%
Total 36%

Support & Protection - 41% Considers internal processes in place for supporting and
protecting staff who raise whistleblowing concerns. Implementing effective processes for
managing confidentiality and victimisation will help to ensure staff are appropriately supported
and protected when they raise concerns. Implementing clear policy messaging and protocols
for supporting and protecting staff who raise concerns is essential.

Recommendation - This section requires improvement. We recommend that you operate
multiple support networks within your organisation to enable whistleblowers to seek support
when raising concerns (such as whistleblowing advocates trade unions and Employee

9
CONFIDENTIAL

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 149 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0148
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 1

Whistleblowing Policy

@

Assistance Programs). Consider how you ensure that confidentiality is maintained throughout
the whistleblowing process. You should ensure the risk of victimisation is considered in each
whistleblowing case and that appropriate safeguards are put in place to prevent this. Finally,
you should ensure that any settlement agreement that you have with staff clearly states that
nothing in the agreement prevents staff from making a whistleblowing disclosure.

Recording & Investigations — 56% This section considers the processes by which you record
and investigate concerns. Having clear processes and principles for recording and investigating
concerns will help to ensure consistency in handling a whistleblower.

Recommendation - You have achieved a good score in this area. We recommend that you
periodically review management information to ensure consistency of processes in recording
concerns. You should ensure that investigation guidance is clear on the key principles that are
to be followed when whistleblowing concerns are investigated (such as confidentiality,
competence and independence). You should ensure that an independent internal function
conducts periodic reviews of your investigations, to ensure that the principles have been
followed.

Resolution & Feedback - 18% This looks at your processes for resolving concerns and how
you provide feed receiving feedback from whistleblowers. Clear processes on feedback after
the investigation will help give your staff confidence that their concerns have been addressed.

Recommendation - This section requires improvement. We recommend that you implement
standard processes for resolving any substantiated concerns. Where possible ensure that you
provide feedback to whistleblowers on the outcome of concerns that are raised (subject to
limitations imposed by confidentiality). Consider how you seek feedback from whistleblowers
at the end of the process and use this information to improve your arrangements.

10
CONFIDENTIAL

150 of 15

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/2

POL-BSFF-0238513_0149
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 16 Whistleblowing Policy

Appendix 3 - Whistleblowing Action Timetable
Action By when Status
Protect training workshop January Complete
Review how complaints are captured by various back February Complete
office teams and enhance procedures to correctly
triage potential whistleblowing complaints and pass to
whistleblowing team
Design and deliver employee survey via One Comm February Complete
(440 responses fed into Protect self-assessment)
Enhanced Whistleblowing monthly MI to provide more I February Complete
granular detail about Postmaster/agent assistant
reports
Protect self-assessment and benchmarking February Complete
Review all historic whistleblowing reports February Complete
Whistleblowing Manager role designed, approved and February Complete
advertised
Whistleblowing Champion role approved in principle February Complete
Navex Global Speak Up Line - call enhancements to February Complete
include IVM that is specific to Post Office and provides
reassurance to callers
Review and update Whistleblowing Policy March Complete
Determine whether there is any evidence of detriment I March In progress
to whistleblower reporters or subjects
RCC and ARC whistleblowing approach and policy March Pending
approval
Interviews for new Whistleblowing Manager role and End April In Progress
recruitment
Design and deliver new employee Success Factors 1t April In progress
whistleblowing training module
Design and deliver new Team Talk whistleblowing 1% April In progress
training module for DMB staff and Supply Chain (non-
Success Factor users)
Design and deliver postmaster whistleblowing April In progress
awareness communications
Establish monthly meetings with the postmaster and April
customer complaints teams to review complaints or
issues
Training and induction for Whistleblowing Manger May
Design a programme of continual communication and May
awareness
Establish quarterly meetings with Whistleblowing May
Champion
Design and deliver employee survey via One Comm May
Review and update all whistleblowing processes and May
guidelines
Re-run Protect self-assessment benchmarking June
Annual whistleblowing report to RCC and ARC July
Enhance on-boarding and line manager training relating I July
to whistleblowing

11
CONFIDENTIAL
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 151 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0150
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 16 Whistleblowing Policy
Refresh and deliver new whistleblowing posters to all I July
Post Office back office locations and DMBs (dependent on
Covid)
12

152 of

CONFIDENTIAL

55

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0151
POL00423695

POL00423695

Tab 17 Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARC) meeting agenda 30 March 2021

POST OFFICE LIMITED

Meeting: Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee
Date: 30 March 2021
Time: 09.00 - 11.30
Location: 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y
9AQ / Microsoft Teams
Present: Invited Attendees:

Carla Stent (Chair)
Ken McCall (SID)

Alison Rodwell (BEIS ARAC NED Observer)

Tim Perkins (Service and Support Optimisation Director):
Item 2

Tom Cooper (NED, UKGI)

Zarin Patel (NED)
Regular Attendees:

Sally Smith (Money Laundering Reporting Officer & Head
of Financial Crime): Item 3

Amanda Bowe (Post Office Insurance ARC Chair): Item 7
Jonny Lonsdale (Business Continuity Manager): Item 8

Tim Parker (Group Chairman, POL)

Martin Hopcroft (Head of Health & Safety): Item 8

Nick Read (Group CEO)
Alisdair Cameron (Group CFO)
Ben Foat (Group General Counsel)

Andrew Goddard (Managing Director, Payzone): Item 9
Andy Kingham (Franchise Partnering Director): Item 10

Mark Siviter (Product Portfolio Director - Mails, Retail,
PUDO & Gov services): Item 10

Andrew Paynter (Audit Partner, PwC)
Sarah Allen (Senior Manager, PwC)
Rosie Clifton (Manager, PwC)

Johann Appel (Head of Internal Audit)

Mark Baldock (Head of Risk)

Jonathan Hill (Compliance Director)

Rebecca Whibley (Senior Assistant Company Secretary)

Hugo Sharp (Deloitte Partner)

Join Microsoft Teams Meeting
GRO United Kingdom, London (Toll)

Ce 7 090 140#
Pin (if applicable): 58042

17

Time Item Owner Action
09.00 1. Welcome & Conflicts of Interest Chair Noting
09.05 2. Postmaster Policies Tim Perkins Approval
2.1 I Guide to Policy Standards for
Postmasters
2.2 I Postmaster Complaints Handling
Policy
2.3 I Network Transaction Corrections
Policy
2.4 I Network Cash and Stock
Management Policy
2.5 I Postmaster Appeals Policy
2.6 I Postmaster Training Policy
2.7 I Postmaster Onboarding Policy
09.25 a Whistleblowing Policy Sally Smith Discussion &
Approval
1
Strictly Confidential
Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21 153 of 155

POL-BSFF-0238513_0152
POL00423695

POL00423695
Tab 17 Review of draft Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARC) meeting agenda 30 March 2021 17
09.35 I 4. Previous Meetings Chair
4.1 I Minutes (26 January 2021) Approval
4.2 I Action List Noting
4.3 I Draft Risk and Compliance Noting
Committee Minutes (16 March 2021)
09.40 I5. Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit
Updates
09.40 5.1 I Risk Update Mark Baldock Noting
09.50 5.2 I Risk Appetite Statement: Legal & Ben Foat & I Noting & Approval
Compliance Jonathan Hill
10.00 5.3 I Compliance Update Jonathan Hill Noting
10.10 5.4 I Internal Audit Update Johann Appel Noting
10.20 6. Internal Audit Plan 2021/22 Johann Appel I Noting & Approval
10.30 7. Update from Subsidiaries: verbal update Amanda Bowe Noting
Post Office Management Services (ARC)
10.40 8. Business Continuity Review Jonny Lonsdale Noting
10.50 9. DeepDive: Payzone Governance Andrew Goddard Noting
11.10 10. I DeepDive: Dangerous Goods Andy Kingham / Noting
Mark Siviter
11.25 11. I Committee Terms of Reference Review Rebecca Approval for
Whibley I onward submission
to the Board
12. I Any other business All Noting
Items for Noting

These items will not be presented to the Committee and any questions should be sent to the Secretary for

submission to the author for response. Questions and answers will be recorded as appendices to the meeting
minutes.
i. Cyber Security Tony Jowett Noting
2. Procurement Governance & Compliance Barbara
Brannon
3. Law & Trends Sarah Gray &
Ben Foat
4. Bi-Annual Legal Risk Review (Non Ben Foat/
GLO/Starling) Sarah Gray
5. Strategic Partner Financial Stability Update Emma
Conroy/Dan
Zinner
Items for approval via Written Resolution
2

Strictly Confidential

154 of 155

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0153
POL00423695
POL00423695

Tab 17 Review of draft Audit, Risk and Co!

pliance Committee (ARC) meeting agenda 30 March 2021

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

These items will not be presented to the Committee and approval will be sought via Written Resolution to be
signed by members prior to the meeting. Any questions relating to these items should be sent to the Secretary
for submission to the author for response.

17

1. Policies for Approval/Noting Jonathan Hill Approval
aa Summary Paper
1.2 I Health & Safety
1.3_ I Procurement Policy

Next ARC Meeting: Tuesday 18 May 2021 at 09.30 to 12.00 in 1.19 Wakefield, Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ

Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited - Risk and Compliance Committee-16/03/21

POL-BSFF-0238513_0154
