POL00101581
POL00101581

Message
From:

on behalf of {

Sent: 25/11/2014 16
To: Paula Vennel
ce: i

atrick Bourke ¢

Subject: : Draft reply to Gavin
Attachments:PV-Board-AP.docx

Paula - further background on Sparrow from colleagues ce’d, in addition to Mark’s note from this morning.

1. Role of the working group: Tony’s view the decision as to whether a case should go forward to
mediation is entrusted to the WG

The central role of the Working Group is to decide on whether any given case ought to be mediated,
being informed but not bound, by the recommendation of SS. This is, in our view, reasonably clear from
the Scheme documentation, and certainly clear from the operation of the Scheme in practice (until
recently when JFSA took the unilateral decision to refuse to discuss cases in which POL disagreed with
SS’s recommendation). It is also very clear from Sir Anthony's own contributions to the Working Group,
notably in his decision in case M054, following submissions he invited from both POL and JFSA on the
very question on the WG’s role in determining whether or not a case should go to mediation:

“In my view this document (Overview of the Initial Complaints and Mediation Scheme) makes it clear in
a passage under the heading “Will my case definitely be referred to mediation?” that the decision as to
whether a case should go forward to mediation is entrusted to the WG.

The JFSA stresses the need for independence and the role of SS. In my view, the necessary independence
is achieved by giving to the Chair of the WG the casting vote.

I exercise my casting vote in favour of the proposition that the WG decides whether a case is suitable for
mediation.”

He has also expressed some discomfort at being deprived of JFSA’s views on those cases in which POL
disagrees with the SS recommendation to mediate, since it leaves him (thanks to his casting vote) as the
determinant voice in all cases.

2. Risk of challenge to our public position from Tony: over view = low

The short answer is that he is bound by a confidentiality agreement. The longer answer is,
notwithstanding that he is bound by confidentiality, it is difficult to envisage SAH wanting to be at the
centre of a potential stink — there simply is no upside to him doing so, particularly in circumstances
where POL would, presumably, wish to praise as well as thank him for his important work.

Tony has never fully articulated his view on mediation in all cases and he has never said that he agreed

with that proposition. However, he is certainly more disposed towards agreeing mediation in some
cases where Post Office is not. His position appears to be that in setting up the Scheme, Post Office has

POL-0101164
POL00101581
POL00101581

set a certain level of expectation that a significant number of cases would be mediated. He also
disagrees with our legal advice and position on mediating criminal cases. And although he has voted
against SS’s recommendations in the past, his position appears to have hardened as POL has voted
against the majority of cases proceeding to mediation in the most recent WG meetings and he may have
lost some sympathy with our position. However, we think the chances that he will expose this publicly
are very small.

Moreover, the question presupposes that not ‘pre-agreeing’ to mediate all cases is somehow

‘wrong’. We already know that agreeing to mediate any criminal cases carries very significant levels of
risk and we have been advised in the strongest terms not to do so. Mediating most of the other cases
would likely generate a strong, and inaccurate, perception that POL was ‘at fault’. And mediating cases
in which the evidence generated by the various investigations point clearly to the Applicant’s
responsibility would be odd.

POL-0101164
