POLO0099940
POL00099940

Message
From: Alwen Lyons
on behalf of I Alwen Lyons
Sent: 22/11/2013 18
To: ‘Alice Perkins' I
cc: Paula Vennells
Lyons!
Subject: Mediation Scheme Update - additional brief for your meeting with Tony Hooper.

Attachments: Brief for Alice_SAH meeting V2.doc; Table re October to November 2013 Report Movements v1.doc

Alice we promised you an update today before your meeting with Tony Hooper next week. Please see below in the body
of this email a summary of the Working Group Meeting held on the 22°4 November.

I have also attached the original brief, and a table showing the position in October and November.
If you need anything else please let me know

Thanks
Alwen

Summary of Working Group Meeting held on 22 November 2013

- The meeting was constructive, thanks in large part to Tony’s chairmanship.

- The Working Group agreed that the Scheme is now closed (there had been some rumblings about this from JFSA
and Second Sight earlier in the week).

- Post Office will draft a press release to be approved by the Working Group recording the Scheme’s closure. The
purpose of this is to provide a reference to which Alan Bates / JFSA can refer to deflect any media enquiries or
future would-be applicants.

- 147 applications were received before the Scheme closed, a small number of which will not proceed to the next
stage of the Scheme (i.e. submission of a detailed Case Questionnaire).

- Work flows were agreed through to calendar year end, focussing on Post Office’s investigation of the
cases. Post Office’s first responses will be provided to Second Sight early next week.

- James Arbuthnot MP will be provided with a list of MPs whose constituents have applied to the Scheme. For
privacy reasons, he will not be provided with the names of the applicants themselves.

- It was reconfirmed that Second Sight has no right to vote on Working Group decisions.

- Second Sight stated (as an aside) that they do not want to be in the process any longer than necessary.

It is clear that Tony has formed views on how the Scheme should treat Applicants who have a criminal conviction,

who will need careful investigation and management. Alice it would be helpful if you could explore this with Tony if
get a chance when you meets him next week.

POL-0099523
