POL00111231
POL00111231

Message

From: Jonathan Gribben fenseranscerann on reennccane:

on behalf of — Jonathan Gribben G

Sent: 18/10/2018 15:24:07

To: Catherine Hamilton

cc: 4; Rodric Williams

Rob.Houghton@_
i Gi Andrew Parsons

H Lucy Bremnet
Subject: Jason Coyne's Report [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497}
Attachments: 180503R1935 Expert Report of Jason Coyne 01-01.pdf; Annex A - SLA Summary NEW WE 06072014.xIs.pdf; Annex B -
Transaction Correction Diagram v2.pdf; Appendix G - Failure Points.pdf

Catherine,

Please find attached the expert report served by the Claimants’ expert, Jason Coyne. The report itself is not privileged but
our comments on it are, so please do not forward this email.

The headlines are:-

1. itis 225 pages of professionally presented work;

2. Coyne has not discovered any smoking gun then shows that Horizon has a fundamental defect. Indeed, you
could read parts of his report as saying that Horizon is fairly robust;

3. his general approach is to list out all the bugs he has found in the Horizon technical documents and then draw the
conclusion that "it was highly likely for bugs / errors / defects to have the potential to" cause shortfalls and
undermine the reliability of Horizon; and

4. Robert Worden's initial view is that there is a lack of analysis of the bugs identified by Coyne — Coyne does not
seek to explain their effect or extent. Without this analysis, Robert believes it is a leap to say that a simple list of
bugs justifies Coyne's conclusions.

I have summarised some of the key points (as we see them based on an initial look at his report) against the broad
summary of the issues that Rodric provided to you on 21 September in the table below.

Robert would like comments from Post Office on specific sections of the report — I'll send you a separate email on that
shortly.

Feel free to give me a call if there's anything you'd like to discuss.

Kind regards

Jonny
Issues Coyne's comments (paragraph number)
The robustness of Horizon, including:- e the present day version of Horizon is relatively robust "in the
e the extent to which bugs, errors spectrum of computer systems used in businesses today", but as it
etc. in Horizon could undermine has undergone "major modifications" it is likely that it was less
Horizon's ability to process and robust when it was first commissioned (3.7);
record transactions and/or cause e "In my position as expert I am unable to estimate the level of the
shortfalls; and Horizon system's robustness. Given the size and age of Horizon, I
e the controls and measures in would however make the expert assumption (based upon systems
place to address them. of similar magnitude), that there are not many people who could"
5.88);
e itis clear that significant errors in data recorded within Horizon
have occurred (5.154); and
e it was highly likely for bugs/errors/defects to have the potential to
both (a) cause apparent or alleged discrepancies; and (b)
undermine the reliability of Horizon to accurately process and
record transactions (5.196).

POL-0108832
"Remote access", including:-

e whether Post Office and/or
Fujitsu were able to access
transaction data remotely; and

e whether Post Office and/or
Fujitsu have had the
ability/facility to insert, inject, edit
or delete transaction data or data
in branch accounts.

POL00111231

POL00111231

The nature of providing a support service as Fujitsu do would
require as a design principle that the Horizon solution should be
completely remotely manageable (9.1);

it has not yet been identified that transaction data was altered at
the counter (9.6), but Richard Roll says that it happened (9.10);
Fujitsu did and do have the ability and facilities to access and
modify transaction data. Fujitsu staff were able to implement
changes that had the potential to affect transaction data both
without the knowledge or consent of the Subpostmaster and/or
Post Office. In addition, a number of external audits commissioned
by Post Office report that the appropriate control mechanisms to
prevent mistakes being made were not followed (9.71).

global users could input transactions as if they had been entered
at a physical branch (9.18).

The Horizon facilities available to
Postmasters to identify problems with
Horizon and/or challenge its record of
branch accounts.

Coyne describes and does not criticise the daily, weekly and
monthly processes and comments that the weekly balance process
"should also help to detect any discrepancies" (7.25);

however, he goes on to say that Subpostmaster feedback appears
to highlight amongst many other things an absence of support and
training to assist them with being able to find and resolve mistakes
(7.42 — note that this is introduced in the conclusion section).

The Horizon facilities available to Post
Office to identify possible causes of
branch shortfalls.

Post Office has access to "a suite of reports which should...allow
Post Office to identify the occurrence of alleged shortfalls in the
Horizon system” to the extent that they can be identified (i.e.
Coyne accepts that it isn't possible to spot certain types of error by
reviewing transaction data (8.19).

Reconciliation and Transaction
Corrections

reconciliation does not necessarily ensure all anomalies or
discrepancies are resolved as this becomes a more manual
process; and

manual processes applied to correct data anomalies also have the
potential to introduce further errors (both 6.45).

Jonathan Gribben
Managing Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

WOMBLE
BOND
DICKINSON

wombiebonddickinson.com

vo®

‘y jonathan. gribbenI

POL-0108832
POL00111231
POL00111231

personal dats is i our Privaey Poliey on car website

opts no Bability fox ar

this ecmail will have hoen checked by us with
2 eased hy sofware vixuses 3)

Dickies

Content of this email w
d office

employee oF

mber OC317661, Our

gis

Habitity p
ers names is open to inspection, We tise the term partner to refer t0 a member of the LEP. ox

by Womble Bond Dickinson (U)
iverside, London, SEI ZAU, where
1g. Our VAT reyistration number is GR123393627.

‘Chis email is
is 4 More London
vonsultant who is o!

as firms providing serviees

jonal) Limited, whick consists of independent and antonomons &
sible for the acis or onuissions of nor can
nddicksnson.e

of Womble Hond Dickinson (hvlemsti
Each Wonible Hond Dickinson e:

Womble Bor

cparate legal entity and is not re
ed does not pr

savor

ion Authority.

POL-0108832
