POL00139742

POL00139742

Cod Dickingow

Reqular Call re Horizon Issues

Meeting: 11 September 2013
Attendees:
Team/Function

Legal

Financial Services Centre (FSC)

Security

Communications

Network

Information Technology & Change (IT&C)

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC)

Previous issues identified and further action to be taken

Attendees

Rodric Williams (RW)

Jarnail Singh (JS)

Martin Smith of Cartwright King (CK)
Andrew Parsons (AP)

Kayleigh Harding (KH)

Rod Ismay (RI)

Rob King (RK)
Dave Posnett (DP)

Ruth Barker (RB)
Sophie Bialaszewski (SB)

Anne Ellis (AE)

Kath Alexander (KA)
Nick Beal (NB)
Steve Beddoe (SB)

Amanda Stevens (AS)

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps

Prestbury Passed to Gail Peacock (GP) for technical issues. There are 2
parts to investigation, security and comms. Hardware and
communication failures dealt with by SB. SB identified no IT
issues with the branch. Transactional data / ARQ request raised

transactional data to be passed to GP.

by Maureen Moores. There are 2 Prestbury branches, and the
wrong branch code was put on the ARQ request. Once correct

Security to ensure correct ARQ raised by Maureen to enable
transactional data to be sent to GP. GP to report back on

reviewing the transaction data.

Torch Visit

Fujitsu (FJ) asked to look through 6 months of calls where base
unit rebooted. If any trends identified, this information is to be
forwarded to SB. A response should be received from FJ in 1-2
weeks. A problem manager from FJ has been allocated to the

investigation.

It may be the case that some branches will have had the issue but

have rebooted without calling and logging the incident.

If common problem identified, further investigation to be carried
out.

SB to await investigation report and look into next steps.

Bureau Buy
Back

SB discussed with FJ regarding a list of service enhancements
including this issue.

30 suggested improvements, 4 progressed in detail. No timeline
as to when enhancements will be delivered. Suggested to close
this action. The issue is logged on the service improvement
enhancements list — not an Horizon issue.

Close action — other issues to be followed up with revised training
on Bureau processes through another forum.

ATM Gluing
Case

Question as to whether Joshua Wood (JW) had visited Ludgate
Circus — no engineers sent to fix machines at this branch. JW had
never been sent to fix post & go machine. Confirmation also
received that JW had not visited Derby Road, Liverpool.

No NBSC call logs. Wincor are contacted directly and therefore
NBSC would not have data. Branches only escalate if Wincor fail
to attend call out or fail to repair problem.

The Police are now taking on this matter for investigation and
security . The report is to be circulated. Losses have also been
recorded by Barclays, Lloyds and RBS. Information from POL is
due to be disclosed to the Police by 4 October 2013.

POL00139742
POL00139742
Wincor cannot provide data pre June 2012. Wincor have advised
that person with access to the data is away and no other person
can access the data.

The contract with regard to ATMs is between Wincor and the Bank
of Ireland. Wincor have no contractual obligation to supply data to
POL.

RK to speak to Mark McClean (MM). MM to press the Bank of
Ireland to obtain further information from Wincor.

Rhigos Branch

SPM has written to PV regarding this matter.

Keith Jones from Rhigos Branch has made an application through
the mediation process.

GP to progress and update.

E-top up

A booklet has been produced to pull together all recovery
processes. The booklet is to help with the recovery of transactions
and assist SPM's with guidance on complex transactions as the
previous guidance/instructions were unclear.

SB — spoke to FJ at meeting last week. Gareth Jenkins (GJ) from
FJ has been briefed — GJ is to write part of booklet to be finished
today. Document to be checked before circulated to ensure it is
understood.

Not a technical problem with Horizon. Matter to left open until
next week. SB to update.

ATM Routers

Email to be sent to Andy Parsons to close action and ensure
resolution documented.

Action log - going forward when closing issues, information as to
the resolution is to be detailed in the resolution output section of
the action log.

Post & Go

Durham, Leeds and Manchester — action plan — sent to Lesley and
Gail - monitoring transactions over this month. Action plan
continuing until 28 Sept.

POL00139742
POL00139742
MS confirmed he feels issue is relevant to the call as the issue
could cause a branch loss, albeit not through Horizon. This could

be an issue relevant to prosecutions.

SB to provide update when data is analysed — recommendations
to be provided by SB in due course. Possible hardware change

from Wincor.

Belfast Refresh

No change — RW updating in due course.

Nelson

SB has obtained logs which confirm the broadband did not go
down. Email sent to RW. It appears this is not a Horizon issue.

Data obtained for the period 1/6/12 — 9/8/13 — investigator noticed
loss of £3k in May 2012. Maureen to raise additional ARQ request
for May 2012 — prudent to look back at that month. DP to raise
with Maureen.

RW to forward email to AP with conclusion that there is no

problem with comms in this branch.

Cheques

Working with FJ as to how far they can go back on transactions.
RI investigating further and is to report back.

New Issues Identified

POL00139742
POL00139742

Name

Area Issues/Observations/Comments

RW

Legal None

DP

Security 1. Investigator flagged up Rhigos with Horizon issues.

Already being looked into.

this is not related to the gluing case.

2. 3websites talking about Tom Brown acquitted. DP to
forward websites to Sophie. Not an action for the log.

3. Case raised against Acton office. On 28/08/13 the ATM
was opened and there was nothing in the ATM. This may
not relate to JW. Investigations to be carried out to ensure

SB

Security No issues

POL00139742
POL00139742

AE Network Ponteseema (?) branch- raising issues which could be related to
Horizon — support and training issues being identified. SB to be

involved.

KA — Advised support advisors have been to branch — info to be

passed over.

JS Legal No Issues

RI FSC Receipts - settle button not pressed so transaction not complete;
however, the customer has a receipt. Identified as a issue where
branch is not following the correct process.

Branches tweeting about process issues — RI speaking to
branches to flush out issues. Comms to discuss the matter and
look into ways to prevent SPM's using twitter as an attempt to
resolve transaction issues. Encourage SPM's to use correct
channels to obtain help. Policy decision on how to communicate.
Process and training issue.

Not issues for the action log.

MS Legal No issues
AP Legal No issues
SB Comms No Issues
NB Network No issues
KA Network No issues
AS NBSC No issues
Shelley No Issues

Action Points
1. Prestbury - Security to ensure correct ARQ raised by Maureen Moores to enable
transactional data to be sent to GP. GP to report back

2. Torch visit - FJ carrying out investigation to establish any trends or reoccurrence of a
problem. If a trend is established further investigations are to be carried out. SB to report
back with the outcome of the investigation.
11.

13.

POL00139742
POL00139742

Bureau Buy Back - Close action on log.

ATM gluing case - RK to speak to Mark McClean (MM). MM to press the Bank of Ireland to
obtain further information from Wincor.

Rhigos branch - GP to progress and update.

E Top Up - SB to update as to whether booklet completed with Gu's input.

ATM Router — RW to send an email to AP detailing the resolution of this action. The email is
to be included within the action log within the resolution output section of the document.

Post & Go - SB to provide update when data analysed — recommendations to be provided by
SB in due course.

Belfast Refresh — RW to update in due course.

. Nelson — RW to forward email from SB to AP. DP to request MM raises further ARQ for May

2012 in order for data to be analysed.

Cheques — RI to investigate and report back.

. Acton branch — DP - Investigations to be carried out to ensure this is not related to the gluing

case.

Ponteseema (?) branch — AE to speak to KA regarding support advisors findings as the
branch previously. Email to be sent to AP with details to be added to the action log.
