POL00097915
POL00097915

Message

From: Jenkins Gareth Gl
Sent:
To: I
cc: “j; Parker Steve (PostOfficeAccount},”
Subject: RE: Discuss requirements for proposed Horizon testing

Attachments: image003.png; image004.png; image005.png; image006.png; image007.jpg; image008.jpg

ivan,

In relation to my action below, I’ve discussed this with our 3" line support manager (Steve Parker) and assuming we are
talking about a small number of requests for retrieving logs / data associated with the model office then this can be
accommodated by raising specific calls on the Horizon Held Desk requesting the specific info required which can then be
returned by email (I am assuming that there would be noting sensitive in the data). If the requests (and resulting work)
is considered to be excessive we may need to come back with some sort of charging mechanism. However my initial feel
was that this wouldn’t be the case.

Steve has also pointed out that in the past one of his team has run a workshop on recovery and the issues associated
with it. He would be happy to run this again with Second Sight, but in that case there would be some chargeable costs.

Currently I am booking my time spent on this to the Post Office Prosecution Support team and I would suggest we did
the same for any such workshop.

ve deliberately not made this offer to Second Sight and thought I should run it past you first.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

ace Road, Bra

http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

nment - do you really need to print this emait?

From: Ivan Swepson {”
Sent: 25 March 2013 13:41

Subject: RE: Discuss requirements for proposed Horizon testing

Note of phone call @ 11:30 25 March 2013 attended by lan Henderson, Gareth Jenkins, lvan Swepson.

POL-0097498
POL00097915
POL00097915

Model Office in 148 Old Street is a functionally live Post Office environment. The facility is used to pilot new
Horizon releases before branch roll out and as a simulation/demonstration suite. Horizon facilities are live —
transactions appear on back office systems. All transactions are logged as standard — some tailoring may be
possible subject to requirements. The environment appears suitable for the tests intended by Second Sight.

Second Sight want to test a number of scenarios as though they occur in a single branch operating more than
one Horizon terminal. They intend to follow a structured approach to testing so Post Office and Fujitsu are
clear what tests are to be carried out. Some of the tests will involve removing power and/or network
communications from Horizon terminals and possibly the Model Office router — affecting multiple terminals
simultaneously. Second Sight acknowledge that power and network communication failures outside Model
Office and at the Data Centre cannot be simulated in the Model Office environment.

Testing will be an iterative process. As Second Sight will need to see transaction logs between tests several
visits will be scheduled at least 2 or 3 working days apart.

Second Sight require permission to video record the Horizon screen as a record of the transaction and on
screen messages.

Attached below are 3 Horizon test scripts supplied by Fujitsu as examples.

Actions:

Gareth — establish process and commercial arrangements for Horizon transaction logs to be recovered and
emailed at close of Second Sight test days

Ivan — brief Phil Jeary on approach to testing, support required, logins required. Ask Phil for Horizon Release
and Maintenance Schedule and permission for Second Sight to video Horizon

Ivan — arrange conference call with Second Sight and Phil Jeary to plan approach to testing in more detail
Second Sight — progress test plans in preparation for conversation with Phil Jeary.

Please let me know if I have missed anything or any corrections are required.

Kind regards, lvan

Ivan Swepson I Programme Planner, IT Separation Programme Office

LONDON EC1V 9HQ

From: Ivan Swepson
Sent: Thursday, March 21, 2013 6:10 PM_

To: Ivan Swepson; irhi
Subject: Discuss requiremen'

POL-0097498
POL00097915
POL00097915

When: 25 Mi
Where: Tel

:30-12:00 (UTC) Dublin, Edinburgh, Lisbon, Londot
PIN: 48824173# BlackBerry users click this link:

Purpose of Call: to agree approach and high level requirements for Second Sight to run some tests on Horizon.

Preferred environment is Model Office @ 148 Old Street (requirement for transactions to be cash neutral is
noted).

Therefore what may be required in terms of login id’s, access to logs and traces, technical support to reinstate
service etc.

Please let me know if this time is not convenient and suggest an alternative.

Kind regards, Ivan

Ivan Swepson I Programme Planner, IT Separation Programme Office

<< OLE Object: Picture (Device Independent Bitmap) >>

Floor Bunhill Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON ECTV 9HQ
iPostlin
IM

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH EIU ISOS IDO IO IODA SOO IODA SOD IIOIIIII ODI IOI AI IAAI III AIH

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

POL-0097498
POL00097915
POL00097915

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

POL-0097498
