POL00094820
POL00094820

E alan.co

Rt Hon Jacqui Smith MP eeeccr a7709
House of Commons .

LONDON

SW1A OAA

23 December 2009

Dear Ms Smith

Thank you for your letter of 1 December in relation to one of your constituents, Mr
Julian Wilson and your concems around the Horizon computer system. May I first
apologise for the detay in reply.

Horizon is a computerised accounting system which operates in around 12,000 Post
Office® branches. At peak times it is processing up to twenty million transactions ‘per
day, 750 transactions per second.

Over the years the system has been tested both in and out of criminal and civil court
and has not been found wanting. Whilst I recognise that some subpostmasters have
found this difficult to accept, there is no evidence to doubt the integrity of the Horizon
system and we retain absolute confidence in its’ robustness and reliability.

Our ongoing monitoring and control processes mean that any issues in a ‘live’
operation are quickly identified and resolved, and ensure that should part of the
system or equipment fail, the integrity of the accounting records is maintained.

The Horizon system provides a transaction log which sets out details such as date
and time, the name, volume and value of transactions. If an error takes place these
transaction logs and other system reports can be used to pinpoint and correct this.
However, the Horizon system and the processes around it are dependent on the
staff in branch entering items accurately into the system.

Moving forward, as with any business we constantly look to how we can operate more
cost effectively but at the same time update and improve our systems and processes.

We are currently/....

www. postoffice.co.uk '

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540, Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HO.
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.

POL00094820
POL00094820

. Page 2 of 2

We are currently in the process of implementing a new version of Horizon with the
main aim of significantly reducing running costs that has been achieved by the
negotiation of a new contract. The new system called Horizon Online™ has been
designed with extensive input from subpostmasters to ensure it is also easier to use.
The preparation for the roll out of new counter software is at an advanced stage and
completion is expected to be by the end of April.

The relationship between Post Office Limited and the thousands of independent
business people who operate a Post Office® service is of paramount importance to us
and I fully agree that it is vital that our subpostmasters and mistresses are provided
the highest level of support. I believe that the systems we have in place deliver this
and remain fully satisfied that the system and processes around Horizon offer a

very high level of security and resilience.

I trust the above information has allayed your concems but should you have any
further questions, then please do let me know.

Yours sincerely

GRO

Alan Cook
Managing Director

