POL00458688
POL00458688

To: Westbrook, I Gareth \(UK -
Manchester\),
Ce: Piero D'Agos
From: Julie George
Sent: 2014-08-11T11:05:17Z
Importance: Normal
Subject: RE: Final Amends for Project Zebra Report
Received: 2014-08-11T11:05:18Z
Hi there,

Unfortunately this is with our legal team (CC’d) — many people are on leave at the moment Mark so there isn’t a great
deal I can do.

Piero?
Julie

Julie George FBCS I Head of Information Security and Assurance Group

From: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester) [mailt
Sent: 11 August 2014 11:52

To: Julie George; James, Gareth (UK - Manchester)
Subject: Final Amends for Project Zebra Report

Hi Julie,
Hope you are well.

Apologies for the intrusion but Gareth is currently on annual leave and asked me to liaise directly with yourself on the
status of the Project Zebra report.

Unless the final amends have been issued directly to Gareth without my knowledge, I believe we are still awaiting the
final amends to the report in order that we can then issue as a ‘final draft’ and issue hold harmless letters for release
to Cartwright King and Bond Dickinson.

Are you able to help push this on your side so we can progress?

I'd also like to confirm that the invoices we have raised for the work have not yet been pai. I have sent a separate
chaser to Renata Prywerek chasing these today as well, but if this is something you are also able to support with this
would help greatly.

Available on my mobile number below if you wish to discuss further.

Thanks,
Mark

Mark Westbrook
Senior Manager I Audit Advisory I Technology
POL00458688
POL00458688

Deloitte LLP

lanchester, M60 2AT

deloitte.co.uk

Please consider the environment before printing

UK Futures
How can UK business drive growth?
www.deloitte.co.uk/ukfutures

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C303675. Its registered office is
2, New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), a UK
private company limited by guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed
description of the legal structure of DTTL and its member firms.

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the
intended recipient(s), please (1) notify it.security.uk’ iby forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure,
distribution, copying or use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses.
All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended
recipient(s) to the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by
it.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.

epee entree tered eee erate teen taenet renee tere tenet resect rset ireretd
