POL00122769
POL00122769

From: Christopher G Knight{
Sent: Thur 12/09/2013

To:

Ce: }; Ivan Regan.

Subject: RE: Investigations Managers Data Handling Process.doc

Attachment: policy.doc

Attachment: exhibit storage system.xis

Attachment: Investigations Managers Data Handling Process v2.doc
Moyn,

I hope the attached will move this forward. I have made some changes to the wording (Investigation Manager to
Security Manager) and also added some steps which I believe are in place at this time. I have put my changes in RED. I
would welcome comments from my colleagues so that we have a robust Process documented.

I don’t believe Credit Card information is contained on the Fujitsu CDs (unless specifically requested possibly). Even on
Credence the POCA, Debit or Credit Card number is not shown in full.

I have also attached the Exhibit handling process I referred to.
Although I’m out of the office Friday, if you have any questions I will be available on my mobile up to 10:30hrs.

Regards,

Christopher Knight I Security Manager

rs, Chesterfield S49 1PF

From: Moyn Uddin

Sent: 12 September 2013 14:38

To: Christopher G Knight; Jayne Bradbury; Maureen Moors; Dave Posnett; Andy Hayward; Rob King
Cc: Mark R Pearce; Ivan Regan; Julie George

Subject: FW: Investigations Managers Data Handling Process.doc

Importance: High

Hi Chris, Jayne, Maureen, Dave, Andy and Rob,

Speaking to Dave Posnett (thanks for your time Dave) this morning over the phone, I have been able to document the
attached draft process involving the CD/credit card data in the overall investigation process. However, Dave’s
knowledge is historical and therefore there are bound to be gaps. I also have/had questions that still need to be
answered, especially around the circulation, storage and destruction of the Green Jackets.
POL00122769
POL00122769

There is also the issue of copies held by lawyers (Cartwright King) and where 9 copies of the file is made and
circulated by the lawyers (Cartwright King) to court, we are not sure what happens to these, if they are retuned to
POL, how, who destroys them and if we ever receive proof/confirmation of this to retain etc.

I would therefore be grateful if you could between yourself fill in any gaps in the document and answer the question.

The red bits are suggested control improvement to the process so far.

This is quite urgent so If I could have it back by 11 am Friday (tomorrow) that would be great as I have a mock audit
call with the Case Work team at 11am.

Regards
Moya

Moyn Uddin I cLas, cissP, CISA, CISM, CRISC, CCP, 1S027001 LA - Information Security Advisor

& 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ,
iS

e

moyn.uddin{ GRO!
For HMG Protectively Marked RESTRICTED and

below either use: moyn.uddin{” lor
ask for my PGP Key.

©

®

postoffice.co.uk

© @postofficenews
