POL00448510
POL00448510

Ce: Rachel Scarrabelotti: GRO
Subject: Re: SID

Henry, just to be clear I have not been involved in any discussion as to the appointment of a specific candidate so
look forward to the process as described. Amanda

Sent from Outlook for iOS

GRO.

From: Henry Staunton
Sent: Saturday, Januar
To: Benjamin Tidswell
Amanda Burton

Hi Lorna Gratton

5
} Brian Gaunt! GR
Nick Read ~

As I said in my note It needs to go through Noms and the Board , and then UKGI and DBT .

It has been discussed between the NEDs inc The Post Masters but not Lorna . It was unanimous except for for
one NED but was also the wish of our CEO . We did agree that you would not be involved as you were stepping
down . I am fulfilling the request of the Board .

Henry

Sent from Outlook for iOS

From: Benjamin Tidswell
Sent: Saturday, January 20, 2024 1:46 pm
To: Henry Staunto:

Elliot Jacobs

} Nick Read!
Cc: Rachel Scarrabelottii..
Subject: Re: SID

Henry,
This is a decision which requires a proper board discussion and the agreement of the shareholder,
neither of which have occurred. I also note that the SID position has already been externally
POL00448510
POL00448510

advertised and indeed there is a Sky news story reporting that I am stepping down. So the external
recruitment process is live and in the public domain.

Ben

From: Henry Staunton:
Sent: Saturday, Janua'

Nick Read

‘achel Scarrabelotti I
Subject: SID

Following the decision to appoint an internal candidate the vote was to appoint Andrew as our SID .
Congratulations to Andrew . Of course this requires an approval by the NomsCo and Board and then UKGI and
others .

Rachel will put the headhunters on hold on Monday . Lorna will inform UKGI of our decision to change course
and I will inform the Chair and CEO of UKGI when I meet them on Tuesday . There are other procedures to go
through with DBT .

Even in the last days or so there has been plenty happening particularly from organisations representing Post
Masters . Our "Post Master centric " strategy already looks as if it may need to be adapted . I will ask Rachel to
copy you with the relevant letters from Post Master organisations .

There will be plenty to discuss at our private meeting with just Nick and the NEDs . This will need to be before
the Board and Nick has kindly adapted the Agenda to allow us time for a 90 minute meeting if we need the time .
We need to try and get on the front foot in due course so all your thoughts would be helpful .

Have a good weekend .
Henry

Sent from Outlook for iOS
