POL00056596
POLO0056596

Memo Royal Mail

5 July 2011 Legal Services
3° Floor
Maureen Moors 6a Eccleston Street
National Security Team LONDON
Post Office Ltd SWIW 9LT

3rd Floor Clippers House
Clippers Quay
SALFORD. M50 3NW

C.c: Stephen Bradshaw www.royalmail.com

POST OFFICE LTD —-v- KHAYYAM ISHAQ
CASE POLTD/1011/0186

In my opinion the evidence is sufficient to afford a realistic prospect of conviction of the above
named on the charge set out on the attached Schedule. You will note that I have not inserted
the first date into the charge and will be grateful for some guidance in relation to when we say
that date must have been.

I appreciate the obtaining of the statement from Mr Liaquat. It appears that Mr Liaquat refutes

a number of the assertions made by the Defendant during the course of his interview. Clearly

therefore this man will be an important witness to the Prosecution.

In view of the serious nature of the alleged offence involving a large amount of money and the

length of time over which the offences were committed, this case is not in my opinion suitable

for a caution.

This case is, in my opinion, more suitable for trial in the Crown Court.

In the event that the prosecution is authorised, please obtain summonses.

The matters which follow are for the Investigation Manager to deal with.

The following statements should be obtained:

1 Statement from the auditors producing the audit shortage discovered in the audit report.
Evidence of the interviews producing the tapes and the transcripts of interviews.

2
3 Evidence of Limair Liaquat (already obtained).
4

Branch trading statements that were put to the Defendant during the course of the
interview.

5 Any evidence that can refute the story that he proffered during the interview in relation
to the sheets of stamps. Have we any records in relation to this office being supplied
with high volumes of stamps as compared to sales to establish whether or not in fact the
stamps were there in the first place and whether or not he simply inflated his figures?

M02-M Moors-Ishaq-RGW

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 1 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group Limited. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 100 Victoria Embankment, LONDON, EC4Y 0HQ
POL00056596
POLO0056596

Memo

Cont...

6 Any other statements the Officer considers appropriate.

In this event, please prepare one set of typed copies of those statements and exhibits. Please
also prepare typed draft lists of statements and exhibits (statements to appear in chronological
order and exhibits in the same order in which they are produced by the witnesses). A
separate typed list of witnesses, showing their addresses, should also be supplied.

You will be aware of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996
concerning disclosure. Please confirm whether there is any material which might reasonably
be considered capable of undermining the Prosecution case or assisting the Defence case
and which has not already been disclosed. Please also let me have Forms GSOO6C, D and E
in any event.

The papers must be sent to this Office at least 14 days before the proposed committal
proceedings or summary trial date.

It is intended to make application for compensation in the sum of £21,168.64. If any monies are
repaid, please let me know.

Please advise whether a financial investigation has been commenced in this case and confirm
whether or not in the event of a conviction confiscation proceedings will be pursued.

Solicitors, 32 Park Square,
lease liaise with Agents

LEEDS, LS1 2PF (Tel.No: :_
before fixing a hearing date.

The papers should be returned to this Office at least four weeks before the hearing date in
order that I may send the instructions to Agents.

Rob G Wilson
Head of Criminal Law

CRM/267013/RGW/dmt

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 2 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group Limited. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 100 Victoria Embankment, LONDON, EC4Y 0HQ
