POL00162362
POL00162362

From: Mark R Davies[mark.r.daviesi_..

Sent: Fri 20/03/2015 12:35:36 AM (UTC)

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[angela.van-den-bogerd¢__
Subject: Re: Mediation Scheme

Attachment: image002.png

PS I ama little concerned about the idea of a piece in SPMR magazine or further Comms on Horizon as we
know how that would be twisted. Can we discuss before we go ahead? Clearly you are much better placed to
assess trust issue and what we need to do but would welcome a conversation about it? Hope that makes sense.

Sent from my iPhone

On 17 Mar 2015, at 23:43, Angela Van-Den-Bogerd <angela.van-den-bogerd.__.

Mark,

I fully support us responding constructively but from his/her comments I fear this will fall
on deaf ears. My reason for saying this is based on a number of comments from their e-
mail:

e he/she states that they have been around a while and then claims that the
training is inadequate and if they are referring to the new entrant training then
they wouldn’t know. The positive here is that on-line training will be available later
in the year to the whole network which will enable all users to refresh/retrain on
products/services they are less familiar with. We are also developing self-help sites
with support on the most common mistakes/queries to the NBSC.

e claiming that annex J is laughable - they have dismissed this again without any
knowledge. If they do not use NBSC then they will not be accessing the support we
have put in place. 47,000 calls are received by NBSC every month which is
remarkable if this is the last resort by branches.

I do agree however that there is a trust issue although there is no evidence that this is
network wide - tends to be a small minority that frequent the closed forums and typically
have moved away from NFSP to CWU. There is also an awareness issue as the reference to
maintenance of the equipment seems to suggest that this causes ‘Faults’ with Horizon. We
know this not to be the case and despite Second Sight’s interim report saying the same,
SSs subsequent report and pending report cast doubt on this. I wonder whether a network-
wide communication on the functionality of the Horizon equipment and what each piece of
equipment does and more importantly what it can’t do ie it cannot cause discrepancies
would go some way to dispelling the myths. I have discussed this issue with George
Thomson and we are to agree an approach using the Spmr magazine to try to rebuild the
confidence in Horizon.

In terms of this particular Spmr it might be worth suggesting that if he/she has
experienced unexplained issues with the Horizon system then if they could let us know -
would need to know date, what the issue was eg power failure and the amount of any
discrepancy id there was one - then we will gladly investigate.

Hope this helps,
Angela

POL00162362
POL00162362

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and
privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you
are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original
message.

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 16 March 2015 11:09

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: Fwd: Mediation Scheme

Hi Angela

This person has been engaging with me on Twitter and I've moved it on to email. See below for
their observations on the Sparrow report. I'd like to reply constructively - do you have thoughts
on how best to?

M
Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:

From: SPMR I <spmrl!
Date: 13 March 2015 18:06:37 GI
To: Mark R Davies <mark.r.davies¢
Subject: RE: Mediation Scheme ~

Thank you for the reply and I am sorry if my tweets have triggered the ‘attack dogs’.

Do you not think it would be a sensible way forward to publish the final Second Sight
report. Those of us that work in the Crown Offices and Network Branches all have a
vested interest in the report as we would like it independently verified that Horizon
does not cause the discrepancy's that many have suffered. No amount of reassurance
from POL will suffice.

You need to appreciate that there is a trust issue here. Horizon is an ageing system
with an operating system that is no longer supported by the manufacturer and
hardware that is years out of date. There has never been a program of servicing the
equipment and the failure rate is on the increase (info from the forums).

Annex J of POLs report is a so far off the mark it is laughable. It is clear that training
and compliance are nothing more than 'tick box' exercises. The issues and problems
dealt with on a daily bases through the forums would surprise you. A call to the
NBSC is fast becoming a last resort as the advice they give in many cases is suspect
and in some cases wrong. It is also clear to many of us who have been around a bit
longer that the current training is far from adequate let alone sufficient. Too much
emphasis on sales and not enough on process. The fact that there is no training
environment within Horizon for continuation or in house training does not help.

Things to think about
Regards

SPMRI

> From: mark.r.davies’
> To: spmrl{
> Subject: Mediation Scheme

> Date: Fri, 13 Mar 2015 17:15:13 +0000

>

> Hello

>

> This is the position.

>

> There is absolutely no question of suppressing Second Sight's report. While
confidential in the context of mediation, it will be provided, when completed, to
applicants to the mediation scheme and professional advisers as always intended.

>

> All documentation for the mediation scheme and the cases involved is being
retained — we have underlined this many times.

>

> Our investigations are completed and nothing has been found to suggest that the
Horizon computer system is not working as it should. There are 80 cases remaining
in the mediation scheme and we have asked Second Sight to be involved in the follow

up review of cases where these have not already been provided.

>

> This, together with the report to help mediation, will complete their three-year
work. They have therefore been given notice regarding their contract.

>

> All the remaining cases are being put forward for mediation, the only exceptions
being those subject to a previous court ruling which are being considered on an
individual basis. We remain prepared to discuss individual cases and our
investigations with applicants, involving their MPs if they wish.

>

> Lhope this helps.
>

> Best wishes
>

> Mark

>

> Mark Davies
> Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
> Mobile

POL00162362
POL00162362
>

> Sent from my iPhone
>
>

>
eC RFR 9 2 FARR C0 0 FR C0 oF CR CR CR CASON oR CCR a a

weak

> This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy
or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender,
unless otherwise specifically stated.

>

> POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

>

>
ACR RIOR RRR I RRR CORR I SCHR ACR RR ACCOR RR ACAI RR COR GR A ACA RR I ACO RGR a

eae

POL00162362
POL00162362
