POL00313968
POL00313968

From: lan Henderson
Sent: Fri 27/03/2015
To:
Ce:

44 PM (UTC)

Subject:
Alisdair
Just to clarify a few points.

The data set that we discussed in the last meeting did not include any items from the major third party client accounts
such as Bank of Ireland, DWP, Royal Mail etc. and it was at this point that I realised that the information provided to
us about 9 months ago was not correct. This was that all unmatched transactions were posted to a single suspense

account.

As you explained in the meeting, individual third party client accounts do hold unmatched transactions until they are
cleared out or matched.

It was for this reason that I said that we needed to look elsewhere in order to understand the processing of
unmatched items. I said we may need to look further at postings to the main suspense account in due course.

As far as the new information is concerned, can you clarify whether the £96m for Bank of Ireland represents £96
million, or £96 thousand as the use of “m” in financial terminology can represent either in some circumstances?

Many thanks
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be

privileged...If vou.are not, the intended recipient, please notify me at
irhé GRO nd delete the email and any attachments.

. 3; mediation¢
Cc: Rod Ismay; ie MacLeod
Subject: RE: Client Suspense Accounts - Confidential

Dear lan, at our last meeting we discussed the data set communicated in the note below.
POL00313968
POL00313968

We agreed that the data showed no evidence of issues and you asked for no further information on the suspense
account.

You did ask for some contextual data to reassure you that unmatched differences were not left for long periods in the
underlying client accounts, thereby masking issues.

To give you two specific examples:

- The Bank Of Ireland account relating to customer withdrawals of cash from ATMS. At the end of the 2014/14
financial year, this had a balance of £96m and no unmatched items more than six months old.

- The Santander account relating to customer payments into branches. This had a balance of £66m and no
unmatched items over 6 months old.

If differences were being left unresolved in client accounts, balances more than 6 months old would be building up.
On this basis, I assume you are now satisfied that this line of enquiry can be closed?

Many thanks and kind regards, Alisdair

From: Alisdair Cameron

Se 3 February 2015 15:16... oy
To: ‘i + ‘mediation GRO :

Cc: Rod Ismay; Jane “MacLeod; Rocn-Prinmpsy tnrisAujard
Subject: Client Suspense Accounts - Confidential

Dear lan, I attach a letter following our conversation on client suspense accounts. I suggest we get together. If it’s
acceptable to you, Ruth will send some dates for the week after next — next week being half term we are missing
some key people! But please feel free to contact me at any time if you want to discuss this. With kind regards Alisdair

prereeeeeeeercucececcececucccccccccccccccccvcccccccvcccccccccccccccctcd
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

coeesenees soe we Jobe Jobin

