POL00052277
POL00052277

gH Graham C Ward To: Jarnail A Singh/e/POSTOFFICE(
cc
13/08/2009 19:29 Subject: Julian Wilson - Restraint Order

Jarnail
Sorry for the delay in responding but I've been on a training course this week.

We have already varied the original restraint order to allow Mr & Mrs Wilson to use this account. The
varied order was forwarded to you on the 16th Feb. An unstamped copy is attached below for your
reference. I do not see why we would need to vary the order again, given this variation allows them to
use the account.

er

Variation of Restraint Lloyds. doc

With regards to the £2,250 he has received for the ‘written off Volvo ......... given this asset was under
restraint, I do not see why we would agree to allow him to use the money he has received, to buy
another car when he still owes us over £27K.

Regards

Graham
Accredited Financial Investigator ~ Fraud Strand

‘ast Office Ltd Security Team, PO BOX 1, Croydon, CRO 1 WN

Marilyn Benjamin

Marilyn Benjamin To: Post Office sect reece
; ec: Graham C Wardie/
1208/2009 10:57 Subject: Fw: Julian Wilson - Restraint Order”

Please see the attached advice in the above case, together with the E-Mail and attachment below.

-— Forwarded by Marilyn Benjamin/e/POSTOFFICE on 11/08/2009 12:14 -----

“Charlotte Knight" To: <jarnail.a.singh{”

i Subjec

: Julian Wilson - Restraint Order

Dear Mr Singh

Further to our telephone conversation, please find attached a copy of the letter sent to you
on 24” July 2009. You will note that enclosures were also sent.

Can you please respond at the earliest opportunity. Mr Wilson is still in possession of the
cheque and wishes to pay this into a restrained account. He is currently using a friends
POL00052277

POL00052277

vehicle as a temporary stop gap and would appreciate your response at the earliest
opportunity in order that he can purchase the vehicle referred to in the letter.

I look forward to hearing from you at the earliest opportunity in order that we can then attend
to drafting the appropriate Variation Order, if necessary.

Kind regards

Charlotte Knight

Solicitor

Richard Nelson Solicitors

4 emai

B teri

® Direct Dial” 4
Faxf”

& www.richardnelsonsolicitors.co.uk

E! Richard Nelson Solicitors, Priory Court, 4 Derby Road, Nottingham, NG9 2TA

emergency out of hou i

Offices in London, Nottingham, Birmingham, Cardiff and Bristol

Specialising in all aspects of Business Defence, including defending fraud allegations and financial crime, money
laundering and confiscation, regulatory defence, professional disciplinary, H&SE and BERR (DTI) matters, directors’
disqualification, employment law and commercial litigation.

This message and any files transmitted with it is intended for the addressee only and may contain information that is
confidential and/or legally privileged. Unauthorised use is strictly prohibited and may be unlawtul. If you are not the
addressee, you should not read, copy, disclose or otherwise use this message, including any accompanying Image or
attachment, except for the purpose of delivery to the addressee.

We make every effort to keep our IT facility free from viruses but cannot protect items transmitted over unsecured external
networks. Consequently, you should verify that this item is virus-free on receipt as we can take no responsibility for any direct
or indirect effects of a computer virus or similar that might be transferred by way of this message or attachments.

Richard Nelson Solicitors, Firm ID 383076, is regulated by the Solicitors’ Regulation Authority.

>>>> 260893M14.doc attachment was removed from this email <<<<

>>>> 072409 AC.doc attachment was removed from this email <<<<
