POL00122150
POL00122150

From: Keith Gilchrist.
_O=MMS_OU=I E+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28F Y DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=KEITH+2EGILCHRIST@C72A47. ingest.local]
Sent: Tue 26/02/2013 9:35:33 AM (UTC)
To:
Ce: Michael
Steve
Bradshaw{
Subject: Fw: Crown Office Policy on reporting criminality to Post Office Security and Whitehaven update
Attachment: L&G Policy.zip
Attachment: image007 jpg
Hi Rob

By way of update a case has now been raised.

Whitehaven will be expeditiously managed as with all North cases. You will have an investigative time line by close of
play today.
Steve Bradshaw is lO with Michael Stanway supporting him.

I have spoken to Jackie Quinn and left a message for Jeff Ropper to that effect.

From the time line of events to date I have initial concerns re the Crown escalation processes to POL Security and as can
be seen below I have asked Andrew Wise to consider under case management review.

In my opinion we need to streamline and replicate the network process.
Regards

Keith

Sent from

Keith Gilchrist Blackb
Email: keith.gilchrist!
Mob

From: Keith Gilchrist

Sent: Monday, February 25, 2013 07:58 PM

To: Andrew Wise

Subject: FW: Crown Office Policy on reporting criminality to Post Office Security
Hi Andrew
Not sure if this falls within the remit of your review.

Massive amount of info in a very complicated process.

Most of info contained within relates to Crown performance and management around loss and reporting all £250+ to
the business, including to Security.

What is not contained is a POL Security policy for dealing with all these £250 loss reports.

What is PO Security policy in dealing with these matters? Do we investigate all or limit to theft and fraud over a set
figure?
POL00122150
POL00122150

Also the Crown performance/management procedures outlined do not take cognisance if a criminal investigation is
raised and ongoing. The interview notes I read today would cut across any theft/fraud investigation if ongoing in
tandem. The Whitehaven branch manager was interviewed and resigned before securities were fully advised of the
issue and had a chance to investigate.. During the performance/management interview all questions re the loss of
money and audits were asked, none were under caution !

Are all such losses the responsibility Secops or only those with criminality suspected?
What is the role of Commercial security?

Do Security investigate above a certain amount thus a figure below which we ignore.
Are escalation instructions clear enough if Crown Management suspect theft/fraud?
Your thoughts would be appreciated.

K

Keith Gilchrist Security Programme Manager

keith.gilchrist

5)
post.office.securityg
© ost. office.securit

From: Dave Posnett

Sent: 25 February 2013 18:24

To: Keith Gilchrist

Cc: Andy Hayward

Subject: RE: Crown Office Policy on reporting criminality to Post Office Security

Keith,
The key policy is the Losses & Gains policy:

¢ It was on the intranet site but has vanished ... Information > Policies & Guidelines > Losses &
Gains Policy. The links are mostly still there but the actual policy appears to have been removed
(at least I can’t access it on my computer!).

¢ That said, all Crowns were issued with the policy (Alex Syme is the key Regional Support Advisor
who is/was responsible for Losses & Gains).

e We have also run Fraud Risk programmes across a number of branches on a few occasions in
past few years and included the policy in Crown Branch Manager presentations (nothing recently
POL00122150
POL00122150

though).

I associate the policy and supporting documents (quite lumpy), but key areas concerning loss reporting to
Security are:

e« Loss & Gains Policy For Crown Offices. Sections 6.2 and 6.3 are the key sections re reporting
losses to Security. However, quite a lot of useful info on losses in this document.

« Loss & Gains Quick Guide For BMs. This repeats what is in the above document ... Sections 4.2
and 4.3 refer.

¢ Appendix D a — Security Loss Report. These are the standard forms used by all Crowns to
report suspicious losses or losses >£250 to Security. It quite clearly states the criteria and process
in the first 3 boxes.

« Appendix D b — Clerk Loss Report. These are completed by all who served from a till that incurs
a loss or those who had access to safe, till, etc which has a loss. Should be retained by BM and
given to Security if/when requested (though if we don’t know about the loss then we wouldn’t know
to request this form).

NB: Some documents refer to ‘Fraud Team’ email address, but this did change and was communicated to
read ‘Security Team’ email address. You'll note that the Appendix Da also states the form should be
emailed to Post Office Security.

NB: You may have already asked Clippers ... if the branch in question has submitted loss forms before
and/or after this big loss, why wasn’t this one reported?

NB: Claire Davies leads on Crowns in Commercial. Seem to recall last year we were looking at possible
visits to conduct L&G verification/compliance, but don’t think this materialised.

Hope this helps.

Regards,

Dave Posnett I Accredited Financial Investigator

© dave.posnetti

From: Keith Gilchrist

Sent: 25 February 2013 17:20

To: Dave Posnett

Cc: Andy Hayward

Subject: Crown Office Policy on reporting criminality to Post Office Security

Dave
POL00122150
POL00122150

As the font of all knowledge re POL fraud policy please can you advise me in my ignorance where to find current
policies and procedures for Crown Offices Management on reporting suspect criminality at Crown Offices to their
security managers.

Having looked into a case today at length I am struggling to put reason to the sequence of events that has led to an
£18k loss with Security not being notified until 18 February 2013. Is there some document I can read up on?

Many thanks

Keith

Keith Gilchrist Security Programme Manager

keith.gilchris'

@ a
@ post.office.security”

