POL00300875

POL00300875
From: Belinda Crowe[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=BELINDA CROWE79B93F 1 1-569F-4526-A078-
F5B4958A8917220]
Sent: Wed 11/12/2013 10:33:04 PM (UTC)

To: Jessica Barkerf
Cc: Nicky Ma

Oliver

Sophie Bialaszewsk Rodric

Subject: Fwd: Network Representatives for Mediation

Attachment: Post Office Mediation Scheme Representative - Role Profile. 10.11.13.doc
Attachment: ATT00001.htm

Hi Jess

When the workshop is over a key task will be to develop the mediation scheme and put in place a plan how we
do the mediation. Angela is recruiting the team and you will see from the email below that she has made a start.
As well as making sure we have the people in place, we need to work through the detail of the process for
mediation from the point at which the Working Group agrees a case for mediation to the point at which the
whole process is complete.

Andy Parsons probably knows more about this than anyone so it would be worth sitting down with him to go
through this.

A brain dump from me follows - but this is by no means everything:

- We need two processes - one PO internal and one for sharing with the Working Group

- We need to work through the two processes together but be ready to offer a process to the Working Group for
agreement before we get the first case though from Second Sight - I am not sure we will be ready to do that at
the next face to face meeting on 3 January (although I would be delighted if you were to tell me that I am
wrong!) so we may have to do it on a telephone case conference call)

- The internal process will need to take account of the fact that we need to complete recruitment of the Post
Office staff to undertake the mediation, train the staff, link them with the legal team from Bond Dickinson, the
MI we need to collect, the agreement of the mandate, the briefing of the PO representatives, comms issues, the
documentation containing the resolution agreement.

- The WG process will need to show how mediators are selected and appointed, liaison arrangements with
CEDR (we also need to get a copy of the contract we have with CEDR), reporting back to the WG, payment of
fees and expenses for applicants and parties attending mediation.

Just a something to get you started. There is also some detail contained in the settlement policy.

Would it be possible for you and Andy to get your heads together to discuss how to get started on this and when
we might be able to get something to the Project Board, when established, for clearance, and then to the WG.

Best wishes
Belinda

Begin forwarded message:

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Date: 14 November 2013 16

Subject: Re: Network Representatives for Mediation
POL00300875
POL00300875

Hi Paula,
We do have a role profile and I've attached for your info should you want it but in essence:

A POL senior manager (level 4) and above with:

- thorough knowledge of the Spmr contract, the Spmr environment including Horizon operating practices

- good negotiation skills as they will be mandated to reach a settlement within previously agreed parameters
- ability to assess quickly the wider implications of any settlement they agree

Predominately the people suitable to undertake this role currently sit in Network or have recently moved out of
Network. I have engaged Kevin in the numbers and am currently pulling together a list of potentials to get to a team of

10. People that instinctively come to mind are Nick Beal, Craig Tuthill and some of the Regional Managers.

In releasing those we identify there is the consideration of the impact on their existing job hence I am suggesting we
limit their contribution to a month ie 8 cases in the month.

Hope this helps but if you need anything further please let me.

Thanks
Angela

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: Thursday, November 14, 2013 03:56 PM
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Paula Vennells

Subject: Network Representatives for Mediation

Angela
I had a brief conversation with Alice yesterday to update her where we were on Sparrow. We both agreed how
important it was to have the right calibre of individuals from Network and she asked what attributes/experience you

would be looking for and the process for selection.

I don’t need a long response, just two or three bullet points explaining how you plan to approach this would be
helpful.

Thanks
Paula
