POL00102373
POL00102373

Message
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject: FW: URGENT - Post Office

All: FYI. Ron.

From: ARBUTHNOT, James:
Sent: Wednesday, March 11, 2015 AM
To: Undisclosed recipients:

Subject: URGENT - Post Office

Dear Colleague,

Yesterday I received the news that the Post Office Mediation Scheme in which your constituent is a participant
has closed with immediate effect. Of the 80 or so cases remaining to go to mediation, the Post Office
announces that “The remaining cases will now be put forward for mediation, except those which have been
the subject of previous Court rulings. Post Office will continue to consider cases with a Court ruling on an
individual basis.”

The independent investigators, Second Sight, have been put on 30 days’ notice. They have been denied the
documents they consider they need to determine whether a miscarriage of justice has taken place. As I
understand it, this action by the Post Office denies to MPs the possibility of seeing Second Sight’s Part 2
Report, which is now to be restricted to Post Office eyes only.

The Working Group is to be closed, presumably with immediate effect. The Post Office has said in their Press
Release, of which I attach a copy, “Nothing has been found in any of the cases to suggest Horizon has not
worked as it should.” While I do not accept that to be true, the refusal to give Second Sight access to the
documents they considered they needed has made it impossible to satisfy our constituents that potential
miscarriages of justice have been or will be put right.

A link to the evidence given to the BIS Select Committee on 3" February 2015 may be found at
http://data. parliament.uk/writtenevidence/committeeevidence.svc/evidencedocument/business-innovation-
and-skills-committee/post-office-mediation/oral/17926.html .

I hope to have an early opportunity to bring this deeply worrying matter to the attention of the House, and
should be grateful for your support.

Yours ever,

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, MP
House of Commons
London SW1A 0AA

Website: www jamesarbuthnot.com

POL-0101956
POL00102373
POL00102373

ended recipient. If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail.

POL-0101956
