POL00448077

POL00448077

Postmaster
support
guide

® ©
POL00448077
POL00448077

Foreword

IRRELEVANT

Martin Roberts
Group Chief
Retail Officer

Dear Postmaster,
I'm delighted to introduce the fourth edition of our Postmaster Support Guide.

We first published this guide in summer 2020, to detail the range of support
available to you and your teams and how and where you can access it. Since
then, we've listened to you and have reviewed many of our processes and the
way in which we support you, implementing improvements along the way. For
example, we've previously let you know about changes to our investigations
process and additional support for investigating discrepancies in branch,

and we have included a Postmaster Guide to Policies within this guide.

This updated edition reflects the further changes we've made over
the last couple of years, and we will continue to keep it updated.

I hope you find the Postmaster Support Guide useful. If you have any feedback
about it or any suggestions for future inclusion, please do let us know through
the ‘Feedback and complaints’ button on Branch Hub, or of course speak to me
if I'm visiting your branch. I will continue to spend as much time as I can in the
Post Office branch network and I’m always keen to hear your views and ideas.

Thank you for all your continued work to support
customers in communities across the country.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Contents

04
05
06
11
13
16
21
74
28
29
31
34
S5

Section 1: The purpose of this guide
Section 2: The relationship

Section 3: General support

Section 4: We're listening

Section 5: Training

Section 6: Customer experience

Section 7: Managing cash and stock and branch balancing
Section 8: Branch security

Section 9: Remuneration

Section 10: Accounting dispute resolution
Section 11: Contract performance
Section 12: Communications

Section 13: Postmaster guide to policies

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
SECTION 1

The purpose of this guide

This guide has been written to share the support that is available from Post Office for
postmasters and their staff.

It is not intended to be a guide to everything that is available to you as a postmaster, but is
intended to help signpost key support routes. References in this guide to ‘postmaster’ and ‘you’
should, where applicable, be read to mean branch managers and other branch staff. Nothing

in this guide alters any of the terms of the contract between Post Office and postmasters or
introduces any new operational procedures, it is simply a guide to the available support.

Why has this guide been created?

Post Office has changed — and continues to change. The support Post Office offers postmasters.
has been significantly increased, both in the network and in the support centres. This guide
shares what that support looks like, so every postmaster can access support when they need

it and to ensure postmasters are aware of the most up-to-date support available to them.

We also recognise that sometimes things go wrong, and when they do we'll work with the

We know Post Office hasn't always got things right and we hope this guide gives you confidence
that Post Office continues to change, with postmasters at the heart of everything we do.

postmaster to resolve things as quickly as possible through the support processes we have in place.

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

SECTION 2

The relationship

You hold a unique position at the heart of the community you serve.
A position of trust. A position of respect.
You have chosen to invest in the Post Office brand and in the local community.

With all this, we share an obligation to the The contract between Post Office and postmasters
thousands of customers who use Post Office requires both parties to act in good faith.

branches to ensure that we are providing the Post Office will behave fairly and professionally
highest quality service and standards. It is when working with postmasters, and as a
beneficial for both Post Office and postmasters postmaster we know you will do the same in

to work together to achieve this, and Post Office return. This guide has been written to support

is committed to supporting you as a postmaster the relationship between Post Office and

and resetting the relationship with any postmaster —_ postmasters, outlining the expectations of both
where we have got things wrong in the past. parties to ensure we collectively deliver for

the customers and communities we serve.

If you don’t think we are getting it right, or don’t think a member of the
Post Office team is behaving in the right way, we want to know.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077

SECTION 3

General support

What we'll do for you and/or your team

We provide several direct sources of support for postmasters, including face-
to-face support, telephone support and digital support and continue to build
on these options to give you access to the support you need.

Digital support

Branch Hub https://branchhub.postoffice.co.uk/bh provides a digital platform for many tasks that used
to be done over the phone. Information to help you troubleshoot issues is available on Branch Hub.
More useful tools are being added regularly to make Branch Hub a one-stop shop for

postmasters. We see Branch Hub as an important tool to provide even better support to
postmasters and welcome any ideas for more things we can make digitally available for you.

Branch Hub also contains the Digital Service Desk, an online version of the IT Service Desk,
to report IT issues. If you have an IT issue and are unable to use the
we also provide a phone number to contact the IT Service Desk on

You will see throughout this guide that where digital support
exists we have highlighted it with the arrow icon to the right so
you know you can use a digital option whenever it is available.

Support with day-to-day transactions

We provide information on Horizon about how
to transact products and services and topics
such as branch balancing and discrepancies. To
access this Help resource on Horizon, please
press the Help Home button and then press the
appropriate button for the topic you need.

What we ask of you and/or your team

Please use the support available to you as
soon as possible if you experience an issue.
Keep in touch with your area manager and
please join events and meetings you are invited
to as these are designed to benefit you and
your business. Joining regular meetings or
support calls can benefit you and your team.

POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 3: General support

Face-to-face support

Your area manager can be contacted by telephone, email or WhatsApp. They provide
tailored support for an individual branch's needs and can share performance data and
discuss operational issues with you. Area managers and regional managers also hold events
and meetings for postmasters, which are valuable networking opportunities. You can add
your area manager's name, phone number and email address below for reference.

Area Manager:

Telephone:

Email:

Workplace Wellbeing portal

The Workplace Wellbeing portal at https://postmaster.workplacewellbeing.com
helps promote a positive wellbeing culture and provides a range of services to
help Postmasters and their staff stay mentally and physically healthy.

« Enjoy easy access to your health and wellbeing needs and unlock your full potential with just one tap
* Workplace Wellbeing is the go-to place for easy access to your health and wellbeing support

e Find everything you need in one place, including plenty of inspirational podcasts, videos
and articles covering Healthy Body, Healthy Mind, Healthy Life and Healthy Work

Access information about your trauma support service

Please remember there are other support options available including
training advisors, business support managers, security managers and
Branch Assurance Advisors. They are all available to support you in

Fe

the successful running of your. busines: upport needs, please
contact the Branch Support Centre or, “Tor visit Branch
Hub https://branchhub. postoffice.co.uk/bh in the first instance.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 3: General support

Service and Support

One of the key business areas that is here to support you is the
Service and Support function whose role it is to continuously
improve the experience of the support we provide to you.

Service Centres

The team supports branches through providing issue resolution through our two
contact centres — the Branch Support Centre and the IT Digital Service Desk.

Branch Support Centre!f GRO
Q Branch Hub - search ‘Feedback and complaints’

IT Digital Service Desk’.
Q Branch Hub - search ‘IT Issue’

Network Monitoring & Reconciliation

Supports branches to maintain accurate branch accounts and ensure
transactional errors are dealt with quickl i je team
can be contacted at pranchanalysicteant }

Network Support & Resolution

The team supports branches through providing fast and effective resolution on

any accounting issues raised. You can reach them via the Branch Support Centre.

Security Team

Supports branches by reducing risk of crime against
Post Office you and your team.
Grapevin }
grapevine.admit
post.office.security,

GRO

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 3: General support

Telephone support

POL00448077

POL00448077

The Branch Support Centre can help if you experience an operational issue and should

be your first port of call if you need any support
Branch Support Centre can be contacted onI,

w how to get it. The
If you need support

GRO

with any of the following issues, the best number to cail is listed below:

Arranging to resolve a discrepancy

Postmaster Account Support Team

ATM issues ATM Helpdesk
Branch balancing Branch Support Centre
Cash ordering Inventory Support Desk
Fit and Proper declarations

{You can also use Branch Hub to make a Branch Support Centre

Fit and Proper Declaration)

IT issues
{The Digital Service Desk on Branch Hub
is also available to log an incident)

Missing posters or leaflets

IT Service Desk

Branch Support Centre stock queries

Remuneration queries

Reporting a security incident
(For example robbery, burglary and sleight
of hand incidents}

Reporting suspicious activity, fraud
and suspicions of money laundering

Safe repairs

Security equipment

Signage replacement

Smart IDs

Transaction Corrections (TCs)

Remuneration Support Centre

Grapevine

Grapevine

Insafe
Post Office Equipment Team

Futurama (approved
signage manufacturer)

Branch Support Centre

For an explanation of the TC, call the
number on the TC notification

To dispute a TC it's the Disputes Team

GRO

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 3: General support

The NFSP (nfsp.org.uk)

POL00448077
POL00448077

The National Federation of Sub-Postmasters (NFSP) is the trade association of those who
own and operate Post Office branches around the country. As postmasters themselves,

they are acutely aware of the challenges postmasters face on a day-to-day basis.

Mission

The NFSP is a membership-led organisation,
supporting members to operate Post Office
and retail outlets. It represents their interests
at every level of policy and decision-making.
It offers an opportunity to belong to, and take
part in, a community working together for a
more successful future. Membership is free.

The Board of Directors

The Board of Directors are either postmasters
themselves or representatives of owner/operators
of Post Office branches and provide a national
reach for networking and support on all issues
relating to Post Office branches. They work with
Post Office on behalf of members to enable a
positive and productive relationship between

the network and Post Office.

Networking

Split into 10 regions, there are regular
seminars that are open to postmasters with
guest speakers from across Post Office,
Royal Mail and other stakeholders, with the
aim of informing postmasters of the latest
product information and retail trends.

Retail Support

The NFSP offers free advice, help and support
to postmasters to improve the business and help
drive sales. This covers store layout, preferred
suppliers, commercial property and finance.

Mails Support

A key component of every Post Office is mails
segregation. The NFSP Mails Segregation Team
offers support to enable postmasters to collectively
achieve the agreed targets with Royal Mail.

— a

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
SECTION 4

We're listening

We want you to be confident that if you have a complaint or feedback, you
have the appropriate channel to escalate your concerns and that you have
the confidence these are dealt with effectively and in a timely manner.

Insight from any complaints will help us identify trends and aim to fix
the root cause of reoccurring issues so we want to hear from you:

Branch Hub — You can share your feedback at any time by following this link
https://branchhub.postoffice.co.uk/bh and clicking on the ‘Feedback and

complaints’ box. This will escalate the complaint to our Issue Resolution Team.

Centre — You can also contact the Branch Support Centre on
i here a Branch Support Advisor will take ownership of your
complaint and escalate, where necessary, to the Issue Resolution Team.

POL00448077
POL00448077

Area Managers — Where possible your Area Manager will aim to resolve the complaint

or issue themselves but if unable to do so will escalate to our Issue Resolution Team.

What we'll do for you and/or your team:

e When your complaint reaches the Issue Resolution
Team, we will acknowledge it within 24 hours
e We will endeavour to resolve the complaint within
ten business days and keep you informed of progress
e We aim to identify any wider trends in issues and
complaints to fix the root cause of reoccurring issues
e We invite feedback on satisfaction to
improve the service we provide

What we ask of you and/or your team:

e Please raise any complaints or feedback
through Branch Hub, the Branch Support
Centre or Area Managers; and

e Please respond to any requests for
additional information as required.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 4: We're listening

Speak Up

Speak Up is Post Office’s whistleblowing service, enabling anyone to raise
concerns in confidence (and anonymously, if preferred). Speaking Up is valued
at Post Office. We are committed to conducting business with the highest
standards of honesty, integrity and openness and ‘doing the right thing’.

Having a healthy Speak Up culture helps Post Office to give you a voice. There is no
definitive list of what can be reported; we want you and your team to feel able to tell us
about any issues or wrongdoings you feel have not been resolved, especially where they
relate to failure to comply with the law, Post Office policy or procedures, miscarriages
of justice, criminal offences, endangering someone's health and safety, damage to the
environment, and covering up wrongdoing associated with these areas, or others.

What we'll do for you and/or your team:

e Wework to create trust within Post Office by ensuring people feel confident
enough to raise concerns, knowing they will be taken seriously

e We ensure that issues and concerns are fully investigated, root causes
are identified, and suggestions are made for improvements

e Weill send you an initial response within five working days

What we ask of you and/or your team:

e You can use the ‘Feedback and complaints’ button on Branch Hub to
report any issues you are having in branch. If you don't have access to
Branch Hub or believe that an issue you have raised on Branch Hub has
not been fully resolved, you can raise the issue with your Area Manager

* Ifyou don't feel able to raise an issue with your Area Manager or on
Branch Hub, you can raise issues directly i i ith
the Speak Up team by emailing speakup.

e You can also raise Speak Up concerns anonymously
and confidentially using confidential reporting channel

tor http://speakup.postoffice.co.uk

GR Code

oF Using this

Central Investigations Unit

Our new Central Investigations Unit will collect evidence when an incident is
reported that includes a suspected theft or fraud impacting Post Office, Postmasters
and subsidiaries or their staff, including reports sent through Speak Up.

The unit specialises in complex or sensitive cases, will follow all lines of enquiry,

and will test the evidence to help decide whether the reported incident should be
referred to the police. Once an incident is referred to the police, Post Office would not
play any further part in any decisions - the police will decide whether to investigate
further and whether to refer it to prosecutors. Post Office will therefore only ever

act as a potential victim of crime and assist the police in gathering evidence.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

SECTION 5

Training

Early days support

The support we provide as you begin your journey with Post Office is key to helping
you build a vibrant Post Office. We start with the basics and build your confidence
to help you realise the commercial opportunities that a Post Office brings.

What we'll do for you

e We'll ensure that we fully support you during your early days of appointment
to guarantee you have the best possible start as a postmaster

e We'll reinforce and embed our training and build on the basics brilliantly to make sure you
are proficient in Horizon navigation, balancing and cash management. To help you achieve
this, we'll deliver to you a comprehensive package of training which includes eLearning,
classroom training and delivery of up to six days of on-site support by highly skilled training
professionals. This support will be supplemented by a minimum of one repeat balance
visit, ensuring that you are comfortable with the preparation of the weekly accounts

e The completion of on-site training is not the end of the early days support relationship; after this
period we pass the baton to your personal business support manager. Their goal is to tailor their
support to help you and your team move from being good to great during the early months
of appointment

What we ask of you

* Make best possible use of our skills, knowledge and experience - it really
is that simple. Please arrange for you or your nominated team member(s)
to be on site and available during the six days of initial training
e Oncompletion of your six days’ training, please be honest about any areas you
and your staff require greater support on and make sure you use the experience
our business support managers offer. They are highly skilled retail professionals
and some have been postmasters themselves — they know just how you feel
e Above all, never be afraid to shout out for additional support. We recognise that we all
learn in different ways and we have the willingness and flexibility to meet your needs

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 5: Training

POL00448077
POL00448077

We also appreciate that training support is not just about those early days. Itis important that you
and/or your team continue to feel confident when conducting Post Office transactions and processes

using Horizon.

What we'll do for you

e We'll provide a comprehensive operational °
training package to you and/or your team.
We want you to feel you can complete the
basic transactions and processes brilliantly
We have a blended learning approach,
which means we provide a combination
of online learning programmes, in-branch
training, face-to-face classroom courses
and operational guides and work aids.
There really is something for everyone who
needs to operate in branch using Horizon
Our Postmaster Operational Training
Catalogue is available and has details
of all the different options available.

You'll find details of how the training

can be assigned or booked, how long it

is expected to take and where to go for
further help with your learning needs
We'll monitor and review changes in
regulations for products and services and
we'll provide you with the training you and
your staff need to complete regularly to
make sure your branch remains compliant
and your customers are protected

Did you know?

What we ask of you

Please take advantage of the learning
available to you and your team. This

will give you the confidence and skills

to deliver great customer service
Remember operational training is available
to any new or existing members of your
team so please browse the catalogue and
take advantage of the learning options
available. The catalogue is available on the
Training Article page on Branch Hub.
Please make sure everyone completes

the required compliance training on time.
If the need arises, please work with our
Branch Standards team to address

any compliance issues

Remember to register all assistants and
make sure each individual working on the
Post Office counter has their own Smart ID
You can find the Operational Training
Guide, Work Aids, Distance Learning
Packs and Compliance Workbooks on

the training pages of Branch Hub

We ask for feedback on all our courses. Here is what some postmasters had to say:

“I've gained better
understanding of how to
investigate discrepancies.”

time. Thank you.”
Investigating Discrepancies

One-day Back Office
classroom course

“The course is perfect. It
was well explained and
we were engaged all the

“Everything about the course
was good and the trainer
was excellent. The way they
did the training and the way
they engaged everyone in
the room was excellent.”

‘Two-day Basic Transaction
classroom course

Post Office - Postmaster support guide

POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 5: Training

Knowledge Articles

Did you know there is information on Branch Hub:
https://branchhub.postoffice.co.uk/bh to help

you troubleshoot common issues and to boost your
knowledge about Post Office processes, products and
services? Frequently accessed examples include:
Help with Transaction Correction processes
Help with completing and monitoring reversals

e Help with weekly and monthly stock unit processes
e Help with IT issues

You can also raise your IT incident there if you can't resolve it using the
information provided.

More documents are being added all the time. It's worth checking there
first if you experience an issue or want to find out more information
~it could save you a phone call to the Branch Support Centre.

' You'll find the information on Branch Hub at https://branchhub.postoffice.co.uk/bh }

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
SECTION 6

Customer experience

Customers visiting your branch want to have the best possible experience. Obvious aspects such as
keeping your premises clean and tidy, having well-stocked shelves, being open when the customer
information says you will be open and friendly, knowledgeable staff all contribute to the

overall experience.

Not only does this ensure the customer enjoys their visit, but it is also likely to have financial
benefits for your business. Acting on customer feedback, both positive and negative,

can make a real difference and mean customers will want to come back. When there is a
consistently good customer experience in the Post Office network, the Post Office brand is
strengthened and both Post Office and postmasters alike benefit from that strong brand.

Standards

It is important to keep the branch safe, clean and accessible so

What we'll do for you

* We provide advice and feedback on branch standards through your area manager.
We can also help you with any further understanding of what is required to meet the
Post Office branch standards through your area manager if you think you need it

« We provide branches with a customer feedback tool through Qualtrics
(https://postoffice.eu.qualtrics.com)

e We have provided a simple and easy-to-follow Display Standards Guide that outlines the
Post Office display standards for each area of your branch, including checklists, and
contact details of where to find more help. Please ask your area manager for a copy

What we ask of you

e Asaminimum, please keep the outside of your branch clean and well-maintained and make sure
the entrance is accessible to everyone and your business complies with the Equality Act 2010

e Inside, please keep the branch clean, tidy and well-kept and the aisles clear and
accessible. Please keep all counters and counter screens free from clutter

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 6: Customer experience

Opening times

It is important branches open for their advertised opening times as it gives customers

confidence they can access Post Office services when we've said they can. Making sure we
have the correct opening hours for your branch also means we can accurately reflect this in
your safe access and security monitoring times, keeping you and your staff safe and secure.

What we'll do for you

* We advertise the opening hours for your branch on our online Branch Finder
tool accessed by customers at postoffice.co.uk/branch-finder. We aim to make
the customer-facing website as informative as possible for customers
We will consider any changes to opening hours you wish to make and work this through with you

What we ask of you and/or your team

e Please make sure your opening hours match the ones advertised to customers on

Branch Finder so customers can access Post Office services during those times

If you wish to make a permanent change to your opening hours, please contact the Branch
jin the first instance, and please wait for confirmation

that the request has been accepted before making any changes to your opening hours

If the store is open longer than the Post Office, please keep the Paystation” on the retail

counter so customers can access certain services such as energy payments out of hours

If you have a combi counter, please ensure it is available during your retail

opening hours with trained staff available to serve customers

Did you know?
Google My Business is a free and easy to use tool for businesses to
manage their online presence across Google Search and Maps.

To help customers find your Post Office you can simply verify
your business and edit your business information online.

50% of all local searches on a mobile lead to a store visit within 24 hours!
To learn more about how Post Office can help you manage your

Google My Business account effectively speak to your Area Manager
or contact the GMB team at branch.informatiot

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 6: Customer experience

Health and safety at branches

Like anyone operating business premises, postmasters have a legal duty of care to ensure,
as far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare of your employees,
customers and members of the public at or outside your premises. There are specific duties
under the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 and the Occupiers’ Liability Acts 1957
and 1984, such as making sure your premises are safe, including external signage.

What we'll do for you

e We can direct you to the guidance available about your health and safety management
obligations, including guidance published by the Health and Safety Executive at
https://www.hse.gov.uk/

* Employers who have five or more employees should undertake a risk assessment and you can
find a tool for this at https://www.hse.gov.uk/retail/index.htm. Examples can be found at
https://www.hse.gov.uk/risk/casestudies/

What we ask of you

* Please regularly inspect your premises, fixtures and fittings (including
external signage) to ensure you meet the necessary legislation and identify
any potential issues that might need maintenance or repair

e Please familiarise yourself with and follow the guidance available to
you such as the Health and Safety Executive guidance above

i
i
' e Your area manager has been provided with accessibility guidelines and can give advice
i
'
i
i

Signage

Having clear and strong signage outside your store makes a big difference in attracting
footfall by shouting out that your Post Office is there, communicating the main services
on offer and letting customers know you're open for business. Inside your branch,
strong signage helps the customer find the service counters more easily, communicates
when a position is open or closed and tells them what services you offer.

What we'll do for you

e We provide advice and feedback on signage requirements and standards through your
area manager

* Wealso have a useful shopfront guide available to help you create a
highly visible, attractive and cost-effective shopfront that will help you
attract new customers. Please ask your area manager for a copy

What we ask of you

e If you are planning a major refit or refresh, our Branch Design team can help
with advice and can be emailed at branchdesig

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 6: Customer experience

Marketing material

Marketing material helps you promote products, services and offers to your customers, to help you
grow sales.

What we'll do for you

e Periodically, new marketing material will be sent to you, according to the size of branch and
products available, along with detailed display instructions so you know what to place where

e Please display the material following the display instructions and
remove any other older marketing material that isn’t current

Let us know, via the contact details in the display instructions, if you are receiving
too much or too little material and we'll adjust this to meet what you need

What we ask of you

Did you know?

Social media when used the right way could help grow your business.

We have a mobile phone app to download called #WeArePostOffice,
which allows you and/or your staff to schedule and publish posts,
compare performance with other branches, and also easily track

the branch performance. You can register f king

to your area manager or emailing social i

ned

In addition to this we have a Social Media Resource Library
available on Branch Hub at Digital presence — Why Use Social
Media which includes the standards to follow when using social
media and also wider training on how to create a presence.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 6: Customer experience

Products

We need to show our regulators and customers that we are following the rules around promoting,
introducing and arranging certain products including Financial Services, money laundering
compliance and data protection rules. It’s also important that all the products and services we offer
are transacted correctly, for example mails items following pricing in proportion guidelines.

What we'll do for you

e We work with the relevant regulators and suppliers direct, saving you both time
and cost. We provide you with products and services that are easy to transact on
Horizon, with clear operating guidelines and training and support when needed
Our website has a customer chat and contact function so we
can answer customer queries on your behalf

What we ask of you

* Please make sure everyone working in the branch completes all their necessary compliance
training within the required timescales and applies the learning from this training
To ensure the best possible customer experience, please make sure all
staff know how the products and services should be transacted

Did you know?

We offer Customer Experience University (CXu), a free training programme
designed to coach an improved level of understanding of customer
experience, why it is important to your customers and how to improve. CXu
consists of two workbooks (Foundation and Advanced) that you can complete
at your own pace and help you consolidate your existing skills and learning.

If you are interested, please speak to your area manager. They have worked

through CXu and been accredited themselves to be able to really support
your learning and help you get the benefits from the programme.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

SECTION 7

Managing cash and stock
and branch balancing

Getting cash and stock levels just right is an important part of running a Post Office branch.
Keeping too much cash and stock is not only a security risk to you, your staff and customers,
but it could also mean there is not enough cash and stock for other branches.

Too little cash or stock and you may not have enough for customers. There are also major
productivity benefits in managing the levels of cash, stock and currency at the correct
levels in that less cash, stock and currency makes it easier for you to count.

Accurate transactions

Getting the basics right and ensuring customer transactions are processed
accurately helps reduce potential mistakes in branch, makes sure the customer
gets the service they want and limits any financial losses to you.

Some top tips:

e Please check the amount on screen after you enter the customer's transaction and
make sure the Horizon online basket is empty before serving the next customer

e When completing chip and PIN transactions, please make sure the correct withdrawal or deposit
icon is pressed

e Remember to double-check the physical cash or stock that’s being transferred
to or from the customer before the transaction is completed

e Please ensure any staff serving at the counter concentrate on the transaction in hand as this makes
sure customer transactions are dealt with accurately and it also helps protect against
sleight-of-hand incidents

Cash declarations and overnight cash holdings

Cash in branch needs to be accurately checked and recorded on a regular basis to ensure the right

levels of cash can be delivered and returned. It will also help you or your staff identify and resolve any
discrepancies quickly or ask for our help in doing so. Holding too much cash is inefficient for you, but also
presents a security risk that could impact your personal safety and that of your staff and customers.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

‘Section 7: Managing cash and stock and branch balancing

What we'll do for you

We make sure you have enough cash to meet customer demand, with notes and coins provided
at no cost to you, and we plan and carry out cash deliveries and pick-ups from your branch
We'll work with you to establish the appropriate levels of cash to hold if circumstances change
We can provide you with information on what we think your cash holdings are at any time
We'll provide support in investigating any cash discrepancies you may experience

We provide you with the appropriate security equipment to

store the cash and stock required in your branch

What we ask of you

Please complete an accurate cash declaration on Horizon for all the stock units used every

day as close as possible to, but no later than, 7pm. This should include any stock units

that may have only been used to accept Transaction Acknowledgements or to transfer
cash/stock/currency. If a stock unit is not used, or if the branch is closed on the next day,

please make sure the cash declaration is the last transaction on Horizon that day

During the declaration, please declare notes and coins against the correct denomination,

any damaged or mutilated notes should be declared as ‘unusable’. Your cash declarations

need to be accurate and a true reflection of the cash held in branch — otherwise it's

difficult to plan cash for your branch and to provide support if any discrepancies are

identified. After you've completed your declaration, use the variance check function — this
makes sure you are identifying any potential discrepancies on the day they happen

Please check the planned order on Horizon before each remittance day to find

out how much cash the branch will receive or will have to return on the next

remittance. Any cash return pouches should be prepared ready for collection

by the CViT driver by the appropriate time on your remittance day

You can keep reviewing the level of cash by looking at the balance snapshot and identifying the
level of payments against receipts. Please let the inventory team know o lif
there are any major changes to circumstances for your branch, such as a new business customer

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077

Section 7: Managing cash and stock and branch balancing

Balancing

All branches need to complete their Trading Period once a month within their designated group. Best
practice is to balance weekly so any discrepancies can be identified quickly and over a shorter time frame.

What we'll do for you

e Ifa branch discrepancy arises, we provide support and assistance over the phone to help
identify and fix the cause of the issue. If the reason for the discrepancy cannot be found, a
dedicated branch support case handler will work with you to investigate the discrepancy

What we ask of you

e Please complete an accurate Trading Period each month, and a weekly balance whenever
possible, declaring and settling any discrepancies. If a discrepancy is settled to cash, please
make sure the corresponding physical cash is put into the account

If you need help with a branch discrepancy, please call the Branch Support Centre

POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

‘Section 7: Managing cash and stock and branch balancing

Remittances of Cash, Stock & Currency

Please follow the correct process for preparing and receiving
remittances to reduce the likelihood of errors in branch.

What we'll do for you

e Weensure that any remittances sent to postmasters are prepared accurately to
minimise errors in branch. We'll issue a Transaction Correction if there is an error

* We'll investigate any discrepancies in remittances and highlight any issues in branch, for
example stock not being booked in, as soon as possible

What we ask of you

e When preparing a remittance, it’s worth having two members of staff on hand
to double-check the contents of the pouch before sealing it, if possible
e Please record the amounts being returned accurately and when receiving
remittances check the amount received matches the delivery note
e Please input a delivery of stock items into Horizon within 24 hours of
delivery and double-check manually when inputting quantities
e If there i: r in the remittance received, please contact the Branch Support Centre on
s soon as possible

Did you know?

Our cash centres use Bank of England-approved equipment including High Speed
Note Sorters to identify discrepancies and counterfeit notes. The note sorters are
tested regularly to ensure only authentic, good quality notes are recirculated to
branches. Bank of England carries out regular announced and unannounced audits
to ensure we are complying with procedures, especially on how the equipment

is used and to ensure we are adhering to the strictest of security standards.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 7: Managing cash and stock and branch balancing

Transaction Corrections

Transaction Corrections should be kept to a minimum in an efficient branch, and following the
guidelines on managing cash and stock will help you ensure this for your branch. However,
occasionally a Transaction Correction will need to be issued. If you keep getting Transaction
Corrections for the same reasons, it would be worth checking your operational processes, and
please don't hesitate to ask us for support if you need to.

What we'll do for you

e We always explain the reason for a Transaction Correction and
answer any questions you may have about it
e Wealways try to process Transaction Corrections as quickly as possible
* If you dispute a Transaction Correction, we'll work with you and/or your team to investigate it

What we ask of you

«tis up to you how you manage Transaction Corrections in your branch. For
example, you may only want to accept or dispute them yourself and for staff to
leave them for you to deal with — if this is the case, then please make sure your
staff know what to do with Transaction Correction messages on Horizon
If you don't understand a Transaction Correction or require more information, please call
the telephone number on the Transaction Correction notification for further support
If you don't agree with a Transaction Correction, please contact the Transaction Correction
Disputes Team oni _ email disputesteam
Please note you won't be able to complete your monthly balancing
until all Transaction Corrections are accepted

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
‘Section 7: Managing cash and stock and branch balancing

Branch Monitoring

To ensure the accuracy and integrity of branch cash and stock across the Post
Office network, the accounting and transactions completed by branches is
monitored remotely by Post Office to provide you with the best support.

What we'll do for you

If we identify a potential issue with branch accounting or transactions, we'll complete
a desktop investigation to understand the potential issue in more detail

If the cause of the issue is simple, we'll telephone the branch to explain how to resolve the issue

Where the cause is more complex or the branch requires more support, we'll
arrange to visit the branch and work with you to try to resolve the issue

If we can't identify the cause of the issue, we'll arrange for a branch assurance

visit at the branch. The aim of a branch assurance visit is to ensure the accuracy

and integrity of cash and stock at the branch and to provide support to the

postmaster with any accounting and compliance issues. A branch assurance visit

will always be conducted by at least two Post Office staff and we will always

explain the reason(s) for conducting the branch assurance visit at the start

If the branch assurance visit identifies an issue with the accuracy and integrity of cash and/
or stock, then we will carry out further investigations into the potential causes of the issue

What we ask of you

Please follow the processes for managing cash and stock. Meeting the expectations around
cash management, cash declarations, balancing, remittances and Transaction Corrections
helps us to identify any branches that may need additional support to achieve this

If you experience any unexplained discrepancies in your branch, please notify

us as quickly as possible, whatever the size of the discrepancy. We can then

provide you with the right level of support to try to resolve the situation

If we contact you about any issue identified in your branch, please work

with us to help rectify the issue or provide additional information

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
SECTION 8

Branch security

POL00448077
POL00448077

Your safety and the safety of your team and your customers is very important to us. Full guidelines
on branch security for your particular branch format can be found in the Security Operations Guide —
please follow the guidelines at all times. This can be found on Branch Hub by searching for Security

Operations Guide or you can request a copy by contacting Grapevine o

What we'll do for you

e Where applicable, we supply security equipment to every branch
according to each branch's circumstances and contract type

e We work with the police and other external authorities on your
behalf to help protect the network from crime

e We provide support to promote security compliance

* We have a zero tolerance approach to issues of violence and abuse towards you and your team

* We provide support in the event of any security incidents at branches

What we ask of you

e For your safety, please follow the correct procedures for opening and closing the branch.
When entering the branch, make sure the door is locked before the alarm is turned off
e Please formally identify all visitors, including contractors, and record their details

* Always keep your working cash to a minimum and never have
more than the maximum your branch format allows

e Please store bulk cash in the safe, with any time-overlocks on at all times, and

please keep all safes locked with the key removed from the safe lock
Please secure the keys to the cash funding units (e.g. BidiSafe)
and drop safes in the main safe during business hours
e Please make sure you use appropriate security equipment
e If you or your team experi or violence at the branch,
please call Grapevine on!” GRO. as quickly as possible.
* You can register with the Grapevine service by calling GRO

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

SECTION 9

Remuneration

When running a business that includes a Post Office, you'll need to understand the revenues
and costs of that part of your operation. We provide a monthly advice or invoice that breaks
down your branch's revenues by product type and sales volumes, so you can look at your
branch sales performance and identify opportunities for growing income and margin.

What we'll do for you

We remunerate you for transactions that take place in your branch and any that
take place online or through our direct channels that are linked to your branch
We make sure those fees are accurately calculated and paid in line with our
obligations, as set out in the contractual remuneration booklets. We occasionally
update those remuneration booklets and provide all interim notifications of contractual
changes to the remuneration booklets through the monthly remuneration advice/
invoice inserts, or by personal letter to your registered contact address
We ide aR eration Support Centre that you can contact by phot
jor email at postmaster.remuneration.support.tea!
if you have any questions about remuneration

What we ask of you

If you haven't already, please check whether your business should be VAT registered —
information can be found at https://www.gov.uk/vat-registration. Please inform us if

you should be VAT registered so we can ensure your contract and remuneration are set

up correctly. This will also ensure that relevant Postmasters and, in turn, Post Office,

comply with legal obligations around tax evasion under the Criminal Finances Act 2017

Many postmasters already have, but if you haven't done so please register on the online portal
at http://www.opustrustweb.co.uk/pol-agents/ to download and review each monthly
remuneration advice/invoice. Where VAT is paid, please use these monthly invoices to complete
your quarterly VAT returns. If you identify any discrepancy with your own records (or with
reference to a Horizon Remuneration Report) please contact the Remuneration Support

Centre above as quickly as possible. You can also contact this team if you forget your password
for the online portal above or if you need a temporary password to register on the portal

Please read and make sure you understand your remuneration booklet and any interim

changes we let you know about. If in doubt, please contact your area manager

If you make any changes to your company, your contact email address or personal address, or
your bank account details, please tell the Remuneration Support Centre as soon as possible

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
SECTION 10

Accounting dispute

resolution

If things do not quite go to plan, we want you
to be confident that if you report the issue to
us we will be there to support you. By working
together to find a solution, we hope to be able
to work out reasonable and practical steps to
resolve any issue. By taking this approach, we
want to be able to give you the confidence that
Post Office will resolve the matter without

it taking too long to reach a conclusion.

We ask that as far as possible you or your
team undertake your own investigations in
branch and we can provide support for you
to do this. The Branch Accounting guide sets
out the support available and can be found
on Branch Hub at Training article page.

Top Tips for investigating
discrepancies in your branch:

1. Re-count the cash — has some cash
been missed, for example, cash
left in a drawer or drop safe?

2. Check the values entered for the cash
declaration on Horizon — have you miskeyed
a value or left a ‘0’ off an entry?

3. Re-check the stock on hand and values
entered for the postage stamps declaration

4. Ask someone else who works in the branch
to check for you — sometimes a new pair
of eyes will spot something you missed

5. Are there any outstanding transfers between
stock units that haven't been accepted?

6. If you have Camelot Lottery or Paystation,
have you moved the cash across to the stock
unit for the Transaction Acknowledgements
you accepted that morning?

7. Have you left a receipt to the side to
reverse later and then forgotten to do it?

8. If you have an ATM, have the correct
amounts been entered into Horizon daily?

When you complete a monthly trading period
balance, any branch discrepancies for that
trading period will need to be accounted for

so that you can start the new trading period
afresh, with zero discrepancies. Depending on
your branch type, before rolling over into the
new trading period, you will have the following
option available on the Horizon Online screen:
Review Dispute CALL BSC: You can select

this option for all discrepancies. The system
derived figure won't move, but the branch will
return to balance. The discrepancy amount will
move into a centralised holding account at the
end of the trading period, awaiting dispute,
further investigation, a Transaction Correction or
payment to Post Office. If you choose Review
Dispute CALL BSC, please call the Branch
Support Centre to let them know what you
would like to do with the amount moved, as they
will be able to provide support and assistance.

How to dispute a discrepancy

Whichever option you use to settle a discrepancy
at the end of the trading period, you can still
dispute the discrepancy with Post Office. To

do this please contact the Branch Support
Centre. If you can evidence the reason for

the discrepancy or if you firmly believe the
discrepancy will be resolved through a
transaction correction, please call the Branch
Support Centre with all the details you have.

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 10: Accounting dispute resolution

What we'll do for you and/or your team

We will investigate any accounting dispute properly, fully and fairly,

and ensure that it complies with its contractual obligations

Once you make that initial call into Branch Support Centre, we will support
you through your balancing issue and if we are unable to resolve your

issue we will pass your case over to the Investigations team

Your case will be picked up by an Investigations Advisor who will notify you
by phone and/or email to let you know your case has been picked up

At the end of the investigation, the Investigations Advisor will inform you of the outcome

of your discrepancy and they will offer you an associated report of the findings
If you disagree with the outcome of an investigation, we have
set up a Review Committee to consider the case

Transaction Corrections

You may still receive a Transaction Correction for the discrepancy. If so and you need any support, please
call the number on the Transaction Correction notification — the team will be able to explain why we sent
it and answer any questions. If you disagree with the reason for a Transaction Correction, please contact
our Transaction Correction Disputes Team at disputesteam!

Whichever option you choose to settle a discrepancy at the end of the Trading Period, you can still

contact the Branch Support Centre for support to investigate the discrepancy or to dispute it.

Current issues with Horizon

We have a process in place to proactively identify issues that have the potential to impact
branches. We also have a process in place for Fujitsu to investigate potential issues
raised by postmasters. We inform branches about issues that affect their operations
through Branch Focus or, for more urgent issues, through a Memoview.

What we'll do for you

We make sure we address any issues we are aware of that have

the potential to impact branch accounts or operations

If you have any balancing discrepancies that you cannot explain, we'll check
for current issues we're aware of to see if this could be the cause

If you think there is an operational issue with Horizon that may explain a
balancing discrepancy, we will ask Fujitsu to investigate and we will keep you
updated. If Fujitsu does identify that the issue raised could impact branch
accounts or operations, we will follow our processes to resolve the issue

What we ask of you

If you experience any branch discrepancies, please follow the guidance set out in
the Branch Accounting — Discrepancies and Dispute Resolution Support document.
Asa reminder you can find this on Branch H. ining article page.

Please notify the Branch Support Centre on} GRO iif you experience an
operational issue with Horizon

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

SECTION 11

Contract performance

Contracts

There may be times when you want to refer to your contract with Post Office. We understand
that postmasters may not always be able to easily find their contract in their own records,

but if you can, referring to it may be enough to answer your query. However, if this doesn’t
answer your question, please contact ContractsTeam [Bnd we'll be in touch
to answer your query and provide a copy of your specific contract where required.

Contract performance

There may be occasions when the obligations as set out in your contract are not being met. If this is
the case, Post Office will take steps to ensure performance of the contract, while also supporting you in
this process.

What we'll do for you

e If there is an issue, we ensure that all necessary steps have been taken by our teams,
including your area manager, to support you and address the identified issue. We'll
investigate the issue fully and fairly, gathering as much information as possible
relating to the issue that has come to light, working as appropriate with both you
and other Post Office teams, before taking any formal contractual action

We'll act on any contact from you, written or otherwise, as quickly as possible

What we ask of you and/or your team

« Where reasonably possible, please work with us to resolve any
performance issues through the available methods

e Once any investigation has been concluded, please comply with the
terms of any letter (including a written direction) issued by us

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 11: Contract performance

Suspension

There are rare circumstances where it is necessary to suspend the postmaster from operating
the branch. Any period of suspension should be as short as possible and any suspended
postmaster will receive appropriate support throughout this time. A specific contract

advisor will be assigned to keep any suspended postmaster up to date with developments
during their suspension and will act as a single point of contact through this process.

What we'll do for you

We only carry out a suspension where absolutely necessary and when all alternatives have
been considered

We'll keep in contact with you throughout the suspension period,

and respond to any contact from you as quickly as possible

We pay remuneration during the suspension

We'll keep the suspension under regular review and bring it to a conclusion as soon as

is practical

What we ask of you and/or your team

«If a suspension takes place, please comply with the terms of the suspension and be
open and honest with us so the situation can be resolved as quickly as possible
Please respond to any written correspondence and telephone calls from us
as quickly as possible and please remain flexible and available for meetings
with the contract advisor to minimise the length of the suspension

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 11: Contract performance

Termination

Termination is an extremely serious step and it is vital that the termination
process is as clear as reasonably possible so any potential misunderstandings
between the postmaster and Post Office can be avoided.

There may, however, be circumstances when termination of a postmaster’s contract needs to be
considered and a decision to terminate made following a full and fair investigation by Post Office.

What we'll do for you

e We'll gather as much information as possible relating to the issue that has caused termination
to be considered, working as appropriate with you and other Post Office teams

« Well treat you fairly throughout the termination procedure

e We'll act on and respond to any contact from you as quickly as possible

« We'll give you the opportunity to dispute any decision taken to terminate
the contract and to ask that the decision be reviewed

What we ask of you and/or your team

e Please be open and honest with us and please respond to written correspondence
and telephone calls as quickly as possible to support the decision-making process
e Please remain flexible and available for meetings with the contract advisor if required

Did you know?

The postmaster contract contains certain termination rights meaning
that the contract can be terminated without notice (i.e. effective
immediately). This may only potentially occur in circumstances
where the postmaster has committed a breach that is so serious and
fundamental to the contract that it cannot continue. The following are
examples of why a contract may be terminated without notice:
«Where the postmaster no longer holds a valid property interest (a freehold
or leasehold demonstrating exclusive control of the basic business)
« Where the postmaster no longer operates the basic business
(the business carried out from the branch premises, for
example selling the associate retail business)
« Where the postmaster has admitted theft of Post Office funds
e Sustained non-compliance in the operation of the branch

It's important that you are familiar with your contract and the Contracts
Team (contractstea can provide advice if you have
any questions.

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

SECTION 12

Communications

For you and your team

* We send pop-up memoview updates that appear on the Horizon terminal for urgent
operational information. You can also sign up to our memoview text service.

«We publish personalised operational updates and change information each
week in Branch Focus that branch teams need to know, such as product
updates. This is published on Horizon, by email and on Branch Hub

«We send out regular printed guides to update you on all our in-branch marketing
campaigns and how to display the point of sale materials provided

For you
« We send business announcements when we have something important to share, and a weekly
postmaster email that summarises key issues or changes and explains how we will support you
e We hold regular events for you to share your views and hear from our Executive team, led by CEO Nick Read

* You will be supported by local communications via your area and regional managers, such as regional
Facebook groups which are available for you to connect with us and with other postmasters

Operational tasks

What we'll do for you
e We provide Branch Hub as an interactive tool for you and/or your staff. Branch Hub
provides a digital tool for several tasks that used to need a phone call to us

‘
e Online tasks include: — ordering stock and cash and coin — reporting an IT issue :
telling us what marketing materials you need for your branch — completing 1
your annual Fit and Proper declaration — finding information to help you H
troubleshoot issues — giving feedback or submitting a complaint i

‘

‘

e More useful features such as accessing your branch sales performance
and being able to access local marketing support have been added to
help make Branch Hub a one-stop shop for postmasters

e Sign up here if you haven't already: https://branchhub.postoffice.co.uk/bh

What we ask of you

e Please read and use the communications channels we provide for you to ensure you keep up to
date with Post Office news and developments. We welcome your feedback and questions

* Please make sure you and your team are aware of and implement any changes to
products and services or ways of working that we let you know about

«Please keep us up to date with your latest contact details so we can make
sure you get communications the way you want to receive them

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
SECTION 13

POL00448077
POL00448077

Postmaster Guide

to Policies

1. Introduction

The purpose of this guide

Post Office is committed to working with, and
supporting, postmasters. Post Office has policies
in place that set out principles for our Post Office
teams to follow. This guide has been written

to share information about those principles,

and how they are linked by the policies.

The policies detail how Post Office teams

will support postmasters and their teams in
running Post Office branches. They ensure
that all our people understand the importance
of following policy principles when dealing
with postmasters and their teams.

The policies have the objective of ensuring
that we are treating postmasters and their
staff fairly, transparently and professionally.

This guide is a non-contractual document provided
for information. It does not form part of the
contract between any postmaster and Post Office.

What areas do the policies cover?

2. Setting branches up for success (Page 36)
e Postmaster Onboarding
e Postmaster Training

3. We're listening... (Page 37)
e Postmaster Complaint Handling

4, Network monitoring, cash and stock
management and account support (Page 38)

« Network Monitoring and Branch

Assurance Support

Network Cash and Stock Management

Network Transaction Corrections

Postmaster Account Support

Postmaster Accounting Dispute Resolution

5, Our agreement with the postmaster (Page 42)
« Postmaster Contract Performance
«Postmaster Contract Suspension

« Postmaster Contract Termination

« Postmaster Decision Review

If we could do better...

If we are not getting it right, or a member

of the Post Office team is not behaving in
the right way, we want to know. We offer
several channels to voice concerns, including
a ‘Feedback and complaints’ feature on
Branch Hub. You can also contact the Branch
Support Centre or your area manager. We'll
take any complaint raised with us seriously.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 13: Postmaster Guide to Policies

2. Setting branches up
for success

The Onboarding and Training teams will use these
policies to help support branches during the early
days of each postmaster appointment with a view
to ensuring that branches have the best possible
start. They'll reinforce and embed Post Office
training, giving branch staff the knowledge they
need to run a successful Post Office branch.

Principles set out in each policy

The Postmaster Onboarding Policy

The Postmaster Onboarding Policy sets out

our principles for these processes:

- Managing postmaster applications

- Supporting new postmasters before
and after branch opening

We're committed to working with postmasters in
good faith and in a transparent and collaborative
way to build a trusting relationship.

« We aim to ensure postmasters (and their
directors/partners, as applicable) are
satisfied with the onboarding experience
by keeping them informed and updated
throughout all steps of the process

The Postmaster Tr: ig Policy

The Postmaster Training Policy sets out
ur principles for these processes:
Organising onboarding operational training

Offering other operational training
Providing guides and work aids
Providing early days support
through Onsite Trainers and
Business Support Managers

We're committed to providing operational
training and making sure branch teams feel
confident when they conduct Post Office
transactions and processes using Horizon.

e We'll ensure that onboarding training for
branch staff is only considered to be complete
if the postmaster, business support manager
and area manager all agree on this,

e We'll offer a variety of training opportunities,
for example via eLearning modules, in
branch and/or face-to-face classroom
sessions. We will also provide additional
support in the form of operational guides
and work aids, including via Branch Hub
and Horizon Help and we will provide a
Postmaster Operational Training Catalogue
for ongoing training and support needs

e We'll monitor and review any regulatory
changes to products and services so we can
provide regular up-to-date training to
branch staff

e We'll evaluate training feedback received from
postmasters and take any action that may be
required to improve the training we provide

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 13: Postmaster Guide to Policies

3. We're listening...

If things go wrong, we really do want to
hear about it. The Complaint Handling
policy is used across Post Office teams that
could receive and handle complaints.

Principles set out in each policy

Postmaster Complaint Handling Policy

The Postmaster Complaint Handling Policy '
sets out principles for these processes: H
- Providing channels for branch staff to H

use for raising complaints {
- Receiving and investigating complaints :
- Reaching resolution y
Informing the branch of the outcome t

We offer several channels for branch staff
to voice concerns, including a ‘Feedback
and complaints’ feature on Branch Hub, the
Branch Support Centre and area managers.

If we receive a complaint:

e We'll review the complaint and
respond within 24 hours

« We'll handle complaints using a fair process

« We'll keep the person who raised the
complaint updated on our progress in
relation to investigating the complaint

e Our front line teams, such as area
managers or the branch support
centre, will triage any written or verbal
complaints to identify any concerns that
should be treated as whistleblowing
and passed onto the Speak Up team

Speak Up concerns can be raised anonymously,
but we encourage the person raising the
concern to provide their details as it allows us
to obtain additional information. If there are
insufficient details within the report and we are
unable to contact the reporter, it can limit the
effectiveness of any investigation and we won't
be able to give them feedback on the outcome.

The Postmaster Support Guide sets out how
postmasters and their teams can raise issues
and concerns. In the first instar
area manager or Grapevine on,
If this doesn’t answer the conc ys
not comfortable raising it that way, anyone can
raise issues directly with the Speak Up team

by email at SpeakUp! 1

«by calling th

service oni,
via our web: peakup.postoffice.co.uk
¢ byusing the QR code below.

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 13: Postmaster Guide to Policies

4. Network monitoring, cash
and stock management and
account support

Several teams, including Network Monitoring and
Branch Assurance, Postmaster Account Support, Branch
Support, and Cash and Stock Management, support
branches with accounting practices, discrepancies and
the management of cash and stock.

Collective principles

In relation to branch monitoring, cash and stock
management and account support:

« We want branch staff to run branches without
experiencing unforeseen issues, but if we discover
an issue, we'll aim to let branches know about it

e If branch staff discover an issue, we'll address it after
they tell us about it

e Weill offer support to branch staff, and work with
them to resolve the issue and help them to avoid it
happening again

e If the issue isn't easily fixed, we may carry out an
investigation to understand the root cause of the
issue and come to a resolution

« We'll encourage questions and feedback about
our support

POL00448077
POL00448077

Principles set out in each policy

Network Cash and Stock
Management Policy

The Network Cash and Stock Management Policy

sets out our principles for these processes:
Forecasting and planning cash supplies
Receiving stock orders and requests

to change cash levels
Offering emergency order options
Supporting branch staff with cash
remittance and stock discrepancies
Dealing with disputed cash and stock
remittances and transaction corrections

Postmasters have agreed to provide products and
services on behalf of Post Office, and for clients of
Post Office, under the agreement we have with them.
The cash and stock used to carry out transactions is
owned and funded by Post Office, unless the branch is
one of a small number of branches which are self-
funded.

It's important that branches have enough cash and stock
to trade, but that they don't have excess cash and stock
that will make accounting more complicated and increase
security risk.

When we assist in managing cash
and stock:

* Through forecasting, we'll aim to ensure
that each branch has enough cash, coin
and foreign currency (where applicable) to
trade and we'll aim to avoid situations where
branches hold too much cash or stock
e We'll provide free cash and stock deliveries
and collections on scheduled days
e We'll aim to get special stamps, such as
First Day Covers and Christmas stamps,
to branches in plenty of time
e We'll give branches a method to
place emergency orders
e If we find a discrepancy in a cash or stock remittance
that branches have sent us, we'll let branches
know and support branches with the next steps
e When a branch lets us know about a discrepancy
in a cash or stock remittance that we have
sent, we'll follow a process to investigate

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 13: Postmaster Guide to Policies

Principles set out in each policy

Network Transaction
Corrections Policy

The Network Transaction Corrections Policy

sets out our principles for these processes:

- Issuing Transaction Corrections and
Transaction Acknowledgements
Providing information and supporting
evidence to the branch

Following Post Office guidelines on branch
accounting processes should help branches reduce
the need for transaction corrections to be issued.
However, sometimes branches will receive a
transaction correction.

POL00448077
POL00448077

When we issue a transaction correction:

«It will have been identified by a discrepancy
in the reconciliation we do between files
received from our third-party clients
and the data recorded in branch on
Horizon, or from us being notified about
an incorrectly-keyed entry on Horizon

e We'll send the branch an explanation of
the reason for the transaction correction
and make it clear that branch staff
can contact us for further support e.g.
by answering further questions

e Branches can dispute the transaction
correction, in which case we'll investigate it
and aim to resolve a dispute within 10 days,
keeping the branch updated if it takes longer

Weill arrange for a transaction acknowledgement
to be sent each morning for the transactions
carried out during the previous day on the lottery
terminal or Paystation™', so cash and stock will be
correctly adjusted on Horizon.

‘For Paystation a transaction acknowledgement will

only be sent on the following day if the Batch Control

‘Summary has been produced by the cut-off time,
otherwise it will be sent on the subsequent day.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077
POL00448077

Section 13: Postmaster Guide to Policies

Network Monitoring and Branch Postmaster Account Support

Assurance Support Policy
The Network Monitoring and Branch Assurance

Support Policy sets out our principles for
these processes:

Monitoring the network

The Postmaster Account Support Policy
sets out our principles for these processes:
- Notifying postmasters about discrepancies
in the centralised holding account
- Supporting branches with
discrepancy disputes
- Arranging payments of
agreed losses and gains

Scheduling supportive visits and
branch assurance visits

Carrying out a branch assurance visit
Involving the Contracts team 7 7 '
Performing branch assurance closure visits I 4 centralised holding account holds details of (i)
Performing post Security Incident any branch discrepancies that have been moved
branch assurance visits into it by selecting the ‘Review or Dispute’ option
Assuring quality on Horizon at the end of a trading period; (ii)
transaction corrections that have been moved into
it by selecting the ‘Review or Dispute’ option; and

We carry out network monitoring and branch (iii) any payments made to Post Office.

assurance support activity to maintain the accuracy

of branches’ accounting records of cash and stock. _If a branch selects the ‘Review Dispute CALL BSC’
We also monitor branches’ compliance with option on Horizon at the end of a trading period,

accounting practices as it helps us, and
branches, to identify issues early and makes
investigating the root cause of any issues easier.

they.should contact the Branch Support Centre on
GRO as soon as possible, The Branch
PP will ask for information, so it can
provide support in understanding and resolving
In order to support branches: the discrepancy.

* We'll monitor branch activity, particularly in
relation to accounting of cash and stock, so we
can identify branches who are experiencing
issues and identify any potential concerns
about accounting practices in a branch

e If any potential issues are identified, we'll
contact the branch to arrange support to
help staff to maintain accurate records of
cash and stock through branch accounting

e Onan occasion where we can't resolve
an issue remotely, branch assurance
will visit a branch to carry out a full
count of cash and stock, supporting the
branch staff throughout the process

* Ifa branch is closing, we'll support
the branch by preparing the staff for
a branch assurance closure visit

« We'll aim to keep branches fully engaged
with any branch assurance support provided
and invite questions and give feedback

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 13: Postmaster Guide to Policies

When a branch moves a discrepancy into the

centralised holding account at the end of a

trading period:

e If the branch needs support to find the reason
for any discrepancy, the Branch Support Centre
will help to investigate it in the first instance
— for transaction corrections, the issuing
team can help to explain the reason for it

e Ifa branch contacts the Branch Support Centre
or the transaction correction issuing team for
support, and we can't agree the reason for the
discrepancy or transaction correction between
us, the branch can request an investigation

e If the branch understands and accepts
the discrepancy, or transaction correction,
knowing it’s due to an error made by
the branch team, and the postmaster is
contractually responsible for it, we'll help the
postmaster to make payment arrangements

«Ifthe discrepancy is a credit, we'll give the
postmaster the choice to either have it paid
back to the postmaster, as soon as reasonably
possible, or wait to see if a corresponding
debit is issued to the postmaster's account

e If the branch does not contact the Branch
Support Centre, or the contact details on
the transaction correction are different,
we will attempt to contact the branch by
telephone. A letter and account statement
will also be sent to the branch

Dispute Resolution

The Postmaster Accounting Dispute
Resolution Policy sets out our principles for
these processes:

= Helping branches to find the reason for

a discrepancy or transaction correction
Managing discrepancy and
transaction correction disputes
Investigating the dispute

Escalating the dispute

Reaching a resolution to the dispute
Informing branches of the outcome

When branch discrepancies occur or transaction
corrections are issued that the branch does not
understand the reason for, the branch can report
this to us, and we'll provide support. We'll work
with the branch staff to find the reason for the
discrepancy or provide the branch with evidence
about why the transaction correction was issued.
If, between us, we can’t agree on the reason, the
branch can ask for the discrepancy to be
investigated futher.

When a branch asks us for help with a discrepancy
or transaction correction:

e They should first contact the Branch
Support Centre or the contact details listed
on the transaction correction, if different.
They'll explain the transaction correction
or talk through basic steps to help the
branch staff find the discrepancy

e If there is no resolution of the matter at this
point, it will be escalated to a Tier 2 team who
can carry out more detailed investigation. We'll
aim to reach a resolution within two weeks
and keep the branch informed on progress

«Inthe event that a branch discrepancy or
transaction correction matter could not be
resolved by the Tier 2 team, the issue will be
escalated to a Tier 3 team for resolution

e When the investigation is complete, we'll let
the branch staff know the outcome and explain
why we reached the conclusion we did

POL00448077
POL00448077

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 13: Postmaster Guide to Policies

5. Our agreement with
the postmaster

We will use these policies to ensure that
postmasters are treated fairly and professionally in
relation to the agreements held with us.

Collective principles

During any investigation related to contractual
performance, a postmaster (the postmaster's
directors or partners, as relevant) can:

* Contact a Contract Advisor, by emailing
contractsteam:

e Request inform. rom us
about any contract performance issues
identified and the investigation process

e Contact the National Federation of
Sub-Postmasters (NFSP) representative
for support

e Arrange legal representation or other support
for any written correspondence or meetings
with Post Office

If we have to carry out an investigation:

e It will be fair and unbiased and will provide
the postmaster (or representative) with the
opportunity to give us all relevant information

« Welll complete any investigations as soon as
we reasonably can, act on any information the
postmaster (or representative) gives us and
keep them updated

« Welll share with the postmaster (or
representative) the supporting records and
information where possible

e Ifa meeting is required, we'll be flexible, within
reason, in relation to availability of the
postmaster (or representative)

« We'll always make the contractual basis, of any
formal action taken, clear

POL00448077
POL00448077

Principles set out in each policy

The Postmaster Contract

Performance Policy

The Postmaster Contract Performance Policy

sets out our principles for these processes:
Defining contractual performance issues

Carrying out the investigation
Documenting the rationale behind

a decision

Considering alternative contractual action
Applying monitoring periods

Where reasonably possible, we will resolve any
performance issues by supporting branches and
working with branches and the relevant

area manager.

The Postmaster Contract
Suspension Policy

The Postmaster Contract Suspension Policy
sets out our principles for these processes:
- Carrying out the investigation
- Documenting the rationale behind
a decision
Considering alternatives to suspension
Informing postmasters of the decision
Paying fees during suspension
Arranging a temporary operator during
the suspension period

In certain circumstances it will be necessary to
suspend a postmaster's contract. If a postmaster's
contract is suspended:

e Weare suspending the contract in order to
investigate the cause of a potential contractual
breach issue and we are not implying there has
been any breach of contract nor predetermining
any outcome of the investigation

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
Section 13: Postmaster Guide to Policies

We will have carried out a preliminary
investigation to establish relevant facts, in
doing so liaising as appropriate with the
postmaster (or its directors or partners if
the postmaster is a company or partnership)
before making the decision to suspend
We'll inform the postmaster (or its directors
or partners if the postmaster is a company
or partnership) of the suspension by
telephone and follow up by a letter

The postmaster will continue to receive fees
(based on the previous six-month trading
period, excluding Christmas trading)

We'll offer to arrange a temporary operator
to continue trading on the premises during
the period of suspension, but will not do so
without the postmaster’s express agreement
We'll keep the suspension period as short
as reasonably possible and a dedicated
Contract Advisor will keep the postmaster
updated throughout the suspension period

The Postmaster Contract
Termination Policy

The Postmaster Contract Termination Policy
sets out our principles for these processes:
- Understanding our termination rights
- Carrying out the investigation
- Documenting the rationale behind
a decision
- Checking that we've fulfilled our
contractual obligations
- Considering alternatives to termination
- Applying notice periods
- Informing postmasters of the decision

The Postmaster Decision
Review Policy

i
i
' The Postmaster Decision Review Policy sets out
' our principles for these processes:

! — Notifying postmasters of the right to

H have certain decisions reviewed

' = Carrying out the review and investigation

I — Documenting the rationale behind

' a decision

! = Choosing the right decision option

I = Informing postmasters of the decision

If a postmaster, or its directors or partners, believes
we've failed in our obligations in relation to a
contract termination decision or an accounting
dispute investigation, the postmaster can ask

for the decision we've made to be reviewed. In
addition to this, contract suspension decisions

will be reviewed without the need for a challenge
to be submitted by a suspended postmaster.

If we are asked to review a decision:

e We'll make sure there are suitable channels
for the postmaster to let us know if a review
of the decision is required and these will be
detailed in the relevant correspondence

e We'll assign the review to a Review
Panel, who will have no prior knowledge
of the circumstances which led up
to the review being requested

« We'll make sure the decision review request
is fully understood and investigated

e The Review Panel will make their
decision and inform the postmaster
what it is and the reason for it

POL00448077
POL00448077

There may be circumstances when termination
of a postmaster’s contract needs to be
considered and a decision to terminate made.

We'll consider the relevant facts before making
any decision to terminate a contract.

We'll notify the postmaster and include the reason
for the termination. If the postmaster disagrees
with it, a request to have the decision reviewed can
be submitted.

Post Office - Postmaster support guide
POL00448077

POL00448077

E

Version 4.0 July 2023

66
