POL00304662

POL00304662
From: Andy Holt[{/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ANDY.HOLT1F932521-2F 1A-4377-9268-
FDOFCF5C7371]
Sent: Fri 23/05/2014 10:
To:
Ce: oven GRO ZI
Subject: FW: Document List for Post Office Horizon Expert Witness Engagement

Rodric/Dave

See email below, Fujitsu have suggested the following docs be sent to ICL. I have looked at the sharepoint site but can't
find these (or at least they don't appear very obvious).

Have you got other docs from the review with Deloitte that are not on the site (specifically interested in this initial list that
Fujitsu think we have already).

I need to get these to ICL so can you let me know as soon as possible.
Thanks

Andy

Original Messag -
From: Davidson James [mailto
Sent: 22 May 2014 16:17
To: Andy Holt

Cc: Newsome Pete
Subject: RE: Document List for Post Office Horizon Expert Witness Engagement

Andy,
The key documents that I think are relevant to get the ICL folks going are:

Solution Design Doc

Network Design

Security Design

Gareth Jenkins Witness Statements for Horzion / Horizon online related to audit store IAS 3402 audit report ISO 27001
PCI Audit Report Link Audit report

These will provide a lot of information pertaining to the request below. Some of the info requested below needs to be
parked for the moment (such as all defects bugs in last 5 years) until the scope is worked through and thought processes
refined.

Regards,

James Davidson
Post Office
Fujitsu

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in
POL00304662
POL00304662

partnership with FT.com P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

riginal Message-
From: Andy Holt [mailt
Sent: 21 May 2014 13:58

To: Davidson James

Subject: FW: Document List for Post Office Horizon Expert Witness Engagement

As discussed
Andy

Subject: Document List for Post Office Horizon Expert Witness Engagement

Martin,

further to our meeting on Friday, as agreed, here is the list of documentation and information that Jeff and Naranker are
seeking and that would be useful for the engagement. The list is rather long and not all documents may be needed for
the initial phase. However, the indicate our need for general information about the overall system as well as particular
information on integrity, auditing and maintenance

Information Requested

* Details of the management hierarchy at POL and Fujitsu responsible for Horizon.
Horizon System:

* Description of software and hardware architecture of the Horizon system including software and hardware located in
branches.

* Description of the external systems that interact with the Horizon system and how they interact with Horizon.

* Description of applications running in branches, including details of what information can be checked and printed at a
branch by Sub-Postmaster, including transaction and event logs.

* Description of the interaction, transaction and communication system used between branch Horizon machines and the
central Horizon system.

Integrity and Reliability:
* Detailed description of how Horizon ensures integrity and reliability.

* Detailed description of the support Horizon provides for auditing, including details of facilities for producing audit trails
of local and central events and transactions, and including some typical examples.

. Description of the development procedures used, including testing, deployment. Examples of tests used to ensure
integrity and reliability.

* Description of the Horizon reconciliation and transaction correction mechanisms and procedures.
Maintenance:

* Details of the process used to update software on central servers and on branch terminals.

. Details of the main revisions/updates made to the Horizon system in the past 5 years.

* Details of bugs/defects fixed in the last 5 years.

Disputes:

. Dispute procedures and history of disputes plus outcomes.
POL00304662
POL00304662

* Details of documents requested and made available to Second Sight for their investigation.

* Copies of Second Sight documents supporting their Interim Report.

If you need any further information from us, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Many thanks,
Paul

Dr Paul M. Cray
Business Development Manager - Natural Sciences Imperial Consultants (ICON)

This transmission contains information which may be confidential and privileged. It is subject to the DISCLAIMER at
http://www. imperial-consultants.co.uk. If you have received this transmission in error please contact the sender.
Imperial Consultants and ICON are trading names of IC Consultants Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Imperial College
London. Registered in England and Wales, number 2478877.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or from
Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.
Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park Central, Hayes
End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull Parkway,
Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
