Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

7.7 Obtaining Fingerprint and
Handwriting Specimens

Version 1.0 Final
March 2011

Review Date: March 2013

Ray Pratt
Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Security

Mobex H
vobile i GRO

POL00104871
POL00104871
POL00104871
POL00104871

Contents

Key Accountabilities

1. Introduction

2. Obtaining Fingerprints

3. Obtaining Handwriting Specimens

Change Control

Glossary 1

ooyek aw

ngerprint and Handwriting Specimens- BM V1.0 - Page 2 of 1
POL00104871

POL00104871
Key Accountabilities
Who is © What do I have to/IWhen do I have I How do I do
accountable? I do? _ I

to do this?

this?

All members

of Royal Mail

Security

with these
procedures

Ensure you comply I Ongoing

As detailed
within these

procedures

© Royal Mail

2014

7.7 Obtaining Fingerprint and Handwriting Specimens~ RM V1.0

3 of 11
POL00104871
POL00104871

Obtaining Fingerprint and Handwriting Specimens
1. Introduction

1.1 These procedures describe how to obtain fingerprint and handwriting
specimens from suspects or other persons, rather than the procedures
for submitting the specimens for forensic analysis. Those procedures
are detailed in 5.1 Forensic Services and Technical Equipment.

1.2 Obtaining good quality fingerprint and handwriting specimens can be of
paramount importance to a case. As such it is essential that great
care is taken when obtaining them, particularly as it is very easy to
get it wrong. These procedures will describe the process to be
followed when obtaining specimens, however obtaining good quality
fingerprints is a skill which needs to be practiced. Accordingly,
inexperienced Investigators should practice taking fingerprints from
experienced Investigators in order to develop the skill.

2. Obtaining Fingerprints

2.1 Written Consent. Investigators can take fingerprints as part of an
investigation in to criminal offences as long as they have the written
consent of the subject.

2.2 Withholds Consent. If suspects will not give written consent

Investigators should note;

2.2.1 England & Wales. The Police have widespread powers under
Section 61 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE) (as
amended) to take fingerprints without consent from a person
detained at a police station in consequence of being arrested for
a recordable offence.

2.2.2 Scotland. The police have powers to take fingerprints in
accordance with Section 18 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland)
Act 1995 (CP(S)) if a suspect is arrested or detained at the
police station in accordance with Section 14 of the CP(S).

2.2.3 Northern Ireland. The Police powers under Section 61 of The
Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (PACE
(NI)) are similar to England and Wales and allow the Police to
take fingerprints without consent from people arrested for
recordable offence(s).

2.3 Offences of theft, opening or delaying postal packets, money
laundering and fraud are recordable. Therefore police assistance
should be considered if it is thought that the suspect’s fingerprints
are an important evidential factor in the case and they will not give
consent for their fingerprints to be taken.

2.4 Should a person consent to their fingerprints being taken the process
to be followed depends on whether the fingerprints are requested from;
2.4.1 Suspects. As it is thought that the presence of their

fingerprints in or on a particular item(s) is evidence of an
offence, or;

2.4.2 Other Persons. Not suspected of any criminal offence but their
fingerprints are required for “elimination” purposes. That is to
say the fingerprints are required to identify legitimate
fingerprints on suspected items thus “ruling out” or “eliminating”
them from the enquiry. For example, during an investigation into
the theft of money from a safe, where fingerprints have been
raised on the inside shelves, elimination prints may be taken from

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.7 Obtaining Fingerprint and Handwriting

POL00104871
POL00104871

all persons who had legitimate access to the inside of the safe to
eliminate these fingerprints from the enquiry.

2.5 In England, Wales and Northern Ireland the procedure for gaining
consent to obtain fingerprints is described in paragraphs 2.6 & 2.7
below. In Scotland Investigators should inform people why they want
to take their fingerprints, make a note of the reasons and then get
written consent in their notebooks.

2.6 Obtaining Fingerprints from Suspects. Prior to obtaining consent from
suspects they must be informed that the fingerprints;

2.6.1 Will be retained and used only for purposes related to the
prevention and detection of a crime, the investigation of an
offence or the conduct of a prosecution either nationally or
internationally.

2.6.2 Their fingerprints may be checked against other records held
by, or on behalf of, relevant law enforcement authorities, either
nationally or internationally.

2.6.3 That once they have given consent for their fingerprints to be
retained and used they cannot withdraw the consent.

Once informed of the above the suspect should then be asked to

complete a Consent to Provide Fingerprints, form GS300.

2.7 Elimination Fingerprints. Prior to obtaining consent for Elimination

Fingerprints the person must be informed that;

2.7.1 The fingerprints will be used for elimination purposes only.

2.7.2 The fingerprints will be destroyed at the end of the case.

2.7.3 They will only be compared against the fingerprints in that
case.

2.7.4 The Investigator taking the fingerprints may be required to
give evidence and/or provide a written statement in relation to
the taking of the fingerprints.

2.7.5 The person can witness the destruction of the fingerprints if
they request to do so within 5 days of being informed that the
fingerprints are to be destroyed.

Once informed of the above the subject should then be asked to

complete a Consent to Provide Elimination Fingerprints, form GS300A.

2.8 Once consent is obtained fingerprints should be taken on the
Fingerprint Impression form GS301. The first section of the form has
an area for “Rolled” impressions of the ten fingers and thumbs. The
second section is for “Flat” impressions and Side B allows for full
“Palm” impressions to be taken.

2.9 Obtaining Rolled Impressions. The process for completing the rolled
impressions is as follows;

2.9.1 The subject’s hands should be clean and dry.

2.9.2 Fold the form in order to present the area for the fingerprints
on the right hand to be aligned with the edge of the desk. When
the right hand has been completed the form should be folded to
align the area for the fingerprints on the left hand to be
aligned. Ensure that the form is secured to the desk to prevent it
moving whilst the prints are being taken.

2.9.3 Ink the subject’s thumb and fingers. Each digit should have ink
coverage from nail to nail and from the tip of the finger to 4cm
down. (Depending on the size of the finger 4cm down will mean that
the ink coverage comes somewhere between the first and second
crease). Ink strips enabling subject’s hands to be inked are
available from the Prosecution Support Office (PSO).

2.9.4 In order to take advantage of the natural movement of the
forearm the hand should be rotated from the more difficult

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.7 Obtaining Fingexprint and Handwriting Specimens- RM V1.0 ~ Page § of 11
POL00104871
POL00104871

position to the easier position. This requires the thumbs to be
rolled towards and the fingers away from the centre of the
subject's body.

2.9.5 The corresponding digit should be rolled in the corresponding
area on the GS301. The subject should be asked to relax and let
the Investigator roll the finger. (It is very difficult to take
fingerprints if the suspect does not surrender control of their
hands to the Investigator.) The finger should be placed on its
side and then rolled to the other side until it faces the opposite
direction, nail to nail. Generally the weight of the finger is the
amount of pressure required to produce good prints. Even pressure
should be applied when rolling the finger, taking care to lift
each finger after rolling to avoid smudging. Do not roll back and
forth as the fingerprint will be smudged.

2.9.6 When producing an impression of a single digit it is advisable
to ask the subject to tuck away the other fingers or thumb on the
hand.

2.10 Below is an example of a rolled impression. Note that the width of
the impression is much wider than a flat impression as it is rolled
from nail to nail. (A flat image of the same finger is at paragraph
2.12 below.)

Rolled Impression

2.11 Taking Flat Impressions. Following the rolled impressions the subject
should be asked produce flat impressions as follows;
2.11.1 Re-apply ink to the subject’s fingers ensuring that the fingers
are inked inline to 9cm below the tip of the middle finger.
2.11.2 Ensure that the bottom of the form is in line with the desk.
2.11.3 Hold the subject's wrist in one hand and using light pressure
with the other hand press all four fingers of each hand within
the relevant space. The fingers should be together and the middle
finger should be placed 0.5cm below the line.
2.11.4 The fingers should be removed directly from the form ensuring
that the subject does not smudge the impressions.
2.11.5 A flat impression of the whole length of each thumb should then
be taken.
The purpose of the flat impressions is to confirm that the rolled
impressions have been taken in the right order.

2.12 Below is an example of a flat impression. Note that it is only the
width of the finger.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.7 Obtaining Fingerprint and Handwriting

POL00104871
POL00104871

Flat Impression

2.13 Taking Palm Prints. Once the flat impressions have been taken the

whole of the subject’s palms should be taken as follows;

2.13.1The subject’s palms should be inked.

2.13.2They should then be asked to only apply light pressure and
place the palms of their hands flat in the relevant space on
side B, as near to the middle of the Fingerprint Impression Form
GS301 as practicable.

2.13.3Again the hands should then be lifted directly off the form to
prevent smudging.

2.13.40Once the flat palm impressions have been obtained then
impressions of the edge of the palm should be taken. If there is
space on side B of the GS301 then they should be placed
alongside the flat palm impressions. If not then a further sheet
of A4 paper should be used. (The edge of the palm is known as
the “writers” palm as it is the part of the palm that would be
in contact with the surface whilst writing).

2.14 Whilst taking the impressions the Investigator should ensure that the
quality is such that the characteristics of the fingerprint can be
seen with the naked eye. There should not be any smudges or blotches
of ink. If so the ridges will not be apparent. The quality of the
fingerprints should be as in the images at paragraph 2.10 and 2.12
above. If not the subject should be re-fingerprinted.

2.151f it is not possible to fingerprint a thumb and four fingers on each
hand then the corresponding box on the GS301 should be annotated. For
example, if the left middle finger is missing annotate “Finger
Missing” in the left middle finger box.

3. Obtaining Handwriting Specimens

3.1. To achieve the best results from handwriting specimens it is
important that these procedures are followed as closely as
practicable.

3.2. The writing which is to be examined is known as the “Questioned
Handwriting”. Investigators have no control over the amount and
nature of the Questioned Handwriting available for examination. They
do however have control over the amount, nature and quality of the
Specimen Handwriting given by the suspect, should they consent to
give handwriting specimens. By giving the Document Examiner the best
possible specimens Investigators will maximise the possibility of
obtaining a useful conclusion.

3.3. There are two types of specimen handwriting:

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.7 Obtaining Fingexprint and Handwriting Specimens- RM V1.0 ~ Page 7 of 11
POL00104871
POL00104871

3.3.1 Requested. This is specimens taken by the Investigator
specifically for the investigation.

3.3.2 Non-Requested. This is writing produced by the suspect on some
other occasion.

Requested. When requesting specimens the following should be

observed;

3.4.1 Like with Like. Document Examiners can only effectively make
like with like comparisons. A’s can only be compared with A’s,
B’s with B’s etc. In addition specimens should be taken on
separate documents similar to those in question. For a case
involving an envelope, take specimens on similarly sized
envelopes. For a case involving fraudulent application forms
take specimens on the relevant blank application forms. Study
the questioned material and prepare before an interview with a
suspect by considering the following.

3.4.2 Writing Instrument. Always obtain specimens with a well-used
ball point pen. If the questioned writing has been produced using
a writing implement other than a ball point pen, then obtain
additional specimens using a similar writing instrument.

3.4.3 Amount. Investigators should seek to obtain a minimum of 10
specimens of handwriting, unless the questioned handwriting is a
signature, when at least 15 specimens should be taken. When the
questioned document contains a large amount of handwriting,
extracts of the text can be dictated, (the same text should be
dictated for each specimen). Investigators should however ensure
that the dictated text includes all the characters seen in the
questioned writing.

3.4.4 Writing Surface. Provide a suitable writing surface to rest on
e.g. a pad of paper.

Obtaining the specimens. The procedures for obtaining specimens are

as follows;

3.5.1 Cover up the Questioned Document. A suspect must never be
shown the questioned document(s) whilst providing specimens.

3.5.2 Normal Handwriting. Investigators should ask suspects to
produce specimens of their normal handwriting. When asking
suspects to use their normal writing do not ask them to do
‘joined-up’ writing or small letters not joined as this will
often result in the writing being produced unnaturally. The only
exception to this is if the questioned handwriting is in block
capitals then the specimens should be in block capitals.

3.5.3 Always Dictate. Dictate specimens at a reasonable speed to
increase the possibility of the suspect producing their "natural"
handwriting. During the course of an examination the Document
Examiner will compare, amongst other things, date styles, layout,
wording used, spelling mistakes etc. For this reason, please
ensure that the wording used in the dictation has not caused a
similarity to occur. This is particularly important when
dictating cheques. For example, if the amount in words on the
cheque reads “Ten pounds, and 52 pence only”, do not dictate “Ten
pounds comma and in numbers fifty two pence only full stop”.
Instead ask the suspect to make the cheque payable for ten pounds
fifty two.

3.5.4 Remove Specimens from Sight. Remove each specimen from sight as
soon as it is completed.

3.5.5 Obtain Specimens at Different Times. It is good practice to ask
for specimens at different times during the interview and as such
ask the suspect to note the date and time on the sample, away
from the specimen writing.

© Royal Mail 2011 - 7.7 Obtaining Fingexprint and Handwciting Specimens~ RM V1.0 - Page 8 of 11
3.6

POL00104871
POL00104871

Standard Handwriting Specimens. If the Investigator is in the
position where the content of the questioned document cannot be
disclosed to the suspect then the suspect should be asked to write
the following.

Very sorry I’m out but I’ve had to drive Mrs. Dixon from no 758 to
the hospital. If anyone asks after her, tell them that they have to
phone I for enquiries.

I won’t be back until about 4.45, so please go to the bank and draw
out one hundred and fifty pounds cash — we need it for tomorrow.
Also, while you are in town can you get some shopping for me.

2 jars mixed pickles 1 box of tea bags (160)

1 dozen eggs (size 4) Tomato sauce (a squeezy bottle)
Washing up liquid 3 quick setting jellies (yellow)
2 jars strawberry jam 3 kitchen rolls

Extra strong mints (3 pack) 20 cigarettes

Non Requested Specimens These are writings made by the suspect during
the course of their everyday life. The same “like with like”
principles apply as far as possible as with request specimens.

Non Request specimens normally contain the suspect’s natural
handwriting and are, therefore, often the most suitable specimens for
comparison. Whilst it may be necessary for non request specimens to
be provable and admissible in court, a Document Examiner can often
compare non request specimens with request specimens and determine if
they were produced by the same person.

Specimens from a Person Other than a Suspect. There may be occasions
when specimens from persons other than your suspect are essential. In
particular, if a signature is suspected of being a forgery,
Investigators should always obtain specimens from the person in whose
name the document is signed.

Royal Mail 2011 - 7.7 Obtaining Fingerprint and Handwriting

Page 9 of 11

POL00104871
POL00104871

Change Control

Final

1.0

Ray Pratt

Michael F Matthews
March 2011
Internal

Authorisation

Security Ray Pratt March 2011

Distribution List

mM te
All Royal Mail Security via V1 March 2011
Security Sharepoint

Documentation History

v.l
Final
Mar 11
Mar 11

Document Change History

v1 Document Produced

Glossary

© Royal Mail 2011 -

ning Fingerprint and Handwriting specimens RK

0 ~ Page 19 of 1
POL00104871

POL00104871

PACE Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984

PACE (NI) Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern
Ireland) Order 1989

cP(S) Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995

PSO Prosecution Support Office

Document Summary

If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F Matthews
Royal Mail Security
6A Eccleston St
LONDON

SW1W 9LT

Postline:
STD: r
E mail

matthews@"""" GRO

© Royal Mail 2011 -

ning Fingerprint and Handwriting Specimens- RM V1.0 - Page 11 of 1
