POL00102921
POL00102921

Message
From:

on behalf of — Steve Alichorni
Sent: 03/12/2015 11
To:
ce:

; Patrick Bourke

Subject:

Importance: High
Hi John

During the call with Jonathan and Christopher late yesterday afternoon we agreed to set up requested interviews with
key PO personnel for them.

lam currently working to set up these meetings across the day on Wednesday 09 December at our Finsbury Dials
offices. The Chairman’s Office in the building has been reserved all day for the purpose.

Could you ensure that both Jonathan and Christopher have diaries free to spend the majority of the day in Finsbury Dials
to conduct the interviews. Jonathan intimated on the call that his diary was relatively flexible over the next week or so.

In terms of an outline schedule for the interviews;

AM

Horizon — Pete Newsome (Fujitsu) — TBA

Horizon — Gareth Jenkins (ex-Fujitsu) — TBA

Horizon — Gary Glennard (Post Office IT Programme Manager — Front Office) — likely late morning.

PM
1:30 Case Investigations — Angela Van Den Bogerd (Post Office) — also in attendance Kathryn Alexander & Shirley
Hailstones (Lead Case Investigators)

2:30 Helpdesk — Kendra Dickinson (Post Office) — also in attendance Angela Van Den Bogerd.

There is a potential opportunity to also arrange a meeting on this day with Mark Westbrook (Deloitte). Rod Williams is
currently looking into the logistics of that.

I will update the schedule and advise accordingly as meetings are firmed up.

Many thanks John

Steve Allchorn I Complaint & Mediation Scheme PMO Manager

Ground Floor, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, LONDON, EC2Y 9AQ

)

POL-0102504
POL00102921
POL00102921

JOH EOI OI IOUS IORI OBIT ODIO I IDI ISO AIS AI IIIA IK

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

eeerr ter erererertceer ret treteerreterctertrcrtr ter trr tere ter tert try

POL-0102504
