Investigation Policy Page I
Appendix 6

POL00104746
POL00104746

OFFENDER REPORTS

PURPOSE

The aim of this policy is to enable standard formatting of reports by investigators.

LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES

Security Managers

31

POLICY

PREAMBLE

© Title: (e.g. Theft From The Post)

° Name: (Horenames in full then surname)

© Rank: Identification Code:
© Office:

© Age: DOB:

© Service: Date Service Commenced
e Personnel Record at: Appendix

e Nat Ins No:

e Home Address:

© Suspended from duty/Interviewed: (Date)

© Court Jurisdiction:

Where an offender is handed into custody, the preamble should continue as follows:-

¢ Handed into custody: (Date & name/rank of authorising officer)
e At (Name of Police Station)

e Charged: To appear at (time) on (date) at (Court)

© To be Prosecuted by: Consignia/Crown Prosecutor

© For Sub Postmasters - use ‘Position’ instead of ‘Rank’ and ‘Contract for
services suspended’ instead of ‘Suspended from duty’.

© For Non-Consignia Offenders, amend headings accordingly

© CRO details should be placed in a sealed envelope and enclosed in an
Appendix.

Policy Title Offender Reports

Version
Date

10

POL00104746

POL00104746

Investigation Policy Page 2
Appendix 6

OFFENDER REPORTS
3.2 STANDARD REPORT FORMAT

Particulars of the suspected offence/incident and how it came to notice. In unusual cases the actual
operational procedures in force at the office should be described for the benefit of Legal Services.
Avoid unexplained acronyms and jargon.

Details of enquiries conducted including loss analysis, observation etc.

Details of any testing operation to include basis for suspicion, testing authority given, record of tests
and results of testing operations.

Details of suspect’s interview to include specific admissions/denials, total amounts and period of
offences.

Give an assessment of the evidence available to support charges. If this information is sensitive it
should only appear in a confidential report rather than a standard investigation report which is liable
to disclosed to the offender under the conduct code procedure.

Provide details of domestic circumstances and finances, if known. Give any mitigating
circumstances which may need to be considered when deciding legal action.

Detail failures in security, supervision of procedures which were established during the interview to
be a contributory factor to the commission of the offence/s. (Le. the suspect volunteers knowledge
of the failure and admits taking advantage)

Report amount of any loss to Consignia funds, incurred as a result of admitted offences and how
calculated, and detail any money or property recovered during the enquiry. Other losses than those
to Consignia (i.e. members of the public) should be detailed so that compensation can be
considered.

Report any outstanding accounting aspects: amounts to be made good; compensation to be paid;
moneys, documents or other articles due to be returned to owners or other departments when the
case has been finalised.

Any other matters not listed above which are substantiated and relevant to the case but which are
not sensitive. Any sensitive matters should appear in the confidential report.

4, Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version —‘ Type Policy No.
41
4.2
43
44
5. Document details
5.1 Author :
Owner : Head of Corporate Security
Audience: Security Community
Enquiry point : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation, Corporate Security,

5.5 Effective from : March 2000
5.6 Review date :

5.7 Last updated : March 2000
Policy Title Offender Reports

Version 10

Date

4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ

POL00104746
POL00104746

Investigation Policy Page 3
Appendix 6

6. Assurance Detai

61 Name:

6.2 Business Unit:

6.3 Assurance Date:

7. Final Review

7.1 I Approved by

7.2 I Documented (Hard Copy) = YES/NO _Location:
7.3 “ (Electronic) YES/NO Location:
Policy Title Offender Reports
Version 10

Date
