POL00201858
POL00201858

From: Rod IsmayI we
Sent: Tue 18/03/2014 9:02:43 AM (UTC)
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[:_
Ce: claire.parmentet

GRO

Bec: Rod IsmayI
Subject: RE: Factfile - Rod
Attachment: Factfile - v7 Rod review.docx

Mark up attached. Themes:
1. Some comments / questions about accountability of sign offs and about categorisation clarity in the paper
2. Rewording on double entry throughout the document
3. Several aspects of transactional examples — either to clarify the wording or to question the appropriateness
of the particular example in the context of helping a new reader get a grip
Thanks, Rod

Rod Ismay I Head of Finance Service Centre

2° Floor West Block, No 1_Future Walk, West Bars, Chesterfield, S49 1PF.

- Email rod.ismay
iblic & Voluntary Ser
Best Finance Team 2014 Best Annual Report & Accounts

BusinessFinance ‘
Awards 2014 /

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Sent: 17 March 2014 23:16
To: Rod Ismay

Cc: claire.parmenter!
Subject: FW: Factfile - FINAL REVIEW [BD-4A-LIVE.FID20472253] [DD-4A-LIVE.FID20472253]

Hi Rod,

Claire has mentioned that you have a number of changes you want to make to the factfile. Would you
please do this as a matter of urgency as I have already shared the version Claire has sent you with Second
Sight as I understood that you or indeed members of your team had contributed to the information. I cannot
stress enough how critical it is that you review and return to Claire cc to me also so that I can review and
consider how I position any changes with SS.

Your assistance with a speedy response is appreciated.

Thanks,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

@ 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
K

POL00201858
POL00201858

© angela.van-den-bogerd@

(2) Post Office stories

© @postofficenews

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Rod Ismay
Sent: 17 March 201407:23~~

To: Parmenter, Claire; Gayle A Peacock

Cc: Rod Ismay

Subject: Re: Factfile - FINAL REVIEW [DD-4A-LIVE.FID20472253]

Hi Claire - thanks for sight of latest draft. I do indeed have comments and want to agree best way to feedback.
They are not purely about the section labelled for myself. I have quite a lot of text requiring rewording.
At high level though my themes are:

1. Whilst double entry is central to lots of control here, the way some sections explain it misunderstands double entry
and undermines it. That's an issue of how its been worded

2. Cash supply narrative should, in my view, have a Supply Chain owner

3. We have to look through single ownership for review here

4. The use of the name "Post Office" reads confusingly in some places in terms of talking about links between post
office branches and post office central teams. I could imagine a reader not understanding what part of our business is

being referred to

5. The principles of when RM Special Delivery is used need clarifying. One doesn't get a proportionate sense of how
much and what value is in SD as opposed to in armoured vans

6. Para 50 - major rewrite and reorder with 51
7. TC's

8. Examples, loss explanations and consistency of cross referencing. Eg Lottery is described as done "later oin the day"
in para 37 but "next day by centrally driven TA" in para 117

9. Titles and ownership in the index - not sure those categories best reflect the process elements and ownership. Eg
Cash supply and verification might merit a section and should have Supply Chain sign off

Other.
POL00201858
POL00201858

Let's speak on best way to edit. I don't want you to be battling with marked up rewrites against each owner and
having a version control challenge. Or me to edit against wording someone else may be changing.

Thanks Rod

From: Parmenter, Claire I _
Sent: Thursday, March 13, 2014 02:56 PM

To: Rod Ismay

Subject: FW: Factfile - FINAL REVIEW [DD-4A-LIVE.FID20472253]

Rod,

Thank you for your and your teams input into the Factfile, before it is finalised and sent out to the relevant people in
the Scheme we would like you to review the section you inputted into - Branch Reporting (pages 14 to 19) and confirm
whether you are happy with the wording from your perspective, or if there are any further changes you would like to
make.

I would be grateful i
can contact me or

iew this asap and let me have any final comments. If you would like to discuss you

Kind regards

Claire

Claire Parmenter
Solicitor

for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

tion i ail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law.
RO jnly is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not

please notify, — soon as possible and delete any
COPIES“ orneanorsenusey;-arssemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is
prohibited and may be unlawful

POL00201858
POL00201858

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond
Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should
carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor
endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England
and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne,
NE1 3DX, where a list of members' names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the
LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Requlation Authority.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

ees

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law.
° GRO only is authorised.to.accass.this.e.mailandanwattachmants. If you are not

please notify! GRO soon as possible
‘and délete GAY COPIES" UNAUtASTISET TSE, dissemination;-urswmwatent: puoncatorror-copyiny Urams'communication or
attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond
Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should
carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor
endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England
and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne,
NE1 3DX, where a list of members' names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the
LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
