POL00055413
POL00055413

Page I of 3

Jarnail A Singh

From: John Longman
Sent: — 08 October 2010 12:20

To: Jenkins Gareth Gl

Cc: Jarnail A Singh

Subject: RE: Draft Witness Statement
Gareth

I have just spoken to Dave King, Security Architect in Post Office® Ltd and he is happy for these
documents to be used in your statement but cannot produce a written confirmation at this time as he is
away from the office. However, he is going to contact Bill Membery/Tom Lillywhite of Fujitsu immediately
to confirm that this document can be used.

As time is of the essence please can you proceed with this statement.

Regards

From: Jenkins Gareth GI {
Sent: 08 October 2010 11
To: Jarnail A Singh

Cc: John Longman; Thomas Penny; Prenovost Jean-Philippe; Warwick Tatford; Wilkerson Guy
Subject: RE: Draft Witness Statement

Jarnail,

In order to use these documents I have been asked to “ask the POL solicitors to seek instructions from
their client to ensure that they are happy for Fujitsu to produce this document in court.”

Please can you formally request that and I should then be able to use the documents with my statement.

Regards
Gareth - oe

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FuuiTsu

Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 SN

hittp://uk fujtsu.com

pApPrease consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Street, London, W1U $e

uilisu Servi

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged.

08/10/2010
POL00055413
POL00055413

Page 2 of 3

Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusfree.

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 07 October 2010 16:47

To: ‘Warwick Tatford’; Thomas Penny
Ce: jarnail.a.singh” j
Subject: RE: Draft Witness Statement

Dear Warwick,

Thanks for your constructive feedback.
Here is the updated document.

What I have done today is as follows:

1. I've completed my outstanding analysis of Charles’ Transaction Corrections and also the Cash
movements
2. I've gone through the report and done the following:
a. Moved most of your comments into “boxes” highlighted in cyan and prefixed them
oe with “WT” (for the simpler ones I’ve just made the change and deleted the comment) ~
b. Attempted to address them all. In most cases I have a response below your
comment prefixed “GIJ”
c. All my changes are in red (including your comments) and I've used “strkeett” to
indicate where I have deleted text
3. _ I still need to do the following (probably tomorrow):
a. I need to compare Charles’ latest report with the draft and go through my statement
to update it where necessary
b. In particular I've not attempted to address the Travellers’ Cheques issue yet since I
understand that it has changed significantly in the latest report.
c. Remove all the strikeout and boxed comments and make everything black again.
(I've deliberately left the quotes from Charles's report in a smaller font, and plan to
leave them like that, but could indicate them in some other way if you prefer.)

I also have 4 attachments to my statement:

© 3 extracts from Horizon’s style guide. Note that I have not sought permission to use these
yet
© My response to Charles’ Transaction Correction analysis

I'd appreciate any further feedback you may have on my changes s¢ so far. I'm also available to discuss
things.on the phone if-that is easier. . ._-.__-___ a —

Penny: Please can you find out if there is a problem in using these extracts from SD/STD/001 — The
Horizon Style Guide. I’m not sure who to ask.

Regards
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FuuITsu
Lovelace Road, Srackn

kehire, Rgt2 SSN

GRO __

08/10/2010
POL00055413
POL00055413

Page 3 of 3

email Gareth Jenkins}

eb: hittp:!/uk fujitsu.com

Breese consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusfree.

From: Warnick Tatford
Sent: 07 October 2010 07:30
To: Jenkins Gareth GI; jarnail.a. singh!
Subject: RE: Draft Witness Statement

Dear Gareth,
Please find attached your draft with my comments (in red). I abbreviate the Professor as M.
Many thanks for your hard work.

Warwick

Subject: Draft Witness Statement.

Date: Wed, 6 Oct 2010 1 22 +0100

From: Gareth.Jenkin:
To: waricktatfo!

john.longman(™”
CC: Penny. Thome

jarnail.a.singhi

GRO

All,

It was good to meet you last night and put some faces to names and voices. Following that
I've now attempted to draft a Witness Statement as discussed.

<<0a06.Witness statement Gareth Jenkinsv0.1.doc>>

Here is a first draft, and I'd appreciate feedback as to whether I have captured your
requirements as to style and approach. I appreciate that you probably cannot comment on
the factual content.

As agreed, I need to do.two further pieces of analysis and I've indicated with highlighted _ __
comments in boxes where I should include these. However I thought it was worth getting a
first draft of the witness statement to you before doing that so you have a chance to review
the Witness Statement in parallel.

I've heard nothing further from Charles McLachlan regarding an updated version of his
Report. Clearly, should such a report appear, I may well need to update the Witness
Statement to reflect any changes.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

Web hnttp//uk fulitsu.com

Please consider the environment - do you really need t0 print this emi?

itsu Services Limited, Regi n England

is only for the use tended recipient. ‘its eontonte are subject to1a duty of confidence and may be

privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is,
virusfree.

London, W1U 3BW

OR/INMNIN
