POL00146048
POL00146048

27" August 2013

Dear Alan,
Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme (to be known as the Scheme)

As you will be aware, Post Office has been undertaking an independent review into the Horizon system and associated
issues.

Post Office is determined to ensure that Horizon and any associated processes are fair, effective and reliable, and that
Subpostmasters can have confidence in the system.

In some instances, however, Subpostmasters allege that Post Office and Horizon have not met these standards To
address these concerns, Post Office appointed independent forensic accountants, Second Sight, to investigate this
situation.

In collaboration with the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance FSA) and a group of MPs led by the Rt Hon James
Arbuthnot MP, Post Office established an Inquiry into Horizon. Second Sight was appointed to lead this Inquiry and
has been working with a number of Subpostmasters for over 12 months. A copy of Second Sights interim report is
available at http://www.postoffice.co.uk/post-office-statement-horizon

Post Office now wishes to offer a Scheme to Subpostmasters so that individual Subpostmasters have an opportunity
to raise their concerns directly with Post Office. In partnership with Subpostmasters, the JFSA, Second Sight and
interested MPs, all sides can then work towards resolving those concerns.

Please find enclosed a pack of documents describing how the Scheme will work. We would be grateful if you could
forward this letter and the enclosed pack to any Subpostmasters who you believe may be interested in this Scheme.

If a Subpostmaster wishes to take part in the Scheme he/she should:
° Carefully read the information enclosed with this letter.
° Complete and return an Application Form which can be found at www.jfsa.org.uk

A Subpostmaster is not obliged to submit his/her case through the Scheme and they may leave the Scheme at any
time. Their legal rights will remain in full force, whether or not they choose to enter the Scheme.

A Subpostmaster’s Application must be received by Second Sight by Monday 18 November 2013 if they wish to be
involved in the Scheme.

This letter has been sent to a number of interested parties. It is therefore possible that a Subpostmaster may be
notified of this Scheme more than once, but the Subpostmaster should only make one Application.

Yours faithfully

Angela Van Den Bogerd

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is re id and Wales. Registered 54540 stered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ.
Post Office and t!

