POL00064035
POL00064035

PROVISION OF
FINANCIAL INFORMATION

(Section 18 Proceeds of Crime Act 2002)

R v Michael MATTHEWS

The defendant shall, within 28 days of the date of the requirement under Section 18 of the
Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, swear and file in this Honourable Court and serve on Robert
Wilson, Solicitor for Royal Mail Group pic 6a Eccleston Street London SW1W 9LT, an
affidavit disclosing the following:
i. Details of all income, whether declared or undeclared for tax purpose including details
of any employment and income for the period of six years, preceding the date when

these proceedings were commenced.

ii. Details of all property and land, freehold or leasehold, owned both in the United
Kingdom and abroad, whether held in the defendant's sole name, jointly with others or
nominees or in which the defendant has an interest, (or in relation to which the
defendant has used any alias name) and the extent of that interest.

iii. Details of all motor vehicles owned or possessed, whether held in the defendants sole
name, jointly with others or in which the defendant has an interest, (or in relation to
which the defendant has used any alias name).

iv. Details of all bank accounts, or deposits with licensed deposit takers in the UK or
abroad, whether held in the defendant's sole name, jointly with others or in relation to
which the defendant is an authorised signatory, (or in relation to which the defendant
has used any alias name).

v. Details of all Credit and Debit card accounts, whether held in the defendants sole name,
jointly with others or in relation to which the defendant is an authorised signatory, (or in
relation to which the defendant has used any alias name).

vi. Details of all UK shares and equities, securities, bonds, unit trusts, or any foreign
equivalents held by the defendant, whether held in the defendants sole name, jointly
with others or in any nominees names, (or in relation to which the defendant has used
any alias name).
vii.

viii.

xi.

xii.

xiii.

POL00064035
POL00064035

Details of all Insurance policies where there is a financial benefit at the end of the term,
whether held on the defendants life, jointly on another's’ life, or any other persons life,
(or in relation to which the defendant has used any alias name).

Details of any deposits of cash, whether in safety deposit boxes or in any other place.

. Details of all safety deposit boxes held, whether in the UK or abroad, whether held in

the defendant's sole name, jointly with others or in relation to which the defendant has

authorised access, (or in relation to which the defendant has used any alias name).

Details of any other realisable assets held by the defendant, whether held in the
defendant's sole name, jointly with others or in relation to which the defendant has an
interest, (or in relation to which the defendant has used any alias name) anywhere in
the World.

Details of any Limited Company assets in relation to which the defendant is a director,
the majority shareholder, or has a controlling interest in that Company.

Details of all financial commitments and debts of the defendant.

Details of all transfers by way of gift or for any consideration, which is inadequate, made
by the defendant, his servants or agents for the period of six years, preceding the date
when these proceedings were commenced, to a third party. Such details to include the
date of such transfer, the value thereof and sufficient particulars of the recipient of such
transfers, to enable the same to be identified.

The Court may draw an inference from any refusal or failure to comply with this
order,
response.

or from any unsatisfactory response, or undue delay in the defendant’s

By order of the Crown Court sitting at Anytown

His Honour Judge:

Date:

