POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.4
Date: [ DATE ]

Document Title: Access Control Policy
Document Type: Policy Document
Abstract: This Access Control Policy (ACP) defines the policy for

controlling access to resources in the operational Pathway

system.

This version has been extensively restructured in line with
previous discussions - focusing on policy and exceptions,
so taking out descriptions, some details (particularly on
networks) and roles by machine (though the complete role
list has been left in). It has been reduced very significantly
in size.

This is a first draft with the revised structure for comment
- technical content has not yet always been revised, and
will be before wider distribution.

Distribution: Alan D’Alvarez
(ohn Dicks) Frank Fallon?
Peter Harrison Dave Tanner?
Dave Jones

Tom Parker
Barry Procter

Geoffrey Vane?
Peter Wiles
Document Status: First Draft with revised document structure
Document Predecessor: -
Associated Documents: See section 0.3
Author: Belinda Fairthorne
Approval Authority: John Dicks
Signatures/Dates:
Comments To: Author, copy to John Dicks, Dave Jones?
Comments By: -
Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 1 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465
ICL Pathway

POL00400795
POL00400795

Ref: RS/POL/0003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

0. CONTENT

0.1 Document History
Versio Date Reason
n
0.1-0.5 28/10/96 _ Initial drafts building up to first full version including
6/12/96 responses to comments
0.6 4/3/97 Further clarifications in many areas
1.0 16/4/97 Terminology changes, major updates to the Post Office
section and numerous minor changes
1.1/3 See separate note
2 23/2/98 Approved version of 1.3
2.4,2.2 sep/oct See separate note for technical changes;
98 Approval responsibility passed to John Dicks
3.0 dec ‘98 Approved version of 2.3 which had minor updates
3a may‘99 _ Re-organisation and change to focus on policy, taking out
most descriptive text;
See separate note for changes and issues.
0.2 Approval Authorities
Name Position Signature Date
John Dicks Customer Requirements
Director
0.3 Associated Documents
Ref: Title Identifier I Vers Date
SADD Service Architecture Design Document CR/FSP/004 5.1 23/7/98

TED Technical Environment Description TD/ARC/ooo1 4.2 13/10/98

SPOL ICL Pathway Security Policy RS/POL/oo02 3.3. 23/2/98

SFS Security Functional Specification RS/FSP/ooo1 3.2 5/8/98

NET High Level Network Design, NR2 &2+ = TD/DES/059 0.5 10/5/99
0.4 Abbreviations

ACP Access Control Policy

BA Benefits Agency

BES Benefit Encashment Service

BPS Benefit Payment Service

CAPS Customer Accounting and Payments System

CAW Certification Authority Workstation

CESG Communications-Electronic Security Group

CFM ICL Outsourcing (Client Services Ireland)

CLI Calling Line Identification

CMS Card Management Service

cs Pathway Customer Services

Printed: [ DATE ]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 2 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0001
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]
DBA Database Administrator
DSA Digital Signature Algorithm
DSS Department of Social Security
ECCO Electronic Cash Registers at Counters
EPOSS Electronic Point Of Sale Service
ESNS Electronic Stop Notice System
FCMS Fraud Case Management Service
FRM Fraud and Risk Management
FTMS File Transfer Management Service
HAPS Host Automated Payment Service
HFSO Horizon Field Support Officer
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
IT Information Technology
KEK Key Encryption Key
KMA Key Management Application
LAN Local Area Network
MIS Management Information Services
NAO National Audit Office
NMS Network Management Station
NSI National Sensitive Indicator
NT New Technology (Microsoft’s operating system)
OBCS Order Book Control Service
PAS Payment Authorisation Service
POCL Post Office Counters Ltd
PUN Pick Up Notice
RDMC Reference Data Management Centre
SMC System Management Centre
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol
SQL Structured Query Language
ssc System Support Centre
TACACS+ Terminal Access Controller Access Control System +
TIP Transaction Information Processing
TME Tivoli Management Environment
VME Virtual Machine Environment
VPN Virtual Private Network
0.5 Changes Forecast
Further changes may be needed as the design of Pathway develops for
new services. Also, in the following areas, the current document needs
further checking.
© Cryptography/key management
* Some details of support from remote sites e.g. EMC
e Telephone authentication procedures
¢ SMC 2" application support (possible read only access to more
systems)
Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 3 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0002
ICL Pathway

Access Control Policy

POL00400795

POL00400795
Ref: RS/POL/0003
Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

« System admin/support at remote sites with FTMS links e.g. De La Rue

0.6 Table Of Contents
[ TOC \O "1-3" \T "APPENDIX 1,1" ]

Printed: [ DATE ]
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

Page 4 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0003
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

he INTRODUCTION

1.1 Purpose

This Access Control Policy (ACP) defines the policy for controlling access
to resources in the ICL Pathway IT system.

Effective control depends on:

e Understanding the information in the system and what access to it
should be permitted, and where it is vulnerable, and

¢ Having a clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of all
personnel who need some form of access to the system, and

© Setting access policies and controls to provide the required access
while countering the threats and vulnerabilities.

1.2 Context

This document fits into the structure of documents for Pathway security
as illustrated in figure 1-1 below.

Contract Pathway Security Policy
& related

documents N\ 7

‘Access Control Security Functional I_I Technical Environment
Policy Specification Description

I To
[ [ I

Other security documents] IOperational procedures Detailed specifications
bhysical,personnel security} I for people accessing including
contingency planning etc Pathway services bonfiguration information

Figure 1 - 1 Pathway’s Security Documents

The ACP defines the policies for controlling access to the Pathway IT
system in compliance with the Pathway Security Policy.

The Security Functional Specification (SFS) defines the security
functionality that will be incorporated into the ICL Pathway system.

The Technical Environment Description (TED) describes the
architecture and technical environment for the Pathway solution.

Other documents define related policies, procedures and processes, for
example, for the physical security of information, and the procedures for
entering a site, using the system, safeguarding of manual records and
handling security incidents. There are also specifications defining how
the various Pathway components are configured. Many of these
documents need to comply with the ACP as described in 1.5 below.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 5 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0004
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

1.3 Scope and Document Structure

This Access Control Policy defines how access to information system
resources is controlled in the Pathway solution. It covers the Pathway
Data Centre systems, Pathway managed systems such as interface
systems at POCL sites and closely related Pathway project systems.
Access may be the result of direct user action, or automatically initiated
activities.

The ACP contains:

e An outline of the services, the roles of the people and the sites used in
the Pathway solution (Chapter 2)

© The access control policies for the whole of Pathway, covering policies
for authentication, information access within systems, system set-up
and network access etc (Chapter 3)

* Specific access controls for human users - where the policies in
Chapter 3 are specialised for particular user roles or there are
exceptions to the general policies (Chapter 4)

© Specific access controls for particular systems - specialisations and
exceptions to the policies in Chapter 3 (Chapter 5)

© Acomplete list of Pathway human roles and an overview of the IT
access permitted to each of these (Chapter 6)

This document specifies the access control policies, not detailed
procedures for configuring and running these systems.

Separate internal Pathway documents also cover system development
and test systems and other activities prior to the handing over of the
software for operational use.

1.4 Access Control Policy Review

This document will be formally reviewed at least annually. It will also be
reviewed where relevant after a significant security incident, as part of a
more general security policy review, and updated whenever necessary.

Responsibilities for approval, review and issue of this document will
conform to the review procedure for Pathway policy and standards
defined in the Pathway Security Policy.

1.5 Effect on other Pathway Standards and Procedures

This Access Control Policy defines the policy for controlling access to
resources in the operational Pathway system. As explained in section 1.2,
other documents detail configuration of Pathway systems, physical
security standards and procedures used when operating the system. The
effect of the Access Control Policy on these other documents is:

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 6 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0005
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.4
Date: [ DATE ]

15d

1.5.1.2

1.5.13

Configurations documents should define how systems are configured to
conform to the ACP, for example, how the roles defined here are set up
to restrict access as required.

The roles defined in the ACP should be used in other standards and

procedures, not just information system controls. For example,

e where a role requires access to sensitive data, this should be reflected
in the level of vetting required for staff in that role.

© users in these roles must be formally registered and authorised to take
that role by the appropriate authority before being added to the IT
system. Records of all persons registered to use the system must be
kept, though the way this is done may be role or service dependent.

In some cases, access controls require a combination of manual

processes and IT controls, and so procedures need to conform to the

ACP. For example:

* Pathway (and associated) staff visiting other sites must have a identity
pass with photograph and signature. (see section 3.3.3)

* Post Office procedures for administering users, physically protecting
tokens and passwords and authentication to Help Desks etc should
conform with the ACP.

e Help Desk procedures should conform to the ACP policies for
authentication of Help Desks to caller and vice versa (see 3.4.4)

« Support procedures should specify the authorisation processes for
making any updates to the system (code and data) and the
procedures, and related controls for calling in external support in line
with the ACP. (See, for example, 4.6.2 and 4.6.3)

The Pathway Security Manager will satisfy himself that the procedures at
the various sites are in compliance with the Pathway security policies
and specifications.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 7 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0006
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

2. OUTLINE OF SERVICES, ROLES AND
SITES

The Pathway system can be described from different views as follows:
e The operational systems and their business users.

« The business management users of the system, including security,
auditing and fraud risk management.

¢ Implementation systems used during rollout of new Post Offices.
« System & operational management and support.

This chapter gives an outline of the people and systems involved as a
context for the policies and roles described later. It is not intended as a
complete description of the system - for that, see [TED].

2.1 Operational Services and their Main Users

The operational systems and their main business users and sites are
shown in the following diagram.

POCL and POCL Client sites I IDSS sites

POCL: POCL client DSS)
transaction] I e.g. Automated Benefit
& ref. data} I payment system system IrI

De La Rue Card ServicesI

JPata Centre [Yost applications e.g. TPMS, PASICMS 1] [art vocion ]

Related mainly on Sequent systems
r

Services
e.g. Key Agents & Correspondence Servers (Riposte)

Management on NT g
e a

public

network Payment Card Helpline Customer,
POCL, DSS ete
i
Post Offices
Post Office I Counter Infrastructure (Riposte) & g
PO applications e.g. EPOSS, BES, APS
comes icone Post office Clerk & Customer,
Figure2-1 Main Operational Systems

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 8 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0007
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]
2.1.1 Services, Systems and Interactions

Information is sent from POCL (reference data), DSS (payment
authorisations) and other POCL Clients to the Pathway Data Centres.
DSS data may require new cards to be produced by the De La Rue card
services. Most of this data is also forwarded to relevant Post Offices for
use by applications there. Transactions at the Post Offices are recorded
at the correspondence servers and forwarded to POCL and/or DSS and
other POCL clients as relevant.

At the Data Centres, the main applications are on Sequent/UNIX
systems, but the agents and correspondence servers which handle
distribution of information to and from the Post Offices are on NT
servers, as are most of the supporting systems such as the key
management systems. Post Office Systems are also NT.

Apart from at the Post Offices, all activities are automated in normal
circumstances, so there are no business users.

2.1.2 Roles

At the Post Office, operational roles are the Post Office Manager,
Supervisor and Counter Clerk, These should be taken as also referring
to the equivalent staff in franchises and Sub Post Offices including Sub
Postmasters and their staff.

Payment Card Helpline Advisors respond to DSS, POCL and general
public queries about benefit cards and payments. PCHL users are located
at the Data Centre sites, so considered local, not external users.

Some DSS/BA staff access the Pathway system via DSS systems and then
the on-line CAPS interface to PAS/CMS. To Pathway, they appear as
system, rather than human, users.

2.2 Business/Corporate Management

Pathway corporate management users and the systems they use are
shown in the following diagram:

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 9 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0008
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

POCL, DSS etc
(incl. Royal mail data)

RN Data Centre + I Security, L—, a

FRM and
[audit servicesI

Corporate management
financial,

customer services ete MIS&
data

systems Rey
warehouse] } 9S'™S Lay" handler! al
Roo I custodian a]

” ! Pathway security
Business public and auditing
support network (& indirect external

auditors)
I iat POCL auditors &
Post Offices emergeney managers

Figure 2.2 Corporate Management

fraud risk mgt
(P'way & BA)

loperationalI

2.2.1 Services and Systems

Corporate management services provide management information on

Pathway’s operation and analysis and reporting of this. Systems include:

e A Data warehouse (Sequent system) which takes input from many
Pathway and related systems (including Royal Mail information about
card distribution and BT & Mitel information about help desk calls).

« Related MIS systems, including a separate SLAM (Service Level
Agreement) cache on NT and a financial system at a separate site.

The Data warehouse/MIS systems at the Data Centre support a number
of services including Contract Management, Accounting and Asset
Management and a Fraud Case Management System.

There are also Security Specific Services including an Authentication

Service for security token users and key management services. Keys need
to be installed at the Data Centre and also interface PCs at other sites.

2.2.2 Roles
The main roles are:
« Arange of Pathway corporate management roles e.g. financial
management, contract management and associated support roles.
e¢ A number of Pathway customer service roles such as Business
Support supporting business operations such as financial

reconciliation of payments and Reference Data roles for maintaining
reference data.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 10 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0009
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

« Fraud and Risk Management (FRM) identifying, monitoring and
managing fraud, particularly in benefit payments. This includes both
Pathway FRM people and the BA Security unit at a DSS site.

« Pathway Security Management managing security tokens for
Pathway users, and acting as the Pathway Cryptographic Key
Manager, responsible for generating and distributing keys all
cryptographic keys used in Pathway to protect communications links,
digitally sign information and encrypt filestore.

The Key Manager will delegate some responsibility for installing and
updating keys to Pathway Cryptographic Key Custodians and
Cryptographic Key Handlers.

¢ Pathway Auditors: both a Business Function Auditor responsible
for general auditing of the Pathway system (focusing on business,
rather than security, auditing) and a Security Event Auditor
responsible for auditing all use of the Pathway systems. Both types of
auditor access information at many Pathway systems

* POCL Auditors, Investigators and Emergency Managers who can
access services at Post Offices.

POCL, DSS and NAO Auditors also have indirect access to audit

information at the Data Centres, but via Pathway Auditors, rather than

direct access to the Pathway systems.

2.3 Implementation

The main people and systems involved in implementation of new Post
Offices are shown in the following diagram.

oF

Customers Implementayon Data Centre oF
ete Help Des
Pathway Mg’t auto-
Centre configuration] [ Related
g Lt database I] signing server, I I auto-configuraton

Ls rollout software depot staff
Pathway implementation I} database
staff (including regional

centre based staff)

ng

Implementation

generic software jon field support

porting migration)

suppliers I

post brices I GE
Fact

Q aay PC with software auto-config &

oF
of

: = installation engineer
staff setting-up and PO Manager
& verifying PCs
Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page u of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0010
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

2.3.1

2.3.2

2.4

Figure 2.3 Implementation services and people

Services and Systems

The rollout database contains information about Post offices where
Pathway is to be implemented, for example, Post Office details, the state
of the site and their staff training.

Configuration information comes mainly from the auto-configuration
system and is used in the initial set-up of the Post Offices, updating the
generic set-up of the counter systems as delivered. The
autoconfiguration process is very largely automated.

Migration from current paper or electronic systems is also supported.

Roles

The main roles here are:

¢ The Implementation Help Desk

« Pathway implementation staff supporting the implementation process
mainly from regional offices, but also Pathway project sites.

© The staff responsible for autoconfiguation, who may need to amend
information in certain circumstances

¢ Horizon Field Support staff handling migration of existing PO systems
to Pathway
In addition, there are implementation suppliers responsible for
training, site surveys, installation etc (who use bulk transfer, not
interactive access to the rollout database) and the people who set-up
and verify the PCs in the factory.

System & Operational Management and Support

The main people and systems are shown in the following diagram:

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 12 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0011
POL00400795

POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

2.4.1

2.4.2

i

E is JOataCentre -— Other sites
Technical Help Desk management Pathway
PO PO key recovery I recovery system [oom I I_I I managed systems
networ
no management} I routers
technicians
ie} ————_ operational mgt Arewallae: Pathway project SitesI
Iks I poanagemen g Configuration Mgt
firewall mgt =
operational

ston wet I& other systems a
systems mg gineers
(Tivoli + T
public ia)
ie] network

application support
veel ) Bo vos om application suppor
‘ost Office user
system support
pe Post Offices ] with technical query

Figure 2.4 System management & support

Services and Interactions

System and operational management and support users manage and
support the Post Offices, systems at the Data Centre (including routers
and firewalls) and Pathway managed systems such as the interface PCs at
POCL and De La Rue.

The help desk handles all technical calls from POCL, DSS and other
Pathway users including those from the Post Office requiring key and
password recovery services.

Pathway project sites include a Configuration Management system for
software to be distributed to Pathway systems, including Post Offices.
There are also test rigs used by application support staff for detecting
and fixing bugs.

The technical help desk and system/operational management and
support staff also use internal Pathway/ICL services such as the
Powerhelp and PinICL systems for recording, progressing and
monitoring calls to the help desk.

Note that many of the system and operational management and support
staff are remote from the systems being managed.

Roles

The main roles are as follows:

* Operational Management (sometimes called System
Administration): keeping the system running where this is not done
by system management. Operational management is normally split
into sub-roles, including:

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 13 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0012
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

¢ System set-up and installation: setting up the base and
application software on the system and configuring it for live
running, including roles.
¢ Software update, where this is not automated via system
management
¢ Security/User administration: administering user security
information such as their authentication information, the roles
they can perform and the groups they belong to.
¢ Database (e.g. Oracle) or Package (e.g. Riposte)
administration
¢ Computer operator: on most systems, this is a minimal role -
switching on machines, loading media and similar operations.
¢ Other system administration functions
Note that some package administration is done by people supporting
the application users e.g. Discoverer and Business Objects are
administered by corporate management support staff.

« System Management: monitoring events and resources in the
operational system and taking appropriate action to rectify problems.
Also, distributing software (complete new packages or patches),
where this is automated, for example, at the Post Offices. As for
operational management, sub-roles separate specific roles and also
separate administration of users and the Tivoli system itself.

« Network Management: managing the network, including routers
and firewalls, which connects machines and sites together.

¢ Application support - 2nd, 3rd, 4th line

© Other hardware and system support

© Horizon System and other technical help desks and supporting staff

« Engineers

2.5 Pathway Sites and Interactions

The main Pathway services run at the secure Pathway Data Centres at
Wigan and Bootle. This includes the main operational systems, most
corporate management systems, some implementation systems and
system & network management ones as outlined in the previous
sections.

The main operational and management services can be run at either site,

if needed, though there is a prime site for each. Figure 2-5 shows the
sites with electronic links to the Pathway Data Centres.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 14 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0013
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]
_—
Pat tre DSS site
Pathway project secure site —
oor . VME
44h reatonat us) ome I] FT] LF] eater I ss
secure LAN ry implementation partition

systems

other systems

[== a
a fecwall’
zip e4o firewall, 7 Sites with Pathway
routers, firewalls, crypto boxes, VPN. LI

managed systems e.g}

" POCL, De La Rue
Pathway corporate met,
system management, Interfac other
support etc PCs systemsI

I& implementation]
ete sites [ Post offices

Figure 2.5 Pathway Data Centres and linked Sites

All links to the Data Centres are protected by routers, firewalls,
cryptographic boxes or VPNs (or a combination of these) - depending on
the requirements protecting each type of link and the data which travels
over it. Routers and firewalls are also used to separate Data Centre
systems in some cases.

Where Pathway communicates with other organisation’s sites (such as
POCL, De La Rue), Pathway manages an interface PC/router at that site
to provide a gateway between Pathway and that organisation’s systems.
This is different at DSS sites, where Pathway have a partition on the
relevant VME system.

The main Pathway project sites which have access to the Data Centre
systems have secure LANs for that access with an encrypted link to the
Data Centre. Where people at these sites access other systems, including
other sites, there are separate networks. At some Pathway project sites
(e.g. Feltham and Bracknell) there are more complex networks which
permit limited traffic to/from other controlled systems (for example, for
software distribution from the Configuration Management systems and
downloading of data to test rigs for investigating faults). In these cases,
firewalls are used at the project sites to control this traffic.

There are a number of other support and implementation sites with
different types of access, so subject to different access control policies.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 15 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0014
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

3. OVERALL ACCESS CONTROL POLICIES

This chapter identifies the overall access control policies and associated
procedures and controls which apply across the Pathway solution. It
gives the general policies which apply across systems and identifies
where variants and exceptions are permitted. In these cases, the
exceptions are defined in the appropriate sub-section of chapters 4 and 5
below. No other variants are permitted.

3.1 Introduction

The objectives in the Pathway Security Policy give the requirements for
confidentiality and integrity of data, whether in storage or in transit, and
integrity of the services and software components. The ACP defines the
policies for controlling access in line with these objectives.

3.1.1 Pathway Human Roles

Human access to the Pathway information systems is specified in terms
of roles. People in specified roles are permitted to carry out defined
functions and access specified data. This is normally policed by controls
within the information systems, though in some cases, manual
procedures are used to supplement these.

Pathway controls which people can carry out which roles, and therefore
perform which functions. However, users are individually identified so
that they can be made accountable for their actions.

Where practical, the same or similar roles are defined for several systems
to reduce complexity and make it easier to check compliance with the
overall security policy.

The Access Control Policy includes all roles for users who have direct
access to the Pathway operational systems and the related systems at the
Data Centres. In addition, this document includes a limited number of
roles of users who cause others to use the system on their behalf, for
example in response to a phone call.

Roles will normally be associated with major functions. Defining
separate roles allows different functions to be allocated to different
individuals. However, the actual allocation of roles to individuals is done
by administrative action. Some users can be permitted to carry out more
than one major function, so are permitted to take more than one “role”,
but this will not be done where it might undermine security.

3.1.2 Types of Information and its Use

Information in the Pathway system to be protected from unauthorised
access includes:

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 16 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0015
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

¢ The business data exchanged with POCL and DSS such as the
payment authorisation data to support the PAS system, the reference
data to support EPOSS and the transaction data resulting from Post
Office counter activities. DSS and related business data is classified as
RESTRICTED according to UK government classifications. Some data
also has a National Sensitivity Indicator.

Business data is transferred between POCL, DSS etc and the Pathway
Data Centres and between the Data centres and the Post Offices and
card production systems. It is stored at the main operation systems
and also in archives. Some data is also available for management
services at the Data Warehouse - a particular instance is the fraud
case data about suspected fraud.

e Pathway business management data - financials, service level
agreements etc. There are confidentiality and integrity requirements
for much of this data.

This data is collected from the operational systems to the MIS ones,
and information extracted to Pathway project sites and forwarded to
POCL and DSS.

* Other data supporting the business processes such as training data
(special, non-sensitive, business style data used in training sessions)
and on-line documentation e.g. Payment Card Helpline procedures,
Post Office procedures.

© Operational systems data such as the software, configuration
information, Tivoli scripts, system management event logs etc.
This data is mainly held at the Data Centre and other systems, and
accessed remotely from system management and support sites

© Security information about users, keys, security audit logs etc

Most processing of the business information, except at the Post Office, is
automated and therefore not subject to human access. Most processing
of system data is also automated.

All information is protected in conformance to the Security Functional
Specification and Pathway Security Policy.

3.2 General Principles

The following general principles should be followed in controlling access
to the Pathway systems.

3.2.41 The principle of “least privilege” should apply to restrict the access rights
of users.
$24.2 Duties of different users should be separated to minimise the damage

that any one user can do to the system or the information in it.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 17 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0016
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

3.2.13 Ifa role at a particular location is allocated to a single person, there
should generally be at least one other person who can deputise for that
person. (At small Post Offices where no deputy is available, if the Post
Office Manager is unavailable, the Post Office will not open until
emergency procedures have been invoked.)

3.2.4 Where possible, the operation of Pathway should be automated to
reduce the need for human intervention and the potential accidental and
malicious security breaches resulting from human activity. For example,
applications should be designed to reduce the human interaction needed
and jobs should be scheduled automatically as the result of files being
received or at a particular time.

3.2.15 Similarly, where practical, system management tasks should be
automated, including taking remedial action where the results of
monitoring the system show this is needed. Only where action cannot be
taken automatically, or human verification of an action is needed, should
human intervention be required.

Note that this Access Control Policy covers access by system entities as
well as human users, but does not define roles for them.

3.3 Human Access

This section contains the policies for how human access to the Pathway
systems is controlled. It is divided into sub-section for policies on:

e Authentication to prove the user's identity to the IT system, and
hence his right to take ona particular role, and access particular
resources

« User registration/ administration to establish and maintain the user’s
identity and security attributes (such as role, password)

¢ Authentication of visitors
« Authentication by telephone
© Control of human access to resources (see also 3.5)

3.3.1 Authentication to IT Systems

3.341 All users must be authenticated to the IT system. This must identify
them as individuals. (The few permitted exceptions to this policy are in
chapter 4)

3.3.1.2 People accessing Pathway systems are required to identify themselves

using hand held tokens if:

e They are at sites remote from the Data Centre and can update
operational or MIS systems (for example, to perform systems
management actions)

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 18 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0017
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.4
Date: [ DATE ]

© They can access BA and/or POCL business data (except at Post
Offices).

© They are authorised to update system data which can affect the
running of the Pathway systems. This includes people who have UNIX
root privilege, NT users belonging to the administrators group and
database administrators.

3.31.3 Where such tokens are used for authentication, the associated PIN must
be at least 6 characters long.

3.3.1.4 Each user will have an individually allocated token except in
emergencies, for example, when a token is lost. In such cases, specific
authentication will be agreed.

3.3.15 Where a user needs to authenticate to multiple systems/domains in one
session, the first authentication (normally to the local workstation)
should be with a token.

3.3.1.6 Ifa user who authenticates with a token to one system/domain needs to
perform an additional authentication to another system, the second
authentication should also be a token based one, using the same token.
Agreed exceptions to this must be documented.

3.3.1.7 Where passwords are used for authentication, the user is forced to
change the initial password before any other access to the system is
permitted.

3.3.1.8 Passwords will expire in 30 days unless otherwise stated (in the section
on the appropriate domain).

3.3.1.9 Re-use of the same password is not permitted for either a specified time
or until at least 3 other passwords have been used.

3.3.1.0 The minimum password length is 6 characters.

3.34.0 After 3 consecutive unsuccessful attempts to log-on, the user is locked

out unless otherwise stated.

3.3412 Users are authenticated with their individual usernames on first
accessing the system. A change to use another username, will only be
permitted to certain authorised operational management roles in
exceptional circumstances as specified in the appropriate later section
(for example, for Sequent systems in 4.2.2). Any change to use another
username must be controlled and audited in a way which will always be
recorded.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 19 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0018
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

3.31.13 An operational management role may need full system administrator
access to the system in limited circumstances. In this case, where
possible, the user should be given limited privileges on log-on and have
to ask for other authorised, but potentially wide ranging, privileges when
required. In particular, no user is allowed to log onto UNIX with root
access (though some may be permitted a controlled change to root
access later).

3.3.2 User Registration and Administration

3.3.2.1 People must be identified to Pathway information system as individuals.
Users with direct access to the system should be registered as follows.

* Ifaccessing the system via a package such as Oracle or Tivoli, they are

registered with that package.

« Users who require direct access to the operating system are registered

with that operating system (at the local system or NT domain)

« Users requiring token authentication are also registered with the

appropriate authentication service.

(The only exceptions allowed to this are the specific cases identified in
later sections of this document. In these limited exceptional cases, the
user, for example, an engineer, is identified as an individual using
manual means prior to using the system in a way specially set up for this,
and where the use of the system is suitably monitored.)

B23 Authentication of Visitors to Post Offices and Pathway Sites

3.3.3.1 All visitors to both Pathway and Post Office sites who need access to the
IT system must have a company identity card which includes their
photograph, signature and pass number.

3.3.3.2 Unless otherwise stated, for all such visits, the pass number of the visitor
must be notified in advance to the relevant manager; access will not be
permitted if this has not been done. However, Auditors will visit Post
Offices and other sites without prior notice to the Post Office Manager.

3.3.33 Pathway visitors to Post Offices must be subject to Pathway vetting
procedures and approval by Horizon.

333-4 Visitors to Pathway sites are subject to agreed vetting procedures.

3.3.4 Telephone Authentication at Help Desks

Authentication by telephone is needed at all three main Help Desks:
e The Payment Card Helpline (PCHL)

e The Horizon System Help Desk (HSHD), and

© The Rollout Help Desk

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 20 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0019
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.4
Date: [ DATE ]

All these Help Desks receive calls from Customers, POCL staff at Post
Offices and other sites and other people such as DSS and Pathway staff.
The following categories of call have different authentication
requirements:

* Category 1: Calls where the source of call would not affect the action
taken. For example, the call is just a query of generally available
information.

* Categeory 2: Where the result of the call is to cause an action which
has only limited consequences e.g. to report a problem in the Post
Office (which could result in an engineer call) or report a lost card
(which could cause a card to be stopped).

© Category 3: Where the consequences of misidentifying of the caller
could be serious (and the telephone authentication is the only
authentication of the caller). For example, the wrong person may be
allowed access to sensitive information, and/or be able to disrupt the
service.

* Category 4: Where the consequences of the call could potentially be
serious, but authentication of the user on the phone is only part of the
process needed to complete an action. For example, a Post Office
Manager has lost the PIN associated with the card used to boot the
system, but will still also require a password to use the system.

33-41 For category 1 calls, no authentication is needed.

3.3-4.2 For category 2 calls made by customers, some level of authentication of
the caller is required, depending on the type of call. For example
customers making queries and reports about cards and PUNs (e.g. card
lost or damaged) authenticate by responding to a number of verification
questions asked by the PCHL advisor as specified in [SADD].

3.3.4.3 For category 2 calls made, for example, by POCL or BA staff, at least the
location of the caller should be verified, for example, the particular Post
Offices, or POCL regional centre. This location must be one already
known to the Help Desk for which suitable verification information is
available. Where the call is on behalf of a customer, authentication of
the customer (see above) as well as the caller is needed.

33-44 For category 3 calls, the caller must be identified individually. (If the
person concerned is not known individually to the Help Desk, the call
must be routed via a known centre for verification. For example, calls
from Post Office staff at the Outlet could be routed via a POCL regional
centre whose staff authenticate to the Pathway Help Desk.)

3.3.4.5 For category 4 calls, the authentication process should at least verify the
location of the call to one known and acceptable for this type of call.

3.3.4.6 Help Desks must maintain the information required to authenticate the
callers and their sites/offices as required for the type of call.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 21 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0020
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

3.3.4.7 If the call needs to be passed onto another internal Pathway help desk,
the call should be forwarded only after the initial authentication has
been carried out.

3.3.4.8 There are several different types of calls in each category. The
authentication process for each call type must conform to these policies.

Details of the information used for different types of call must conform
to these policies and be given in the appropriate Help Desk procedures.

Note: just location (fields from address, phone number and FAD code/pseudo FAD code) does

not seem strong enough authentication for category 3.

3.3.5 Control of Human Access to Resources

Controls of access to resources is achieved partly by workstation set-up
and partly by administration of the resource, for example, in the form of
an access control list. Details of the way the access controls are
implemented in the information systems depends on the product used
and is not defined in this policy document.

33-5. All human users with access to Pathway Data Centre or Pathway
managed systems on other sites must do so using controlled
workstations as defined in 3.6.1.

3.3.5.2 Access controls associated with resources should define the “role” of the
user, not the individual user’s identity (unless there is an agreed need for
individual access). The role may be represented by a group identity, for
example, in products such as Riposte, UNIX and Windows NT which
support groups, not roles directly.

33-53 Access controls associated with resources should provide access to the
resources as in the role definitions in chapter 6.

3.4 Non Human Users

As much of the operational Pathway system is automated, some users
are system, not human users, so there are usernames and passwords for
both types of users. In general, system users should be subject to the
controls specified above (e.g. for password protection), as such
usernames generally cannot be confined to human users only, so human
users can potentially access usernames intended for system users.
However, some differences are permitted.

3.4.11 The username and password used to automate the log-in may be held in
clear if it is only accessible to authorised operational management staff

for that system and the potential damage from mis-use of that username
is minimised.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 22 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0021
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

3.4.1.2 The password may expire less frequently than the 30 days for human
users where suitably obscure passwords are used, and the risk of external
access to such accounts is very low.

3.5 Information and Resource Access

The Pathway Access Control Policy is concerned with protecting
information in all Pathway systems at the Data Centres, at Pathway
managed systems (such as interface systems at POCL and other sites), at
the systems used to access Data Centre and managed systems and in
transit between these. This includes protection of information during
fault investigations and correction and information retained for auditing
and fraud investigation.

3.5.11 DSS and related business data is classified as RESTRICTED according to
the UK government classifications and must be protected accordingly.
Access to data with a National Sensitivity Indicator is further limited to
authorised staff.

3.5.1.2 Where human access to this information is needed, it should only be
accessible to those with a need to see it according to their role.

3.5.1.3 Information in transit between systems should be encrypted for
confidentiality and/or integrity according to the needs of the particular
link as defined in the Security Functional Specification [SFS].

3.5.1.4 Digital signatures should be used for integrity of business information
between the Post Offices and other services where required. For
example, for signing payment authorisations sent from Pathway to the
Post Offices and signing automated payments at the Post Office prior to
transmission via Pathway to POCL or POCL Clients.

3.5.1.5 System data should also be integrity protected when required. For
example, digital signatures protect software distributed to the Post
Offices and elsewhere.

3.5.1.6 Business information in filestore at the Post Office PCs should be
encrypted.
3.5.1.7 Passwords should be stored in encrypted form separately from

application data and executable code, except for the specific cases listed
in Non Human Access above.

3.5.1.8 RESTRICTED data on discs and other media (including printed output)
should not be accessible for unauthorised use. For example, archives
should be stored securely; information on faulty discs removed from
service should be inaccessible.

3.5.1.9 Pathway systems should prevent human users interfering with each
other or with the automated applications and should prevent
applications interfering with each other.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 23 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0022
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

3.5.1.10 Information should be appropriately separated in filestore, database

tables etc. Each data set should be accessible only to those with a need

for that access.
3.5.1.0 Different applications should run in their own user names or that of the

user calling them (or at the Post Office, in the Riposte username
impersonating the user).

35.112 Access to shared resources such as filestore should be controlled by:

© Access to that filestore being restricted to a specific product which is
available only to authorised users, or

© Access to those resources being restricted to users in specified roles.
(Group ids may be used to represent roles. Access control lists using
these will ensure that only authorised people can access the resource).

3-5.1.13 Information in relational databases should be accessible only via
authorised client “applications” (such as Oracle Forms, Discoverer,
Business Objects, Tivoli database interfaces) except where there is a
proven need for lower level access. Lower level access will only be
granted for agreed operational management and support functions.

3.51.14 System Management actions by Tivoli should be activated using pre-
defined Tivoli tasks, authorised for use by SMC and the Pathway
configuration management and software distribution process. This
includes collection of diagnostic information from the Post Office for
application support.

3.5.15 Packages (such as Oracle and Tivoli) and applications above the
operating system must also conform to the Access Control Policy. For
example, Oracle should restrict Payment Card Helpline users to the
authorised tables and views. Also, access to the package’s resources
should use role based access controls.

3.51.16 For client-server applications (such as Oracle Forms applications using
PAS/CMS), audit records should be generated at the server so audit logs
do not rely on input from workstations.

3-5.1.17 Security audit logs must be protected from everyone except those
permitted to take specified Security Event Auditor roles. Unless
otherwise specified for a particular domain (such as the Post Offices),
the security auditing role is separate from other roles at that domain.

3.5118 All systems, except Post Office counter systems, must provide read
access to audit trails by authorised security auditors.

3.5.2 Key Management

Cryptography is used widely in Pathway as described in the Security
Functional Specification [SFS] for:

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 24 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0023
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.4
Date: [ DATE ]

¢ Protecting information on links for confidentiality, integrity and
origin authentication in line with the requirements for that link.

e End-to-end integrity and data origin authentication, potentially over
multiple links using digital signatures.

* Filestore encryption at the Post Office.
The following policies apply for protection of keys.

3.5.2.1 CESG approved keys must be protected in line with CESG requirements.

3.5.2.2 Key material (symmetric keys, DSA private keys and DSA entropy)
should be held in clear only when in physically secure environments.

3.5.2.3 Public keys (except for the CA’s public key) should be held in certificates
signed by the Certification Authority.

3.5.2.4 Symmetric keys should only be stored where necessary, and be held
securely,

3.5.2.5 Keys (or part keys) held in filestore must be in separate filestore
accessible only to authorised key custodians via authorised applications.

3.5.2.6 Keys used for protecting data should not be resident in filestore in clear.

3.5.2.7 Keys should be changed periodically according to CESG policy. Different

periods may apply to Symmetric Keys used for encrypting data, Key
Encryption Keys (KEKs) used to encrypt other keys and Certification
Authority keys.

3.5.2.8 New KEKs should not be distributed solely under the protection of
existing KEKs.

3.5.2.9 Key material in transit electronically must be encrypted (except for
CHAP keys between the routers within the Pathway Data Centre LAN).

3.5.2.10 Cryptographic keys and Key Encryption Keys are either installed locally
at the machine where they are to be used, or are distributed
electronically using an approved protocol which protects these keys in
transit.

3.5.2.1 Where a key is delivered in two parts (e.g. a red key and a black key), the
parts should be delivered by different routes.

3.5.2.12 The key (or part key) to be handled manually must be held in a locked
safe when not in use. Access to this must be authorised and recorded in
conformance with Pathway procedures.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 25 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0024
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]
3.6 System Set-up Policies
3.6.1 Workstation Set-up Policies
3.6.1.1 Users with interactive access to Pathway systems should use “controlled,

NT workstations” as defined in the following policies in this section. All
such exceptions to the “controlled NT” workstation policy must be
authorised and documented in the ACP.

3.6.1.2 Workstations from which operational systems can be updated should
have floppy drives disabled. Booting from CDROM should also be
disabled once a system has been configured. In all cases, exceptions to
this rule must be agreed with Pathway Security Management and
Horizon and be documented.

3.6.1.3 Workstations at the Post Office display sensitive business data (e.g.
about payments) as part of normal operation. All other workstations
which can display sensitive information should be in physically secure
areas.

3.6.1.4 All systems should have the required roles, groups and other privileges
set up on installation. It should rarely be necessary to update these.
“Guest” users must not be enabled in the installed systems, and where
possible, should not be included. Other generic users should not be
accessible for user logon except in exceptional circumstances explicitly
defined in the appropriate section below.

3.6.1.5 Operating system set-up and services available at that workstation
should be controlled by Pathway or shown to conform to Pathway
standards.

3.6.1.6 After a workstation is booted up, a log-in screen should be displayed

which cannot be by-passed.

3.6.1.7 The selection of tasks available on the desktop (or via secure menu
system, where used) should be constrained to those available to users
with that role.

3.6.2 Server Set-up

3.6.2.1 Servers should have floppy drives disabled at boot time. Booting from
CDROM should also be disabled once a system has been configured. In
all cases, exceptions to this rule must be agreed with Pathway Security
Management and Horizon and be documented

3.6.2.2 Where a server is delivered with pre-defined usernames for human
users, these should be deleted (or if this is not possible, disabled) once
the initial individual usernames for administering the system have been
set-up. Usernames should be disabled by changing to a password which
is extremely difficult to guess, then storing this password in a safe.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 26 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0025
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]
3.6.3 Workstation Environment Related Access Controls
3.6.3.1 Users with interactive access to Pathway systems should access these

systems via controlled, NT workstations in secure environments as
defined in the following policies. All exceptions to these policies must be
authorised and documented in the ACP.

The following diagram shows the main types of workstation
environment supported for access to the Pathway Data Centres and
other Pathway managed systems.

Site type I Site type 2 Site type 3

a2 I meee

secure LAN

a

cH cH

Pathway Data Centre

Data Centre systems,
iz oe fs (& via them to

Pathway managed systems)

3.6.3.2 Workstations which have access to sensitive data or can be used to
access Pathway systems (code or data) should be on separate secure
LANS linked only into the Pathway secure network. (Site types 1 and 2
and the Data Centres)
3.6.3.3 The only permitted exceptions are:
¢ For authorised transfers of software and RODB data from the
controlled Pathway LAN at the management site at Feltham to the
appropriate Data Centre system.
¢ For application support users linking to test rigs. In agreed
circumstances, authorised application support users may access to
DSS data to investigate a problem and may download that data to the
workstation or test rigs.

In these site type 3 cases, firewalls between the LAN on the project site
and the encrypted link to the Data Centres must constrain traffic to just
that authorised from identified project systems to the identified Data
Centre systems.

3.6.3.4 All such users (except PCHL ones) should authenticate using a token.
Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 27 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0026
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

3.6.3.5 The secure LAN and workstations must be in a physically secure area
restricted to permitted users as must any routers, encryption boxes and
firewalls connecting them to the Pathway data Centres.

3.6.3.6 Where the workstation is remote from the system being accessed,
encrypted links should be used. [does FTMS contravene this?]. (PCHL
and Girobank FRM users are located at the Pathway Data Centre sites, so
are considered local users not requiring encrypted links.).

3.6.3.7 Where a user also needs access to internal Pathway systems (such as the
call recording and management systems and e-mail), the user must use a
second workstation linked to the internal network and system required
but not to the Pathway Data Centre. (site types 2 and 3)

3.6.3.8 Where the incident tracking systems use networks outside the Pathway
secure controlled area, for example, the ICL corporate network,
information recorded on it associated with an incident may refer to a
particular record of DSS customer data, but must not include such DSS
data, unless adequately protected, for example, by encryption.

3.6.3.9 External users, such as BA Security staff accessing the FRMS service from
their own site, must conform to these policies for controlled NT
workstations in a controlled environment via an encrypted link.

3.6.3.10 External support users of Pathway systems (such as Sequent and Cisco)
should be permitted access to Pathway Data Centre systems only from
approved sites/environments and subject to agreed network and other
controls (see 4.6.3).

3.7 Network Access Policies

Pathway controls should restrict who can access what services so there is
no unnecessary access to services. This covers all traffic in and out of, as
well as within, the Pathway Data Centres and managed systems and also
within parts of the Pathway management systems. In addition to the
workstation environment controls above, network access policies can be
enforced using a combination of access lists at routers, controls at
firewalls, NT domain controls, platform controls on use of ports and
other application controls where needed.

3.7.1 Information in Transit
3-741. Business and system data in transit to/from the Pathway Data Centres
must be protected in accordance with [SFS]. This covers, for example:
© transfer of data to/from Pathway managed systems at other sites such
as DSS, POCL, POCL Client and De La Rue systems.
* business and system management traffic to/from the Post Offices

(which is protected using a VPN to provide authentication and
encryption as well digital signatures in some cases - see above)

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 28 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0027
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

© business and system information between the Data Centres and
Pathway management and implementation sites

[Does the SFS cover protection of links to regional offices and implementation suppliers? I

3.7.1.2 The Energis ATM network with its closed user group should be used to
restrict access to DSS data and the main POCL data (TIP and Reference
data) to Pathway only.

3.7.13 AIL ISDN links should use VPN protection (for authentication and
encryption) or in cases where that cannot be justified, CHAP
authentication and CLI.

Control of Traffic In and Out of Data Centres

All accesses in and out of the Pathway Data Centres should be restricted
to the required traffic from/to the authorised sources/destinations for
business and system traffic using routers and firewalls. Such traffic
should be routed only to the ports at systems which require that traffic.

3.9/2.2 All management and support users access the Data Centres (and other
managed systems) from controlled workstation environments as defined
in 3.6.3 above.

3:72.93 All Pathway Corporate management, system management and support
sites with access to the main operational systems should have fixed links
to the Data Centres.

3.7.2.4 External support users with access to any of the Pathway systems
containing sensitive or protectively marked information access the
system via controlled workstations and environments as for Pathway
support staff, but subject to extra controls - see appropriate section
below. (Support of routers is an exception - see below).

3.7.2.5 All such fixed links are protected using Zergo encryption devices using
Rambutan.
3.7.2.6 Apart from links via the Energis closed user group to DSS and the main

POCL systems (and via POCL, to Royal Mail), all access to the Data
Centre by external organisations for support or other purposes should be
firewalled from the main Data Centre systems. Any exception to this
must be agreed with the Pathway Security Manager and documented in
the ACP.

3.7.2.7 Traffic to/from Pathway managed interface PCs/routers at other sites
(POCL, De La Rue etc) should be restricted (by routers and firewalls) to:
¢ authorised business traffic between the managed system and the
particular Pathway Data Centre server handling that link (normally
just file transfer between the systems).

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 29 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0028
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

3.7.2.8

3.7.2.9

3.7-2.10

3.7.2.1

3.7.3
3-734

Question: Should limited operational management and application support be allowed? 4CP3
said these PCs were managed using via system management (c.f. the Post offices,
though applications and set-up much simpler); any limited system admin needed would
be done locally. I’m not keen to allow remote admin over unencrypted lines if this could
access, for example, card data unencrypted afier its encrypted transfer to De La Rue.

* network management traffic between the routers and the NMS.

* system management traffic between the PCs and Tivoli Management
Centre

Traffic to/from the Pathway VME partitions at DSS sites should be
restricted to:

* authorised OSI business traffic (file transfer, and SQL*Net for the
CAPS on-line interface) between VME and Sonnet on Sequent.

¢ limited authorised operational management and application support
* network management traffic between the routers and the NMS

A set of routers should handle all traffic to/from operational Post Offices
and accept traffic from outside the Data Centres only from Post Offices.
No operational Post Office traffic should be accepted via other routes.
These routers should also restrict where traffic can be routed to/from
within the Data Centre i.e. to VPN servers? the Correspondence Servers,
Tivoli management servers and KMS. [don’t know how this works - does
it go to the VPN for onward routing?]

When implementing a new, or significantly changed, Post Office,
connection will initially be to a special boot server. Access to this from
the Post Offices should be via a firewall, which also restricts traffic
between the boot server and the main Pathway Data Centre LAN.
[check]

Routers should be configured to deny access to external users (e.g.
CISCO support) until this access has been agreed - see 4.6.3. When
permitted, the appropriate router should be configured to restrict access
to the Data Centre to the particular system(s) needing support.

Controlling Traffic Within Data Centres

Controls in the Data Centre should reduce the possibility of interference
between systems by separating independent parts of the system,
particularly where these which have different security requirements.
(This may be by a combination of network set-up, router controls,
controls at ports of specific systems and NT domain structure.) For
example,

« Systems concerned with roll-out of Post Offices should be separate
from those used for operational running.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 30 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0029
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: [ DATE ]

3.7.3.2

3-733

3.7.4

3-7-4.1

3-742

© Security services, such as the Key Management one, should be well
protected from unauthorised access from other systems.

Traffic originating within the Pathway Data Centres is generally initiated
by controlled applications. These applications (and the way they are
configured in the system) should restrict traffic between systems to that
needed.

Where there are specific systems subject to higher risks or vulnerabilities
in the Data Centre network, additional network controls should be used.
All such special cases should be documented in the ACP.

Controlling Traffic at and from Pathway Project Sites
Pathway project sites include:

¢ System and operational management sites and support sites

¢ The main Pathway management sites at Feltham and Bracknell
¢ The Implementation unit main site at Kidsgrove

* Regional offices used by the Pathway Implementation Unit

For whole Pathway network at the main management sites (such as
Feltham and Bracknell?) should be protected. The only permitted
connections should be:

© to the Data Centres via encrypted links

© to other secure LANs via an encrypted link (i.e. between the Bracknell
and Feltham secure LANs)

© to the ICL Corporate network via a controlled router, which restricts
traffic to what permitted.

* to implementation users at regional offices and implementation

suppliers at their sites via a controlled router and firewalls (for access
to the RODB)

Note: the above still needs checking. Does the ICL corporate network link provide the links
needed to services required by Pathway managers, developers etc (such as email,
Powerhelp and the financial system, any electronic supply of software from other units)

Are Implementation users and suppliers to the roll-out database?

The Pathway management site network itself should be divided as
follows:

© Most local users should only have access to specific LANs which
provide access to local services and (via the router) to the ICL
Corporate network. Access from these LANs to the (secure LANs and
the) Data Centre must be controlled by a firewall which restricts data
to that permitted (e.g. software from the Configuration management
system at Feltham) as well as the encrypted links.

Printed: [ DATE ] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 31 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0030
ICL Pathway

POL00400795
POL00400795

Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.4
Date: [ DATE ]

All users with any interactive access to the Data Centres must do this
via secure LANs (see also 3.6.3)

Separate secure LANs should be used for separate user
groups/activities where sensitive data is being handled at Pathway
management sites. For example, Security Management, Auditing and
FRM users should be on a separate high security LAN separate from
other users.

Servers at the Pathway management sites which require strong
security because they handle sensitive/RESTRICTED data or are used
to update the Data Centre should be ona secure LAN. This applies,
for example, to the CM signing server which distributes software to
the Data Centre, the RODB and reconciliation database.

Printed: [ DATE ]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 32 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0031
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

4. SPECIFIC HUMAN ACCESS CONTROLS

4.1 Introduction

This chapter covers where the access control policies, and in particular,
authentication policies, in chapter 3 for human users are specialised for
particular roles and where exceptions to these policies are permitted.

Note that a full list of Pathway roles, outlining the IT access permitted to
each of them, is given in chapter 6.

4.2 Post Offices - Operational and Implementation Roles

There are no system management and support roles at the Post Offices,
as these tasks are run remotely, apart from some limited tasks available
to Post Office managers.

4.2.1 Post Office Normal Running

For normal functions, Post Office Managers, clerks and supervisors
authenticate using a Riposte username and password.

On normal counter start up (once installation is complete), the Post
Office Manager (or authorised other user) uses the Post office Memory
card and PIN (which is also used in protecting the filestore, as defined in
the [SFS]).

The following specialisations of the policies in 3.xx apply in these cases.
4.2.11 A password cannot be re-used for 18 months.
4.2.1.2 The password is checked to conform to quality standards as follows:
© passwords cannot contain spaces
* there cannot be more than two consecutive identical characters
¢ the password cannot be the same as the username
* the password cannot be one of an agreed “excluded passwords’ list.
4.2.1.3 After a period of inactivity at a Post Office counter, the session will time
out, but can be resumed on entry of the password. After a longer period
of inactivity, the user is forcibly logged out.
4.2.1.4 The PIN used for the Post Office Manager’s memory card is a 15
character alphanumeric value
4.2.1.5 The Post Office Manager should secure the Memory card and PIN for it
in separate places
4.2.1.6 When a new Post office user is added to the system, a full name must be
supplied, so that the user can be identified from the user name included
in the transaction logged in the Riposte journals.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 33 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0032
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
4.2.2 Customer Authentication at Post Offices

For most Post office operations, customers do not need to authenticate
themselves. For DSS benefit related transactions, they are authenticated
as defined in [SADD] for example:

4.2.2.1 The customer brings a Pick-up Notice (PUN) with a bar-code as
identification when collecting a Benefits card (or brings an existing card
due to expire to collect a new card)

4.2.2.2 The customer brings the benefit card as identification when picking up a
payment. Extended verification is used on transactions particularly at
risk of fraud such as foreign encashments.

4.2.3 Post Office Exceptional Cases except
Implementation/ Installation

This subsection includes exceptional cases involving the Post Office
Manager and other Post Office staff and also support engineers, POCL
auditors and emergency managers.

For some user groups, and some exceptional circumstances, the Post
Office Manager (or other authorised person) authenticates using a one-
time password with the assistance of the Horizon System Help Desk
(HSHD). The Post office system generates a value, then phones the
HSHD authenticating to the HSHD as defined for that user
role/circumstances (see ??). The HSHD (after authenticating the user)
provides a check value which the user can type in at the Post office
counter to authenticate himself.

The following policies apply to these exceptions.

4.2.31 If there is a failure on booting the counter systems after installation of
new software, the Post Office Manager the reverts to the failsafe version
of NT supported by HSHD and using a one-time password.

4.2.3.2 If the Manager loses his password, he (or an authorised deputy in his

absence) logs into a SUPPORT username using a one-time password
provided via the HSHD.

4.2.3.3 If the Manager loses his card or PIN, he obtains an emergency recovery
key via the HSHD (after authenticate to the HSHD).
4.2.3.4 Support engineers (installing new hardware and running tests to check it

authenticate) and Auditors use generic Riposte usernames for the
appropriate role and authenticate via one-time passwords. For both
engineers and auditors, the pass number is also typed in, so individual
users can be identified in the log.

4.2.3.5 Ifa POCL Emergency Manager takes over a Post office when the

manager is unavailable or unco-operative, he may use the emergency
recovery procedure to boot up the Post office - see 4.2.2.3.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 34 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0033
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003

Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

4.2.4

4.2.4.1

4.2.4.2

42.43

4244

4.3

Implementation/ Installation Roles at Post Offices
On implementation/installation of a Post office,
¢ The installation engineer sets up the connection to the data centre

¢ the Post Office Manager (POM) completes the Post office set-up for
normal working including set up of the memory card and PIN

© The Horizon Field Support officer (HSFO) migrates existing stock
records to Pathway - either manual ones or from ECCO equipment

The installation engineer must authenticate to the POM (see Visitor
Authentication) prior to using the Auto-configuration application.
Authentication to NT or Riposte must be impossible at this stage.

On first installation of the Post Office (after memory card set-up), the
Manager logs in under the Set-up Manager username to create his
individual username. After this, the Set-up Manager username [should be
deleted?; on all future occasions, the POM must authenticate using his
individual user name except in cases identified in 4.2.3 above.

For migrating manual records, the POM should check the HFSO’s
credentials and create a MiMAN user including the HFSO’s name. The
HSFO authenticates to that (using a shared HFSO password) under
POM control and should only have access to the migration application.
After migration, the POM and HSFO should check the name details are
correct and the POM should then delete the migration account.

For Post Offices migrating from ECCO equipment, the HFSO uses a
laptop, not counter (to read ECCO disks, and feed information to the
Correspondence server records for the Post Office). As for manual
migration, the POM should check the HFSO’s credentials and control
migration.

Question: how does the HFSO authenticate to the laptop? And how is his identity recorded at
the migration server? Probably breaks the rule of individual authentication?

Operational Users of Data Centre Systems

This section covers business users, except for corporate management
users, System management and support users are also in a later section.

DSS/BA and DSS Help Desk staff access PAS/CMS via the on-line CAPs
interface, after authenticating to the appropriate DSS system. Pathway
accepts their transactions via the agreed DSS interface without further
authentication of these users. The DSS systems is also assumed to have
performed any access controls needed to restrict these transactions
beyond the normal ones, for example, restricting Help Desk users to
read only transactions. At the interface, the DSS/BA member of staff is
identified by a transition id which is used for Pathway auditing. At
PAS/CMS, these users appear to be system, not human, users.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 35 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0034
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
4.3.11 All Payment Card Helpline (PCHL) Advisors, Supervisors and Security

Managers logon to their own NT domain (separate from other Pathway
domains) using a password, and then logon to the PAS/CMS Oracle
application (or the training version of this) using a password.

4.3.1.2 The Girobank Help Desk users should be restricted to only Oracle Forms
access to Sequent (see 4.3.1 above). The Help Desk workstations should
be set up to use only this access to the Data Centres and the Sequent
systems to accept only this.

43.13 Their workstations and LAN must be secure and conform to the site type

4.4 Corporate (including Security) Management Users

Unless stated otherwise, all corporate management users are
authenticated to their local NT domain using a security token. They use
controlled NT workstations on secure LANs at Pathway project sites
linked by encrypted links to the Data Centres (see site type 1 in 3.2).

4.4.1 Business Management
These users may also need to authenticate to the relevant system and/or
application for particular systems. This is required for Oracle
applications, and for Business Object universes used to access data at
Data Warehouse systems via Oracle/Business objects.

The only specialisations and exceptions to the policies in chapter 3 for
these users are:

4.4.1.1 BA security staff doing FRM are treated as corporate management users.
Their DSS workstations and environment must conform to Pathway
policies for type 1 sites in 3.2 above.
4.4.1.2 People in the following roles have CDs at workstations with write access:
« Management support users, who write agreed warehouse data to be
put on CD for transfer to DSS and/or POCL
© The FRM supervisor, who provides information to BA Security staff
* The Business Function Auditor, who provides information to external
auditors?
[In future, some transfers of data, e.g. to BA Security, may be via an
encrypted link, not CD.]

Note: the ACP did have a policy to allow CS Managers to access the SLAM cache on NT from
their normal workstations, rather the secure LAN. This depended on traffic being
restricted to the right type of protocol and the NT SLAM cache machine at the Data
Centre only. This policy has been removed.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 36 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0035
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

4.4.2 Key Management
44.201 [Needs to be a para re key manager/]
4.4.2.2 The Key Custodian uses the local console at the platform where the key

is to be installed/changed and authenticates using a token to the local

system. (For NT, this is defined as a local role)
4.4.2.3 The Key Handler has the key on the appropriate media (e.g. floppy) for

re-installation of the key during system reboot. He is not a known user of
the system and does not authenticate to it.

4.4.2.4 The key handler role may be performed by identified, authorised (non-
Pathway) staff at remote Pathway managed systems e.g. by EDS at VME
partitions and by De La Rue, POCL etc at interface PCs at their sites.

4.4.2.5 The Cryptographic Key Manager and KMA Data Manager roles are SQL
Server users, so log-on to Oracle (after NT workstation, token logon).
This gives access to specific functions only.

4.5 Implementation Users

No specialisations to the policies in chapter 3 apply have yet been
identified for implementation users, except at the Post Office - see
above.

The NT logon to the migration server for ECCO migration is to establish
the laptop access to this server. The HSFO uses applications at the
laptop only, so is not a direct interactive user of the migration server.
RODB users do not have access to Pathway Data Centre systems, so are
not covered by the policies.

4.6 System Management and Related Users

All system amangement, operational management and application
support users have controlled NT workstations for management/support
activities, and a separate workstation for access to call monitoring and
other systems as in 3.3.7 site type 2 and 3.

4.6.11 SMC technicians, and other Tivoli users (e.g. Auditors, SSC application
support) authenticate to Tivoli as well as the workstation logon to NT.

4.6.1.2 For Post Office key recovery, the SMC team leader may also need to log
onto the KMA [the process here is still to be agreed.]

4.6.1.3 All network technicians access only the NMS and routers, so access for
them is described in that section.

4.6.1.4 The current agreed exceptions for disabled floppies/CDs need adding.

Printed: [DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 37 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0036
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
4.6.2 Engineering Access
4.6.2.1 Where possible, engineering access to the machines, for example, for

hardware diagnosis and repair, should be subject to the same controls as
other users, as specified in chapter 3.

4.6.2.2 In agreed, limited circumstances, for example, when the operating
system cannot be booted, special access is permitted, by-passing the
normal controls. In all such cases, any visiting engineer must be subject
to the policies for “authentication of visitors” procedures (see chapter 3)
and two people must be present during such access.

4.6.3 Procedures for getting in Support Staff

A number of problems can lead to staff being required to support the
system. This could be CFM or SSC staff coming in to support the system
from their normal support sites. However, it could also require support
staff from other organisations such as Sequent or Cisco. CFM is generally
responsible for the call out procedures.

4.6.34 All requests for technical support should be made to the Horizon System
Help Desk. The identity of the caller requesting support (if by telephone)
should be verified to ensure the call comes from an appropriate source,
so should be acted on. The Help Desk will pass on the call to the
appropriate unit in line with Help Desk Procedures using the call
handling system.

4.6.3.2 All support calls should be recorded in the call handling system and
their progress reported there, including who was called out and the
actions taken.

4.6.3.3 Routers will by default be configured to prevent access from support
organisations other than the standard ICL Outsourcing sites supporting
Pathway. When support is required from another authorised site (e.g.
Sequent or Cisco), a router should be configured to allow this access, and
then re-configured to disallow it after use.

4.6.4 Software Distribution and Exceptions for Fixes

4.6.4.1 All software (new software and fixes) must be registered in the
configuration management system controlled by configuration
librarians. It should be tested using test rigs and authorised by the CS
Release Manager prior to distribution by Software Distributors.

4.6.4.2 In exceptional circumstances, where this is not fast enough, authorised
code fixes may be done directly by ICL Outsourcing according to agreed
procedures.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 38 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0037
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
4.6.5 Application Support

Application Support calls come via HSHD, who forward them to the
appropriate unit for support. Many application support calls are routed
to SMC for filtering known errors, before being forwarded to System
Support Centre (SSC) or CFM as appropriate for solving. Calls may
sometimes be forwarded to 34/4" line support units, which may include
application suppliers.

Note that no application support users have access to Post Office
counter systems - errors here are diagnosed using logs of events
extracted via Tivoli.

4.6.5.1 All support users with access to the Pathway Data Centre (or via them, to
Pathway managed systems or VME partitions) must do so using NT
controlled workstations in a secure workstation environment as defined
in 3.2. (For SSC, the secure environment must include a firewall to
restrict traffic between the test rigs and the secure LAN, though the
workstation gives access to both Data Centres and test rigs.)

4.6.5.2 Limited data may be downloaded from the Data Centres to the SSC test
rigs where this is required to assist in diagnosing application problems
and testing new software to fix the problem.

4.6.5.3 Support users should have only read access to the supported systems,
except for:

« SSC support managers (not normal SSC support users) “correcting”
data under controlled conditions. (Data may need to be corrected
where it has been corrupted by faulty code.)

Correction of data must be subject to agreed authorisation
procedures. For example, where the data to be corrected is DSS data
which is UK RESTRICTED, authorisation procedures must include the
Pathway Business Support Unit and DSS.

© CFM operational management staff fast fixing code, when authorised,
under controlled conditions.
Where time permits, correction of errors should be by re-issue of a
new version of the software via the Configuration management
system. When faster fixing is required, agreed Pathway authorisation
procedures must be followed. For applications supported by SSC, this
will start with a request by SSC.

4.6.5.4 In all cases, updates to code or data by application support staff require
two staff to be present when the change is made and all such changes to
be audited, identifying what has been changed (before and after values)
and the individual who made the change.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 39 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0038
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

a SPECIFIC SYSTEM ACCESS CONTROLS

5.1 Introduction

This chapter covers where the access control policies in chapter 3 are
specialised for particular systems. And where exceptions to these policies
are permitted.

In addition to the policies in chapter 3, all systems should support the
roles in chapter 6, with only the required functions and resources
available as defined there with the human access controls defined in
chapter 4.

Note: the ACP does not cover internal systems such as Powerhelp and
PINICL.

5.2 Post Offices Platforms

A multi-counter Post Office has a local LAN with NT workstations, one
of which is the gateway with a link to the pathway Data Centres.

The roles supported are Post Office staff (Post Office Manager, counter
clerk and supervisor), Customer (indirectly), POCL Auditors and
Emergency managers, Engineers (support and installation engineers)
and Horizon Field support Officers (see 4.1, 4.2 and 4.4).

5.2.11 At no stage after leaving the factory should it be possible to logon
directly to Windows NT or for a user to access NT functions or data.

5.2.1.2 No operational management roles should be supported at the Post
Office systems, or any other roles than those listed in 5.2 above.

5.2.2 Factory Set-up Controls

Software is installed at the factory (though may be updated on
installation) and initial configuration done.

5.2.2.1 Riposte user groups set-up should be Manager, Supervisor, Clerk,
Engineer, Auditor, AuditorE (used by Emergency Managers, Support
(used for emergency procedures such as the Manager forgetting his
password) [need to add MiMAN?]. The Engineer, Auditor, AuditorE and
Support groups should be set up to require one-time password
authentication.

5.2.2.2 Usernames should be set up in Riposte and NT for an Engineer, an
Emergency Manager, a Support user and for a number of Auditors
(enough to allow an auditor at each counter of the largest Post Office)
and a set-up manager [and MiMAN?] associated with the relevant
Riposte groups. (The Post Office Manager will introduce further users

later.)
Printed: [DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 40 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0039
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
5.2.2.3 When leaving the factory, it should only be possible to run the Auto-
configuration application, not log-on to NT or Riposte.
5.2.3 Post Installation Controls
5.2.3.1 After ECCO migration, the ECCO disk used for migration must be
invalidated, so it can no longer be used. Also, the Migration server
should not accept another attempt at migration from this Post office.
5.2.3.2 After installation, special software used for installation only should not
be accessible. Usernames used for installation only should be removed.
5.2.3.3 The encrypted filestore should not be accessible unless the workstation
has been booted using the memory card and PIN (or agreed emergency
procedures)
5.2.3.4 After a user has logged on using Riposte, all access to the system should

be controlled by Riposte - the Riposte desk top should allow access to
only those items available to people in the user’s role. The user must not
be able to call any other applications or NT functions or resources. No
direct access to Windows NT should be possible at any time, even for

engineers.
5.2.3.5 The Riposte infrastructure should not need NT administrator privilege.
5.2.3.6 filestore encryption
5.3 Sequent Systems
5.3.1 Introduction

Sequent systems with Dynix operating system and Oracle databases are
used for the main operational applications (see 2.1) and the Data
Warehouse (see 2.2) at the Data Centres. The systems also have data in
flat files (e.g. before/after transfer to/from other systems).

5.3.2 Human Access
All Sequent systems support the operational management and support
roles listed in chapter 6. They also support application roles for the
particular applications such as PAS/CMS, RDMC and Business Objects
for access to Data Warehouse data.

5.3.21 All business users (such as the Payment Card Helpline) and business
management users (such as the Business Support unit) should use
Oracle applications - Oracle Forms, Business Objects or Discover 2000.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 41 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0040
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
5.3.2.2 Where the SQL*Net access to the database could potentially give more

access than that permitted for that business role, the application at the
client must restrict access to that permitted. Also, a secure controlled
workstation conforming to Pathway policies (see 3.2) must be used and
the user identified there with the correct role so that the application
controls cannot be by-passed.

5.3.2.3 PCHL, and similar users, just using Oracle via applications on their
controlled workstations should be registered to the Oracle application,
not the underlying operating system and authenticate using a password.

5.3.2.4 Where users need to be both UNIX and Oracle users, they should be
registered in UNIX, and have Oracle use the result of the UNIX (and
security token) authentication.
5.3.2.5 Oracle database administration functions should use:
¢ Patrol for monitoring the database
¢ Pre-defined Discover queries to examine the state of the database.
(Discoverer should be configured to restrict access to the tables and
views needed for the task and audit actions.)
¢ Pre-defined, authorised SQL*Plus for database updates (which should
include auditing)
5.3.2.6 Application support users of Oracle should use:
* Discover queries to examine the data
e Pre-defined forms for correcting standard types of data problem
e Pre-authorised SQL*Plus scripts for correcting other data problems

All pre-defined forms and pre-authorised scripts should audit the
correction made.

5.3.2.7 Users who require any access to operating system facilities must do so
via a secure menu system which restricts the user to functions
authorised for users of that role (and audits all functions performed by
that user).

5.3.2.8 Where a function called from the secure menu system requires a change
of username, that change should be done automatically by the menu
system and audited. Changes to username must also cause a Patrol
event.

5.3.2.9 The secure menu system should have specific functions for most system
management activities. However, for emergency use, the menu will
include an item which provides root access and use of UNIX commands.

5.3.2.10 Computer operators access Sequent systems from the console, using the
secure menu system to access a limited number of predefined jobs such
as back-ups.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 42 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0041
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
5.3.2.1 Engineering access when the operating system cannot be fully booted, is

via “single user mode” under controlled conditions (see Visitor
Authentication and Engineering Access). Single user mode should only
be used when more controlled methods are not possible.

5.3.2.2 Operational management staff always authenticate under their own
names to UNIX and perform functions wherever possible without
superuser/root privileges. If root is needed, the appropriate menu item
on the secure menu system will be used to switch users. This will be
audited and an alert sent to Patrol so a record remains available even if
the audit log at the UNIX machine is subsequently corrupted.

5.3.2.3 Where non-Pathway, e.g. Sequent staff provide 3rd line support, this
may be from the 3" party site. In this case, access must be from a
controlled NT workstation and controlled environment as for Pathway
operational management - see 3.2. Call in procedures are as in 4.6.3.

5.3.2.14, As Sequent require root access, an independent monitoring system will
be used where all key strokes on the Sequent workstation are captured
and echoed on a CFM workstation.

5.3.2.15 Application support managers can correct application data subject to
authorisation procedures - see 4.6.5. For Oracle applications, this should,
where possible, be via specific functions available to the Oracle SSC role.
In exceptional circumstances, use of SQL*Plus scripts will be authorised
after checking. For other services, this may involve updates to flat files.
In all cases, corrections to the data are audited.

5.3.3 Application/Oracle Roles at the Operational Sequent Systems

5.3.34 Database roles with appropriate database views/tables should be used to
separate what data is available to whom

5.3.3.2 The following Oracle roles should be defined for all Oracle applications
on the operational Sequent servers. Note that in some cases, people with
different human roles in the list in chapter 6 may have the same access
to the same Oracle role.

Oracle role Functions, and roles

MONITOR Read only access to application data in this database
- used by Auditors, FRM, application support etc

AUDITOR As MONITOR plus access to audit information
- used by auditors

CFM_DBA Full dba privileges

SSC As for MONITOR, plus limited updates, implemented by
pre-defined, authorised forms

BSU specific business support functions on PAS/CMS and some
other applications - see chapter 5.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 43 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0042
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
5.3.33 Other application roles should be defined for particular applications to

support the application roles listed in chapter 6, for example, PCHL roles
at PAS/CMS, Reference Data roles at RDMC.

5.3.3.4 Information available to people doing ad-hoc queries should be further
constrained e.g. using Business Object universes

Note that there are also roles for non-human users.

5.3.4 Dynix and Oracle Access Controls

5.3.4.1 The Dynix operating system should be set-up according to the access
control policy in 3 above.

5.3.4.2 All loading/unloading of data to/from Oracle databases should be done
by automated processes. Separate interface tables should be used to
restrict the damage possible due to failures during automated processes.

5.3.4.3 The set-up of the system should be regularly monitored, for example, to
check for dormant accounts and to review any changes made to
important system files.

5.4 Windows NT Systems

This section covers NT workstations and servers at the Data Centres and
other Pathway managed NT systems except the Post Offices. NT
workstations at secure Pathway management and support sites should
also conform to these policies, and the NT domain policies.

5.4.1 Generic NT Policies

NT systems support the operational management and support roles
listed in chapter 6 unless other wise stated.

5.4.1.1 As on other systems, engineers should only have controlled access and
must be accompanied by CFM staff when using the system.

5.4.1.2 Apart from event logs etc which are relevant to all NT systems,
application support users should access application databases via
relevant tools, rather than just operating system facilities.

5.4.1.3 All NT servers should be set up with a group and template user for the
generic management and support roles (plus any others defined for the
particular NT system). These templates should be used when a user is
assigned to a role to set up that user with the required user profile
providing access to only those tools needed to carry out the role.

5.4.1.4 While use of NT domains allows a user to log in once to multiple servers,

some roles (such as Engineer and Key Custodian) should always be
defined as requiring the user to be local at the machine.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 44 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0043
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
5.4.2 NT Domain Policies

Windows NT domains are used in Pathway to control which NT servers
can share NT resources and which users have access to those resources.
They are also used to simplify user authentication - a user need only
logon once to a domain, or once to a set of domains which have an
established trust relationship which includes trust in the users of the
domains.

NT domains should conform to the following policies:

5.4.2.1 NT domains should generally have at least one Backup Domain
Controller. This should be on a separate site from the Primary Domain
Controller. Exceptions to this must be agreed and are expected to be
small domains with few users.

5.4.2.2 Where a set of related NT systems is run by a different authority from

5.4.2.3 Where such a domain does not share users or resources with other
domains, it should be a separate domain with no trust relationship with
other domains. For example, the Payment Card Helpline systems are
such a domain.

5.4.2.4 Domains may span sites where all NT workstations and servers in the
domain are run by the same authority and are subject to the same
physical and network security. (For example, the SMC system
management domain spans the SMC workstations attached to a secure
LAN on the secure SMC sites and the Tivoli NT servers at the Data
Centre).

5.4.2.5 A domain must be confined within an area of the network which is
subject to the same security policies and controls. For example, it must
not include NT systems on different sides of a firewall.

5.4.2.6 Where sharing of resources, but not users, is required between domains,
then the trust between domains should be restricted to sharing the
agreed resources/files across the domain boundary. The resource sharing
must be restricted to the minimum required for the agreed functions.

5.4.2.7 Where sharing of files is required between domains on different sides of
a firewall, this should be subject to special authorisation procedures as
well as the policy above.

5.4.2.8 A domain should not establish trust in users registered in a domain ina
less trusted part of the network.
5.4.2.9 Users should only have access to the NT systems to which they are

permitted access. The domain set up should prevent them accessing any
other NT systems.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 45 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0044
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
5.4.2.10 Users should not be registered as NT users at domains where their only

access is at the application level, for example, via a remote client via an
application protocol to a particular application which has its own logon.

5.4.2.1 Set up of NT domains should assist separation of systems to reduce
interference between them.

5.4.3 Correspondence Servers

5.4.3.1 Business Support, FRM and Auditor access to the operational
Correspondence servers should be restricted to exceptional
circumstances for limited amounts of data (as otherwise, the
performance of the system could be impaired). In all cases, access should
be controlled, and limited to use of a specific agreed query tool.

5.4.4 Security Servers on NT

Security services on NT are:

« A Key Management Application (KMA) which (generates and)
distributes cryptographic keys to Pathway services and the Post
Offices. An associated Certification Authority (CA) generates public
key certificates and Entropy servers which generate DSA entropy for
digital signatures.

¢ The VPN servers used for protection of the traffic to Post Offices

© The audit and key management workstations supporting the Pathway
security manager and his staff

© Signing servers to sign software and auto-configuration information
sent to the Post office

(This is in addition to the software security services to protect data in
transit on particular links.)

5.4.4.1 The Certification Authority Workstation (CAW) which includes the CA
should be off-line - not connected to any network.

5.4.4.2 The KMA should store all keys encrypted, and the key used to encrypt
these keys should be subject to the normal KEK policies - see 3.5.

5.4.4.3 Application level access to the KMA should be restricted to the agreed
functions for each of the specified roles, and each role should have the
least privilege needed to do the job. All security significant actions
should be audited.

5.4.4.4 On-line interactive access by human users to the NT server on which the
KMA resides should not be generally be possible. It should require
approval by the Pathway Security Manager to permit this access (except
for key handling on reboot?). The access will only ever be permitted for:

¢ read only access by application support staff (updates should always
be via the standard Tivoli software distribution)

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 46 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0045
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

¢ limited, authorised, system admin access by local users?? Dba

auditor...
* engineers
5.4.4.5 VPN servers????22?22222?2?
5.5 Authentication Service for Authentication using
Tokens

Authentication using tokens will be supported by an Authentication
Service at each Data Centre (one the master, generally used for all
authentication, with the other acting as a slave to provide resilience).
5.5.11 After installation and configuration of the Authentication Service , the
only application access to the Authentication service should be by the
Pathway Security Manager workstation at the Pathway management

LAN (see chapter 3)

5.6 Cryptographic Boxes
Zergo boxes are used to provide link level encryption on a number of
links. These are government approved point-to-point encryption devices
using Rambutan.

5.6.1.1 Access controls at these devices should be as specified by the
manufacturer.

5.7 Symmetrix discs
[should add]

5.8 Interface Systems at Business and Implementation
Sites

The ICL Pathway project manages interface PCs at some related sites
(POCL, POCL Clients, De La Rue, and implementation supplier? sites)
and also a partition of the VME system at DSS benefit sites. It also has
manages the interfaces to the Pathway network, for example, routers.

In all cases, routers are managed by Pathway Network Management and
interface PCs are monitored?/managed using Pathway System
Management.

5.8.1 DSS Benefit Interface Access Controls

At the Benefit Agency’s CAPS and ESNS systems, the Pathway interface
applications are in a Pathway partition of the VME machines.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 47 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0046
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

5.8.1.1

5.8.1.2

5.8.1.3

5.8.1.4

5.8.2

5.8.21

5.8.2.2

5.8.2.3

The DSS VME systems are run by EDS, so EDS are responsible for the
main systems administration of them (including their split into
partitions and resources allocated to these partitions) and the engineers
analysing/repairing hardware or base software errors including those
which involve the Pathway partition. This is not a Pathway
responsibility, so is not covered by this Access Control Policy.

No human intervention should be needed at the VME partition in
operational use apart from exceptional circumstances.

All Pathway interactive use of the VME partition should be via Sonnet on
Sequent. All users should be individually identified and authenticated
using the VME Enhanced Security Option.

The Key Custodian (installing and updating the Red Pike cryptographic
keys used to protect the transfers of information from CAPS to the
Pathway Data Centres) should be done by authorised EDS staff at the
local DSS site.

The Pathway VME partition filestore should be separate from other
partitions’ filestore. Transfer of data between the Pathway partition and
CAPS/ESNS should be restricted to transferring files to/from the special
transfer usernames using an agreed interface product.

Interface Systems with Interface PCs

Pathway has links to a number of Pathway managed interface PCs at
sites remote from the Pathway Data Centres. These include POCL and
POCL client systems and Pathway partners (such as De La Rue) for
business transactions. (The POCL TIP link is also used for Royal Mail
traffic.) There are also interface systems at Pathway Implementation
Suppliers (with bulk transfer to the RODB at the Pathway management
site).

Once configured, the PCs and routers at these sites should not normally
have any human access - file transfers should be automated and the PCs
managed remotely using Tivoli.

The operational management role at these sites is limited to local system
administrative functions only.

The two points above were in ACP3, and have not been changed to allow remote access for
system admin and support, despite the current machine set up, as its unclear that data
would be adequate protected in this case - see also 3.7.2.7. FTMS encrypts data during
file transfer, but it is held in clear in filestore after transfer, so could be read by system
administrators over the unencrypted link. Will the VPN be extended to handle the whole
dialogue here, rather than just having FTMS encryption?

The engineer role is restricted to installing or replacing the PC. The PC
will not be repaired when configured into the operational system.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 48 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0047
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
5.8.2.4 Business data in transit to the Data Centres is protected as defined in 3.7
above.
5.8.2.5 Where the PC is directly connected to other systems (such as the POCL
ones), it should also be configured to restrict traffic with such systems.
5.8.2.6 Controls at the interface PCs at POCL (and similar) sites must ensure
separation of incoming and out going files so that all files supplied by
Pathway are read only for POCL access. In addition, files for different
systems (e.g. TIP, Royal Mail and Reference Data) are separated.
5.8.2.7 For De La Rue systems, separation of the Pathway managed PC and the

De La Rue system is via an airgap between these systems. Information is
transferred between systems using media - floppy/zip. The computer
operator at De La Rue sites does not log to the system and perform any

5.9 System Management Servers

A set of Tivoli system management servers are used to manage the Post
Office systems and related Data Centre NT systems (mainly using Tivoli
products). They also monitor other Pathway management systems and
collect event data from other systems also.

5.9.11 All users of Tivoli must be registered at the Tivoli server and associated
with the appropriate roles, groups (and regions) to restrict their access to
facilities which they are permitted to access. (All such users have security
tokens, so are also registered with an Authentication Service)

5.9.1.2 In addition to SMC roles, Tivoli servers should also support:

¢ Pathway Security Auditors with read access to audit information via
the web interface - platform audit logs, Tivoli notices, Tivoli events
collected for auditing.

¢ Application support users with access to Pre-authorised Tivoli tasks to
extract diagnostic information from the Post Office.

5.9.1.3 Tivoli integrity features should also be used to protect Tivoli traffic on
the link.

5.10 Network and Firewall Management

5.10.1 Network Management and Routers

The Pathway network routers are managed using HP Open View with
Cisco Works as illustrated below.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 49 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0048
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
Data feeds e.g. Events to Tivoli Data outputs

PO addresses \ T va e.g. audit logs

Network Management Station (Sun, UNIX)

[HP Open View] [Cisco Works I

At the Data Centres,
Managed routers Post Offices and
& ISDN adaptors Interfacing sites

Figure 5-1 Network Management

There is a single Network Management Station (NMS) at each Pathway
Data Centre.

The network management roles are:

« Network Manager, Network Technician, Network Management
Configurer, Cisco router support.

Engineers may also require direct access to routers.

There are no on-line application support roles. Support of Open View,
Cisco Works etc is done off-line, Pathway auditors access audit
information from the NMS via audit records sent through to Tivoli and
extracted audit logs.

5.10.11 The Network Management Configurer is responsible for the
configuration of the Network Management Station itself, such as Open
View configuration. This role must be carried out by the Network
Management team before live running. The configuration must be
validated by more than one network technician and signed off by a
senior ICL Outsourcing person before use.

5.10.1.2 The Network Management workstations run 24 hours a day. However, at
the end of the shift, the existing user must log out and the new user log
on to give individual accountability. Other users of the system must also
authenticate themselves e.g. prior to doing configurer or security
management functions.

5.10.13 NMS users use controlled NT workstations with tokens (see section 3)
but also need to log onto UNIX for access to authorised OpenView and
Cisco Works/View functions.

5.10.1.4 In exceptional circumstances, network staff can use router facilities
directly via telnet, not going through Open View, and therefore not
subject to its controls. In this case, the user must be authenticated using
TACACS+ on the NMS and auditing will still be carried out on the NMS.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 50 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0049
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
5.10.1.5 Telnet access to routers is permitted only to ICL Outsourcing senior

network management staff and Cisco staff supporting the routers from a
remote CISCO site

5.10.1.6 No Telnet access to routers is permitted without authorisation by a
member of the Telnet authorisation list. Manual records must be kept of
this authorisation each time Telnet access is used.

5.10.1.7 All users of Telnet access to routers must authenticate using TACACS+
and their access audited at the NMS.

5.10.1.8 ICL Outsourcing senior network management staff access the routers in
agreed exceptional circumstances (for example, for fault resolution
requiring use of the debug facility, in times of excessive network
workload or during fault conditions). Authorised ICL Outsourcing,
Network Managers use Telnet access to routers from a specific dedicated
NT system on the Operational Bridge area of the Network Centres.

5.10.1.9 Cisco staff must access the router needing support via a separate gateway
router dedicated for Cisco use. This gateway router must be configured
to permit Cisco access only when Cisco support is needed. A different
TACACS username and password must be used on each occasion, valid
for the particular session only. The standard Cisco engineers must only
have read access to the routers. Named and authorised senior CISCO
staff (NSA Engineers) may have the “enable” mode, as that needed for
reviewing configuration files and debugging. CISCO should not be
permitted to make changes to the routers (though the router controls
cannot enforce this?); they should advice the Network Manager of any
changes required.

5.10.1.10 The only direct access permitted to routers is for engineers investigating
hardware problems. In this case, access will always be done locally at the
router using a console.

5.10.1.11 In normal running, the routers must not have consoles attached, though
console access may be enabled. Any attempt to log-on at a console
should be via TACACS+, so flagged at the NMS.

5.10.1,12 Ifa router has a fault, it must be configured out of the network and then
a console physically taken to the router and plugged in. The router
engineer can then log onto the router to diagnose and repair the fault.
When the router is connected back into the system, its configuration
must be checked and the Network Manager asked to confirm acceptance
before the router is configured for normal use in the operational system.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 51 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0050
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
5.10.1.13 The password used for direct router console access should be changed

via the NMS every 28 days and also immediately when an engineer
requires access. (There is a two level password system for console
access.) Engineers are not individually known to the routers and must
ask the Network Manager for today’s password. (The engineers must
have identified themselves manually on entry to the secure site.)

5.10.2 Firewall Management

Firewalls are managed using Enterprise Centres on Solaris systems
(shared with Security token management), one at each Data Centre.

Enterprise Centre roles supported are Firewall Manager and Firewall
Monitor. There are no on-line support roles for the Enterprise Centre
application or the firewall application.

5.10.2.1 All access to the firewalls must be via the Enterprise Centre, except for
hardware maintenance. As for routers, in normal running, firewalls must
not have consoles attached - they should only be attached for hardware
maintenance after the firewalls has been configured out of the system.

5.10.2.2 All configuration changes must be made via the Enterprise Centre and
logged via Tivoli.

5.10.2.3 Firewall audit logs are sent to the Enterprise Centre.

5.10.2.4 Firewalls should restrict traffic as in the network access policies in 3.7.

(This is different for different firewalls).

5.11 Software Distribution Servers

Software distribution servers include the Configuration Management
and associated signing servers on Pathway project sites and the
depot/Tivoli servers at the Data Centres to which software is sent for
onward transmission to other Pathway systems at the Data Centres, Post
Offices and elsewhere.

5.1 The Configuration management system should have access controls
which conform to this policy, even though it is not at the data centre, or
on a separate secure LAN.

5.1.1.2 The associated signing server should be on the secure LAN, and controls
should be fully conformant with this policy.

5.12 Implementation Servers at the Data Centres
Implementation of new Post Offices, including migration of in-office
data involves several servers at the Data Centres. The Post Office
counters are delivered with a standard configuration which needs to be
personalised and updated when installed.

The servers involved in this process are shown in the following diagram.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 52 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0051
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

Pathway staff
is) Rimanaaing implementation

data from Auto-Configuration Pathowtey Data\Gentre
rollout database database
I Signing Server I—
IECCO migration) I eae
, server
Generic depot/Tivoli server Other systems
PO r including KMS
Software Boot server f
pewith PO conffg info & KMS exchanges
softwarg updates

Postopfice I 4 R R
Auto-configurer I) 1, stallation Engineer
Post Office Manager

Horizon Field Support
(migration)

Figure 5-2 Interactions on Post Office Implementation

51211 The PCs should be delivered from the factory conforming to an agreed
build with software, including an Auto-configurer application, installed.
5.12.12 The RODB can take traffic from external locations, which do not
conform to the standard secure controlled systems used for most Data
Centre access. The NT server supporting the RODB should be firewalled
from such external access, with controls at the firewall restricting traffic
Le:
« Implementation staff in regional centres connecting to the RODB via
modems will be restricted to read only SQL access to the RODB.
* Implementation suppliers will be restricted to (FTMS controlled) file
transfers between a Pathway PC at the suppliers site at the RODB.

5.12.13 ECCO migration laptops can only connect to the migration server at the
Data Centre

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 53 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0052
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/o003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

6. ROLES AND PERMITTED ACCESS

This chapter specifies all human roles with access to the Pathway Data
Centres and the other Pathway managed systems such as the interface
PCs at POCL and De la Rue sites.

For each role, the following table outlines the job functions performed
and also the IT functions and resources accessed to carry out these roles,
including which systems are accessed. The table is ordered into:

© Main operational roles (Post office staff, payment card helpline staff
and BA staff on-line via CAPS)

© Corporate management roles (Pathway business management,
customer services including business support, FRM related roles
including BA security, Pathway security roles including cryptographic
key ones and auditor roles including POCL, DSS and NAO auditors)

¢ Implementation roles (implementation help desk, ACDB roles,
Horizon field support officers)

« System and operational management and support roles (operational
management on Sequent, NT etc, SMC system management, software
distribution, network and firewall management, application support
and other support roles)

In the following table:
© The site type is:
© DC for Data Centre
e PPS for a Pathway project site
¢ SL/PPS for secure LAN at a Pathway project site
© PO for Post Office
« The system is:
© Seq for all Sequent systems
e DW for Data Warehouse
¢ HS for the Host Application Sequent system

Unless otherwise stated, users access the system via controlled NT
workstations, logging into the appropriate NT domain.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 54 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0053
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed
Main Operational Roles

Post Office Staff and

Customers at Post Offices

Post Office
Manager (The
person in charge of
the Post Office, who

All the management of the Post Office system
including setting up workstations, introducing
users, doing accounts.

Key (and memory card) custodian - installing,
changing and recovering keys.

User management (of local post office staff).
Specific management applications, for example,

Post office only

may be a sub- Post Office Managers may allow other staffto _I balancing Post Office accounts and stock unit
postmaster or deputise for them, and so take this role. management (including allocation to clerks)
agent.) Workstation set-up, emergency procedures, Run diagnostics to check system and peripherals are
(POCL) installation functions. functioning correctly.
All counter clerk functions.
Post Office Run the PO applications - APS, EPOSS, OBCS System boot-up using the memory card. (At some as above
Counter clerks and BES. Post offices, this may be restricted to more senior
(POCL) ini staff.)
Do training. Run applications BES, EPOSS, APS, OBCS.
vaca Payment Card Helpline when Stock unit balancing ete.
juired.
In training mode, special training data (counter clerk
also uses special training benefits/APS cards so does
not need a customer present)
Post Office All Counter Clerk functions plus other As Counter Clerk plus viewing stock, users. as above
Supervisor (POCL) __I functions.
Customers Transactions at Post offices e.g. buying stamps, I Customers do not access the system directly, though I None directly,

collecting benefits, paying utility bills.

their benefit card is needed for benefit collection.

but card used for
IT access

Printed: [ DATE \1]
[ FILENAME \p \* MER

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
(GEFORMAT ]

Page 55 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0054
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems

(Organisation) accessed

Payment Card Helpline staff (all Girobank staff at the PCHL area of the main Data Centre sites)

Helpline Advisor Handling calls about payment authorisations Oracle Forms to support helpline job functions using I HS:PAS/CMS +
and cards from Post Office clerks, DSS/BA, particular PAS & CMS tables as required for the training database
customers and the general public. This could authorised Oracle Forms (with sufficient write access
lead to, for example, stopping a payment or to allow cards to be stopped, update call logging
encashing a payment (under the responsibility I tables and change password.)
of the Post Ofice clerk)

NSI Helpline As above, plus can handle customer data with a I As above, plus can handle data with a Nationally as above

Advisor Nationally Sensitive Indicator. Sensitive Indicator.

Helpline supervisor I As above, plus extra functions, including local I As a Help Desk Advisor, plus the ability to handle NSI I as above
help desk ones data and other more restricted dialogues.

Helpline Security Maintains information about the Helpline Functions as Helpline Advisors +create PCHL users as above

Manager users both at the PAS/CMS and local systems and assign/re-assign their PCHL roles via authorised

Oracle Forms accessing Oracle user and role tables

BA staff on-line (all DSS staff at DSS sites using VME terminals/workstations)

BA staff & BA staff do on-line transactions, for example, Users of the CAPS on-line interface appear as a PAS/CMS

DSS Help Desk staff I t® make emergency payments or stop cards or I system user to the PAS/CMS application.
payments. DSS Help Desk staff do on-line
queries e.g. on authorised payments.

Corporate Management Roles

Pathway Corporate Management Roles and associated support roles (all Pathway staff on secure LAN at Pathway management site)

Pathway Managing the set-up of the management Business Object Universes (including supervisor DW;

Management information services (e.g. setting up Business functions); her MIS

support Object Universes and associated controls). Read and update access to agreed MIS data including NI'SLAM os >
Providing information to other Pathway CON, SLAM, BPS; cache*

Printed: [ DATE \1]
[ FILENAME \p \* MER

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
(GEFORMAT ]

Page 56 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0055
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed

Management users on request Data required for download to workstations for

Also, providing the POCL and the DSS/BA. reports (pathway, POCL, BA)

interfaces for management information -

including provision of management data

regularly and on request.
Pathway Financial Use of financial management information in Access to Common Charging System (CCS) and other I DW
Management the Common Charging System and elsewhere financial information
Pathway Contract Use of contract management information in Access to CON service DW
Management the Contract Management system (CON)
Pathway Business Use of selected Data Warehouse information in I pw: read only access to Post Office information DW
Development development of the business

Pathway Customer Services, including Business Support (mainly Pathway staff on secure LAN at Pathway management site)

Pathway Customer
Support Managers

Service Level agreement management

Read only access to SLAM cache on NT only;

NT SLAM cache

only
Business Support Unit function Access to the RED database holding data about cases_ I HS: PAS/CMS,
Manager Handle financial reconciliation when there isa I Needing reconciliation. OBCS, APS
Pathway problem, for example a service For DSS payment reconciliation: PAS/CMS and OBCS, I Correspondence
breakdown. This could be reconciliation and TPS (PO transaction logs) server

incidents for DSS benefit payments, or
reconciliation incidents for in the Automated
Payments Service for other POCL clients.

Role function

Inserting or adjusting payments and
authorising them, subject to agreed
procedures.

For APS reconciliation: APS and TPS

All update access is via specific Oracle forms
applications.

(Where larger volumes are concerned, relevant data
may need to be downloaded at the request of Business
Support to the SSC reference system and a flat file of
transaction adjustments generated there for forward
transmission to the Data Centre and back to CAPS by

RED database

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 57 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0056
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed
SSC.)

Business Support Investigating incidents, and inserting or Access to PAS/CMS, TPS etc and also to the as above
Analyst adjusting payment records (but not finally reconciliation (RED) database - a secure server at the

authorising them.) management site.
Pathway Reference I Use of reference data in the Data Warehouse Access to DW reference data DW
Data Management
Reference Data Kick off the transfer of validated reference data (Oracle role: user_change_control) HS:RDMC
Change Manager of classes 2 to 5 to TMS when all required

dependencies have been met.
RDMC Loader Manually initiated load of reference data files (Oracle role: user_loader) HS:RDMC

to RDMC
RDMC user Query and report on reference data, so read (Oracle role: user_reports) HS:RDMC

only access
RDMC access Sets up users and assigns them their roles (Oracle role: user_administrator) HS:RDMC
administrator
Fraud Risk Management Related Roles
Pathway Fraud Risk I Unit & role functions Access to the Fraud Case Management System DW: FCMS
Manager Regular reports on aspects of the system which (FCMS), both to create and maintain cases originated I jy. PAS/CMS
(ICL Pathway staff, I are relevant for fraud e.g. weekly trend analyses by Pathway and to read case data about cases NT: TMS
high security LAN, I and daily exception reports and ad hoc originated by BA Security. pwel
Pathway selective reports according to agreement. Access to Data Warehouse information, both pre- 108s
management site) Investigating fraud cases. defined and ad-hoc queries.

Fraud investigations will also include collection Exceptionally, access to other systems to investigate a

of evidence. Some evidence will be collected by I Potential fraud i.e. PAS/CMS data (mainly to the

requesting information from other users, rather archives, not the operational system), the Riposte

than direct FRM staff access. journal of Post Office activity, data transfer logs

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 58 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0057
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1

Date: 06/05/99
Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed

Supervisor of FCMS and also FRM Business Object

universes, so create/expire users in FCMS.

Setting flags for transactions in FCMS (code user).
FRM Analyst (ICL Investigating fraud cases as FRM manager Access to FMCS and other systems c.f. FRM Manager I as above
Pathway, as above) FRM supervisor functions as FRM manager
FRM users ( P’way, I Handling fraud case information in FCMS Read only access to Data Warehouse information in DW:FCMS
& Girobank FRM) support of investigations.
BA Security Investigating cases, including staff creating and I Read and update access to cases initiated by BA DW:FCMS
(DSS, DSS secure maintaining their own cases in the Fraud case _I Security; Read only access to cases initiated by
site via encrypted database. Pathway FRM staff (but not access to Pathway specific
link) information).

Access to extracts of Data Warehouse information

(extracted by Pathway FRM staff.); no direct DW

access
Pathway Security and Cryptographic key roles
Pathway Security Maintains the records of security tokens and Maintenance and audit functions at the ACE server ACE server
Manager their PINs and users.
Cryptographic Key I Generating or obtaining cryptographic keys Also viewing current situation re keys (KMA) and KMA, CAW
Manager and organising their distribution. generating certificates to certify keys (CAW)
Cryptographic Key _I Initial installation of cryptographic keys where I Installing keys where needed (VME, PAS/CMS, See IT functions
Custodian this needs to be done manually. Periodic interfacing PC (Data Centre and remote), KMA, column

update of these keys. (CAW), VPN??. Always local user, not remote.
Cryptographic Key I Handling part of a split cryptographic key Loading part key (normally from floppy) during load, I As key custodian
Handler (Note 3) when this needs to be re-installed e.g. whena__I so no logon, no individual authentication.
system is rebooted.

Printed: [ DATE \I] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 59 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0058
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed
PO key recoverer Initiating recovery of a Post Office key from the I Authorised functions at KMA KMA
(part of SMC team Help Desk after a Post Office Manager has lostI fmethod for accessing this not yet agreed; e.g. is there
leader role) his card or PIN. trust between SMC and main Data Centre domain?]
KMA Data Manager I Maintain validity of data within KMA database I Authorised functions at KMA KMA

e.g. specify new client where keys are to be sent
(but no key management roles)

Auditor Roles

Pathway Business
Function Auditor

Overall auditing of the Pathway solution

(though not Post offices directly, as there are records
of Post Office activity at the Pathway central site.)

The Business Function Auditor mainly uses
information to the archive server and to information
extracted from other systems, though has limited
access to other systems.

Archive server;

exceptionally,
correspondence
servers,
PAS/CMS etc

Pathway Security
Event Auditor

Auditing the security of the Pathway system
including monitoring, investigating incidents,
reporting etc

¢ Operational and management logs of business
transactions including Riposte journal for events at
Post Offices and host application logs e.g.
PAS/CMS

¢ System logs of activities at Pathway systems such
as user logon and administration and other
security relevant events including system, network
and firewall management.

¢ Logs at relevant Pathway internal systems.

¢ Archives of these at the archive server retrieved
from the Legato tapes there

¢ Manual records associated with IT access.

Most except Post
offices

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 60 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0059
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed
Many events are collected centrally using Tivoli (via
Patrol and Openview where needed). The technician
monitoring the systems management workstation will
alert the Security Event Auditor of specified types of
significant events. However, some event records will
remain in local audit logs.
POCL Auditor Auditing operation of a Post office Authorised Riposte functions after authentication Post offices only
using one shot password
POCL Emergency Taking the role of an Emergency Manager who I Post office start up functions Post offices only
Manager; POCL may take over from the manager after Authorised Riposte functions after authentication
Investigator suspected fraud or when a Post Office is closed using one shot passwords
down or transferred to a different manager.
External Auditor A POCL, DSS or NAO Auditor auditing the External auditors have (indirect) access via Pathway None
operation of Pathway Auditors, rather than direct access to the Pathway
systems. There are some differences in data available
to different External Auditors. For example, DSS staff
cannot access POCL specific data.
Implementation Roles with Data Centre access
Implementation Handle calls from Pathway suppliers and Post Query and update access to RODB as permitted by RODB at
Help Desk /Roll-out I Offices - forwarded from Horizon system help I RODpB client Pathway
support/help desk I desk. Queries and limited updates to RODB

advisors (P’way)

depending on call

management site

Auto-configuration

Implementation staff managing the data going

3 Query access plus update as permitted by ACDB
user (Pathway) through the auto-configuration database ACDB/client
(ACDB). This includes some update access.
ACDB data Administering the central services site Query access plus update as permitted by ACDB

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 61 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0060
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed
administrator information in the ACDB ACDB/client
Horizon Field Handling migration - two roles for manual and I For manual migration, migration application at Post I PO counter;
Support Officer ECCO migration Office. :
(POCL?) - laptop, & via PO
For ECCO migration, job to transfer ECCO data to gateway to
TMS journal migration server
Installation Start-up Post offices auto-configuration application only PO links to boot
engineer server
System and Operational Management and support
Operational Management
Computer Operator I Local operation of the machine such as media I On Sequent, the ability to run pre-defined jobs, such
handling. as back-ups.
On NT, media handling only, including legato tapes
used for archiving
Operational Management of the operating system; Access to required operating system functions. All Seq
management/ On Sequent, any action needed concerned with I On Sequent, this can allow use of ROOT, UNIX all NT (except
System replication between campuses and local commands and Oracle dba functions under PO)
Administrator archiving. controlled conditions (see 5.2) all Solaris
(ICL Outsourcing) Job scheduling (Sequent & NT) using Maestro
workstation. O ional spe ing Patrol
Code updates when required quickly (prior to Perationa monitoring/management using Patro!
update via configuration management) and workstations.
authorised
Security Administering UNIX/NT user information, User administration and related functions All Seq
Management including group membership for all users; also, NT (not PO)
(ICL Outsourcing) I Sequent, in secure menu system. Solaris
ri

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 62 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0061
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed

Administering Oracle database administrator

users and associated roles and privileges.??

Security monitoring
Secure menu Configuration of the secure menu system, Pre-defined agreed functions Seq
administrator including addition of new functions
(Sequent only)
System Monitoring I Monitoring the operational system. Patrol via an appropriate workstation Seq
(Sequent only)
Engineer Hardware diagnostics and repair Access to diagnostics and, if needed, data on suspect I all systems

hardware except PO

Base Installation Initial installation and configuration the base As job function for Data Centre systems and Pathway
and configuration system - Sequent and Oracle databases. Later managed systems, except Pos where there is a special

updates to these. installtion engineer
Dynix 3rd line Operational management of Dynix by Sequent I UNIX, which can include ROOT access? Seq
support staff when CFM cannot cure problem.
Database monitor Monitoring Oracle databases Read only access; on Oracle, use of SQL*Plus, svrmgr_I Seq
Operational Oracle database administrator for database Dba functions for specified applications (CFM_DBA Seq
management/ structure - setting up views, space allocation role)
Database etc.
administrator
Oracle database 3rd I Operational management of Oracle on Sequent I Read only access; Oracle dba and limited UNIX Seq
line support when CFM cannot cure problem. This may functions

sometimes require updating the database.
Legato Managing the audit archives Legato archives via Legato client Archive server
Administration

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 63 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0062
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed
System Management - SMC roles

System Management
Centre

Unit functions

System management activities are:

¢ planned system management actions, for
example, the distribution of software or the
implementation of Post Offices.

¢ monitoring the system and taking action
when this is needed.

¢ resolving technical problems passed on by
the Horizon System Help Desk

They also handle PO key recovery.

SMC technician or
technical specialist

Monitoring the system - software distribution,
the auto-configuration process and other
system management events.

For software distribution, select targets for
distribution from those authorised and report
of progress.

Run pre-defined, pre-allocated tasks.
Raise alarms on pre-defined conditions

Tivoli/Oracle facilities for authorised functions. (No
NT/UNIX tools)
Pre-defined Tivoli tasks can be used for a variety of

system management tasks including Riposte
administration at the Correspondence servers.

Tivoli servers via
Tivoli client

SMC technical team
leader

For software distribution, authorise targets for
distribution, change priorities or cancel
distribution and report on progress.

Other system management tasks as SMC
technician.

Authenticating users at the Post Office using

Tivoli/Oracle facilities for authorised functions. (No
NT/UNIX tools)

For one-time password authentication, special
security system with access to special application only

For PO key recovery, application at KMS

Tivoli servers via
Tivoli client;

(KMA for PO
recovery)

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 64 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0063
ICL Pathway

Access Control Policy

Ref: RS/POL/0003
Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

POL00400795
POL00400795

Role
(Organisation)

Main job functions

IT functions & data access

Systems
accessed

one-shot passwords.
Assisting in Post Office key recovery.

SMC MSS technical
support

Handle receipt of software and auto-
configuration information.

Configure Tivoli event management - configure
the view of events by others and task event
relationships and add new Sentry monitors.
Create Tivoli tasks and allocate to SMC
technicians.

System administration of the SMC
workstations and Tivoli servers (NT and UNIX
systems) including backup/recovery.

Tivoli/Oracle facilities for authorised functions.
Authorised NT/UNIX tools

Tivoli servers via
Tivoli client

SMC Security
Manager

User administration - adding SMC and other
users to the SMC domain and to Tivoli.
Allocating users’ rights e.g. roles, groups.

Tivoli and OS user and role administration

Tivoli servers via
Tivoli client

Software Distribution

Software Initiates transfer of software to the depot/ Functions at signing server to initiate transfer signing server? at

Distributor Tivoli at the Data Centre for distribution to the [is this split between CM and signing server still Pathway project
operational system after authorisation by CS correct?] site
Release Manager.

Network Management

Network Technician I Monitoring the network Specified Open View and Cisco Works/CiscoView NMS

(CFM) functions and the NMS only. (No direct UNIX access)

Network Manager Monitoring the network. Open View and Cisco Works network management NMS

(CFM)

Updating router configuration information e.g.

functions, but no direct UNIX access at the NMS

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 65 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0064
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed

- Post Office information e.g. ISDN address

- Access Lists of permitted addresses, protocols,

ports.

Updating information about routers available

when needed (including confirming bringing a

mended one back on line - see 8.5.5 below)
Network Configuring NMS including Open View e.g. Open View configurer functions only (no UNIX NMS
Management - what to display to whom access)
Configurer (CFM) . .

- actions to be taken on certain events

Configuring Tivoli Event Adapter
Network Security Maintain user information for those users User administration functions NMS
Manager (CFM) permitted to use this system - both UNIX users

and Open View users.

Local auditing of network management

activities at this system
Cisco support nth line support of routers Telnet access to routers routers
Firewall Management
Firewall Manager Maintains the firewall configuration and policy I Defined as NT & Enterprise centre user; Enterprise

data Authenticated with token to NT workstation, and Centre on Solaris

authenticated to the Enterprise Centre application. system

Firewall Monitor Read access to alerts, logs and the rule base as above as above
Technical Help Desk and Application and other Support
Horizon Systems Receiving technical queries from all IT users of I These users has no access to the main Data Centre Internal systems
Help Desk Pathway (internal and external) and answering I and other operational systems. only

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 66 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0065
POL00400795

POL00400795
ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99
Role Main job functions IT functions & data access Systems
(Organisation) accessed
queries on these calls. They have access to supporting services such as
Answering some technical queries and Powerhelp for call handling and special versions of
forwarding other calls on to the appropriate 2"' I Pathway (Post Office) applications (without real data
line support unit. Notes, this includes etc) to assist answering calls from Post office staff.
forwarding calls on PO key and password
recovery to SMC.
Application support I Supporting applications on Sequent - both Read only access to event logs and other relevant files I Most NT
user Oracle applications and Access services. and databases. (This does not include the Post Office Sequent;
counters, and Tivoli server access is restricted to pre- .
authorised tasks to extract diagnostic info for POs test rigs
[any others?] )
(Oracle MONITOR role on Sequent)
Application support I Supporting applications as above, plus As above, plus controlled write access to application I as above
manager correcting data when required and authorised I data
under controlled conditions. (Oracle SSC role on Sequent)
Application support I Support of applications in the Pathway VME Using Sonnet on Sequent to access the Pathway Sequent
- VME applications I partition partition on DSS VME systems VME
Application 3rd line I Supporting Oracle applications Read only access Seq
support
Other hardware and system support
EMC Handling problems with Symmetrix discs Access to EMC disc controller (and to discs) using EMC
special EMC client

Notes:

1. This table does not include the Software distribution related roles at the Configuration Management system,
as these as the CM is not on the secure LANs covered by the ACP. Roles are

Printed: [ DATE \1]

RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL

[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT J

Page 67 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0066
POL00400795
POL00400795

ICL Pathway Ref: RS/POL/0003
Access Control Policy Version: 3.1
Date: 06/05/99

« CS Release Manager (authorising software (new software and fixes), configuration information etc for
release (after testing at the test rigs)

¢ Configuration librarians (maintaining the library of software at the Configuration Management system
and initiating signing and distribution of software after authorisation)

2. This table also does not include RODB roles, since that is now intended to remain at the Pathway
management site (with firewalls protecting other sites from it, and the implementation suppliers). Roles are:

¢ Roll-out/RODB users (Implementation staff viewing information in the roll-out database)

e RODB data administrators (Implementation staff also able to update RODB data, for example, change
the date for a Post office installation.)

¢ Implementation suppliers (bulk transfer only from Pathway managed PCs)

3. The Key Handler role needs to be performed on-site whenever systems are rebooted, so is generally
performed by the organisation at that site e.g. EDS at DSS sites, POCL at their sites, De La Rue at their sites

There are associated manual processes to authorise some of the actions above and to liase with other Pathway
units involved in software distribution and auto-configuration. For example:

* Team Leaders and SMC Managers can authorise software distribution.
¢ Only SMC Managers Can authorise creation of new Tivoli tasks.

All changes distributed via Tivoli first go through the standard Configuration Management system with its
associated processes for change control, testing and authorises release

Printed: [ DATE \1] RESTRICTED-COMMERCIAL
[ FILENAME \p \* MERGEFORMAT ] Page 68 of 68

POL-BSFF-0227465_0067
