POL00448027
POL00448027

Horizon Shortfall Scheme
Eligibility Criteria

In order to be eligible for the Horizon Shortfall Scheme, you must meet all of the criteria set out below.

1. You must have, or have previously had, a contract directly with Post Office. If you are applying to the scheme on behalf
of another person or a company, they must have, or have previously had, a contract directly with Post Office.

N

. Your application must relate to shortfalls which arose in respect of previous versions of Horizon (sometimes referred
to as Legacy Horizon, Horizon Online or HNG-X). Please note that the High Court has held that the current version of
Horizon (HNG-A — sometimes referred to as the ‘Branch Technology Upgrade’) is robust relative to comparable systems.
If you have a concern you believe is related to the current version of Horizon, please contact casereviewteam@postoffice.
co.uk and if you experience an operational issue when using the current version of Horizon please report it to the Branch
Support Centre.

w

. If you are making an application on behalf of another person, you must be a legally appointed assignee, personal
representative, attorney or deputy of the person you are making the application on behalf of. Please note that you
must provide proof of this legal relationship when you submit your application.

4. You must agree to be bound by the Terms of Reference for the scheme. A copy of the Terms of Reference is available
on the scheme website and within the scheme application form.

a

. Your application and time with Post Office must not involve or relate to any criminal conviction(s). Only the criminal
appeal courts can consider past convictions. Please note a caution is not a criminal conviction and will not affect eligibility
for the scheme.

[oy

. You must not have been part of the group litigation against Post Office that settled in December 2019. The settlement
reached by the parties was full and final. You must also not have entered into a settlement agreement with Post Office
after the High Court’s judgment on Horizon Issues dated 16 December 2019.

If you are unsure as to whether you are eligible for the scheme, please contact horizonshortfallscheme!

