POL00017555
POL00017555

Differences of Opinion between Experts re McQue Page I of 1

Juliet Mcfarlane

From: Jenkins Gareth G
Sent: 14 February 2011 13:07

To: Juliet Mcfarlane
Subject: RE: McQue - Appendix C
Juliet,

I know it does. That is the information I have give to Charles about Calendar Square. I have not sent
him anything further since it is irrelevant to this case (as he accepts). However his point is that if we had
an Accounting Discrepancy in Calendar Square, then that implies that it is possible to have an accounting
discrepancy in Rinkfield. I have to accept that it is possible. However the Calendar Square issue as such
is irrelevant in Rinkfield and this is accepted by Charles.

We discussed it at length as part of the West Byfleet trial (1 spent about an hour in the witness box trying
to explain the issue), but we have not discussed it further this time.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU

Mobile
email:
Web

of Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

et, London, Wi1U 3BW:

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Bak:

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is.

virus-free.

From: Juliet Mcfarlane } I
Sent: 14 February 2011 1:
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: RE: McQue - Appendix C

246

Gareth

Appendix C relates to West Byfleet not McQue. Did you have a discussion with Mr McLachlan re this
case? Do you think it would help to include reference to Calendar Square as it applies to McQue

Regards

Juliet McFarlane
Principal Lawyer
Legal Services, Criminal Law Team

nennenenn we eeenne ‘** Royal Mail Group Limited registered in
England and Wales registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment,
London, EC4Y 0HQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents
of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this

email from your system. ***t###ttetHtesresersnenestarentctesncenansnsnnanentstenenteniniet®

14/02/2011
