POL00163485
POL00163485

From: Alisdair CameronI
Sent: Wed 13/03/2019 5:46:52 PM (UTC)

To: Mark R Davies},

Ce: Melani
Tarling
Subject: RE: Draft media statement

Attachment: _DOC_154764037(1) DRAFT OVERALL MEDIA STATEMENT AS AT1515_1303.docx

Thanks. I have fiddled it a bit and attached a revised version for the following reasons.

I liked the previous first para, not because I write it (promise) but because it landed a number of key
messages up front: its about the contracts, there’s more trials to come, mostly former Postmasters and its
about the history. Why have we taken it out?

Then we have changed the tone and meaning of our response. The point about the mirror (and fine, get rid
of that) was we were looking from a different perspective. Now we are saying that such approaches are
never accepted — implying that we are like that and even worse have accepted such approaches in the past.
We need to find a way of saying “we don’t think we are like that but we have come across like that and we
must respond and change”

I understand the point about confusing the trials but we have to say that the system works today so
postmasters, clients and custoemrs don’t have to worry and we have to say why. So find a better set of
words but dont leave it out completely. We have to settle Postmasters.

Have a look at the wording. Some of it could be simplified.

We then go back to the historical long period point — fine don’t mind that beign repeated and extended.
Then we go back to talking and listening to agents. That needs to be higher up to preserve the flow but also
it makes it sound like we don’t today — rather, we will work closely with our Postmasters to esnure that their
voices are heard as we make improvements maybe.

Anyway I had a stab at a hybrid — see what you think, lets iterate once more and then get it to the Board?

Thanks Al

Alisdair Cameron
Chief Finance & Operating Officer

POST
OFFIC

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

From: Mark R Davies <i
Sent: 13 March 2019
To: Alisdair Cameron

I Jane Macleod ¢
POL00163485
POL00163485

Cc: Melanie Corfiel
Subject: Draft media statement

Hi Al

Here’s where we are on the draft media statement as of this afternoon. Grateful for your thoughts. We used your
draft as base. A few changes are for style: otherwise we’ve changed some of the language but sought to capture the
substance and spirit of your points.

The Horizon statement isn’t in: there was a concern about muddying the two trials.

I think this captures the right tone of recognising, not being defensive but reserving appeal as option. The critical
language e.g aggressive — mirrors the judgement as it stands.

Mark

Sent from Mail for Windows 10
