POL00117718

POL00117718

® Pos!

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London

EC2Y 9AQ

@postofficenews

Baroness Neville-Rolfe DBE CMG

Parliamentary Under Secretary of State and Minister for Intellectual Property
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills

1 Victoria Street

London

SW1H OET

15 June 2015
Dear Minister

I wanted to write to thank you for meeting with me and members of my team on 11 June. I found
our conversation stimulating and informative.

As we set out in our presentation, Post Office is undergoing significant change and making good
progress towards its aim of achieving commercial sustainability with reduced reliance on the
taxpayer. I hope you found our discussion helpful in picking up your new responsibilities for
postal affairs. If there is any aspect of our business or issue on which you would find a further
meeting or briefing helpful, please do not hesitate to ask your office to contact mine.

As we discussed, our future strategy is the subject of our Board awayday. Thank you for agreeing
to join us on 17 June, when we look forward to exploring some of the issues we discussed last
week in more depth.

{also like to take this opportunity to repeat my offer to arrange for you to visit a range of Post
Offices so that you may see the impact first hand of our transformation for our customers and our
colleagues in the network. We are also holding a drop-in session for Members of Parliament on
Wednesday 8th July from 4pm to 6pm in Dining Room B in the Palace of Westminster. If your
diary allows, you would be very welcome to attend any part of that event.

I look forward seeing you at the Board awayday and to working with you as we continue to
transform the Post Office.

Yours sincerely,

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. r
Registered Office Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London. EC2Y 9AQ PostOffice.co.uk
Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited

st Office

