POL00117416
POL00117416

From: Rodric Williams{~
Sent:
To:
Patrick Bourkef,
Subject: RE: Panorama editor

Just one addition in CAPS in the final para to keep planted to possibility of defamation proceedings.

Rodric Williams
Solicitor, Corporate Services

Post Office Ltd
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ

GRO.

-----Original Message-----

From: Melanie Corfield

Sent: 16 June 2015 10:45

To: Mark R Davies; Susan Barty; Tom Reid; Patrick Bourke; Rodric Williams; Mark Underwood]
Subject: RE: Panorama editor

Just one from me - worth copying him the email that has gone to Conor Blackman.
Mel

-----Original Message-----

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 16 June 2015 10:35

To: Melanie Corfield; Susan Barty; Tom Reid; Patrick Bourke; Rodric Williams; Mark Underwood]
Subject: RE: Panorama editor

Any comments on this please? I want to get it out today.

-----Original Message-----

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 15 June 2015 14:10

To: Melanie Corfield; Susan Barty; Tom Reid; Patrick Bourke; Rodric Williams; Mark Underwood]
Subject: Panorama editor

All

It occurred to me just now that before I go in to the v top at BBC I should at least engage with Panorama editor, Ceri Thomas.
Suggested text below. Views please!

Mark

Dear Ceri

Thope you are well.

As you know, Panorama is planning a programme on the Post Office and its computer system on June 29.

We are in touch with your team and seeking to be helpful. Indeed last week we hosted a two hour briefing on the issue.

However on Friday we received a long email detailing a series of very serious allegations, almost none of which were put to us when
we met last week.
POL00117416
POL00117416

It is worth saying that the allegations themselves are not new: many have been reported on previously by various BBC outlets. It is
also worth saying that there is no evidence to support them.

Some of the allegations are very specific to individuals whose cases have been through the courts and who have referred their cases
to the Criminal Cases Review Commission. As such we cannot comment on them though we have seen no evidence to suggest any
miscarriage of justice (if we had we would be under a duty to disclose and would have done so).

Ihave previously raised concerns about coverage of this matter with a number of BBC executives and am likely to do so again. I
didn't however want to do so without engaging with you first. It would be extremely helpful to meet to discuss this matter and
wonder if you would be willing to do so?

I ask because given the lack of evidence to substantiate the allegations against the Post Office business, AND THE HARM THE
ALLEGATIONS COULD CAUSE US, it seems only reasonable to request further details as to the exact nature of the evidence you
have to support the allegations being made, and before they are made.

Best wishes

Mark Davies
C aan

d Corporate Affairs Director

