POL00401676

POL00401676

Solutions Architect

Summary

Salary: Competitive

Grade: 3A

Contract Type: Permanent

Location: Finsbury Dials, London / Future Walk, Chesterfield / Remote
Reporting to: Head of Product Architecture

Division: CIO

Please read the below job description for further information - and apply by following
the link above.

The Purpose of the Role

The Branch & Design Engineering Solution Architects will be accountable for technical design
components of Post Office’s revenue generating product technologies that are deployed primarily
using our future trading platform (SPM).

Principle Accountabilities

Principal accountabilities

e Business and project engagement

e Maintaining strong relationships with allocated business lines and their product areas.
Understanding their strategy and maintaining technology roadmaps.

e Evaluating and providing appropriate solution architecture for change relating to our
products

e Ability to consider, portray and present the options that are available and the ROI and
TCO that are associated to these

e Gather and analyse data to support assessments and recommendations

e Collaborate with the lead solution architect and programmes to assess the impact of
changes to inflight projects

Continuously Develop
« Remain up to date with current technology in your assigned product
areas through continuous training and market assessment

Technical
« Provide support for major incidents in your area of expertise
« Accountable for quality solution architecture definition for Technology changes (e.g. as
part of projects), ensuring solutions are designed from the outset to meet the desired
business outcomes and are conformant with technology and security standards
e Ensure that all solution architectures or architectural increments are aligned to the target
enterprise architecture, standards and principles
Qualifications, Experience & Skills

Knowledge required

e Enterprise architecture

¢ Solution architecture

e An understanding of Application, Data, Infrastructure, Integration, Security, Web
Architectures, so that end-to-end solution architectures can be defined

e Deep industry/product understanding in some or all of - travel, retail banking, payments,
mails, financial services, insurance, retail devices

e Stakeholder management
POL00401676
POL00401676

Experience required
« Demonstrable track record of delivery in solution architecture roles
e Experienced in clearly articulating and portraying the solution via presentations,
workshops and solution architecture documents
e Deep industry experience in one or all of the following mandatory - travel, retail banking,
payments, mails, financial services, insurance, retail devices
e = Project delivery

Specific certifications are less important than that the individual has some qualifications in the
below areas:
© Certified in a relevant Architecture framework (e.g. BCS, TOGAF)

Skills required
e = Architectural design
Proven critical analysis and problem-solving skills, with the ability to work alongside the
business to develop creative technology strategies for rapidly changing, highly ambiguous
challenges and opportunities
About Post Office

The Post Office has thrived at the heart of high streets and local communities across the UK for
over 370 years. As one of the country’s most trusted brands, we take our commitment to
providing essential services to customers across the UK very seriously. We're the UK’s largest
retail network, as well as the largest financial services provider in the UK, with over 11,600
branches nationwide - more than all of the UK’s banks and building societies put together.

We know that the best way to provide a great service for customers is to evolve our business and
adapt to their changing needs. That’s why we have a range of over 170 products and services,
from personal financial services like banking, insurance, payments and travel money, to telecoms
and, of course, mails. And we're improving our online and in store experience for customers. We
know that our customers never stop changing, so neither will we.

Securing the future Post Office's future:

We are working hard to ensure that the next chapter of the Post Office’s history is a bright one.

We are the current guardians of an iconic business and we want to hand over a thriving network
of branches which can continue to provide essential products and services for our customers for
many years to come. This is a uniquely exciting and challenging time for the Post Office - we’re
shaping the future and creating a business we can all be proud of.

Working at the Post Office:

Post Office colleagues are the driving force behind our business. Whether they are in our
branches or supporting from our offices, we are proud of the energy, commitment and customer
focus our people all have in common.

All Post Office people are guided by our three values and behaviours:
« We care by always thinking customer
« We strive to make things ever better through honest challenge
* We commit to decisive deliver

The Post Office embraces diversity and inclusion in the workplace and actively promote
working without discrimination. We are also a Disability Confident Employer and are
committed to interviewing disabled people who meet our minimum criteria for the job.
