POL00071158
POL00071158

3tephen Dilley

From: cath.oglesbyt__

Sent: 11 June 2006 11:29

To: Stephen Dilley

Subject: Re: Post Office Ltd v Mr L Castleton
Stephen,

All the cash accounts and any snapshots that I removed from Marine Drive were kept together in the
folder that I believe you have, I did not make a list of the snapshots that I took, so cannot say for sure which are
there now, but I have not done anything else with the documents.I have nothing more.

I do not think that there was a snapshot for every day.

Which days do we have a snapshot for and which are missing ? If you look at the notes of the
interview with Lee on 10th May 2004, we talked through some snapshots and cash declarations, the dates are
given, have we still got those?

I do recall having a conversation with Lee regarding snapshots, I advised him to call a snapshot daily
and check his cash against it. This is a good housekeeping rule for every Postmaster, but not mandatory.

I did not remove any Girobank , deposits or withdrawal paperwork.

Regards,

Cath.

4
2

Subject: Post Office Ltd v Mr L Castleton

08/06/2006 10:37

Dear Vicky and Cath,

I attach a copy letter received on 7 June from Mr Castleton's solicitors, for your information. They have asked a
few questions with which I could use your assistance:

1. They have stated that no giro deposits and withdrawals, declared cash/cash on hand receipts, miscellaneous
transaction reports and balance snapshots have been disclosed post 9/10/11 March 2004. Am I right in thinking
this is because we do not have them (because you have sent to me everything you have) and that in any event,
as the transaction logs that Vicky sent to me record every transaction, they do not need thegiros?

2. Castleton states that a complete set of balance snapshots for each days trading until this suspension was
produced and removed from the branch by Cath. Am I right in thinking that:

(a) balance snapshots arenot a mandatory report so Castleton wouldn't have had to print one for every day;

(b) Castleton did not produce one for every day;

(c) For Cath to have collected one for every day she would have had to attend the branch each day to print one
off (because the data would have changed each minute of each day so presumably you couldn't attend the branch
say once a week and print out historical balance snapshots);

(d) Cath certainly wouldn't have had time to attend the branch every day; and

(e) that the P.O sent me those snapshots that Cath removed(in the red folder)?

3. Finally, they have asked for a copy of the P242 form normally signed by an outgoing sub-postmaster on the
audit and handover to an incoming sub-postmaster. Please can you recall whether Mr Castleton signed it and if

1
POL00071158
POL00071158

so, please can you send to me a copy?
I look forward to hearing from you as soon possible.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

earce LLP

www.bondpearce.com

Please note our new contact details from 8 May 2006 as set out above.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number 0C311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP.

Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

>>>> eCopy scanned document.pdf attachment was removed from this email
>>>> <<<<

JOOS SE SII OI URI CRIS IB OKIE ISI URI ORI ORE ORE SIE OIBISES SEIS ISKISI ISI IRI RACKAGKAREARI AAR
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JS SIS OCICS OSORIO BIS OEKIODIERI OHSS ESTER ISSO ISIISKI IE IAEA ACIRK AKA
