POL00423584
POL00423584

GROUP POLICIES
Whistleblowing Policy

Version - V3.2

Chief Executive’s Endorsement

The Post Office Group is committed to doing things correctly. Our Values
and Behaviours represent the conduct we expect. This Policy supports these
to help us ensure that colleagues know how to report concerns regarding
wrongdoing or dangerous practices and that they can do so without fear of
recrimination.

Internal Page 1 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399
POL00423584
POL00423584

:

Internal Page 2 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399_0001
POL00423584
POL00423584

1 « Overview

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner

The General Counsel has overall accountability to the Board of Directors for the
implementation of controls ensuring Post Office meets it Whistleblowing obligations.
Whistleblowing is an agenda item for the Audit and Risk Committee and the Post Office
board is updated as required.

1.2. Purpose

This Policy has been established to set the minimum operating standards relating to the
management of Whistleblowing throughout the Group®. It is one of a set of policies which _— (eros 1551}: Definition amended following legal ]

provide a clear risk and governance framework and an effective system of internal control review — see footnote 1
for the management of risk across the Group. Compliance with these policies supports the
Group in meeting its business objectives and to balance the needs of shareholders,
‘employeesstaff? and other stakeholders.

Commented [SS2]: Definition amended following legal
review — see footnote 2

1.3. Core Principles

Whistleblowing” refers to the act of exposing potential or actual wrongdoing and/or
dangerous practices by reporting it either internally within an organisation, or to an
external party. A whistleblower is a person who raises a genuine concern in relation to
any wrongdoing, this includes criminal activity, regulatory breaches, miscarriages of
justice, damage to the environment, financial impropriety, reputational damage, any
breach of legal or professional obligations, dangers to health and safety and the deliberate
attempt to conceal it. Wh c he u a

In order to encourage Whistleblowing and provide appropriate protections to
whistleblowers, the governance arrangements described in this Policy are based upon the
following core principles:

+ To encourage the reporting of any concerns as soon as possible in the knowledge that
Post Office will take all concerns will-be-takenraised seriously and investigate fullyd,
and that the confidentiality of all individuals will be respected;

* To provide guidance as to how to raise those concerns;

+ To provide whistleblowers reassurance that all genuine concerns are raised without
fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken;

"In this Policy “Post Office" and "Group" mean Post Office Limited and any wholly owned subsidiaryPost Office Management
Services Limited.

“working for-6-on bebialfof Rost Offie._In this Policy “staff means POL or Group's permanent, temporary and fixed term = +—
‘employees, workers including temporary workers, agency workers (where the terms on which they are engaged are not
‘substantially determined by them), contractors, consultants and anyone else working under a contract with Post Office, in all
‘cases having regard to 6.230(3) and s. 43K ERA 1996.

rinderetaRsocnHanghot Osan]

Internal Page 3 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399_0002
* Post Office is committed to and oversees the implementation of the Policy in line with
the Group's risk appetite. The Policy and associated procedures (set out or referred to
in this document) are proportionate to the risks and complexity of the Group;

+ Post Office undertakes a training and awareness program to ensure employees are
aware of the Whistleblowing policy and procedure.

1.4. Application
This Policy is applicable to all employees-staff within the Group and outlines the manner

in which Post Office will encourage, receive and investigate incidents of whistleblowing
and the protections provided for whistleblowers by law.

In order to encourage reporting of wrongdoing, Post Office will, where appropriate, and
to the extent possible, followextend equivalent principles to encourage, receive and
investigate incidents of whistleblowing bypretection-te Postmasters, Agent Assistants,
and members of the public and will not subject any such persons to any detriment
(including the termination of any contract or relationship with Post Office) for raising a
genuine whistleblowing concern in an appropriate manner.

1.5. Legislation

The Group seeks to comply with all relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements
including (but not limited to) the following legislation as amended or supplemented from
time to time:

+ Employment Rights Act 1996
+ Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998

1.6. Protecting the Whistleblower (Your Legal Rights)

Post Office has a statutory obligation to protect whistleblowers and will support any
individual person who raises genuine concerns under this Policy in an appropriate
manner, even if they turn out to be mistaken. In respect of a certain class of person
broadly “staff” as defined under this policy) Post Office has a statutory obligation not to

subject such persons to detriment or to dismiss them for whistleblowing.

Where a member of staff is subject to a Post Office settlement agreement, any clauses
within it will not prevent the member of staff from whistleblowing. This should in any
event be made clear by the terms of the settlement agreement itself and staff should
receive independent advice in relation to those terms when entering into a settlement
agreement.

Post Office will, at all times, respect the confidentiality and protecte the whistleblower’s

identity, however:

«It may be necessary in the course of an investigation to share this information with a
relevant stakeholder (e.g. an investigator).

There is no requirement for a whistleblower to provide personal contact information
but not providing this information may reduce Post Office's ability to undertake a
thorough investigation into the concerns raised.

Post Office will take all reasonable steps to ensure that whistleblowers do not suffer any
jetrimental treatment as a result of raising a genuine concern in an appropriate manner.

Detrimental treatment includes disciplinary action, dismissal, threats or other

unfavourable treatment connected with raising a concern. Serious action, typically

Internal Page 4 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423584
POL00423584

Commented [SS3}: Section amended following legal
review, particularly in relation to reports from non-

employees

Commented [SS4}: Section amended generally
following legal review and recommendations from
Intemmal Audit

POL-BSFF-0238399_0003
disciplinary action, is likely to be be taken against any individual who threatens or
retaliates against whistleblowers in any way.

Ifa whistleblower believes that they have suffered any such treatment, they should
inform the Whistleblowing Officer immediately. The Whistleblowing Officer should take
steps to address any victimisation, which may include working with the HR team to put
appropriate measures in place. If the matter is not addressed the whistleblower (where

they are staff) should raise it formally using Post Office’s Grievance procedure.

In all cases the whistleblower’s concerns will be treated sensitively and in confidence.

1.7 The Whistleblowing Officer

Post Office has appointed the General Counsel as ti .bistlebloina Offeer who can be
contacted on [ HYPERLINK "mailto: whistleblowing’

The role of the Whistleblowing Officer is to receive all internal reports raised, regardless
of the channel used, review any concerns raised and determine the best course of
action, if any. They may ask for further information in order to make this decision.

The Whistleblowing Officer is also responsible for ensuring that reports are investigated
and responded to in a timely manner. They are responsible for determining the

iate partie ito investigate ations raised, taking into account
the sensitivities and seriousness of the report and the need to protect the whistleblower.

‘The Whistleblowing Officer is also responsible for identifying key trends or issues, and
providing assurance to the Board that the policy is complied with.

1.8 How to Report Whistleblowing

Pe mbe ays to
Direct 0 the nisi Officer (HYPERLINK

‘GRO 3

These may be verbal or written communications.
* Contacting the “Speak Up” line, a confidential reporting service which is run by an
independent company NAVEX Global (formerly Expolink Europe Ltd

which is a secure on-line web

What should be rReported?

Whistleblowers should raise a concern iEthey are aware of, or suspect, certain wronadoing
hich affe hers. f the public, colleai F t Offi

The following lists some asahiles tthis is a non-exhaustive list) of situations where an

individual may raise a concern:

POL00423584
POL00423584

* Where Post Office or the Group is in breach of any legal obligation to which it is
subject (usually a statutory rather than a contractual legal bligation) __—-{Commented [SS5}: Added following legal review ]

Financial Crime including Fraud, Money Laundering and financing of terrorism,
© Giving, offering or taking of bribes,

Financial mismanagement, Tax evasion and Misreporting

+ Racial, sexual, disability or other discrimination (Improper Behaviour:

© Practices that could put individuals or the environment at risk,

Internal Page 5 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399_0004
POL00423584
POL00423584

+_Breach of Post Office internal policies and procedures
Concerns about slavery or human trafficking?, and
© Any conduct likely to damage Post Office’s reputation

This policy should not be used by staff wishing to raise complaints relating to their own
personal circumstances, such as the way they have been treated at work. Grievances and
matters such as bullying and harassment should be raised in accordance with the
procedures set out in the appropriate HR policy.

If an individual is uncertain about whether something is within the scope of this Policy they
should seek advice from the Whistleblowing Officer, whose contact details are set out in
this Policy.

1.9 Responding to Whistleblowing Reports

In all instances any whistleblowing reports, regardless of reporting method, will be
responded to within 5 working days and passed onto the Whistleblowing Officer.

All reports will be fully reviewed and investigated and any information, including emails,
or records of telephone calls, letters, or any other form of communication stored

securely and confidentially!

The time frame for investigating the reports raised is dependent on the nature of the
report and the investigation required, however, the whistleblower will be given feedback
via the reporting channel they have used, or have given the Whistleblowing Officer

permission to use (Speak Up line, e-mail or phone call) during the investigation and once
it has been concluded.

Commented [SS6]: Added for clarity from internal Audit
recommendation

‘The whistleblower may be kept informed of any action taken, however, this information
may be limited if it is required to keep the confidence of other people.

Where a report received is - angnymous whistleblowers will not ordinarily be able a
receive feedback and
Post Office may be Timited.

1.10 External Disclosures

The aim of this Policy is to provide an internal mechanism for reporting, investigating
and remedying any wrongdoing in the workplace. In most cases individuals should not
find it necessary to alert anyone externally.

However, the law recognises that in some circumstances it may be appropriate for
individuals to report their concerns to an external body such as a regulator. It will rarely
ifever, be appropriate to alert the media at least without informing Post Office or an
external agency first and usually in that order,

Commented [SS7]: Added following legal review )

We strongly encourage individuals to seek advice before reporting a concern to anyone
external. The independent Whistleblowing charity, Protect (formerly Public Concern at

Work) have a list of prescribed regulators for reporting certain types of concerns. Their
contact details are as follows:

Helpline.

3. More information in relation to Modern Slavery can be found here - [ HYPERLINK
“hitos/corporate postoffice.co.ul/slaverystatement™ I

Internal Page 6 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399_0005
POL00423584
POL00423584

‘-maits-[ HYPERLINK "mailto: whistle
Website: -[ HYPERLINK "http://www.pcaw.org.uk/advice" ]-line/eo-tuke

Commented [SS8]: Updated contact details. )

Public Concern-at WorkProtect operates free, confidential advice to people concerned
about crime, danger or wrongdoing in the workplace. -All Protect advisors are legally
trained and supervised by qualified lawyers and their advice is fully confidential and
subject to legal privilege. All information, including emails, or records of telephone calls,
letters, or any other form of communication with Protect advisors is stored in a fully
encrypted format.

Commented [SS9]: Updated information from Protect
website

Post Office Money Services (POMS) is directly regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA), Post Office Limited is an appointed representative of Bank of Ireland
(UK) Limited. As such individuals may decide to whistleblow directly to the FCA, and can
do so by using one of the following channels.

Helpline: . .
E-mail: [ HYPERLINK “maiito:whistle¢ GRO i
Website: [ HYPERLINK “http://www fca.org.ukisite-info/contactiwhistleblowing” ]

Address: Intelligence Department Ref BIDAL. Financial Conduct Authority, 12 Endeavour
Square, London, £20 1JNinteli

Commented [SS10]: Updated contact details )

Whistleblowing concerns usually relate to the conduct of our staff, but they ma\
sometimes relate to the actions of a third party, such as a customer, supplier, agent,
Postmaster or service provider. In some circumstances the law will protect individuals if
they raise the matter with the third party directly. However, we encourage individuals to

report such concerns internally in the first instance,

‘Commented [SS11]: Added following legal review )

Internal Page 7 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399_0006
2. Risk Appetite and Minimum — Control
Standards

2.1.

k Appetite

Risk Appetite is the extent to which the Group will accept that a risk might happen in
pursuit of day to day businesses transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of
activity and levels of exposure that the Group are willing and able to tolerate.

The Group takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and consequently has*:

+ Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited circumstances
where there are significant conflicting imperatives between conformance and
commercial practicality

+ Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to high profile cases/issues

+ Averse risk appetite for ligation in relation to Financial Services matters

+ Averse risk appetite for not complying with law and regulations or deviation from
business’ conduct standards for financial crime to occur within any part of the
organisation

+ Averse Risk Appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by our staff.

The Group acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls
have been implemented an action may still sit outside the agreed Risk Appetite.

2.2. Policy Framework

Post Office has established a suite of policies and procedures, on a risk sensitive approach
which are subject to an annual review. The policy suite is designed to comply with
applicable legislation and regulation. The Whistleblowing Policy should be considered and
read in conjunction with other policies where relevant. These may include the Financial
Crime Policy, the Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy, Health & Safety Policies and HR Policies
where relevant.

2.3. Who Must Comply?

All third parties who do business with the Group, including consultants, suppliers and
business and franchise partners, will be required to agree contractually to this policy or
have their own equivalent policy.

Any investigations will be carried out in accordance with the Investigations Policy which is
available on the Post Office Intranet

“The Risk appetite was agreed by the Groups Board January 2015

Internal Page 8 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL00423584
POL00423584

POL-BSFF-0238399_0007
POL00423584
POL00423584

2.4. Minimum Control Standards

A minimum control standard is an activity which must be in place in order to manage the risks so they remain within the defined Risk
Appetite statements. There must be mechanisms in place within each impacted business unit to demonstrate compliance. The minimum
control standards can cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks
are managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required minimum control standards in consideration of the stated
risk appetite. The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk Area I Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
Receipt and Failure to meet legal and Directive Control:

investigation of regulatory requirements Post Office must nominate a Post Office CEO and Board Ongoing
whistleblowing reports Whistleblowing Officer to receive

reports, ensure that all reports
are fully investigated and that
any appropriate corrective
action is undertaken.

The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer Annually
provide a whistleblowing report
to the R&CC and ARC at least
annually.

Any serious whistleblowing Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
concerns must be promptly
escalated to the Chairman of the
Post Office Audit and Risk

Committee.

Preventative Control: Whistleblowing Officer Training must

All employees are trained and be provided at

the policy is available to them least annually
Internal Page 9 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399_0008
POL00423584
POL00423584

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards Who is responsible When
The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer ‘Ongoing
ensure that appropriate
arrangements are in place to
ensure that whistleblowing
reports are addressed promptly
including during absences

Communications and awareness I Head of Financial Crime Annually
provided to all employees and
Policy document published on
the Intranet.

Breach of Failure to ensure Preventative Control:
confidentiality confidentiality for the Whistleblowing Policy Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
whistleblower

Confidential Speak Up line Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
reports are shared only with the
Whistleblowing Officer and
nominated deputies

Whistleblowing email inbox-with I Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
@ecessinbox access is restricted
to the Whistleblowing Officer
and nominated deputies

Whistleblowing Officer must put I Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
arrangement in place to protect
the confidentiality of the
whistleblower during
investigations

Corrective Control: Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
All incidents of breaches are
escalated to the Whistleblowing
Officer to review and take
Necessary actions.

Internal Page 10 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399_0009
Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
Incorrect handling of _ An individual may raise a Preventative Control:
whistleblowing report __ whistleblowing report with _I Training provided to contact Whistleblowing Officer Annually
other individuals in the teams to identify potential
Group. Details may then be I whistleblowing reports and
shared with various ensure these are correctly
stakeholders before being handled, e.g.:
passed onto the * Grapevine,
Whistleblowing Officer * NBSC,
* Customer Support, and
* Executive Correspondence
Team.
Head of Financial Crime Annually
Communications and awareness
provided to all employees and
Policy document published on
the Intranet.
Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
Corrective Control:
All incidents of breaches are
escalated to the Whistleblowing
Officer to investigate and take
appropriate actions.
Insufficient Failure to capture/report Directive Control:
Information sufficient information about I Individuals are encouraged to _I Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
the issue may mean that report issues and provide full
the underlying issue cannot I information and their contact
be properly investigated and I details, where they feel able to
resolved do so
Corrective Control:
All reports, including those Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing

where insufficient information
has been provided and no
further action was taken are
recorded on the Whistleblowing

Internal

Page 11 of 18

[FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423584

POL00423584

POL-BSFF-0238399_0010
POL00423584
POL00423584

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
database, which is reviewed for
trends and issues.

The ‘Speak Up’ Service I Failure to effectively record Preventative Control:

whistleblowing reports and I The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer Annually

pass onto the review the effectiveness of the

Whistleblowing Officer, due I service provided by NAVEX

to factors such as resource I GlobalExpolink Eurepe-Ltd

or IT failure. (formerly known as Intouch

MCS-+LtdExpolink Europe Ltd) at

least annually, _-{ Commented [$S12]: Reflects change of name }
Whistleblowing Officer Annually

The Whistleblowing Officer must
review the effectiveness of the
processes operated by each of
Grapevine, NBSC, Customer
Support, and The Executive
Complaints Team at least
annually to ensure that
whistleblowing reports are
identified and communicated
promptly.

Treatment of Breach of whistleblowing Preventative Control
Whistleblowers guidelines such that a Training must be provided to all I Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing
whistleblower suffers people managers as part of their I HR Training Manager
prejudice, detriment or induction process as a manager
dismissal as a result of and on appointment to Post
making a whistle blowing Office

report
Annual training must be Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing
provided to all Post Office staff I HR Training Manager
to remind them of the
protections available to
whistleblowers and the

Internal Page 12 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399_0011
POL00423584
POL00423584

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
importance of identifying and
reporting wrongdoing

The Code of Business Standards
must refer to the whistleblowing I Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing
policy and must be provided to I HR Training Manager
all new joiners as part of their
induction programme.

Internal Page 13 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238399_0012
3. Definitions

3.1. Definitions

Grapevine

24/7 Security Support Centre provided by Kings Ltd. Grapevine provide security advice
and record all security incidents across the business, this includes burglaries, robberies
and the reporting of suspicious activity.

Telephone Number:
E-mail: [ HYPERLINK “mail

NBSC
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) is a helpline and the first port of call for Post
Office branches if they have any operational query or require assistance.

Telephone Number: .
E-mail: [ HYPERLINK "mailto:nbscenquiries

Customer Support Team
Complaints handling team based in Chesterfield. The team address complaints reported
into Post Office via various channels, including post and telephone.

E-mail: [ HYPERLINK "mailto:customercarej,

Executive Complaints-Correspondence Team
This team handles all complaints addressed directly to the Group Executives. The team
liaise with various stakeholders within the business in order to resolve complaints.

E-mail: [ HYPERLINK “mailto-flagcaseadvisor§”

Internal Page 14 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423584
POL00423584

POL-BSFF-0238399_0013
4. Where to go for help

4.1. Additional Policies

This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found at:

“https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/thehub/SitePages/Key%20policies.aspx?web=1" I

HYPERLINK

4.2. IHow to raise a concern

Any Post Office employee who suspects that there is a breach of this Policy should report
this without any undue delay. Whistleblowing can be reported via the following channels:

Their line manager,

A senior member of the HR Team, or

If either or both are not available, staff can contact the Post Office’s Whistleblowing
Officer, who can by email at:__[ HYPERLINK
“mailto:whistleblowing. ] or by telephone ot
Alternatively staff can use the Speak Up service available o1 i
the secure on-line web portal: [ HYPERLINK “https://wrs.expolink.co.uk/pastoffice" ]

In some instances it may be appropriate for the individual to report in the form of a
complaint to Grapevine, the Customer Support Team or the Executive Correspondence

Team.

4.3. Who to contact for more information

If you need further information about this Policy or wish to report an issue in relation to
this Policy, please contact the Policy sponsor or Policy owner.

Internal

Page 15 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423584
POL00423584

Commented [VC13]: Should we rename this section as
itis fairy similar to “1.8 How to Report Whistlebiowing”
Possible "How to report policy breaches?”

POL-BSFF-0238399_0014
POL00423584
POL00423584

5 a Governance

5.1. Governance Responsibilities

As at the date of approval of this Policy, the General Counsel is both the Policy Sponsor
and Policy Owner, responsible for oversight of the Policy.

The Audit and Risk Committee are responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing
compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s risk appetite.

Internal Page 16 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL-BSFF-0238399_0015
6. Control

6.1. Policy Version

Date Version I Updated by Change De!

April 2016 14 Jane MacLeod Sponsors review and sing-off
‘August 2017 15 Vitor Camara Annual Review and update.
September 2017 16 Thomas Richmond I POL R&CC approval
September 2017 2 Thomas Richmond I Final version approved

June 2018 24 Vitor Camara Annual review and update.
July 2018 2s Sally Smith POL R&C approval

July 2018 23 Sally Smith POL ARC approval
September 2018 24 Sally Smith POMS ARC approval
September 2018 3 Vitor Camara Final Version approved

June 2019 34 Sally Smith Annual review and update
June 2019 3.2 Sally Smith Incorporating legal review comments

Group Oversight Committee:

6.2. Policy Approval

Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit and Risk Committee

Committee I Date v. 3.0 Approved
POL R&CC 10 July 2018

POL ARC 31* July 2018

POMS ARC. 20% September 2018
Committee I Date Approved

POL R&CC

POL ARC

POMS ARG

Policy Sponsor:

Policy Owner:
Policy Author:

Next review:

Company Details

Whistleblowing Officer
Head of Financial Crime

July 2020

Group Director of Legal, Risk-Compliance & Governance

Post Office Limited and Past Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers
2154540 and 08459718 respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Internal

Page 17 of 18

[FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423584
POL00423584

POL-BSFF-0238399_0016
POL00423584
POL00423584

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its
Information Commissioners Office registration number is ZAOSOS8S,

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104, Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is 24866081.

Internal Page 18 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL-BSFF-0238399_0017
