POL00319054

POL00319054
From: Mark R Davies[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MARK R DAVIESA80D7269-659B-4 1 D0-9C80-
68D9DE4FA7C5D38]
Sent: Fri 07/08/2015 9:
To: Mark Underwood! _]; Melanie
Corfield[t.__
Subject: Fwd: Sparrow note for Tim Parker
Both

We need to send a note to the new chairman and I have drafted a first go below and asked Alwen and Jane for
comments.

Given Alwen's view I would now like to get your comments and also whoever is standing in for Rod?

Clearly this is about the most important note we will send on this issue in the weeks ahead so want it to be spot
on!

Your input very welcome.
Mark
Mark Davies

Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Post Office Ltd

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alwen Lyons
Date: 7 August 2015

>, Jane MacLeod

I think this is very clear. I have added some points to clarify in capitals, just to make them stand
out clearly.

I think this note should come from Jane, or Paula if she wishes, and be sent via me to start getting
him used to that way of communicating and to make it as ‘normal’ as sparrow can ever be!!

Thanks

Alwen

Alwen Lyons
POL00319054

POL00319054

Company Secretary

Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street
London

EC2Y 9AQ

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 07 August 2015 09:35

To: Jane MacLeod; Alwen Lyons
Subject: Sparrow note for Tim Parker

Hi both
See below for a first draft of a note for Tim. Let me know what you think.
Mark

For the last three years the Post Office has been investigating the cases of a small number of
postmasters (I WOULD ADD HOW MANY) who have suggested that the Horizon computer
system used in branches might be faulty.

They have suggested it may have caused losses in branch which in some cases led to them being
prosecuted (AGAIN MIGHT BE WORTH SAYING HOW MANY).

No evidence has emerged to support these claims: indeed thorough investigation has underlined
that the system is efficient and robust.

It deals with six million transactions every day and has been used by almost 500,000 people since
it was introduced: the vast majority doing so without difficulty.

The Post Office has nonetheless taken its responsibilities to its people very seriously. It is very
sorry that this small group of people feel they have been treated unfairly and has gone to
enormous lengths to get to the bottom of their cases.

It held a review by independent forensic accountants, set up a mediation scheme overseen by
independent mediators and reinvestigated every complaint in huge detail. It also paid for
individuals to seek advice on preparing their case.

We have also asked our external criminal lawyers to review all the cases involving prosecutions.
Throughout all this no evidence has emerged to support the very serious allegations being made,

which in some cases have stretched to claims that the Post Office has abused the prosecution
process.
POL00319054

POL00319054

We do take forward prosecutions where it is right to do so. Post Offices are dealing with public
money. We would be heavily and rightly criticised if we did not deal with the very small number
of cases where false accounting and theft takes place.

But we only prosecute where there is clear evidence of wrongdoing and we can meet the bar set
for bringing prosecutions: the evidential and public interest tests. We do not prosecute people for
making mistakes. We prosecute where people dishonestly cover up the loss of money.

Some (AGAIN HOW MANY) complainants have now asked the Criminal Cases Review
Commission to examine their cases, and this is their right and we are co-operating fully with this
process and providing all information. No information at all has been destroyed, as has been
alleged.

We have said we are prepared to mediate in every non-criminal case. Unfortunately many
applicants are refusing to engage in the process.

We have offered to meet them with their MPs to talk through their case. Some have agreed to this
but a number of others have declined.

Individuals are being advised in this by the Justice for SubPostmasters Alliance. (THE JFSA HAS
BEEN IN EXISTANCE FOR X YEARS LED BY ALAN BATES, ONE OF THE
CLAIMANTS)

Significant compensation claims - totalling more than £60m - have been made without evidence to
support the allegation of wrongdoing or system failure on the part of the Post Office. This figure
can be compared to the total losses of public money in the 136 cases involved, which is just over
£1m.

The campaign has secured the support of some MPs - with whom the Post Office has engaged at
length - which has in turn led to parliamentary and media activity.

We have been robust in rejecting the serious allegations made in Parliament and media,
particularly in recent months. The allegations have suggested wrongdoing by senior management,
bullying, deliberate cover-up and abuse of prosecutor powers.

A Panorama programme is due to be aired on August 17. We have challenged the programme at
length but expect it will go ahead. We have provided detail on every allegation put to us. We are
not appearing on the programme for interview because the programme is focussing on individual
cases and has not provided evidence to support its allegations.

We cannot provide detail on individual cases because:
- we agreed to confidentiality with all applicants because of the very personal nature of some of
the facts involved: while they have talked publicly and partially about their cases it would be

wrong for us to breach the undertakings we made

- we would be accused of seeking to undermine the CCRC's deliberations in relation to criminal
cases

- we would be accused of trying to further damage individuals’ reputations if we were to reveal
some of the details of the cases which are known to us but not to the wider public
POL00319054
POL00319054

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director Post Office Ltd

