POL00293276
POL00293276

B Cartwrghtking

Registered in England and Wales, Company Registration No. 10143062

& Regulated by the SRA # 630080 Offices Nationwide

Office: Cartwright King Limited, Lock House, Wilford Street, Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, NG2 1AG www:cartwrightking.co.uk

Private and Confidential
Rodric Williams

Post Office Ltd

Finsbury Dials,

20 Finsbury Street,
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Private & Confidential - Urgent

Date:

13 January 2020

Our Ref: SC2/123600

Post Office Ltd and Cartwright King Solicitors - Continuing the Relationship

Cartwright King Solicitors (CK) has been pleased to act for Post Office Ltd (POL) since the
separation of POL from the Royal Mail Group (RMG) in April 2012. We consider that
relationship to have been very successful and very much hope that POL holds to the same
opinion.

Given the length of our relationship, CK has recently completed a review of the work we
undertake for POL and the way in which that work is instructed, managed and
remunerated, and we have concluded that there are a number of improvements and
changes in practice to be made, such that our close working relationship becomes stronger
and the more effective. I set out our proposals in this letter, but first I identify some of
those issues which, for us, seem in need of change or improvement.

1,

It is becoming increasingly clear to us that POL, WBD and HSF endure sometimes
lengthy delays in awaiting our responses to email or telephone requests for advice
and assistance. Whilst we understand the often urgent nature of an enquiry or
request for advice, the three CK-lawyers with conduct of POL matters are often
engaged with other, non-POL, client-work or court commitments and are
consequently forced to actively manage calls upon their time.

We note the increasing frequency with which we are asked to undertake what
appear to be fairly small pieces of work but which, upon closer analysis, require a
greater degree of work than was initially anticipated. An example of this
phenomenon is the request by BAQC to review the state of knowledge within RMG
and POL of a certain Horizon ‘bug’ and the extent of any dissemination of that
knowledge, if any. Whilst on the face of it such a task seems relatively simple, we
have concluded that it cannot be undertaken in isolation, not least because the task

POL-BSFF-0131339
POL00293276
POL00293276

involves (a) a consideration of pre-POL prosecutions; (b) the request arises out of
the findings by the Judge and set out in his Judgment in the Horizon trial; to
undertake this task without having considered the context within which it arises by
a reading of the Judgment would be to risk providing POL with incomplete or
inaccurate advice; and (c) a consideration of the disclosure landscape as it pertains
to those convicted SPMRs, for again a failure to do so would amount to a breach of
POL’s (and CK’s) duties within the wider disclosure process.

3. Further to the two points noted above, we are becoming increasingly concerned at
the somewhat disjointed way in which we presently approach POL work. This
arises largely because there is no single dedicated point-of-contact within CK for
POL, as witnessed by the common use of cc’d emails to all three CK lawyers
undertaking POL work. The problem here is that of a lack of continuity on
individual pieces of work together with a deficit in oversight over the landscape in
which CK meets POL requirements and advises thereon. In plain English, this
means that there is an increasing risk that advice on one topic might fail to take into
account the impact of that topic on another area of POL work, with the consequent
risk that POL, and CK, are exposed. Of particular concern here is POL’s disclosure
duties arising out of the recent judgment, and the need to advise POL on current
and future Crown Prosecution Service prosecutions.

We have taken some time to consider these issues and our overall relationship with POL
and make the following proposal to mitigate these issues and to provide POL with a much
more joined-up and efficient service in the future.

Proposal
CK will provide POL with:

i. a designated on-call lawyer for 7-hours per day, Monday to Friday, with an urgent-
matter contact number for weekends; this lawyer will be directed to work on all
POL, WED and HSF matters during the 7-hour period;

ii. a dedicated telephone-number available only to POL, WBD and HSF and with
direct access to the on-call lawyer;

iii. a POL-only dedicated email address, accessible only to POL, WBD and HSF;

iv. the designated on-call lawyer shall be Simon Clarke, Martin Smith or Harry
Bowyer, but most likely Simon Clarke.

The formula proposed above will, we believe, enable CK to provide a service which

removes those issues identified above and provides POL with a dedicated lawyer working
exclusively on POL work.

POL-BSFF-0131339_0001
POL00293276
POL00293276

It would be expected that the CK POL designated lawyer would provide POL with sound
value-for-money on the basis that he would undertake to completion all of those matters
presently under instruction and any new matters arising, of which we are informed is a
likely prospect.

Any work requiring the service of more than a single lawyer (an unusual scenario) would
be discussed prior to the start of any such work and with a view to agreeing a Fixed Fee
agreed reflecting only the additional lawyers’ work on the matter.

Costs

CK’s present billable hourly-rate to POL is £300 per hour plus VAT. That rate would
indicate a daily charge-out cost of £2,100 per day, or £10,500 per week. We would propose
to mitigate those figures substantially, down to £1,750 per day and £8,750 per week (all
sums net of VAT). These costs would be invoiced on a 30-day repeating cycle and payable
30-days thereafter.

Conclusion

Our proposal is tendered in respect of any new instructions received and accepted by us
from POL, WBD or HSF from 13 January 2020 forwards. Were POL to favour this proposal
then any instructions received prior to 3 February 2020 would fall within the February
retainer, although of course work would commence immediately. In that respect we are
aware of a number of matters upon which POL, WBD or HSF wishes to discuss with CK,
e.g. the 2011 ‘bug’ identified the recent Horizon litigation judgement; a current Crown
Prosecution Service prosecution; and a number of other matters presently under
consideration.

We shall of course continue to work on all eSRF’s presently under instruction and await
your response to our proposal.

We look forward to receiving your response.

Yours faithfully

a

Cartwright King Solicitors

POL-BSFF-0131339_0002
