POL00205459
POL00205459

@

Branch Support Programme

Steering Group Meeting — Friday 6"" June 2014

©

Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL
POL00205459
POL00205459

Agenda E>

Programme Overview

Programme Governance

¢ Link into Transformation Committee

* Role of Steering Group and working group — sign off Terms of Reference

Overall Programme Status

* High level milestone plan

Work Stream Status

Risks and Issues

(s)

Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL
POL00205459
POL00205459

Branch Support Programme - Overview E>

Purpose

The purpose of the Branch Support Programme (BSP) is to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of the

support we provide to our subpostmasters and operators in the running of their Post
Offices from an

operational and engagement perspective.

Business Case
* Spend £8.678m (£4.678m exceptional £4m VR)

¢« Payback £3.2 years

KPls
« Reduce operating costs by £3m pa

¢ Spmr suspensions less than 60 pa
* Agent debt reduced by £1m pa
* NBSC call volumes reduced by 25%

©)

Post Gatisfaction with on-line training negHles/9D7e
POL00205459
POL00205459

Post Office Limited Governance Structure

KEY
TRANSFORMATION
BUSINESS AS USUAL
RISK

Remuneration Committee
(at least 3 meetings per yea)

Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
(at least 3 meetings per year)
First Rate
Exchange
C Nominations Committee 2) Pensions Committee +) warvices anti’
(2 or 3 meetings per year) {at least 3 meetings per year) Gos Joniverkro

Post Office

Advisory with Bank of Ireland
Council
(3 meetings Financial Services Committee POL/BO! Senior
per year) (2 or 3 meetings per year) Executive
Committee

ai
aE
of
8=
aS
TRANSFORMATION RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMERCIAL 8
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE FINANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE
soni General Counsel sia Commercial Director
LY Gating Forum I-} Financial Services
Siac eippett Crown Transformation’ Health and Safety Meeting r

Meeting g

I Pay and g

Network I I __ Information Security Reward Meeting I =

Network Expansion Transformation meeting Trading Meeting 4

Meeting T ;

a i

Multi-Channel IT Transformation Information Security 7

Platform Meeting Working Party + Digital U Ccomiestore 3

+ Network Expansion ‘orum
+ Mails : Speratnya
Business LI Meeting?
Transformation Business Continuity Steeri + Government
Meeting + Telephony

O

Post Office®
POL00205459

POL00205459
Branch Support Transformation Programme Time
_Toi - Programme Scale Cost
Programme Summary To improve the support we provide to subpostmasters Cost C. £4.25m (+ VR c £4m) fi
and operators in the running of their Post Offices from the moment they join to the Ti \ lete by March 2015 Benefit
point where they leave the business. acre dae Aida Quality [I « I

Performance (Benefits) Customers, Colleagues and Third Party Engagement
Period 2 Full Programme
ICustomers Whilst there is no direct impact on customers, the activity within the work
Programme KPI Target Actual Target Forecast streams should have a positive impact on the customer experience. The reduction in
(RAG) (RAG) subpostmaster suspensions has meant a continuity of service in areas where the branch
Operating cost reduction £3m 15/16 full year may previously have been closed due to sourcing and transferring to a temporary
- subpostmaster.
Number of spmr suspensions 5 60 p.a.
Reduction in agent net debt 90k a £1m 15/16 full year
IColleagues A number of agency branches, Crown branches and Blakemore (multiple
Satisfaction with training 1 Tee 95% Eullyear’ partner) have signed up to participate in on-line regulatory compliance prototype testing.
Reduction in calls to NBSC 25 TBe 25% Eullyest Colleagues continue to be engaged in individual work stream activity. Large exercise
Reduction in >£10k shortages 7 [ST 50% Eulivean undertaken with wide range of stakeholders to understand IT requirements for branch

view tool.

Status Update _(1) Business Case and funding agreed by POLIC (2) IT requirerrents for CRM
systemagreed with stakeholders and joint approach agreed with NT (3) On-line regulatory
compliance training prototype being built with supplier and on track for testing with users w/c 16th
June (4) Bureau 2nd receipt transaction scripted and passed to Fujitsu for build and testing (5) Top
branch contact into NBSC process launched with Branch Support Team

Third Parties Positive feedback from NFSP conference regarding work the Programme
is doing to make improvements. Workshop with NFSP is planned for end June/early July
to understand Programme workstreams in more detail and identify areas where the
NFSP can add specific value. Attending NFSP regional meetings in June/ July.

Risks Delivery Plan RAG status (Time) On-line
RAG Impact] Likelihood] Ba training
Risk Summary Gross _I(Gross)I (Gross) ‘Current Risk Mitigation modules
The m ajorityof operating cost Manage the resource plan with HR to ensure HORIce Regulatory uth)
reduction is delivered through ie 4 4 IWeoptimise redeployment opportunities and Revised launched Compltance
reduction in resource. Risk to exit via VR however CR mayneed to suspension Sees =
savings if surplus pool is created. considered approach Branch view tool
launched launched
Issues with IT resource to deliver Working with IT&C to understand specific
changes and support projects will reasons for delays in delivering activity.
impact on delivery times of specific 5 s 5 IAppears to be a business wide issue with
és 2013-14 014-15 wh 2015-16
project activity capacity and planning of change with Fujitsu a4, ho h2 rer} as at @
.

== 4] a—p

Dependencies Actions

Dependent on IT and
Fujitsu to deliver
Programme changes and
projects

Currently experiencing delays in receiving
ICRs back from Fujitsu and being
allocated POL resource for writing and
testing scripts for transactional changes.

Escalated to Dave H
land also raised as
issue at Programme
Portfolio meeting

Dependent on Business
Transformation identifying
whatis in scope and out of
scope to prevent double
counting of benefits

Branch Support part of BT Steering Group.

Programme representation also
nominated to work with new partner.

Awaiting invites for
meetings

POL00205459
POL00205459

Slide 5 Notes

Performance

* 12 suspensions in Period 2, however, only 5 were due to audit shortages which is the metric impacted by the change in policy. 4 other cases were due
to insolvency, bankruptcy etc, 1 was due to abandonment of service and the other was due to a Royal Mail investigation. We will be doing a
retrospective exercise to review last year’s numbers to ensure they are accurate.

+ Interms of debt, the Period 2 figure is a £23k positive change in debt, resulting in a cumulative figure of £113k. This was impacted by a £181k audit
shortage which has not been recovered. The £1m reduction equates to an approximate 15% reduction in overall debt.

* There is an issue with the reports provided by NBSC. However, we would not expect to see a downturn in numbers until 2015.

+ The number of audit shortages over £10k is showing amber at the moment due to a delay in the implementation of HORIce. It is amber rather than red
as we expect to recover it before the end of the financial year.

Delivery Plan
The delivery date for HORIce has not been achieved and has been re-planned for middle of Q2. The delay has been created by the time it has taken

ATOS and Fujitsu to formally respond to a Change Request to something which was positioned as a tool that was already built.
POL00205459
POL00205459

®

Roles and responsibilities of groups

Steering Group meeting Working Group meeting

. Understand progress against the milestone plan, costs, ° Formal up-date on progress with each work stream
Daniels ‘anid Quel or i Programime:and reperttnis Manage interdependencies between each work stream
to Transformation Committee
7 F F . Identify risks and issues associated with delivery of
. Ratify milestone changes if necessary I 5 3 rsa, 23 4
milestones and benefits, proposing mitigating actions
. Understand risks and issues of delivery of the
Programme and ensure actions proposed by work

streams will be adequate to mitigate those risks

. Agree proposals and make decisions regarding
deliverables to present to the Steering Group

Agree on which issues need to be escalated to

. Make decisions on deliverables as required by the Steering Group

Work Stream meeting

. Challenge each other and respective teams who are

responsibl le for delivering certain areas of the Attendees: Pam Heap, Drew McBride, Craig Tuthill/ Lin Norbury, Sarah Malone, Julie

Thomas, Ann Miller, Claire Langley, Amanda Stevens, Kendra Dickinson, Rod Ismay,

Doug Brown, Andy Hayward, Michael Brown, Andy Holt, Karl Oliver, Andy Garner,
Programme

Richard Weaver/Jonathan Knox, Georgina Blair, Angela Van-den Bogerd, Gayle
. Ensure Programme is administered in line with Post Peacock, Anne Allaker, Peter Prior-Mills, Dave Ireland

Office governance standards and controls are in place

Attendees: Kevin Gilliland, Paul Brown, Michael Larkin, lan Kennedy, Brian Deveney,
Dave Hulbert, Harry Clarke, , Sharon Bull, Nick Beal, Angela Van-den Bogerd, Gayle
Peacock

(=)

Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL
POL00205459
POL00205459

®

Milestone Plan

Activity/Work Benefits/Metric
stream associated
Launch revised application process

Pre-appointment Craig Tuthill/Lin £30k per annum
Norbury resource saving Streamline supporting interview process A
Training Sarah Malone/Julie £450k saving Revise counter training room content JM
Thomas 95% satisfaction to on-line platform
Communications Richard Weaver A Launch branch communication research

Review findings of research to identify solutions
Agent engagement survey launched

Operational Amanda Stevens £635k NBSC A Deploy CRM
Support £640k FSC Dates for revising call categorisation into NBSC, call , across Ops
£530k Network Services review, review of FSC teams and Network Services to be H Support areas
identified and agreed I
Physical Support Pam Heap £250k audit admin A Canvalenian of auch eine: i
£100k audit review Revised audit process
launched
IT Peter Prior-Mills H
A Branch profile requirements identified & Deploy CRM
A Branch profile options scoped, agreed and build starts
A Bureau duplicate receipt launched A Revised cheque rem process
launched
Leavers Craig Tuthill/Lin £1m net debt sal
Norbury 50% spmr suspensions A Revised contractual breach policy launched
On-line Gayle Peacock £51k joiners (14/15) -
Regulatory £135k additionally after A [pases ice Ae Lesvatied
caneraics falinataiceee New joiners process launched
A Being migration of remaining network
HORIce Gayle Peacock 50% reduction in audit
shortages > £10k A Launch of HORIce pilot

@
Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL
Workstream status

POL00205459

POL00205459

®

ESS EE —_—

Pre-appointment

Training

Communications

Operational Support

High level plan and benefits identified
“End-state” vision agreed by group
Potential options for improved web-
application process scoped

Synergies with NT electronic business
plan identified

“End-state” vision agreed by group
Activities identified to deliver business
benefit with high level milestones identified

High level plan and milestones agreed with
work stream group

Analysis undertaken on costs associated
with “corrective” communications

“End-state” vision agreed with group

High level list of required activities
identified

Analysis done on NBSC call types to
initiate areas for root-cause analysis. Top
3 areas are “mails”, “stock” and “telephone
numbers” driving in 25% of calls

Input into branch profile tool

Improvement plans created with NBSC
and FSC to tackle “quick wins” in bau

Agree lower level plan detail with
specific business owners
Understand electronic business
plan in more detail

Progress improved on-line
application process

Agree lower level plan to
progress to end state

Discussion with Steering Group
about how the work stream fits
with overall Agent Engagement
hub work

Agree lower level plan to
progress to end state and to
deliver business case benefits

Business plan review on 13"
June

Work stream meeting planning
session on 17" June

Agreement next week regarding
owner

Commission research by end
July 2014

18" June workshop to agree
lower level plan

Post Office®

CONFIDENTIAL

©)
Workstream status

POL00205459
POL00205459

®

ES eee “ ue “

Physical support

Leavers

On-line Regulatory
Compliance Training

HORIce

Options for supporting 2020 strategy
identified

Revised way of logging audit results
currently being tested after FSA training
Agreement reached with Risk and
Compliance on suggested alternatives for
compliance audits

Branch profile requirements identified with
business stakeholders

Suggested approach discussed with NT
and IT architecture

Bureau 2™ receipt transaction scripted and
passed to Fujitsu for build

Revised cheque rem process identified

Revised suspension process already
implemented with supporting policy change
Recognition process to be scoped

Supplier currently progressing build of
prototype

Users identified for involved in testing
prototype

Saba providing ORBIT prototype for
testing

CR and purchase order raised with Fujistu

Arrange meeting with key
stakeholders to review the
compliance audit process
Track benefits of revising audit
logging process and identify
how this translates into longer
term FSA resource plan

Agree plan for delivering branch
profile tool

Get ATOS to complete formal
assessment of options

Policy PIR to be undertaken
Review of plan with work stream

group

Test prototypes
Agree short, medium and long
term plan

Impact assessment to be
returned by Fuitsu

June/July deployment of revised
audit logging

21° July for model office testing
for bureau receipt
10" June for CRM meeting

Work stream meeting scheduled
for 1% July

Saba BUPA demo on 9" June
EMC prototype demo on 11"
June

Testing for users 16" June

10" June is re-planned date

Post Office®

CONFIDENTIAL

{ \
W
Risks and Issues

POL00205459
POL00205459

®

Fujitsu and internal POL IT
teams do not have resource to
deliver Programme changes
which is significantly
impacting on delivery date

Majority of savings costs are
through people/resource
savings, increasing risk of
surplus pool

Other pressures on time
creating inability to mobilise
work streams

Subpostmasters and operators
don’t embrace new on-line
training methods

Reduction in spmr
suspensions increases net
debt figure

HORIce may not be tool to
reduce debt

Call reduction into NBSC may
not be realised

Potential double counting of
benefits for NBSC cost savings

16

Plan to be produced by IT mapping areas for
change, priorities and resource required. Plan
for escalations within Fujistu need to be made

available to stakeholders

Plan to be created across Programme where
resource efficiencies are identified. Vacancies
to be sourced on temporary basis or not filled

where there is a reduction

Steering group to review area representation
on Programme and ensure priorities are

clearly communicated

Involvement throughout in on-line build and
testing of solutions. Planned phases of

delivery to ensure buy-in.

Number of suspensions, reasons and impact
‘on overall debt being monitored. HORIce will

enable earlier intervention.

Requirements fully scoped with experts from
the area based on knowledge of fraud/non-

conformance activity

Review BAU operational plan with NBSC and
identify metric for identifying “exceptional

activity” driving calls into NBSC

As above.

Dave H

Drew
Craig
Amanda
Rod

Programme Steering

Group

Angela/Gayle

Craig/Rod

Gayle

Amanda
Gayle

Amanda
Gayle

13" June 2014

30" June 2014

30" June 2014

Post Office®

CONFIDENTIAL

(40)
(10)
