POLO0098990
POL00098990

Message

From: AlicePerkinsi sO

on behalf of — Alice Perkin: I
Sent: 04/07/2013 11:44:03

To: Paula Vennells {.

Subject: Re: SS: The Future after Monday

I will call you as soon after 2pm as I can.
A

----- Original Message_-
From: Paula Vennells -
Sent: Thursday, July 04, 2013 11:34 AM
To: Alice Perkins _
Cc: Theresa Iles <t.
Subject: Re: SS: The Future after Monday

Alice, let's catch up on this a bit later please? I have been reflecting (calmly) and I think we have to
change our tack a bit both to support James and to share the lead on the story. He is still briefing more
against us rather than with us. I am available from 1 pm.

Paula

Sent from my iPhone

on 4 Jul 2013, at 10:35, “Alice Perkins" <{__ GRO "} wrote:

> A reflection.

> I am uncomfortable about committing ourselves too firmly to arrangements post the Interim Report when
everyone is tired and up to their ears trying to handle the immediate issues.

> If we can leave that somewhat open while committing to the principle of working with the users
including JFSA, that would be helpful and it fits with JA’s suggestion that we should see what ideas come
out of Monday’S meeting.

> If we have to continue with ss, my firm belief is that we need a totally different approach to managing
and rewarding them and that the significant over-run in the budget to date should feature in our
negotiations.

> I think a fresh pair of eyes on this could be very helpful and picking up your earlier suggestion of
the ARC leading a post-mortem, I am wondering about asking Alasdair to give us a bit of time on this.
What do you think?

>A

>

> This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON ECIV 9HQ.

POL-0098573
