POL00037733
POL00037733

MISC Number Sept 2020 1 Section 2 Getting Started V0.1 Draft

Getting Started

Login Inout usemame and aseststhen prs Ester tg
Username

You will be given a Horizon username and a temporary
password, The username is unique to you and is linked to your Password
Smart iD. You can find out more about Smart ID on the next
page.

Type in your user name and password and press ‘Enter’

+  Amessage will pop up requesting you to create a new
password, This must be at least 7 digits long. but no more
than 14, and must contain one letter and one number

+ Amessage is then displayed telling you that you have
successfully logged in. press ‘Enter’ to exit screen

pte ee eee ee ee ee ee eee ee

1 Remember! Never share your password with anyone, including your manager. 1

ae

Attaching to a stock unit

In order to serve customers, you need to be connected toa

stock unit.

6 Soak nite

+ From the ‘Home screen’ press ‘Back Office’ and then
‘Admin’

+ Select ‘Attach User’

+ Use the down arrow until you find your username -
Select your username and then press ‘Enter’

On the next screen select your stock unit and press
‘Enter’

+ You are now attached to your stock unit

You won't need to do this every time you login, but always
remember to check you're attached to the correct stock unit by
looking at the bottom of the Horizon screen.

pw we ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee eG

I Remember! Always complete a cash declaration when you take over a stock unit. 4
You can find out how to do this in Section 10.

Lr er ce a ener I

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence
POL00037733
POL00037733

Section 2 Getting Started VO.1 Draft 2 MISC Number Sept 2020

Smart ID

The Smart ID system links each Horizon user's 1D to their training and HR record. Before an assistant can serve customers, they need
to have passed the necessary vetting checks and the compliance training. Here is an overview of the process to follow:

Inform HR Service HRSC sends P250
Centre (HRSC) o> to the branch [not

taco ; turns P250 to Assistant's Smart [D
intention to recruit! Directly Managed & I
new assistant Branches (DMB)I FASE (not OMe Js created

assistants)

completes and Vetting successful.

Smart ID is used to
generate Horizon ID
and temporary
password for new
assistant

New assista’
completes compliance New assistant logs in
training and test. They = using Horizon ID and

are compliant and changes password
ready to serve*

Smart ID sent to
branch email address

Key:

*DMB assistants complete compliance training and test before attending the classroom training

How does the postmaster/branch manager create a Horizon ID using Smart ID?
In Horizon Back Office Admin select Create (User)
+ Follow on-screen prompts and enter the user's Smart ID, checking the name displayed belongs to the user
The Horizon ID (Smart ID + 2 digits) will be generated.
Create a password for the user, add a role to their Horizon ID, and attach them to a stock unit {if required).

+ Tell the user their Horizon ID and temporary password. They can now log in using their Horizon ID and temporary password
which they will be asked to cha neeiI

What happens if temporary cover is needed in branch?

If the temporary assistant has a Smart ID, follow the process to create a new user. If they don't, follow the process for recruiting anew
assistant, It's important to make sure the temporary cover has been vetted and passed their compliance training and tests so that they
are compliant to serve in branch

How long does it take to get a new assistant live on Horizon and ready to serve?

Once the assistant has sent their P250 to HRSC. it takes on average 3 we

br vetting to be completed. After vetting is complete,
the assistant’s Smart ID will be sent to the branch email address.

me htt ketene ee

i Top Tip! When planning extra resource for Christmas, allow plenty of time for vetting,

heme eect tet nt nt meen me mea

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence
POL00037733
POL00037733

MISC Number Sept 2020 3 Section 2 Getting Started V0.1 Draft

Transaction Acknowledgements (TAs)

What is a Transaction Acknowledgement (TA)?

Transaction Acknowledgements (TA) are an automated way to
account for transactions carried out on the Paystation or
Camelot Lottery terminals each day.

TAs are sent electronically overnight and are processed by the
first person who logs into Horizon Online the next working day

A pop up message appears on Horizon and you won't be able
to serve until the outstanding TAs has been processed.

You need to:

+ Check the cash received for your Paystation and Lottery
transactions against the list of outstanding TAs

+ ‘Process TAs’ to accept ail entries on the screen

+ Physically move the cash in or out of the stock unit
where the TAs were accepted. This ensures that your
stock unit will balance

Viewing accepted TAs

There may be occasions where an assistant needs to serve
customers quickly, so they process the TAs without checking or
physically moving the cash in or out of the relevant stock unit.

On those occasions. you can print a report to show what was
accepted, on Horizon go to:

+ Press ‘Back Office’, then ‘Reporting’, then ‘Reporting
Office’, then ‘Outstanding and Processed’

Enter dates from (yesterday) and to {today}

This report prints on the Back Office printer, so remember to
switch it on.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence
POL00037733
POL00037733

WHY IS THIS BLANK NAT?

T’ve also amended the PNG of the CX page as the text was not
readable and was blurry
POL00037733
POL00037733

The Basics of CX

Our Customer Experience Drivers and Behaviours help us deliver a great experience. These underpin our
values and help us focus on the things we know that are important to our customers. Our behaviours in
these Drivers define how customers rate our customer experience. Being friendly, acting, and presenting
ourselves professionally while displaying good levels of knowledge are very important to customers, as
well as understanding their needs and meeting their expectations in an efficient way.

Here you will find the Key Basics a customer would expect from us, each and every time they visit us.
Remember, these are the basics, we should always be actively looking for ways to delight our customers.

Friendly Knowledge Understanding Efficiency

*Greet customers with #1 look smart at work, *I have a good *1 offer a personalised *I.am prepared and +i take the time to build
asmile taking pride in my understanding of the customer experience organised, ready to do relationships with my

Thank customers for appearance. transactions, products by asking relevant my job in the best customers to help me
waiting where *Respond and services we offer questions to help me possible manner with get to know them and
appropriate appropriately and and keep myself up to identify what is the least waste of understand their

Give my full attention build rapport with date with changes. important to my time and effort. needs.
throughout their visit. customers, providing *1 am aware of my customers. I make sure I have et listen and ack the

1 use good manners at relevant information surroundings and how *I know how to fulfil everything I need to right questions to see
all times. with respect and to use the technology my duties and do my job before if my customers have

*{ build rapport with integrity. relevant to my role. understand the starting each shift. additional related
customers *1 am able to *I perform a wide attributes that lead to *lam capable and needs to go beyond

Listen and talk ina understand the variety of tasks and great customer confident and can their expectations.
pleasant: good different needs and learn new skills quickly. satisfaction such as work at pace to meet «lam honest, authentic
natured, easy manner. priorities of «1 share my knowledge being easy to do customer flows and and try to look at my

*Treat my customers customers. with colleagues and business with. demands with a branch through the
with warmth and «I engaging am comfortable We have a variety of flexible attitude. eyes of my customers
respect, caring about appropriately with observing others to product experts and *1 focus on important to look for
the experience 1 different customer learn new things. refer customers to tasks first, limiting improvement
provide types whilst these where distractions, so my opportunities.

* Always say goodbye remaining calm under appropriate customers can see I

pressure. value their time.

and thank you as
customers leave.

