POL00353224
POL00353224

Message

From: Gina Gould

on behalf of Lesley J Ser

Sent: 08/04/2015 0

To: Neil Wilkinson f i

Subject: FW: URGENT ACTION : Second Sight assertions Shout editing data. URGENT
FYI

Chief Information Officer

Post Office Ltd
Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

From: Patrick Bourke

Sent: 07 April 2015 16:39
To: Kevin Lenihan; Newsome Pete; Mark Underwood cro}
Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Parsons, Andrew; Melanie Corfield ~~
Subject: RE: URGENT ACTION : Second Sight assertions about editing data. URGENT

Thanks all

Needless to say, it’s really important that we do have something meaningful and accurate to go back to SS with at some
point tomorrow. Can I suggest Mark, Pete and Andy try to speak early tomorrow to co-ordinate ?

Many thanks

Patrick

From: Kevin Lenihan

Sent: 07 April 2015 16:28

To: Newsome Pete; Mark Underwood=!

Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Patrick Bourke; Parsons, Andrew; Melanie Corfield

Subject: RE: URGENT ACTION : Second Sight assertions about editing data. URGENT

Pete — brilliant — thanks.
Kevin

Kevin Lenihan I Senior Information Services Manager

24 Elos Old Stre C1V 9HQ

/

From: Newsome Pete [mailto:
Sent: 07 April 2015 16:25
To: Kevin Lenihan; Mark Underwoos ono,
Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Patrick Bourke; Parsons, Andrew; Melanie Corfield

Subject: RE: URGENT ACTION : Second Sight assertions about editing data. URGENT

Kevin
I have started to pull together information so will hope to have something back tomorrow.
Pete

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
Post_Office Account, Fujitsu UK&l

iB flvinels

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homelessness charity

Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Kevin Lenihan [mailto! GRO

Sent: 07 April 2015 16:03

To: Mark Underwoods#Newsome Pete

Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Patrick Bourke; Parsons, Andrew; Melanie Corfield

Subject: URGENT ACTION : Second Sight assertions about editing data. URGENT

Cco—FYI

Mark,

POL00353224
POL00353224

I was ona conference call with Pete at the time of your call but have subsequently spoken to him briefly about the

below. I believe that James has now moved on though.

Pete — the note below and urgent response deadline from Mark refers. Can you respond to the questions asked in line

with requested timeline please ? If there are problems fulfilling that request please advise.

Thanks,
Kevin

Kevin Lenihan I Senior Information Services Manager

POL00353224
POL00353224

4

From: Mark Underwoos
Sent: 07 April 2015 14:25

To: Kevin Lenihan; Davidson James; Newsome Pete

Cc: Lesley J] Sewell; Patrick Bourke; Parsons, Andrew; Melanie Corfield
Subject: Second Sight assertions about editing data. URGENT.

Hi Kevin, James & Peter.

I tried to each of you a call but went through to voicemail. The below has come through from SS just now for which we
need to reply with 24 hours.

Back in 2010, a bug was identified in Horizon which caused a receipts and payments mismatch issue (also known as the
76 Bug). Second Sight has been provided with POL / FJ documents about this issue and they have now highlighted a
couple of paragraphs in those documents that indicate Post Office can alter branch data. Second Sight are not interested
in the bug itself but rather the method by which Post Office could have edited branch data to resolve the bug.

An extract from a draft Second Sight report (where they make their allegations) and the two POL / FJ documents referred
to therein are attached. The key extracts from the POL / FJ documents are below:

CORRECTING ACCOUNTS FOR "LOST" DISCREPANCIES

“7. Fixing the Data for each Affected Branch
The data can be corrected by adjusting the appropriate Opening Figures and BTS Data that relates to the current TP. This
will result in the Discrepancy needing to be processed when rolling over into the next TP."

RECEIPTS/PAYMENTS MISMATCH ISSUE NOTES

"SOLUTION ONE- Alter the Horizon Branch figure at the counter to show the discrepancy. Fujitsu would have to manually
write an entry value to the local branch account.

IMPACT - When the branch comes to complete next Trading Period they would have a discrepancy, which they would
have to bring to account.

RISK- This has significant data integrity concerns and could lead to questions of "tampering" with the branch system and
could generate questions around how the discrepancy was caused. This solution could have moral implications of Post
Office’

changing branch data without informing the branch."

Please could FJ explain what is meant by "The data can be corrected by adjusting the appropriate Opening Figures and
BTS Data that relates to the current TP" and "Alter the Horizon Branch figure at the counter to show the discrepancy".

Please can you also explain:

How these alterations would be made?

Would they leave a detectable footprint?

The effect they would have on data integrity?

Whether the alterations would be visible to branches?
What course of action was taken in relation to the 76 Bug?

ARON>

Mark Underwood
Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

POL00353224
POL00353224

Jeb pape OIE AIA IONE RII IINIO BITE IA IIIS IAI IORI A IIA IAAI IAI A IIA I II

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U.
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
