POL00302529

POL00302529

Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme ("the Scheme")

Terms of Reference for the Working Group

Scope of these Terms of Reference
These Terms of Reference will apply until 31 March 2014.

The Working Group may unanimously decide to extend these Terms of Reference for an additional
period if this is necessary to complete the Scheme.

The Working Group will review these Terms of Reference every 2 months to determine if they are
still fit for purpose.

In these Terms of Reference, the word "Applicant" means any person eligible to take part in the
Scheme.

Members, representatives and reporting
The initial members of the Working Group shall be:
Independent Chair (Chair)
Post Office
Second Sight
Justice for Applicants Alliance (JFSA)
Membership of the Working Group may change over time by decision of the Working Group.

Each Member may nominate any number of suitable representatives to attend Working Group
meetings and to act on its behalf subject to any direction given by the Chair.

In conducting Working Group business, Post Office may act in a manner that promotes its own
interests. Likewise, JFSA may act in a manner that promotes the interest of Applicants.

Second Sight shall be a member of the Working Group and hold the role of independent
investigator and advisor to the Working Group.

Objectives of the Scheme

The Scheme's overall objective is to try to achieve the mutual and final resolution of an Applicant's
concerns about Horizon and any associated issues (including any related monetary
claims).

The Scheme must provide a mechanism to investigate proportionately and effectively an Applicant's
concerns.
POL00302529

POL00302529

Where appropriate, the Scheme must offer a reasonable forum, by way of mediation or through
direct discussions, for an Applicant and Post Office to seek a resolution of that Applicant's
legitimate concerns.

The Scheme must be accessible for Applicants, recognising that its success is dependent on
Applicants being prepared to commit their own time, knowledge and resources to the
Scheme.

The Scheme must ensure that input and information from Second Sight and Post Office is provided
in a timely and constructive manner.

The Scheme must recognise that Applicants may lack financial resources and/or experience of
mediation.

The Scheme will be funded predominantly by Post Office and must therefore ensure value for money
for taxpayers.

Role of the Working Group

To establish and, where appropriate, revise the Scheme's operational and working practices.
To monitor the efficacy of the Scheme in achieving the Scheme Objectives.

To ensure that Applicants’ cases progress through the Scheme in a timely manner.

To review at each stage Applicants’ cases that may not be suitable for the Scheme and to decide
whether and/or how those cases may proceed. For clarity, the Working Group shall have no
role in deciding the suitability or process for cases subject to live criminal investigations or
proceedings — such authority being retained solely by Post Office as the investigating and
prosecuting authority.

To ensure, as far as possible, that the Scheme treats all cases consistently.

To manage the administration of the Scheme so as to ensure that the Scheme's processes and
procedures are offering value for money for taxpayers (which for clarity does not extend to
any assessment of the merits / value of any settlement proposed or reached between Post
Office and any SPMR).

To consider and determine any request by an Applicant for special financial support.

To maintain a record of the administration of the Scheme-and-the-results-of the Scheme-in-

g Hwhich-d tinclude-tracking-th its-_achieved_in-individual .

The ing G ; iew, opinion, . was
merits and/or settlement of any individual Applicant's complaint that may be
advanced through the Scheme. Each individual mediation and/or ‘settlement reached

tirely* confidential to Post Offi d-each i
yf Pe

assessing any_aspect of any mediation-or settlement.Scheme is designed to assist
Post Office and an Applicant to find a joint resolution to the Applicant's complaint. It
is not therefore the role of the Working Group to collectively render any view, opinion,
recommendation or decision on the merits and/or settlement of any Applicant's
complaint (save that the Working Group may where necessary consider the merits of
any Applicant's complaint in order to properly administer the progress of that
complaint through the Scheme).

POL00302529

POL00302529

1.1 The matters discussed at mediation or the terms of any settlement reached shall be*_
confidential to Post Office and each respective *Applicant. The Working Group shall
however be informed of:

1.4.1 The timeliness and logistics of the mediations; and
1.1.2 Whether a settlement has been reached between Post Office and an

Applicant and, if not, the next steps agreed by Post Office and the Applicant
to try to reach a settlement (if any).

Independent Chair
The initial Chair shall be Sir Anthony Hooper.

The Members of the Working Group (other than the Chair) may unanimously decide to replace the
Chair at any time.

The Chair shall be independent of the other Members or shall have declared any conflicts of interest
to the Working Group.

Any replacement Chair shall be suitably qualified and, ideally, have experience of schemes of this
nature and/or of mediation.

Working process
The practices of the Working Group will be determined by the Chair.

The Working Group will meet at least once a month (in person or by phone) to discuss and action any
steps required to fulfil its role.

Ad hoc meetings (in person or by phone) may be arranged as required subject to reasonable notice
being given.

Meetings will be chaired by the Chair or other person nominated by the Working Group.

The meetings and other actions of the Working Group will be confidential to the Members of the
Working Group (and their professional advisors) unless the Working Group decides that
information may be disclosed outside the Working Group.

The meetings and other actions of the Working Group will be subject to without prejudice privilege.

Minutes will be kept of the meetings of the Working Group.

Decision making
Members shall attempt to agree all decisions unanimously.

If a unanimous decision cannot be reached, the Chair may define the point of disagreement and call
a vote.

If a vote is called:
POL00302529
POL00302529

Second Sight shall have an opportunity to put forward its view and a recommendation to the
Working Group, both of which shall be reasoned and evidence based;

Post Office and JFSA shall then vote on the matter, each having one vote (regardless of the
number of representatives in attendance), which may be exercised in favour,
against or in abstention;

A majority decision will be binding so long as the Working Group is quorate meaning at least
one representative for each Member is in attendance;

If there is no majority decision, the Chair will have a casting vote. The Chair may exercise

his casting vote at the meeting or after the meeting and shall support his decision
with either verbal reasons given at any meeting or by subsequent written reasons.

Funding

The Working Group may make requests to Post Office for reasonable additional funding in the
following areas:

Special financial support to Applicants;
Professional advice for the Working Group;
Additional work by any appointed mediators;

But, for the sake of clarity, funding shall not be requested or used to compensate or settle
any complaint raised by an Applicant.

Post Office shall have discretion as to whether to make such funding available but shall consider all
such requests promptly and in good faith.

Other than confidentiality obligations, these Terms of Reference do not create any legally binding
rights or obligations between the Members of the Working Group or with any third party.
Document comparison by Workshare on 27 January 2014 09:51:04

Input:

Document 1 ID

interwovenSite://DMSCLUSTER/4A-LIVE/27285801/7

Description

#27285801v7<4A-LIVE> - Terms of Reference - Working
Group

Document 2 ID

interwovenSite://DMSCLUSTER/4A-LIVE/27285801/8

Description

##27285801v8<4A-LIVE> - Terms of Reference - Working
Group

Rendering set

lbp2 - basic - colour

*Moved to *

Format change

Inserted cell

Deleted cell

Moved cell

Split/Merged cell

Padding cell

Statistics:

‘Count

Insertions

Deletions

Moved from

Moved to

Style change

Format changed

Total changes

M)/O/O}/sa}/sa}o]s

POL00302529
POL00302529
