POL00002444
POL00002444

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL — NOT FOR ONWARD TRANSMISSION

Ron Warmington & lan Henderson
Second Sight Support Services Limited
(By email)

Dear Sirs,

Second Sight’s Engagement

write to you in connection with the meeting to wh
to deal with the delivery of your services to
the reason for my writing is that there
(including your firm’s rate of progress i

a r of events over the last month
h case reports and the preparation of the

Below I have set out, in general
next week. This should allow
clear, Post Office in no w
express, merely the m

is has been the rate of delivery of your case Reviews. At the
June you proposed a Schedule for the delivery of your Case
Working Group endorsed. The minutes record that you “confirmed
1g a minimum of three reports a week with an increase in production
Ww Weeks.” It is now 14 weeks since that meeting and in that period you have
19 reports at an average of 1.4 a week. Only twice have you delivered your

The knock on effect for the prompt and cost effective resolution of the
Scheme is obvious. Equally, you committed repeatedly to deliver the Part Two Report in March
but we received it in August.

2) The manner of the delivery is also of concern to us. There have been a number of
instances where Second Sight as a service provider to the Working Group, has failed to properly
engage in the manner we would expect of external professional advisors. In particular, in
relation to the spot reviews (ten reviews), the detailed briefing notes (four sets) and the
feedback/comments provided on the draft CRRs (twenty four sets of comments) you have failed
to explain why and where you disagree with Post Office in such a way that Post Office and, most
importantly, other readers can understand your perspective on the competing positions. Indeed

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL — NOT FOR ONWARD TRANSMISSION

F/1256.1/1
POL00002444
POL00002444

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL — NOT FOR ONWARD TRANSMISSION

when Post Office has attempted to schedule meetings with you to discuss substantive factual
issues of concern this has proved very difficult.

In future, I will expect a Second Sight Director to attend Post Office offices within a reasonable
time of a meeting being requested, just as Post Office expects and receives from the other
professionals it engages.

Finally, Post Office has concerns about the value for money it has received from Second Sight’s
services. Second Sight has been engaged continuously by Post Office. During that time, Post
Office has invested a considerable amount of valuable time and resource to’provide Second
Sight with information, in some instances on more than one occasi
investigation into Horizon. However, since 2012, aside from attending Wi
Second Sight has only produced two, “thematic reports” and investiga
twenty five applications the utility of which have not yet been iblish

understand that you have discussed your thinking with
preliminary review of your proposal it still requires further“
will need you to link the rate of your case report
respond to Belinda’s outstanding question this week
we meet.

ving carried out a
ate is still too high and I
to your fees. Please
discuss your proposal when

I realise that there are always two sides to
perspective on these issues but as yor
work product, our expectations are n
independence or to undermine
independent does not absolve you z ents on you to deliver to the Working Group
(including Post Office) the work whic! ‘are contracted to provide, and to report to and
engage with Post Office on ti inagement of your services: time, billing and quality.

e there are others interested in your
it Office is not looking to fetter your

Yours sincerely

el, Post Office Ltd

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL —- NOT FOR ONWARD TRANSMISSION
Page 2 of 2

F/1256.1/2
