Stephen Dilley

POL00070851
POL00070851

From: mandy.talbot{

Sent: 07 April 2006 11:59 ¢
To: Tom Beezer, Stephen Dilley; ian.herbert:
Subject: Castleton, Bajaj, Bilkhu -

The contact details for Graham and Andrew as follows

Employee Information

Title : Mr
Name : Graham Ward
Division/Function : Post Office Ltd
Section : Finance
Job Title : Investigation Team Casework Manager
Address : PO Box 1

Croydon

CRO 1WN
Postline : N/A Mobex: iw,
Std: f Mobile: t..

Fax: is Voicemail

N/A

External Email: Notes Name :
Graham C Ward

Title : Mr

Name : Andrew Wise

Division/Function : Post Office Ltd

Section : Human Resources

Job Title : Training Manager

Address : c\o Training Delivery Team

Capstan House
35 Broadway
MANCHESTER
M5 2YY

Postline: I
Std: Hl
Fax:
External Email:
Andrew Wise

I cannot find Julie on the ECD.

Stuart Pilgrim is responsible for training within the organisation and his details are as follows

Title : Mr

Name : Stuart Pilgrim

Division/Function : Post Office Ltd
Section : Human Resources

Job Title : Trainer Coach

Address : 25, Oakdene Rd
POL00070851
POL00070851

Hemel Hempstead
HP3 9TS

Postline : Mobex :!
Std: Mobile I
Fax : ih:
External Email: stuart.pilgrim(” GRO. Notes Name :

Stuart Pilgrim

In summary Ian and Stephen will touch base with Graham to arrange to attend at Fujitsu to take a statement
which can be attached to the generic statement detailing how the Horizon system works.

Andrew and Julie( when identified) will be invited to investigate the transaction logs from NSBC which is the
general help line and HHD which is the Horizon specific help line. They should be able to provide explanation of
what calls were logged ,the dates of the same and how the problems were resolved. This can then be transferred
into the the form of two inter linked statements.

Tony Utting has the material supplied by Fujitsu on the case of Castleton but without specific details of when its
alleged by Castleton that the system did something wrong it is very difficult for his to translate it into anything
meaningful.

We will car park any decision over the selection of external experts until we have created internal reports but
must note that Grant Thornton may have a conflict because of the work which they did on the Post Office Card

Accounts project.

I will let Slaughters know of the difficulty Fujitsu appear to have in producing clear statements and of the fact
that litigation lawyers will be visiting them to assist in creating statements.

We have agreed to concentrate resource on the cases of Castleton and Bajaj but ask Andrew and Julie to
investigate the logs for Bilku as this will be an internal rather than an external cost.

Regards

Mandy Talbot

Litigation Team Leader
Company Secretary's Office
Legal Services

Royal Mail, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ

JE OSS IOI IOI IO ICSE CEI OE OSI OSIOSIOR RII CROC REISS II AAI
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you

have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JES DEES IOC III ORO T ORI IO ICO III IO ACEI IO IOI TO IO TAI IE AA II AAA AAAI A
