POL00101906
POL00101906

Message

From: Melanie Corfield
on behalf of — Melanie Corfield;

Sent:
To:
ce: ; Patrick Bourke
Wechsler
Q Andrew Parsons
Subject: RE: Queries
Mark

I think be careful re the phrase “prove a negative” because some of the postmasters have been saying that tables have
turned because that is what they were asked to do. Ruth is just emailing you I think about Tweets we'll pick up from
postmasters today about the new POCA contract. So I suggest let’s hold fire and send something later today when we
have that and other material.

Mel

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 16 December 2014 14:33
To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Susan.BARTY:
Barker; Andrew Pai
Subject: Re: Queries

; Belinda Crowe; Patrick Bourke; Tom Reid; Tom Wechsler; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X

My suggested response:

If I may say, with respect, you are now asking us to prove a negative when all the evidence runs contrary to the
unfounded assertions made in what little of your film you have chosen to share with us.

Today the Government announced a new seven year contract for the Post Office Card Account, delivered through our
branches to millions of vulnerable customers. The unfounded suggestions around Horizon, for which there is no
evidence, could have the impact of causing needless concern for all those people who use the account.

Last month we raised more than £1m through our branches for the BBC Children In Need Appeal. Those payments were
made through the Horizon system.

We deliver products and services, through Horizon, for Royal Mail, Bank of Ireland, all the high street banks (95pc of
services are available through Horizon), DWP, DVLA, the Passport Agency and First Rate, among others.

We also have major franchise partnerships with all of the big retailers including WH Smith, Tesco, McColls and Asda.
Horizon is used in all these outlets.

Like all major businesses dealing with a large network of franchisees we don't always get things right. But we operate a
Branch User Forum, a range of helplines and other support and other channels to give our colleagues to chance to raise

concerns.

And then, of course, where we have had these specific complaints we set up the Second Sight review and the Mediation
Scheme.

To your point about whether SPMRs are satisfied with Horizon, we proactively advertised twice for people to come
forward with concerns. This was done with the JFSA. As you know around 150 people came forward.

POL-0101489
POL00101906
POL00101906

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director
Mobile:

Sent from my iPhone

On 16 Dec 2014, at 14:16, "Rodric Williams"

Without having read them closely, only that this is getting ridiculous - we’re being asked to address an
ever expanding range of serious issues, on a piecemeal basis, with constantly shifting goal posts, in an
attempt to get Nick Wallis a story which is “news”.

On the upside, they suggest we’re starting to land our points ~ this line of enquiry is focussed on the
“user friendliness” of the Horizon, not the accuracy of what it records or what we do with that
information.

Vl revert on the substance shortly.

Rod

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 16 December 2014 13:

GRO i Belinda Crowe; Patrick Bourke; Tom Reid; Tom Wechsler; Melanie
; Ruth X Barker? Andrew Parsons; Rodric Williams

Subject: Fwd: Queries

Hi
Another email from the BBC, now raising a series of new questions.
Any thoughts?

Mark

Mark Davies:

Corporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Nick Wallis ca GRO ——"
Date: 16 December
To: 'Mark R Davies! <

‘Clare Hoban"

Subject: Queries

POL-0101489
POL00101906
POL00101906

Hi Mark
i wonder if you or your colleagues could help me with a few queries.

When was the last time the Post Office did any research into how satisfied or otherwise
SPMRs are with the Horizon system? It would be very helpful to know the scope of that
research and its results.

is your statement about the vast majority of SPMRs not having any problems with
Horizon based on customer feedback or purely on the volume of successful
transactions?

i get the sense from speaking to a number of SPMRs that they don’t like the system,
they don’t trust it and they live in fear of what the Post Office might do if they get
something wrong with it. it may be because I only come into contact with SPMRs who
are having problems that I keep hearing this, so it would be useful to know the other
side of the coin.

if you have data which shows the vast majority of SPMRS love using Horizon and trust it
implicitly, it would be useful to have that information.

Also is it true that you are in the process of commissioning a new system to replace
Horizon? If so, why? And when do you expect it to be operational?

During my planned chat on the sofa with Matt and Alex tomorrow I will be reporting on
the comments of MPs during the Westminster Hall debate. I’d also like to talk about my
experiences of dealing with former and existing SPMRs and their attitude to Horizon,
plus whether or not this system is due to be replaced any time soon.

Your help would be greatly appreciated.
Many thanks

Nick

From: Mark R Davies [mailt¢ _ __... GRO H
Sent: 15 December 2014 17:35

To: Jane French; Nick Wallis; Clare Hoban

Cc: Ingrid Kelly; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X Barker

Subject: Fwd: One Show

All

Just copying to Nick to ensure you all have the statement and answers to your
questions.

Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

Sent from my iPhone

POL-0101489
POL00101906
POL00101906

Begin forwarded message:

From: Melanie Corfield 4. _
Date: 15 December. 2014 17:24:31 GM
To: Jane French j GRO

<Ingrid.Kelly
Cc: Mark R Davi

uth X Barker

Subject: One Show a

I attach the answers to the questions you have raised with us and also a
short statement, for use in full please, in the film.

Please let me know if you need clarification about any of the
information.

Thanks

Mel Corfield
Communications Team

JOO AIS O HDI III IOI IDO IO OOO BOA III SO III II SOI III IAI

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If
you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered
Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Wereereenerrnnrernrerrerral
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in

error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

SOHO O HOI IDI IBAA IAI ID

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0101489
