From: Jenny Ellwood

To: Alisdair Cameron; Johann Appel

Ce: David Parry

Subject: RE: Designation as "Accountable Person"
Date: 21 June 2019 11:25:51

Attachments: image001,pna

POL00412866
POL00412866

Thanks Al, I am happy to pick this up. I will review in full and revert back to you if I have any
questions / require any help.

Jenny Ellwood
Risk Director

20 Finsbury Street
London

From: Alisdair Cameron
Sent: 21 June 2019 1
5 Johann Appel

Subject: FW: D:

Jenny, I think it would be good to have a paper for RCC and ARC once a year, maybe in
September, which sets out the evidence for this, gets assurance as appropriate and then
we can share with BEIS. Is that OK? What help do you need? Thanks Al

Al Cameron
Interim Chief Executive

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

Sent: 11 June 2019 12:25
lisdair Cameroni GRO Cooper, Tom - UKGI

: Clarke, Stephen - UKG
Subject: Designation as "Accountable Person"

Al

A while ago we discussed your designation as Accounting Officer (email below). Please find
attached a letter from the BEIS Permanent Secretary designating you as the “Accountable
POL00412866
POL00412866

Person” to whom he is delegating accountability for managing POL’s public funds in line with
the principles of HMT’s Managing Public Money (MPM). More guidance on what this means in
practice is contained within the letter.

As regards the “Accountable Person” title, HMT have advised that this is how CEOs of public
corporations like POL are now to be designated (“Accounting Officers” is only for ALBs) as
they receive over 50% of their income from commercial activities, and therefore do not get
funding directly from Parliament (via the “Estimates”) meaning that accountability can only
flow to POL via the Perm Sec. In practice, the functions are the same as HMT requires both
Accounting Officers and Accountable Officers to follow MPM principles.

Tom

From: Alisdair Cameron
Sent: 11 April 2019 15:5
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

ing appointment of temporary acting accounting officers

I don’t know whether this was sent to me specifically — I guess I would be Accounting
Officer from now, as Paula isn’t around, until I get replaced? Is that right? How you finalise
that if that is right, I am happy to leave to you and BEIS. Let me know if I am missing the
point. Thanks Al

Alisdair Cameron
é POST Interim Chief Executive

OFFICE 20 Finsbury Street

London
EC2Y 9AQ

GRO. I

From: BEIS Partnerships Mailbo:

Sent: 09 April 2019 09:32
Subject: Guidance regarding appointment of temporary acting accounting officers

Dear Colleague

Please see link below to “Dear Accounting Officer” letter giving guidance on temporary acting
Accounting Officers. BEIS’s Finance Director is querying with the Treasury Office of Accounts
whether these arrangements would apply in periods of short absence. We will update you

when we know more.

Please see link - https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/dao-0119-template-letter-for-

appointment-of-temporary-acting-accounting-officers

POL00412866
POL00412866

JESSE SESE SESS SE SE IS SEOSISE OBE OHSS E ETOH ISIE SII
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents
of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply
email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this
email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JOH OHE EES OBESE E ISO ROSIE IESE EBS IE EOFOHOC IRIE OE

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this

can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the
individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have
received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote
also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and
effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has
been swept for malware and viruses.
