Job Description

POL00088804
POL00088804

Staff & Budget

Post Title: Contract Advisor Post Level: I 3b
Post Reports I Agents Contracts Deployment I Department: I Network Services, Network & Sales
to: Manager (North or South) Directorate
Completed by I John Breeden Date 01 February 2012
completed
Job title Agents Contracts Deployment I VERSION Version 1
Manager North
Purpose

The primary accountability of this role is to manage contractual and corrective action issues for all
contract/agreement types in the network excluding franchise agreements. This to include
appointments, suspensions, terminations and other corrective measures across the network. This
work is to be undertaken in accordance with agreed service standards and performance is to be
continually monitored so improvements in performance can be sought and costs reduced.

The role is the expert domain in the field for all Agency contractual matters excluding Franchises.
Working in conjunction with the Contracts and Policy team they will be integral in the development of
relevant contractual policies and processes that support an agents lifecycle with Post Office Ltd

Decision Making Authority

Working Relationships

Non staff budgets

Contractual decisions i.e. appointments,
terminations, conduct penalties, culpability
cases including culpability appeals across
all operating models excluding franchises
Corrective action decisions

Debt recovery

Restrictions

Compliance with contractual, policy and
procedural operating instructions and
documentation e.g. mails integrity, Financial
Services

Network Services Regional
Network Managers and their
teams

Network Transformation
programme team
Conformance Standards and
Branch Support team

ASMs and RSMs

Contracts and Policy team
Other Network Strategy and
Support teams
P&BA/Finance

HRSC

Security

Cash Management

ATM Team

NBSC

NFSP local and regional reps
Legal Services

maintained.

Key Areas of Accountability
4. Work in partnership with Network colleagues to ensure best, most effective and efficient all round
management of network. Support colleagues to ensure continued sales growth is achieved and

2. Deliver elements of the recruitment process appropriate to the Contract Team to include:
© Conducting appointment interviews in line with business policy
© Completion of appointment documentation in line with business policy.
o Reviewing conditions of appointment to ensure they are achievable, reasonable and in line
with business policy.
3. Primary decision maker on contractual and corrective action issues, to include suspensions,
terminations and other corrective measures.
4. Responsible for taking corrective action in all non-compliance cases, to include audit, security
failures and underperformance. Responsible for the accurate and timely completion and dispatch

JD — Contract Advisor 16.01.09
POL00088804
POL00088804

of all documentation relating to suspension, termination and corrective action &

cases.

5. Responsible for providing advice and guidance Regional Sales Managers and Area Sales
Managers and other Network colleagues on the range of Agency contracts and their appropriate
use.

6. Responsible for management, communication and deployment of changes to the Agency
contracts.

7. Ensure the delivery of support to Network colleagues, adopting a dynamic and responsive
approach to problem resolution.

8. Ensure appropriate corrective action is taken where serious cash deficiencies, failures to correct
ONCH excesses occur (where dishonesty is not an issue) or in incidents where transaction
corrections have not been brought to account.

9. Ensure effective actions are taken to resolve non-conformance issues relating to product
transaction, Money Laundering, FSA or restrictions policy, or non-conformance with systems,
physical security, cash management or branch presentation standards.

10. Demonstrate personal resilience, motivation and enthusiasm for customer-oriented service.

11. Support business change programmes.

12. Support the development of relevant contractual policies and processes that support an agents
lifecycle to ensure fit for deployment.

Technical Skills/Expertise Leadership Behaviours
1. The ability to champion a customer-centric 1. Motivated and enthusiastic to introduce
approach allied with the business need to reduce change and achieve success.
costs.
2. A proven degree of customer orientation in 2. The ability to maintain enthusiasm and
decision making. commitment to a high standard of work
3. Working knowledge of Agency contracts and
environment in which they operate. 3. Organised, able to prioritise work under
4. Skills in general management as well as analytical pressure and to tight timescales whilst
and decision-making skills. maintaining own motivation.

5. Ability to effectively challenge non-conformance
to policy and procedures, addressing repeat poor I 4. Strong time management skills to

performers successfully. maximise personal resource and flexible

6. Experienced manager, with a track record of to attend out of hours on occasions.
delivering results and improving performance
within a complex multi-site environment. 5. Evidence of working on your own

7. Good negotiation and influencing skills — initiative and adopting a pro-active
someone that does not shy away from conflict or approach.
the delivery of difficult messages.

8. Demonstrable knowledge and awareness of 6. The ability to demonstrate personal
business practices, FSA standards, DDA resilience and motivation.
compliance, H&S and appropriate legislation that
impacts POL.

9. Forward thinking and creative in approach to work
with the ability to cultivate these skills in others.

10. Confident communicator able to select the
appropriate medium to cascade messages in an
innovative fashion.

. Strong time management skills to maximise
personal resource, strong requirement to travel,
and flexible to attend out of hours on occasions.

1

Capability Profile

sD= Contract Advisor 6-64-69

POL00088804
POL00088804

I create value

I take action

I own performance

I work with others to win

l engage and involve

I support, develop & challenge

lo] ajo) als

JD — Contract Advisor 16.01.09
