POL00180986
POL00180986

From: Alwen Lyonsf
Sent: Mon 23/07/2012 5:02:44 PM (UTC)

To: Susan Crichton} == GRO
Subject: Re: Draft policy statement re JFSA submitted cases

Yes I think so if possible
Thanks Alwen

Sent from Blackberry

From: Susan Crichton

Sent: Monday, July 23, 2012 06:57 PM

To: Alwen Lyons

Cc: Simon Baker

Subject: Re: Draft policy statement re JFSA submitted cases

Thought we could substitute exco?

From: Alwen Lyons

Sent: Monday, July 23, 2012 02:51 PM

To: Susan Crichton

Cc: Simon Baker

Subject: RE: Draft policy statement re JFSA submitted cases

Don’t really like the Board being involved but can’t see anyway round it. My concern is that this becomes the route for
misbalances and cases which could be sorted by Angela or Rod and their teams will use this route for bau

Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary
Post Office Ltd

it, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

alwen. lyons¢”

From: Susan Crichton

Sent: 20 July 2012 10:58

To: Alwen Lyons; Simon Baker

Cc: Simon Baker

Subject: FW: Draft policy statement re JFSA submitted cases
Sensitivity: Confidential

Alwen and Simon — can we discuss, lan produced this at my request because Kay Linnell (forensic accountant) make
much of the fact that she had been contacted by a number of current sub postmasters who had issues with Horizon
but were too frightened to contact POL because of the consequences ...obviously we want to be able to review these
current cases but I said that we could not give a blanket undertaking not to prosecute so this is the result. What do
you think?

Susan Crichton
Legal and Compliance Director
POL00180986
POL00180986

Post Office Limited
148 Old Street
London

EC1V 9HQ

Telephone},

From: Ian Henderson
Sent: 19 July 2012 19:28

To: Susan Crichton

Cc: 'Ron Warmington’

Subject: Draft policy statement re JFSA submitted cases
ity: Confidential

Susan

This is probably way off but this is the sort of briefing note that Janet I discussed this afternoon.

The idea is that James Arbuthnot would use this as the basis of explaining POL policy and proposed procedures
regarding JFSA submitted cases.

POL has agreed that the Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot should contact Alan Bates and the Justice for
SubPostmasters Alliance (“JFSA”) and request that the JFSA submit approximately 5 of their best cases for
independent review by Second Sight Support Services Ltd (“2 Sight”). Ideally, cases for review should be less
than 5 years old but it may be possible to accept older cases in certain circumstances. 2" Sight is the body
appointed by POL to conduct an independent review of a number of cases that have previously been subject
to formal investigation by POL.

POL recognises that the JFSA may have concerns about submitting detailed information about possible cases
to POL and agrees that the JFSA may submit this information directly to 2" Sight, via the Office of the Rt Hon
James Arbuthnot. JFSA must recognise that minimum basic information about each case such as branch
details, identity of the sub-postmaster and relevant dates must be notified to POL by 2" Sight in order that
the appropriate records and correspondence may be provided to 2" Sight.

POL also recognises that some members of JFSA may have concerns about submitting cases for independent
review by 2" Sight where even basic case information is communicated to POL. Whilst POL cannot provide
any form of immunity from prosecution in respect of information held by POL, in recognition of the concerns
expressed by the JSFA, POL agrees not to take any prosecution action relating to information provided by
JFSA without the agreement of the Board of POL and to deal which each case submitted in a sensitive
manner.

I’m only sending this to you and Ron at the moment.

Please let me have your thoughts in due course.

V'll also send you bullet points for the possible terms of reference for the 2" Sight review as well.
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist
POL00180986
POL00180986

UK Mobile:
Email: ir
Website: htt advancedforensics.com
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at
irh and delete the email and any attachments.

