Post Office Ltd. Anti-Fraud Policy
February 2011

the UK economy, with estimates varying greatly. The National
Fraud Authority (NFA), estimates that fraud costs the UK £38bn
per anum (*BBC News Jani1), with £21bn attributed to the
Public Sector. In 2009/10 POL lost in excess of £2.4m in known
fraud related incidents. In practice this may not be fully
representative, with other elements of fraud to which POL’s
processes may ‘enable’ fraud, such as money laundering, even
if POL is not the direct victim. This may result in additional
penalties, brand and reputation damage with consequential
financial loss. Overall, POL’s exposure to fraud may be
substantially higher than the figures reported. ****
Correlation to POL Revenue / UK GDP

Fraud risk is always a key issue but may increase for a number
of reasons including:

* Economic pressures, job losses and the fear of redundancy
can lead people to commit fraud or ability to rationalise
their fraudulent actions;

* People are more likely to disregard internal control or
engage in unethical business practices;

* Staff reductions may mean fewer resources being spent on
internal controls, with compliance and assurance systems
impacted by diminished investment; and

+ Revised or new programmes may not take account of the
risk of fraud.

(* All of the above could clearly impact on POL in the
current climate).

POL00104855
POL00104855

The objectives are to assist the business in developing an
end-to-end approach to managing fraud by: Understanding the
current ‘as-is’ position compared to a desired “end-state” on
fraud risk management and will include:

« Identify Key Elements of a Comprehensive Fraud Strategy,
including: a definition of fraud, areas of exposure to
fraud and a Fraud Response Plan.

* The processes for identifying and managing fraud risks.

* Risk based intervention plans to mitigate fraud.

* Business Assurance: Governance and visibility of fraud
management provided to the business

POL00104855
POL00104855

Post Office Ltd. (POL) requires all its employees to act
honestly and with integrity at all times and to safeguard the
business resources and assets for which they are responsible.
All employees and agents have a responsibility to manage and
report fraud and where criminality is suspected or discovered
and in the Public interest, POL will prosecute those
committing crimes against the business. This Policy defines
fraud and sets out the responsibilities throughout the
business for mitigating the risk of fraud.

Link to Security Policies: Fraud Assurance, Fraud Risk, Fraud
Investigation, Financial Investigation Unit, Commercial,
Information Security; (Appendix XX refers)

* The contents of a POL Anti-Fraud Policy contain the
following sections:

* An introduction, including: POL’s expectations of its
employees and commitment to reducing fraud to the lowest
possible level.

* A definition of fraud, which also sets out the scope of
the policy.

* Channels to report fraud; including POL’s Whistle blowing
Policy.

* Responsibilities: POL Executive Board, Head of Security,
Line Management, Employees and Audit

* An Anti-Fraud Response Plan - Strategy agreed and
communicated.

* Administration of the policy; responsibility for
administration, revision, application and frequency of
review.

* Authority and Sign-off by the policy owner(s).

5.1 POL Approach to Fraud

POL will not accept any level of fraud or misappropriation, as
a result all cases; actual or suspected will be actively
investigated, with appropriate intervention undertaken. The
business is committed to ensure that any opportunities for
fraud are reduced to the lowest possible level of risk.

5.2 Definition of Fraud

As defined by the Fraud Act 2006, the full definition of fraud
is lengthy and therefore for the purposes of the Policy, a day
to day use is: “an activity by which person(s) intending to
gain an advantage through deception, including failure to
disclose information that ought to be disclosed, or through

abuse of position”

Fraud therein includes acts such as: embezzlement,
misappropriation, false representation, deception, forgery,
POL00104855
POL00104855

extortion, corruption, conspiracy, concealment of material
fact, collusion and bribery.

5.3 Channels for Reporting Fraud

POL has a number of channels in place to report suspicions of
fraud. Employees and Agents should report suspicions to their
line manager, Head of Internal Audit or Post Office Ltd.
Grapevine® “Whistleblower” Hotline.

The business has an Employee Disclosure Policy to support
employees who feel their line manager or head of department is
implicated, or may be unable to provide an impartial hearing
or action. All matters will be dealt with in strictest
confidence, and in accordance with the Public Disclosure Act
1998, in doing so protecting the employee providing disclosure
is made in good faith.

If complete anonymity is required employees can contact Crime

5.4 Responsib:
5.41 POL Executive Board

The Post Office Ltd. Board is responsible for ensuring there
are established and robust internal controls to support and
manage the range of risks faced by the business and which are
in line with business Objectives. This is based on an ongoing
process designed to identify, evaluate and effectively manage
those risks. Within this managing fraud risk is viewed as an
integral part of the wider range of risks.

5.4.2 Head of Security:

Develop, deploy and communicate a robust End-2-End Fraud
Response Plan; commensurate with the level of risk identified.
Ensure robust engagement is in place for front end design of
Commercial Products

Develop and maintain a Crime/fraud risk profile, in line with
business objectives.

Establish appropriate mechanisms to report fraud

Ensure appropriate intervention is undertaken: inc.
Investigation, asset recovery, prosecution and/or conduct.
Ensure where fraud is discovered, remedial action is taken to
mitigate future risks.

Governance: Report to R&CC and/or Audit & Risk Management &
business Stakeholders

Ensure all Employees are aware of business fraud policy and
their responsibilities in combating fraud; and

Provide appropriate fraud training and development needs to
support anti-fraud management.

5.4.3 Line Management: are responsible for:

Ensuring all control measures within their remit operate
effectively

Familiar with fraud indicators within their operation that
prevent and detect fraud
Regularly Assess, review and ensure Compliance to the control
systems within their operational roles

Implement revised/new controls to mitigate the risk of further
fraud occurring.

5.4.5 Employees: are responsible for:

Acting with propriety in the use of business, customers and
supplier resources:

in doing so ensuring the highest integrity in dealing with All

data

Being alert to fraud indicators and suspicious activity within

their operational roles.

Ensure any suspicions of known or suspected fraud are

immediately reported through appropriate channels

Full co-operation with those conducting internal checks or

carrying out investigations.

5.4.6 Audit: are responsible for:

Ensuring the Executive Board is appraised of the adequacy of
arrangements for managing the risk of fraud and ensuring the
promotion of an anti-fraud culture.

Assist fraud prevention by evaluating control measures in
place to effectively manage the risk of potential fraud within
the business's activities.

Ensure that management reviews the exposure to fraud risk,
commensurate with wider business risks.

Aware of potential fraud indicators, both behavioural and
transactional and support fraud investigations.

5.5 Anti-Fraud Response Plan

POL00104855
POL00104855
POL00104855

POL00104855
Post Office Ltd. Anti- Fraud Response Plan
a : Policy
> = GD
H H H H
: H H
poe e
Business clear! H ‘Board ensure effectivi A published Qear definition
Lictines approach tol ternal controls in plaj ‘Code of Ethics’ of fraud
fraud; ine. I Clear ownership A published blished Fraud Poli
Tone from the Top’ of fraud policy Whistleblower policy signed off by ET.
a,

Which parts oF f

¢Smprehensive view o
business risks

Exposure level for

Business to each Fraud type

understand the
range of Frauds

Gear ownership

A Robust and Exposure of fraud policy
Strategy &
Policy in
place es

raud Risks inc. withi
Audit planning

‘raud Risk Interventio
Plans in place

Programmatic

Business to ensure Approach embedded

Proactive Fraud
management

\_systems in place

Computer assisted Yaud systems
used to proactively Xdentify fraud
Business to

‘Ongoing fraud risk avy4reness
establish ongoing training for all saff

Fraud awareness Programmatic Fraud Risks identifty@ and
Programmes Approach embedded appropriately commynicated
Qo)

_————

LAY

POL00104855
POL00104855
