POL00458680
POL00458680

Ce: Gildener, Simo

To: Rodric Williams,

From: Parsons, Andrew

Sent: 2013-08-26T12:49:18Z
Importance: Normal

Subject: RE: Horizon - notifying insurers
Received: 2013-08-26T12:51:23Z
Rodric

The note and email look good.

Somewhere in the email heading, you may wish to add the phrase "Commercially sensitive and legally privileged" to help
fend off any FOI request.

Kind regards
Andy

From: Rodric Williams ij...
Sent: 26 August 2013 13:18

To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Gildener, Simon

Subject: Horizon - notifying insurers

Andy,

Please find attached the “Horizon Risks” document, which I have amended following input from Cartwright King on
the criminal law risks. Can you please check that it will still serve the purpose of notifying insurers of the grounds for
potential claims?

Once you are happy it does, I intend sending it to our broker under cover of the following email:

“Mark, Richard,

Please find attached a note from our solicitors outlining the risks presented by the recent investigation into the
“Horizon” IT system used in Post Office branches. Can you please share this with our insurers so that they are aware
of the circumstances which could potentially give rise to claims against the policies we have with them, preserving so

far as possible the legal privilege attaching to the note.

“(note that you are not our brokers for our D&O insurance. Can you please let us know how we should provide this
information to that broker if you are not able to do it for us.

“Thank you for your assistance, Rodric”
Please let me know if you have any comments on the proposed email or approach generally.
Thanks, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

POL00458680
POL00458680

Post Office stories

©®®°@O

@postofficenews

cepeecegeetee tered tere tecettcqeretentcccer clare: cere crcstrecatccterec’

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

uly is authorised to
ible and delete any

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may.be-l¢eally-privileged and protected by law. rodric.william
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rodric.williams@ please notify andrew.parsons
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may

be unlawful.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or

damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registe
office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member
of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
