POL00027667
POL00027667

; Andy Holtf

Alwen
Susan Crichton[imceaex-

_o=mms_ou=exchange+20administrative+20group+20+28fydibohf23spdlt+29_cn=recipients_cn=susan+20crichtonc5fa643 1-dce28-
4Qab-8f0f-be4237a4ad4f@c72a47 ingest.local]

Sent: Fri 13/09/2013 12:03:53 PM (UTC)
Subject: Update

Paula — here is our update for this week, which is relatively short as much of this was covered at the Steering Board

Mediation Process Launch

* — Following the briefing for the Panel Advisors on 5" September we have sent out the agreement for the advisors to sign

and return, then we will then pull together a list of advisors to give to subpostmasters who can choose one of these
advisors or they are free to select another professional firm.

As at 11 September 2012 SS had received 20 cases from subpostmasters, the working group met via conference call to
review these cases and agreed that 19 should go into the mediation scheme and that in one case SS needed to revert to

the subpostmaster for further information; we plan to follow the same process next week to review the next batch, two
have already been received.

e Alice Perkins meeting with James Arbuthnot went well, his office are going to draft a letter to send to MPs suggesting that

a meeting in October would not be required and pushing this out until the new year.

Independent Chair

e Following the meeting with JA and discussion at the steering board; we have decided to focus on Sir Antony Hooper and

are working to set up a meeting for him to meet with Paula Vennells and Alasdair Marnoch hopefully next week.
We are also trying to get him to agree to a fixed fee for the work to take us up until the end of March 2014; we will hope
to agree this after the meeting with Paula and Alasdair whether or not he would be right for the role.

.

Improvement Work stream
* Defining the “As is” process work is on track to deliver by 30" Sept.

From the 80 gaps/issues recorded so far there are common themes emerging: Training, Comms, Processes, Products,
Horizon, Support, Systems, Ownership and Leadership.

Quick wins have been identified and whilst these are low level issues they will have a positive impact on in-branch users

and will reduce effort/duplication with the support/central functions. The relevant business owners have taken ownership
of these quick wins and will deploy/implement from 9" Sept onwards.

Stakeholder input/engagement continues with the project on track to complete the recommended future state by 20" Oct.

Legal and Adjudication of future case

The conference with Brian Altman QC took place on 9" September, he had received a brief and a number of cases files
from Cartwright King and overall his opinion in conference was that the work that had already been completed was fine
and along the right lines taking into account the Post Office’s prosecutorial duties to disclose evidence/information to the
defence ; he confirmed that this duty was ongoing and continued after conviction. We have agreed the TOR for his review
which should be complete in October and will include advice on whether Post Office should bring prosecutions.

Technology

* Horizon improvement session booked for 9" September to review and agree improvement opportunities.

Susan
