POL00041686

POL00041686
Message
From: Veronica Branton}
Sent: 22/03/2018 09:21:05 _ .
To: Jane MacLeod GRO }Rodric
cc:
Subject: RE: Litigation and Appointment - next steps
Hi all

’'ve mocked up the agenda. Please could you let me know who the leads are for the items? Is the protocol for the

engagement with UKGI for the Subcommittee to decide>
Best wishes
Veronica

Postmaster Litigation Subcommittee Agenda

Tarot Rana Te mh a Tee neces gat BS Ba
ype ge 22 Maha

I gases Snataon & suapeates dene

Yost sssasea Seto
‘mre seating sraaiias.

37 pice sa tenors te Sams To eon sea Sci wince Nae ORMNp ANE,
ioee smn

+ Sropent eciveare

‘ape a meinen item
Reet of spare
© geben Sr mein toe cen

Beaten fn ma ee vt lt rene Tinga ha noncalia wngaguenieabioRie. I lacailadsad

8 emg erty teense Tose

ef ecw

Postmaster Litigation Subcommitter:

POL-0038168
POL00041686
POL00041686

“ Veronica Branton
Head of Secretariat

First Floor, Fin:

2017 Winner of the Global 20 Binsoury St
Postal Award for Customer EC2Y 9AQ
Experience

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 21 March 2018 2.
To: Mark Underwood
Parsons, Andrew!
Cc: Patrick Bourke
Blanchard

! Rodric Williams

Veronica Branto!
Thomas P Mora

; Diane
Mark R Davies

Subje Litigation and Appointment - next steps

Agreed ~ we should add CCRC update as an extra item. Under ‘AOB’ consider adding timing of meeting with Counsel to
discuss interim merits opinion.

I'd like to circulate the following to the ‘committee’ members ahead of the meeting:
®  ToR (as agreed at the PLSG last week }
e 2018/19 Litigation Timetable (including committee timings which we discussed last week}
@ Protocol for engagement with UKGI (final comments please ....)
Could we have these finalised on Friday please?
Attendees on Monday should be:
e Tim P, Ken McCall, Tom C, Paula & Al (optional)
® me, Tom M, Andy, Rod, Mark D, Mark U
*® Veronica
Veronica - would you please mock up an agenda as per below (including an extra item ‘update on CCRC’)?

Thanks

Jane

# Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Lega’, Risk & Governance
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

From: Mark Underwood1
Sent: 21 March 2018 17:35

POL-0038168
POL00041686

POL00041686
To: Jane ; Parsons,
Andrew ¢ coenennennnn
Cc: Patrick Bourke >; Veronica Branton < GRO >; Diane

Blanchard
Subject: RE: Litigation and Appointment - next steps

Hi Jane — the agenda looks good to me. Di is setting up the call on Friday, and I think Rod is looking at the template from
UKGI.

Though strictly speaking a separate matter, the only other agenda item to consider including or reference when
speaking is the CCRC?

Mark

Mark Underwood
Head of Portfolio: Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor
2017 Winner of the Global Postal Award °° Finsbury Street
London EC2Y SAQ.
for Customer Experience

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 21 March 2018 1!
To: Rodric Williams I
Ce: Patrick Bourke
Veronica Branton <; ?
Subject: FW: Litigation and Appoint ment - nex! steps

Diane Blanchard:

(Veronica ~ for awareness re Monday committee meeting; Di~ for awareness re setting up a possible call on Friday)
All

lam being chased by UKGI for our views on this ~ can I have your thoughts? We have the first Board sub-committee
meeting on Monday and I would like to flag this to them?

Also, we need to work up an agenda for that sub-committee meeting. So far my suggestions would be:
« ToR
* Litigation timetable & suggested dates for future meetings
e Update on developments since January board meeting:
o Scope of disclosure
© Scope of Horizon hearing
© Appointment of IT expert
co Application for security for costs
e Engagement with UKGI
® Contingency planning
« AOB

Anything else — we only have an hour? Could we have a call on Friday to discuss?

Thanks

POL-0038168
POL00041686

POL00041686
Jane
¥ Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legai, Risk & Governance
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ
From: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI
Sent: 01 March 2018 1!
To: Patrick Bourke >
Cc: Jane MacLeod ¢ 1 Rodric Willia Callard,

Richard - UKG 5 Cooper, Tom - UKGI < rt, Helen - UKGI

intment - next steps

Patrick, Helen,

Thank you for your time last week.

As discussed, I attach a standard form litigation protocol along the lines of what we would propose to submit to the
Permanent Secretary. As you will see, this sets out various touchpoints in the litigation process, and the steps we intend
to take to ensure the Permanent Secretary remains fully informed at each salient point.

If you are able to provide more detail on the litigation timetable, or indeed if you have any comments or suggestions, we
would be happy to amend the protocol bespoke to the current litigation.

Separately I’d be grateful, as I indicated in my email to Helen on Monday, if in anticipation of Tom Cooper’s
appointment, you could let me know if you intend to agree an NDA similar to the one you have with Richard, and if so,
forward me the proposed text so that Tom and I may consider.

Kind regards,

Elizabeth

From: Patrick Bourke I GRO
Sent: 23 February 2018°15?
To: O'Neill, Elizabe'
Cc: Jane MacLeod
Richard - UKGI ¢
Subject: Litiga’

allard,

Dear Elizabeth

It was a pleasure to meet with you this morning.

POL-0038168
POL00041686
POL00041686

I just wanted to confirm that we have understood the need for an appropriately structured information flow in
relation to the matters we discussed earlier, and agree that some form of protocol to govern those arrangements
makes very good sense.

While recognising that there is no set format in this regard, it would nonetheless be helpful for us to draw
inspiration from similar arrangements you have put in place with other ALBs. You kindly offered to share
something with us for that purpose.

We will come back to you with our take on how this might work best in our case, having regard to the
particularities of our governance arrangements and the litigation itself.

In the meantime, do please feel free to get in touch if there is anything you'd like to discuss.

Kind regards

Patrick

* Patrick Bourke
Corporate Affairs Director

1 Floor
20 Finsbury Street
2017 Winner of the
Global Postal Award for
Customer Experience

London

JESSIE ISIE II SIOIIEIOI ICIS OIEIOIOIIOI SEI OISIORIEOCIOISIIORIEIOIOISI SSSI SIEGES SISO IIE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named

POL-0038168
POL00041686
POL00041686

recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FEE GSES GIS GCSES GEIS EOCEIGGOCE IG EOSEOEOCEI SEE a a Ror

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit hitp://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

POL-0038168
