POL00100592
POL00100592

In Strictest Confidence

POST OFFICE LTD BOARD

Lessons Learned

Issue

1.1 This paper addresses the lessons learned from the handling of the
commissioning of the Second Sight investigation into Horizon and subsequent
events.

Background

2.1 Following the publication of the interim Second Sight report into Horizon and
associated issues the Board commissioned a short review to capture the key
lessons learned from the experience, starting from the point at which James
Arbuthnot MP first raised concerns with the Chair of the Post Office, to help
increase the maturity and resilience of the business and its ability to handle
similar challenges more effectively in the future.

. Approach

3.1 Rather than attempt an in depth analysis of all the documentation relating to this
subject, this review is based on individual interviews with all key Post Office
personnel involved at the time this issue first arose (some of whom had left the
Post Office) and is therefore based, in a large part, on people’s understanding
and perceptions and no attempt has been made to identify written evidence or
corroboration of any information or opinion I have been given.

3.2 In undertaking the review, and presenting my ‘findings’ I have drawn on:
¢ The information gleaned from my interviews with key Post Office
personnel,
e Other relevant experience within Post Office, and
e My previous experience of ‘independent’ reviews and inquiries within
Government.

3.3 Having discussed the approach previously with both the Chair and the Chief
Executive of Post Office Ltd, I have positioned my findings as a ‘best practice’
approach which can be developed into a more detailed blueprint for handling
similar challenges in the future.

. Conclusions
POL00100592
POL00100592

In Strictest Confidence

4.1 There will be occasions where it is necessary for Post Office Ltd to respond
quickly and publicly to some issue as was felt necessary to do in response to
concems being raised about Horizon. Appendix 1 sets out the key high level
issues and learning points presented in as a generic best practice guide for
managing crises and other high-profile non-BAU activity.

4.2 The aim of the approach is not to fetter Post Office’s ability to respond to new or
unexpected high profile issues, or make it slow to do so,

4.3 but acknowledges that the type of issue that is likely to give rise to some sort of
‘independent' review is exactly the type of issue over which particular care should
be taken to ensure the response is the right one for the business and is dealt with
in a way that gives internal and external confidence in the outcomes.

Belinda Crowe
24 April 2014
POL00100592
POL00100592

In Strictest Confidence

Appendix 4

Best Practice based on Lessons Learned from the investigation into Horizon

1. Enterprise wide response
1.1 There are a number of different circumstances where an enterprise-wide response is
called for and although what follows should apply to dealing with any crisis, high risk
or high-profile issue, including the establishment of an ‘independent review, and,
particularly, in the face of public attention.

1.2 It would normally be apparent where accountability for managing the work should rest
but circumstances such as these require an enterprise wide response which
acknowledges that the issue is usually:

e high profile and outside BAU activity

¢ likely to be stressful (and relentless) for those involved due to the scrutiny of
ExCO/Board/media/Ministers/MPs

«likely to require financial and staff resource outside of BAU.

1.3 To ensure this non-BAU activity is given the support, attention and resource
appropriate to its risk and importance profile with ExCo and the Board Post Office
should have arrangements in place which:
¢ provides an off the shelf (and gererally acknowledged and understood) protocol
covering governance structure to be put in place which reflects the complexity,
importance and risk profile of the work.

e enables pan-enterprise identification of BAU or project activity which could be
delayed or stopped to counter the cost of the new project

e enables the identification and rapid mobilization of an appropriately sized and
skilled team to manage the work as a priority

¢ ensures ExCo manages the work as a business wide project to ensure that the
project team does not encounter cross directorate barriers and that the
appropriate support is available from all areas.

2. Clarity of message and its ownership
2.1 Post Office should aim to deliver and own the relevant message/narrative and keep
control of it. The more high profile the issue and complexity of the stakeholder
landscape the more important this is.

2.2 Whilst it can be helpful for stakeholders to endorse or publicise a statement or
announcement, Post Office should retain control of the content and timing of
announcements, including the appropriate time to update interested parties.

3. Engaging external services/suppliers
3.1 There will be occasions where it is necessary to engage external suppliers/contractors at
short notice without going through the Post office normal procurement processes. A
rapid, bespoke engagement outside of normal processes should not mean lack of rigour
and, the following points should be considered when engaging suppliers/contractors:
e The more sensitive/high profile the work, the greater need for a rigorous
engagement process
« The absence of the robustness of a full procurement process, increases the
need for other additional due diligence. This should include an interview panel,
confirmation of qualifications and direct oral references from other clients to
confirm capability and quality of outcomes.
POL00100592
POL00100592

In Strictest Confidence

e The agreement of a letter of engagement before work starts. Post Office has a
comprehensive set of 'standard' terms which for suppliers on call off contracts
which cover all the basics and which should be adapted as required without
watering down the essence of a solid framework for managing contractors.

¢ Aworkplan should be agreed at the outset with proper, albeit light touch, control
arrangements in place for varying that.

4. Managing external suppliers
4.1 Even an ‘independent’ review should still be subject to proper management and
propriety arrangements short of fettering the independence of the output. Effective
and visible management of delivery against cost, timescales etc. is a matter of
propriety and Post Office has a responsibility to properly manage and account for
public funding; it should therefore be clear at the outset about how it will do that and
rebut suggestions that doing so is in any way fettering the independence of outputs.

5. Stakeholder engagement

5.1 At the outset: There may be a need to obtain stakeholder agreement or buy in toa
proposed form of action or elements of it. Before committing to engage with external
stakeholders, clear parameters should be set and articulated to give clarity about
what external stakeholders can influence and what they cannot, and the extent of that
influence.

5.2 Ongoing: Ongoing stakeholder involvement may be appropriate but here too the
rules of engagement should be clearly communicated and should not extend to direct

contact or directing activities unless within a framework agreed in advance by Post
Office.

6. Public commitments
6.1 Before any non BAU public commitments are made announced or agreed to publicly
(e.g.outside of the Post Office) internal agreement should be sought and obtained
through proper governance mechanisms to:
* scope and ToRs including outcomes and outputs
e understand the legal, financial and PR implications and risk
