POL00027113

POL00027113

From:

To:

Cc:

Subject: Message from Angela Van
Date: 27 August 2014 15:40:29

Angela has asked me to pass on the following message to the Working Group as she is presently
without a laptop.

All,

As you are aware Post Office has expressed concerns about the Second Sight Part Two Report as

ed and issued to Applicants and Advisors yesterday. In the interests of t
ecipients of the Part Two

dra sparency I

t to set

wanted to inform you that I have today written to the
out Post Office’s position.

The text of the letter is:

Confidential
Dear [Applicant]

Post Office Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme (the “Scheme”) - Second Sight's
“Part Two” Report (the “Report”)

You should now have received a copy of Second Sight’s “Part Two” Report.

I must stress that the Report is not endorsed by Post Office. This is because Post Office
believes that the Report is inaccurate in important areas, that there is no clear statement of
the evidence upon which many of the opinions expressed in the Report are based, and that it
includes matters which are beyond the scope of the Scheme and/or Second Sight’s
professional expertise as forensic accountants.

I will write again setting out Post Office's detailed position on the various points raised in the
Report to help you assess whether those points apply in the specific circumstances of your case.
I would suggest therefore that you consider the Report in the context of that position, which will
be sent to you within the next couple of weeks.

1am sorry for having to send this letter to you, but believe it important to make you aware of
Post Office's position on the Report at the earliest opportunity.

I am copying this to your professional advisor.
Angela Van Den Bogerd

Head of Partnerships
Post Office Limited

Belinda Crowe
POL00027113
POL00027113

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not
the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those
of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148
OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
