POL00448674
POL00448674

From: Benjamin Tidswell

Sent: Tue 16/01/2024 5:37:02 PM (UTC)
To: Henry Staunton

Ce: Amanda Burton

Subject: Confidential

Henry,

As promised, I have spoken with Amanda. She agrees with my suggestion that it would
be sensible in all the circumstances (and particularly bearing in mind the intense
pressures on Nick) for the board to review the allegations raised by Rose about Nick,
with a view to categorising them into something like the following:

1. Allegations where we think there is documentary evidence which is sufficiently
unequivocal that Marianne Tutin can be asked to confirm her conclusions without
the need to interview Nick. This most obviously applies to the two points about the
bonus multiplier, which I looked at in detail for my interview and where the
documents are plain in showing the allegation is wrong.

2. Allegations where the subject matter is not of sufficient significance to warrant
an investigation process. This might (without wanting to second guess the Board)
include items such as Angela Williams working for two companies for a period
(which was common knowledge) and the decision to award her good leaver status
(which may indeed fall into (1) above). The Board may then feel comfortable in
asking Marianne not to continue to investigate these matters.

3. Allegations not falling into (1) or (2) above, which may still need some degree
of investigation, but which ought to be relatively limited in number and scope and
perhaps can be managed with Nick more easily.

Amanda makes the point that Marianne is carrying out a dual exercise of gathering
material to defend the claim which we understand has been issued. Presumably Nick
would be happy to discuss items in (1) or (2) if she needed his input, as long as it was
understood they were no longer matters under investigation?

If you think this might be workable and valuable in reassuring Nick, I think the next step
is to get Lorna involved. Amanda has offered to speak to her to run through the
proposal.

Best
Ben

POL-BSFF-WITN-005-0010731
