POLO0111017
POL00111017

Message
From: Diane Blanchar
on behalf of — Diane Blanchar
Sent:
To:
ce:
“t; Jane MacLeod
im _} Mark Underwood1 7
Subject: FW: POL Contingent Liability Issue and Outstanding Item: TEGAL PRIVILEGE
Hi Claire

Further to your email request below, Andrew is not available on Wednesday due to another diary commitment -
would you have availability on Thursday at 09.00hrs instead?

{look forward to hearing back from you.
Kind regards
Di

Diane Blanchard
Executive Assistant to Tim Parker, Chairman and Post Office Board and
Executive Assistant to Jane MacLeod, Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Finsbury Diais

20 Finsbury Street
London

EC2Y 9AQ

GRO 7

From: Claire Johnson
Sent: Monday, July 23, 2018 10:59:41 AM
To: Jane MacLeod; Peter Mclver; Sana M Gangat

Cc: Alisdair Cameron; Michael Passmore

Subject: RE: POL Contingent Liability Issue and Outstanding Items CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Dear Jane
Thanks for your email below with accompanying attachments. Would it be possible to arrange a meeting with Andrew
Parsons from Womble Bond Dickinson for this Wednesday morning (via a phone call would be fine given we have met in

person already}? From your side it would be good if you or the senior members of your legal team that have been
dealing with the matter {I can’t recall the name of those individuals} could join the meeting too.

Kind regards

Claire

POL-0111465
POLO0111017
POL00111017

Claire Johnson I Associate Partner I Real Estate, Hospitality and Construction

Ernst & Young LLP

ngdom

EY

From: Jane MacLeod!” ~
Sent: Friday, July 20, 2018 3:49 PM
To: Peter Mclver’
Cc: Alisdair Cameron’ jichael Passmore

Subject: RE: POL Con’ g Items CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Website: http:/Awww.ey.com
EA: Caroline Levick”

Peter,

Further to your email below, we have prepared and now attach two papers to address the Panel questions:
© Accounting Treatment paper (Group Litigation Claim 1AS37), and
e Response to Questions (Paper for EY re ARA Litigation disclosure Part 2).

Please note that as the subject matter of the second paper relates to matters covered by current litigation, it is highly
confidential and includes matters that attract legal privilege. The paper is provided at EY’s request and we therefore
expect EY to accord the paper and its contents the same level of protection, security and restrictions on dissemination as
EY would provide to its own confidential and privileged materials.

[note that you have also requested further meetings with Womble Bond Dickinson and POL’s internal legal team to
assess whether the proposed claim meets the requirements for treatment as a contingent liability; that is, is it is
probable or possible? Please let us know who needs to be involved in that meeting.

Kind regards,

Jane

Jane MacLeod

Group Director of Legai, Risk & Governance
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street

LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

From: Peter Mclve:
Sent: 12 July 2018 12:35
To: Alisdair Cameron I ; Michael
Cc: Claire Johnson GRO Hi
Subject: POL Conting: ry Issue and Outstanding Items

Dear All,

Further to our discussion today, we held our internal Panel last night to discuss the above and the together we discussed
the following:

POL-0111465
POLO0111017
POL00111017

We appreciate that no formal Particulars of Claim have been received to date
We understand that POL are of the position that they are unable to determine the outcome of the proceedings
and whether that would be material or adverse as yet

e We have received from POL’s lawyers a letter recently where they confirmed that they believe that POL’s
position that it is currently unable to estimate the amount of the ultimate liabilities which might be incurred is
reasonable

e We are aware the Freeths estimate in the Skeleton argument was not a formal estimate of damages and was
subject to further analysis and information

We and the panel therefore focussed on obtaining more of a deeper understanding as to the background of what
caused the claim to arise, the history of it, and want to understand, given POL is defending the matter vigorously, what is
POUs view of the likely population of Postmasters affected and the possible quantum. We would also like to understand
can the population then be stratified into various categories of ones which may be valid, those likely to be defendable
and those that may require more investigation etc.

The reason this is asked for is to determine is the ultimate claim likely to be material and therefore fundamental to the
financial statements. This will then guide the panel further in determining the disclosure and whether we include an
emphasis of matter within our audit report.

As we mentioned in the last ARC we said we may require further information and discussion.
Therefore the questions we would like responded to in a formal paper for the panel to consider are:

1. What analysis has POL undertaken to date to determine the population of Postmasters affected, both in
number of Postmasters and quantum/value of the claim?

2. Do POL have a record of the number of postmasters terminated over time that may be possibly part of this
claim (and possible future claims) or a list of all Postmasters who were terminated for breaching their contracts?

3. Do POL have an idea of the value or quantum of money that was owed by these Postmasters when a
termination was sought?

4. Do POL have a record of how much money if any has been collected or has not been collected from these
postmasters as part of the terminations above?

5. Are there any receivables or payables carried in POL’s books for these amounts?

6. Has any amount been paid out by POL in the event of differences from Horizon (or Fujitsu) to postmasters who
were terminated as per above? Do POL have a record of such amounts/value involved?

7. Prior to the case, we understand there was mediation and possibly some settlements made — can we have the
full number and value of those please?

8. You have mentioned some cases may be time barred now — do we have an analysis of those or others?

9. Similarly some instances where there was legal proceedings against the individuals an analysis of them please?

10. How many terminations of postmasters were subsequently replaced by alternative postmasters?

11. What were the key contractual terms under which these terminations occurred and the general reasons for
termination?

12. What is the level of analysis undertaken by in house legal/ external lawyers on the terms of the contracts i.e. are
they relevant/water tight and the resulting strength of POLs position?

13. Have any experts been used by POL to report on the functioning of Horizon and Fujitsu to date? What was the
outcome of that?

14. Whatis the historic trend in terms of the accuracy of the reporting from Horizon? Any assessment made to date
on its robustness?

We and the panel would also like POL to produce an Accounting Treatment Paper as to why this is a Contingent Liability
under IAS37 ( and no provision required) and as a consequence what exact type of contingent liability this is and cover

POL-0111465
POLO0111017
POL00111017

the disclosure required per IAS37. This is due to the fact that the litigation is now advancing this year, with the two test
cases coming up. At present the paper from Legal only covers disclosure recommendations.

We and the panel also recommended a further private meeting or call with Womble Bond Dickinson, your external
lawyers, along with POL in house legal/finance team to to discuss the level of analysis/strength of the case to forma
view if this is a probable or possible claim? This should occur after the questions above have been responded to
formally.

Once we have done this we can provided these responses and papers to a further panel.

Thank you for your assistance.

Lastly, as mentioned at the end of the call, we will do up an outstanding list split into a) what matters are required from
yourselves and b) matters where we have received information from you and are still finalising our work/testing.

Kind regards
Peter

Peter Mclver I Partner I London Audit Leader I Assurance

Ernst & Young LLP

pmeivel GRO
Websité: nirpmwwwey.com
Helen Webster I Phone:

EY has supported the arts since 1994. We are proud of The EY Tate Arts Partnership and our support of a
number of other arts institutions around the UK. For 2017 — 2018, we are sponsoring: A Perfect Chemistry:
Photographs by Hill and Adamson at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery and The EY Exhibition:
Impressionists in London at Tate Britain.

This e-mail and any attachment are confidential and contain proprietary information, some or all of which may
be legally privileged. It is intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient, please notify the author immediately by telephone or by replying to this e-mail,
and then delete all copies of the e-mail on your system. If you are not the intended recipient, you must not use,
disclose, distribute, copy, print or rely on this e- mail.

Whilst we have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this e-mail and any attachment has been checked for
viruses, we cannot guarantee that they are virus free and we cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as
a result of software viruses. We would advise that you carry out your own virus checks, especially before
opening an attachment.

EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young
Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited

by guarantee, does not provide services to clients.

The UK firm Ernst & Young LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with

POL-0111465
POLO0111017
POL00111017

registered number OC300001 and is a member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited. A list of members'
names is available for inspection at 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, the firm's principal place of
business and its registered office. Ernst & Young LLP is a multi-disciplinary practice and is authorised and
regulated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the Solicitors Regulation Authority
and other regulators. Further details can be found at http://www.ey.com/UK/en/Home/Legal

2A 4 A 21 28 28 2 fA 1k 2 2 1K 08 2 1K 08 2 2 A 08 2 aK 08 Ro a a

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2A I FCF RRR FAIR OR OR I O21 0 0 RIK 0 08 IF 0 0 EB 0 OR CEES 0

EY has supported the arts since 1994. We are proud of The EY Tate Arts Partnership and our support of a
number of other arts institutions around the UK. For 2017 — 2018, we are sponsoring: A Perfect Chemistry:
Photographs by Hill and Adamson at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery and The EY Exhibition:
Impressionists in London at Tate Britain.

This e-mail and any attachment are confidential and contain proprietary information, some or all of which may
be legally privileged. It is intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient, please notify the author immediately by telephone or by replying to this e-mail,
and then delete all copies of the e-mail on your system. If you are not the intended recipient, you must not use,
disclose, distribute, copy, print or rely on this e- mail.

Whilst we have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this e-mail and any attachment has been checked for
viruses, we cannot guarantee that they are virus free and we cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as
a result of software viruses. We would advise that you carry out your own virus checks, especially before
opening an attachment.

EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young
Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited
by guarantee, does not provide services to clients.

The UK firm Ernst & Young LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with
registered number OC300001 and is a member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited. A list of members'
names is available for inspection at 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, the firm's principal place of
business and its registered office. Ernst & Young LLP is a multi-disciplinary practice and is authorised and
regulated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the Solicitors Regulation Authority
and other regulators. Further details can be found at http://www.ey.com/UK/en/Home/Legal

POL-0111465
