POL00045921

POL00045921
A
Official Communications to be addressed:- "The Chief Constable” fadaress as below)
. STAFFORDSHIRE POLICE
tect £ } : Chief Constable's Offic
Telex { Cannock Road, °
F: Stafford,

Our Ret:

Your Refi APF/SAS

07 MAY 2003

"Together Beyond 2000”
‘The person dealing with this correspondence is: OC 850 DEANS

Dear Sir,

Thank you for your letter dated 8" May 2003 it relation to your above named client.

The nature of the initial allegations against your client were that he had stolen monies from
the post office having colluded with the Rugeley sub post master Mr Carl Page.

Following the arrest of _jand Mr Page a meeting between Staffordshire Police
Major Crime Unit and the Post Gifice Investigations was held.

It was decided that the Post Office would lead the investigation into a conspiracy to defraud
the post office between the two men. Part of the post office's investigation was to establish
the extent of their financial loss. For their part of the investigation the police would undertake
any phone analysis and examination ofthe men's financial affairs,

With regards to the phone analysis there were no susp
phones and during interview both Mr. Page and:
to arrange the transactions that later came under investigation.

iciou Calls found on any of the
_Jadmitted calling each other

Staffordshire Police's Financial Investigation Unit undertook an investigation into both men's
bank accounts. There was no evidence of any transactions between the two men's bank
accounts and neither party appeared to be living beyond their known legitimate means.

--“ As the above enquiries have not provided any clear evidence of criminal conduct either by,
or between, the twa men Staffordshire Police decided not to press any charges against
them.

The Post Office investigations had been made fully aware of the extent, and the result, of the
enquiries undertaken by Staffordshire Police,

‘A hope this assists your enquiry and if I can be of any further assistance please do not
hesitate to contact me or my colleague De Andrews.

,---VOUrS faithfully
GRO I

Be Beans”

