POL00084772

POL00084772

@ branchstandards

Address Line 1
Address Line 2
Address Line 3
Address Line 4
Address Line 5

Dear Post Office Manager

I am pleased to send you the Post Office® branch standards booklet. This is a summary of some of
the instructions we have sent to you and the company you work for in the past, and which are set out
in operational instructions such as Operational Focus.

Branch standards are therefore not new, and they cover the things the majority of branch teams do
successfully every day. The booklet summarises many of them and we hope it will be useful in helping
you ensure:

You provide a great customer service

Your branch is secure

You sell products compliantly

Your branch cash is managed correctly

You are controlling costs and reducing losses

vVvvVvVvVvv

Although it is not a substitute or a replacement for the more detailed operational instructions you
already have, we hope the booklet will help you see more easily where you may need to make
changes to ensure you are running the branch efficiently and compliantly.

Applying branch standards consistently across the network will reduce the risk of regulator fines
and customer complaints. It will also help reduce our costs, as non-compliance with some branch
standards can result in a direct cost to Post Office. Given the competitive environment we operate in
we have to keep these costs to an absolute minimum.

As you will see, one of the branch standards deals with anti money laundering procedures. In

June last year we told subpostmasters, franchisees and company operators about our decision to
stop remunerating non compliant bureau de change transactions. We are now introducing further
measures to reflect some of the costs of non-conformance with some of the other branch standards
included in the booklet. Full details of these measures have been provided to your company. Please
contact your company for information regarding how these changes may affect you.

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ
Post Office and the Post Office Logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.
POL00084772
POL00084772

@ branchstandards

Getting all the branch standards right in your branch will help you run your Post Office business
efficiently, professionally and securely. Please take the time to read the booklet and to share and
discuss it with your teams,

Thank you for your continued support as we work together to create a more successful and
sustainable Post Office network for the future.

GRO

Lynn P Hobbs
General Manager, Network Support

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ
Post Office and the Post Office Logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.
