POLO00099011
POL00099011

Message

From: Paula Vennells I GRO

on behalf of — Paula Vennells

Sent: 04/07/2013 21

To: Martin Edward:

cc: Mark R Davies [nm
Subject: Re: Monday Meeting

let's discuss tomorrow then - I imagined this could be a mechanism for delivering just that. Without some significant
changes to the way we run the business - ie., forcing us to act differently, it won't happen quickly enough.

I do like the helpline. Very much. But if (when) it doesn't work, an independent safety net is not a bad idea. Happy to
remain open though :)

Thanks both. Note sent to Board anyway.
Cheers, Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 4 Jul 2013, at 22:41, "Martin Edwards" <__

Really good sign that he shared the email, and we obviously need to engage with the substance of his
concerns. Will think about it further overnight, but my initial gut reaction is that his proposal is
inconsistent with where we want to take the business, Le. a modern, professional retail business
working through a network of equally modern and professional retailers, with models of engagement
built on the best principles of mutualisation. This instead feels like a resource intensive and
cumbersome solution to the inevitable conflicts that emerge in the old style business.

i'd be more attracted to something lighter touch, e.g. Mark's confidential hotline idea.

Gn your specific question, I don't think this changes anything in the email to the board - would be
premature to go into this debate.

Thanks,
Martin

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Thursday, July 04, 2013 09:15 PM
To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Martin Edwards; Mark R Davies
Subject: Re: Monday Meeting

Very interesting. In principle I am attracted to it, though obviously there are lots of issues and clearly we
would have to have some important safeguards.

In the statement just sent, we have proposed the Branch User Forum and also a working group to
review our processes around support and training. So it would be possible for Alan to bring this idea to
the group and I think we should look at it, without committing too hard at this stage. Could we get an
independent reviewer, a Patrick Burns type figure, to lead this review?

I was also musing on the way home about whether we could create an independent and confidential
hotline/helpline which might be another way of creating this middle man role.

POL-0098594
They are quite attractive ideas politically - they can be linked in to a responsible business agenda.
Funding is an issue and it could become an industry.
But worth thinking about.

M

Sent from my iPad

On 4 Jul 2013, at 21:49, "Paula Vennells" > wrote:

1am only sending to you in the first instance. Alan shared this in a goodwill sense. And
although he didn't say it was confidential, it was a genuine gesture on his part.

I think there is some merit in it - I think I prefer ombudsman or independent expert than
adjudicator, but would bow to the experts on appropriate terminology.

Martin, thx for the board mail - does this change any of it do you think?
Paula

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Alan Bates

Subject: Monday Meeting

Hello Paula,

The following is the content of the email I sent through to James
Arbuthnot earlier today, it really is in a raw state. Regarding meeting on
Monday, I am free any time after 3pm and may be able to make it
slightly earlier if I can move another appointment, if that would help.

Regards

Alan

Dear Mr Arbuthnot,

Further to our telephone conversation yesterday, I have listed my
thoughts on how Subpostmaster, Post Office and Horizon issues might
be addressed in the future. I have long since held the view that there
has to be a third party that a Subpostmaster can approach if they
suddenly find they have problems and nowhere else to turn. I have just

POLO00099011
POL00099011

POL-0098594
POLO00099011
POL00099011

expanded on that view but these are only my initial jottings on the
issue, yet I think they are adequate to illustrate the type of structure
that might be acceptable.

Independent Adjudicator

An external independent adjudicator has to be appointed to review
cases and Horizon issues between Post Office and Subpostmasters.

If a Subpostmaster has had problems that the normal Post Office system
cannot resolve, before that Subpostmaster finds themself in a position
of no return, they should have the option to approach the adjudicator in
total confidentiality. The mechanism would not replace any of the Post
Office systems that are there to deal with the serious cases of actual
fraud or theft, but would exist to provide a means that a Subpostmaster
may use to stop a small problem becoming life and career threatening.

The adjudicator should have the authority to demand documents from
Post Office and the Subpostmaster as well as having a team of skilled
technical and legal staff they can call upon who are able to gain access
and check any system or documents that they deem necessary. As part
of the agreement, and before a case is accepted, both parties would
have to accept the decision from the adjudicator's office as being final.

Why is there a need for such a body?

The position between a Subpostmaster and Post Office with the use of
Horizon is in part unique. Post Office designs, funds and maintains its
Horizon system which it requires its agent, the Subpostmasters to

use. Post Office then holds the Subpostmaster liable for all losses from
that system regardless of however caused and without allowing the
Subpostmaster full access to that system. In effect this removes any
onus from Post Office to improve the system or user friendliness of that
system to the benefit of the Subpostmaster, because any cost would be
for Post Office to bear.

This situation has existed ever since the introduction of Horizon and has
been behind much of the dissatisfaction that Subpostmasters have had
with using Horizon, and which has often led to conflict.

Key Points:-

¢ = The adjudicator would not replace or act as a Subpostmaster
representative organization, the role would be solely to be

POL-0098594
POLO00099011
POL00099011

involved with day to day operational issues affecting
Subpostmasters.

e The adjudicator has to show they are totally independent. They
can neither be funded by Post Office, nor work from any Post
Office building.

e¢ Whilst liaison between Post Office and the adjudicator would be
anecessity, all instances would become a matter of record.

e Each case undertaken would conclude with the production of a
report of the findings and decision of the adjudicator. Copies of
that report being issued to Post Office and the Subpostmaster.

¢ The adjudicator would retain the right to refer a case directly to
Post Office to address or correct as it would if it began to find
evidence of criminal intent. On such occasions the adjudicator
would receive a report from Post Office as to what action they
had undertaken with that case.

= The adjudicator would maintain records and statistics of case
numbers, types and causes altering Post Office to issues that
became common place.

Possible Funding Options

e Alegacy from government after privatization.

e@ Anannual ‘insurance’ levy /option for a Subpostmaster.

e Aset fee based case charge to stop frivolous cases, £x's for
simple cases or £xx's for more complex cases, matched by a
similar amount from Post Office in each case that the
adjudicator accepted.

@ Combination of the other options

POL-0098594
