POL00071159
POL00071159

Stephen Dilley

vicky.harrisont_
08 June 2006 18:44 -
Stephen Dilley; cath.oglesby ~
glyn.burrowsi_, mandy.talbot;

Re: Post Office Lid v Mr L Castleton .

GRO

eCopy scanned document.pdf

eCopy scanned

document. pdf (19...
Stephen the Events and transaction logs I sent you were for the whole of 01 Jan to 31st Mar 04.

The transaction logs contain all transactions conducted at Marine Drive branch for this period of time. I also sent a
product list that contained the varying product codes and therefore if Mr Castelton wants to go through the
transaction logs and see which transactions relate to Girobank deposits or withdrawals this would be the only way
to determine the info he requires, as we don't have any other information available to give him unfortunately.
There would be usually a giro deposits and withdrawals report but I have never seen sight of these reports.

Looking at the events logs from the Horizon archive for Marine Drive which I also sent you, a balance snapshot
was printed most days and some days more than once by both Christine and Lee throughout Jan to Mar 04. This
report was not mandatory to be printed or retained, so they may well have printed it off and discarded it, as this
is used as a rough guide to what the cash variances were compared to the cash on hand. I have never seen the
balance snapshots and I don't know about Cath taking them away. Cath do you remember taking these??

In relation to the P242 I will ask audits wether they dealt with this and retained it. Glynn could you comment on
the P242, would you have a copy of this for Marine Drive 213 337 from an audit that Helen Hollingworth
conducted on 25th March 04 or comment on where I might retrieve this??

Regards

Vicky Harrison

Contracts and Services Mgr area 4
2nd Floor

Markets Bo

6-16 New York Street

Leeds

LS2 7DZ

"Stephen Dilley"

08/06/2006 11:37

Dear Vicky and Cath,

I attach a copy letter received on 7 June from Mr Castleton's solicitors, for your information. They have asked a
few questions with which I could use your assistance:

1. They have stated that no giro deposits and withdrawals, declared cash/cash on hand receipts, miscellaneous
transaction reports and balance snapshots have been disclosed post 9/10/11 March 2004. Am I right in thinking
this is because we do not have them (because you have sent to me everything you have) and that in any event,
as the transaction logs that Vicky sent to me record every transaction, they do not need the giros?

2. Castleton states that a complete set of balance snapshots for each days trading until this suspension was
1
POL00071159
POL00071159

produced and removed from the branch by Cath. Am I right in thinking that:

(a) balance snapshots are not a mandatory report so Castleton wouldn't have had to print one for every day;
Castleton did not produce one for every day;

(c) For Cath to have collected one for every day she would have had to attend the branch each day to print one

off (because the data would have changed each minute of each day so presumably you couldn't attend the branch

say once a week and print out historical balance snapshots);

(d) Cath certainly wouldn't have had time to attend the branch every day; and

(e) that the P.O sent me those snapshots that Cath removed (in the red folder)?

3. Finally, they have asked for a copy of the P242 form normally signed by an outgoing sub-postmaster on the
audit and handover to an incoming sub-postmaster. Please can you recall whether Mr Castleton signed it and if
0, please can you send to me a copy?

I look forward to hearing from you as soon possible.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley

Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

www.bondpearce.com

Please note our new contact details from 8 May 2006 as set out above.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number O0C311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP.

Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.(See attached file: eCopy scanned document. pdf)

JOSS EOS OIC IDI ORI OBOE ACOSO OS OCIOKE EI ISI IRI ASIOSISR ISI ICI ARI RA GKAEA SARA
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named

recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JESSIE IE ORI OEE IE ESE CEERI OSE E EIEIO SRIOKIOK ICI IRI ARASKSAAKASK ACK ASK AIK
