CONFIDENTIAL

1SO5
Conduct of Criminal Investigations Policy

Document Control

1 Overview

Head of Head of Security
Security Operations
Operations

—

ually or
r change

2 Revision History

O.1 16/08/2013 I Rob King Initial draft.

Andrew Wise

POL00030670
POL00030670

0.2 29/08/2013 IRob King Update post Senior

Andrew Wise I Stakeholder Review.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

1 Purpose and Statement

Properly conducted investigations form a key part in our
strategy in protecting assets and reducing loss. If poorly
managed, an investigation can lead to increased risk of
future loss and significant damage to the corporate brand.
In commencing any investigation we need to consider the
impact in terms of the protection of business assets and
limiting potential liabilities weighing against the
reputation of the organisation or damage to the brand should
the investigation fail. Post Office Security is almost
unique in that unlike other commercial organisations we are
a non-police prosecuting agency and are therefore subjected
to the Codes of Practice and statutory requirements of the
Police and Criminal Evidence Act.

There is another anomaly that sets us aside from other
commercial investigators. Of our 11,800 branches, only
370 are currently staffed by employees of the Post
Office. In the majority of cases branches are either
Franchisees or Agents that receive remuneration. As
neither is deemed to be employees of the Post Office, the
usual practices and procedures of an employer employee
investigation do not apply.

In cases where fraud is uncovered and good evidence of
criminality exists, then a criminal investigation will
invariably commence. At the same time Post Office
Contract Advisors have the responsibility to ensure that
any contractual breaches are investigated and impact on
the business is minimised. As a result close
communication needs to be maintained between the Security
Manager investigating the criminal investigation and the
Contract Advisor who needs to maintain Post Office
services. If this relationship is robust then sound
decisions can be made with the benefit of all the facts
and evidence shared to ensure that there is a successful
outcome to the investigation that benefits the business.

With the stakes so high, the department must be seen,
internally as well as externally, to be acting fairly,
appropriately and within the law. The investigation needs
to be properly conducted to establish evidence that will
support a successful criminal prosecution.

2 Goals

This guide been prepared as part of the case file review and
is intended to support Security Managers from the
commencement through to the conclusion of the investigation.
Included in the document is comprehensive guidance of the

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670
CONFIDENTIAL

process including key points to consider at various stages
of the investigation.

Prior to commencing an investigation the Security Manager
will have to consider

. The Seriousness of the allegation

. The level of criminality

. Any contractual, compliance or regulatory concerns
. The potential to damage the reputation of the Post
Office

. The expectations of key stakeholders

3 Scope

The scope shall include the operational services,
operations, external communication, information sharing and
platforms, services used to support the Post Office
including those hosted and managed by suppliers and
partners.

4 Policy Statement
CASE RAISED

Cases are raised from various sources, in each instance the
information is passed to the relevant operational Team
Leader who will evaluate the allegation and decide whether
or not a case should be raised.

A shortage at audit will result in the completion of an
Event Capture Form (ECF) report by the lead auditor. The ECF
report is then emailed thorough to the Post Office Security
Casework Team. On receipt of the ECF (where a suspension has
taken place), this is passed onto the relevant Team Leader
who will make the decision whether to raise a case or not.
If this is an immediate open enquiry the case will be raised
before the ECF is received.

All losses where a suspension has taken place are raised
this way, although the loss is not always due to criminal
activity. The Team Leader should review the circumstances
surrounding the audit shortage and assess whether an
investigation is the most suitable course of action.

The following are examples of types of audit shortages.

. Cash Shortage at Audit No Explanation
. Cash Shortage at Audit Comments made at audit
. Cash Shortage - member of staff (Not the SPMR)
suspected of criminality
. Cash Shortage - Loss hidden Transfers
CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670
CONFIDENTIAL
. Cash Shortage - Loss hidden Remittances
. Cash Shortage - Loss hidden Giro Suppression
e Personal Cheque in Drawer
. Cash Shortage in ATM
. Cash Shortage in Lottery

Post Office Card Account (POCA) cases; On occasion, the
Hewlett Packard (HP) Call Centre is contacted by customers
who claim they are victims of fraud. The Post Office Card
Account Primary Account Holder (PAH) may identify persons
who they suspect have defrauded them and on occasions they
are staff or Agents of the Post Office. The PAH allegation
will be received through the HP Call Centre who, working on
behalf of Post Office Ltd, manage the day-to-day POCA
service. HP operators are requested to record as much
detail as possible and report the allegation to Post Office
Ltd Security, Details of the complaint will be passed onto
the Team Leader. On receipt, the Team Leader should make an
assessment on the validity of the claim. Should they find
no reasonable grounds to support the claim they should
return it to the Admin and Support Team within 5 working
days with ‘NO CONCERN’ annotated in the Security Comment
box. In the event the case is worthy of further
investigation they are to request a case number and pass to
their Team for investigation.

Cases can be raised in relation to a specific client; these
can come from various sources such as direct from the client
via the Commercial Security Team, a complaint from a
customer or analysis from the Grapevine Team. In each case
the request is emailed to the Team Leader to review the
details and assess whether an investigation should take
place. Post Office Ltd has a massive client base; the
following are examples of some of the more usual cases to be
raised.

. DVLA

. Royal Mail

. DWP

. Government Services
. AEI Machine

Cases also can be raised from various other sources.

. Crown Office Issues / Loss
7 Suspicious Transactions

. Remuneration

. Contracts Manager

. Police Request

These types of enquiries are sent to the relevant Team
Leader who will make the decision whether to raise a case or
not. The Team Leader informs the Casework Team via email

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670
CONFIDENTIAL

that a case is to be raised and which Security Manager will
be dealing with the case.

The Casework team then complete the new case raised document
and email this to the security manager along with any ECF or
audit reports which they have received.

The stakeholder Notification forms part of the New Case
Raised Document. Within this document details of all
stakeholders are listed.

Once a case has been raised the Stakeholder notification
should be emailed to all stakeholders, casework team and
Team Leader as soon as possible. The investigator should
ensure that as much detailed information is included on the
stakeholder notification.

Communication with the commercial team is essential. Ensure
that all stakeholder updates throughout the investigation
are copied to the commercial security team.

A copy of the stakeholder notification should be printed;
this is associated in Appendix C of the case file.

EVENT LOG

All activities undertaken during an investigation should be
recorded on the event log; this should also include reasons
for delay in progression of a case file.

The event log should be printed out and submitted with the
green jacket. This should be updated and a new event log
entry inserted at each stage of the investigation.

SUPERVISION OF INVESTIGATION

The decided course of action needs to be proportionate and
necessary. It may, if the circumstances warrant be more
appropriate to consider other actions that could be done
that don’t necessarily lead to a criminal investigation.
Examples include pursuing a civil enquiry for breach of
contract, civil debt recovery, training review refresher,
briefers, additional auditing, a caution, warning letter and
or NFSP engagement. Some of these possible outcomes may not
be obviously apparent until the suspect is interviewed,
although they should be built into the process at this early
stage. Close communication and co-operation with key
stakeholders is essential to ensure, proper and considered
course of action is taken.

Proper consistent supervision is vital to ensure that cases

are thoroughly investigated and submitted in a timely
manner. Team leaders with the support of the Financial

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670
CONFIDENTIAL

Investigators need to quality assure the investigation
making sure prior to initial submission that all available
evidence has been gathered.

From the point the case is first raised Team Leaders should
give due consideration to the merits of a criminal
investigation.

INVESTIGATION

It is important to consider the aims, objectives and scope
of the investigation. Not all Post Office investigations are
criminal; the Security Manager may be called upon to
investigate employees under the grievance and disciplinary
procedure. It is important to determine what type of
investigation is required, what time frames are in place,
available resources and what other issues may affect the
conduct of the investigation. An example may be a flag case
with potential to damage the reputation of the business
where senior stakeholders have an on-going interest in the
progress of the investigation.

When a case is raised the Security Manager needs to prepare
an investigation plan which will outline the terms of
reference in the way the investigation will be conducted.
Points to consider include:

. Risk assessment

. Duty of care

. The source of the investigation

. Statutory, regulatory or compliance considerations
. Impact on the organisation

. Media

. Timeframes

. Immediate open enquiry

In all cases stakeholder engagement is essential, updates to
stakeholders should be sent on a regular basis especially at
relevant milestones such as interview, file submission and
summons served. For high profile cases such as crown office
losses updates should be more frequent and include key
senior stakeholders in the relevant directorate.

For cases raised due to audit shortage, communication with
the auditor on the day of the loss or as soon after the case
is raised is essential to gain an understanding of the loss
and to ensure they will send all audit documentation
(original documentation) to the investigator.

In all cases where a loss has been identified and a SPMR has
been suspended a case conference should be arranged with the
contracts manager at the earliest opportunity. This is
essential and allows exchange of information and an

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670
CONFIDENTIAL

understanding the expectations and direction the contract
manager is planning in relation to the conduct. Attached
below are timescales and expectations for the contract
process.

There may be occasions where criminality is suspected that
a request is made directly to a contract manager to consider
suspending the SPMR. In these circumstances the Security
Manager must provide a detailed explanation outlining the
rationale supporting the request. A record must be kept of
this decision which may at some future stage have to be
justified in court proceedings

The Security Manager has been tasked to prove or dispel the
allegation. In criminal cases where the burden of proof is
beyond all reasonable doubt, it is necessary to draw on all
available evidence which is likely to substantiate the
allegation. In cases concerning the Horizon system, it is
important to establish the level of training the subject
received, when this was received and action the subject took
to remedy any identified faults. A key points to cover
template has been produced to ensure that Security Managers
establish these facts during the interview process. As part
of the evidence gathering process, the Security Manager can
collect evidence from various sources including :

. Statements from witnesses [current, previous members
of staff]

. Expert witnesses

. Post Office accounting and HR databases

. Contract Advisor database

. CCTV

. Banking records

. Telephone records

. Interviews with suspects

It is vital that all available witnesses are interviewed. If
there is a good reason for not doing so this must be
recorded in the progress of investigation log.

The Security Manager must not overlook the fact that a fair
investigation is there to establish the truth as well as
substantiate the allegation, so it is important that any
evidence uncovered that may support the suspect’s position
is also recovered. It is important to document every action,
decision and reason for decisions being made during the
course of the investigation.

ENQUIRY TYPE
Immediate Open Enquiry.

. Where immediate response is appropriate and few pre-
interview enquiries are needed or practicable.

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670
CONFIDENTIAL

Major Enquiry

. >£15,000 (or major customer / client / reputation
impact) where immediate response is not possible due to the
requirement to perform pre-interview enquiries / analysis.

Standard Enquiry

. All other enquiries not included in the above - where
immediate response is not possible due to the requirement to
perform pre-interview enquiries.

Liaison

. Any case where liaison with another investigative body
leading enquiries into criminal activity at Post Office Ltd
branches.

INTERVIEW FRAMEWORK AND TIMESCALES

All significant steps in the investigation including any
lengthy delays in concluding the enquiry need to be
recorded. The progress of investigation document will
eventually form part of the unused material and should be
produced with the file. The details of investigation need to
be sufficiently informative although an element of
objectivity needs to be applied.

Significant points can become critical should the enquiry
concern non availability of witnesses, external stakeholders
or any other influential factors which may force undue
delay.

A culture needs to be embedded where Security Managers are
aware and fully understand the importance of providing a
comprehensive chronological account of an investigation, not
merely to avoid undue criticism, but also where there could
be an issue with the case at some later stage which may
undermine the likelihood of successful prosecution.

Interview Date

. Offender should be contacted and Interview should be
arranged without delay. Timescales will depend = on
preparatory work that needs to take place prior to this.
Good Evidence Takes Time. In complex cases there may be a
need to conduct a preliminary [holding] interview with a
more detailed interview taking place when further enquiries
have been completed.

Immediate Open Enquiry

. Interview on day of notification (where possible)
minimum within 48 hours and case submitted to normal report
timescales (12 days)

Major Enquiry

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670
CONFIDENTIAL

. Case to be at “suspect offender” interviewed within 1
month of case raised.

Standard Enquiry

. Case to be at “suspect offender” interviewed and
submitted / closure stage within 2 months of raise. Should
enquiries indicate increased loss or impact, status must be
amended to Major Enquiry immediately.

Liaison
. Regular contact should be maintained with the
authority (Police, Royal Mail, DWP) dealing with the case.

. After the first month the investigator should discuss
the case with their Team Leader and a way forward agreed,
this will ensure that the liaison case is progressed.

EVIDENCE

Good communication with the audit team is crucial to ensure
evidential resilience in relation to the continuity of
exhibits. Every effort must be made to ensure that the
person finding is the person exhibiting and original
documents that will form the evidential basis of the case
are retained until collection. The continuity will be
stronger if the documents seized are secured and handed over
against a signature. In circumstances where the only viable
way is to send the documents through the post they should be
sent by the Auditor to the named Security Manager by Special
Delivery.

Auditors are to be encouraged to record any significant
comment made in the course of the audit either unsolicited
or in response to a reasonable question to complete the
audit such as “I have checked the money in the safe and
there appears to be a shortage, is there any money stored
elsewhere that needs to be checked” . In the case of the
unsolicited comment, the auditor should record this ie I
know you will find a shortage, I borrowed the money. However
any further question such as “why” would constitute an
interview and the Auditor must refrain from asking such
questions.

In such cases, the Auditor should inform the suspect that
their comment will be recorded but any further questions
concerning the comment may be conducted under caution by a
Security Manager where the suspect has been accorded their
rights. This should not distract from the role of the
auditor and questions around should still be asked to verify
financial assets due to Post Office LTD.

In cases where the suspect wishes to make comment, the
Auditor again should record the initial comment, advise the

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670
CONFIDENTIAL

suspect as above and if they continue, note in the record,
that the suspect was advised that they would have the
opportunity to be interviewed by a Security Manager under
caution at a later stage. THEN CONTINUE TO RECORD THE
COMMENT. Again any questions even for clarification from the
auditor would constitute an interview and could/would render
the evidence inadmissible so the Auditor must refrain from
asking such questions.

BACKGROUND CHECKS

Local Management Checks

. Contact with the contract manager is essential; they
can provide the investigator with a background on the
individual along with providing all information relating to
the branch from their database.

Training Records

. A request for the branch training history should be
made to the Network Support Admin Team email address. This
will detail what training was received for the SPMR when he
was appointed to the branch, it will also show any
intervention training requested or delivered for the branch.
It is the SPMR’s responsibility to train his staff, no
records for training (apart from compliance training) is
kept for SPMR assistants.

Post Office Ltd Human Resources Printout. The Sub Postmaster
Printout or employee printout should be obtained for all
cases by emailing Human Recourses using the HR Assistant
Checks email address. This document can provide the
following information -—

. The subject’s personal details, such as NI number,
home address, bank account(s), next of kin,

. Date the SPMR was appointed.

. Claims data (i.e. holiday pay) & dates the SPMR was on
holiday.

. The full SPMR file can be requested by emailing

‘Contract Admin Team’

P356 Assistant List. The P356 Assistant list should be
requested at the same time as the HR Printout from the HR
Assistants Check email address. This report can provide the
following information

. Name, date of birth and NI number

. Persons registered to access Horizon (users), at that

Post Office

. The Horizon user’s identities for each assistant.

. Whether the assistant is a permanently employed or

temporary/holiday relief

. Date the person was activated to use Horizon and the

date users were removed from the Horizon system.
CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

10
CONFIDENTIAL

SPMR Remuneration. The remuneration from a particular branch
can be obtained via an e-mail to HR Agent Remuneration.

Police National Computer (PNC). Post Office Limited PNC
checks can be made for intelligence gathering purposes in
respect of individuals and vehicles suspected or known to be
involved in crime against the Post Office Ltd. Examples of
authorised use are as follows:

. To assist authorised personnel with intelligence
gathering around individuals suspected/ known to be involved
in committing criminal offences.
. For operational Health & Safety considerations and
evaluations prior to suspect offender engagement as part of
the operational risk assessment.

. To obtain previous conviction details of defendants
and witnesses for cases being prosecuted by Post Office Ltd.
. To establish intelligence with regards to vehicles and

occupants suspected to be involved in criminal activity
against the Post Office.

. To identify the registered keeper of vehicles
connected to the address of a suspect/known offender
involved in criminal offences against the Post Office Ltd.

Do not conduct checks for the following reasons:

. Unsubstantiated allegations about an individual.

. “Fishing trips”, for example blanket checking vehicles
or persons such as all vehicles in a staff car park in an
effort to identify a suspect’s vehicle.

. To identify ownership of a vehicle in accordance with
Proceeds of Crime Act.

Equifax investigators can rely on Equifax to provide the
following information:

. Personal details

. Addresses

. Court and Insolvency Information, (i.e. county court
judgments)

. Alert Indicators (Office of Foreign Assets Control)

. Alias and all names used

. Associates

. Electoral data confirmation

. Credit transactional activity, including the client
and transactional history

. Record of searches done by Equifax clients, (i.e.
banks and retailers)

. Property valuation

. Additional addresses-linked addresses

. Directors data

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

11
CONFIDENTIAL
. Commercial searches, (i.e. valuable data relating to
the suspect’s business.)
Land Registry. Investigators have access to the Land

Registries in England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland. Most searches take between a few minutes to a few
days, depending on the registry. Obtaining the subject’s
full address is important. Land Registry can provide the
following type of information/data:

. The owner(s), type of ownership & address

. The value of property

. An extract of the official Title Deed

. Copy of the Title Register, Title Plan

. Registered Old Deeds, including historical editions of
the register and title plan

. Any charge on the property, and the relevant financial

institution (mortgage.)

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) Call Logs. NBSC call
logs can be obtained by emailing the Branch and IT System
Team at Dearne House. These logs will detail all calls made
by a branch into the NBSC.These logs can be very useful
where a SPMR or employee claim that they have reported the
loss or incident.

Credence. Credence is a tool used to analyse detailed
transactional data from a particular branch, this is useful
to prove details of particular transactions or events. Only
data, up to 90 days, can be extracted and analysed by Post
Office Ltd Security. An Application to Fujitsu will turn the
MI data into data/documentary evidence for use in the
criminal courts. Older/historic data can be obtained too.
Fujitsu will provide a witness statement relating to the
authenticity of the data only, not the specific transactions
relating to your enquiry.

ONCH. The Cash Management team can provide Over Night Cash
Holdings (ONCH) data for a specific branch. This data gives
in depth cash analysis for a branch including what
denomination of notes a branch has declared on a given date
along with cash remittances in and out. A request for this
data can be made to the Retail Cash Management Team who will
highlight any concerns they might have with the branch. The
same information can be requested for Foreign Currency
holdings.

Full Rota Check. A ‘full rota check’ allows for a full data
search for a specific branch relating to transaction issues.
This can include any transaction corrections (TC’s) scratch
card, remittances, stock adjustments and other specific
office’s products. This check can be arranged via Post

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

12
CONFIDENTIAL

Office Ltd Security Grapevine strand, Analyst & Support team
in Chesterfield.

Alarm Data

Obtaining alarm data from ROMEC can be a useful tool in
determining access to the Post Office secure area and safes.
Data around perimeter and safe set / unset times can be
interrogated to assist in the investigation.

PLANNED OPERATION RISK ASSESSMENT (PORA)

The PORA process is mandatory in any Post Office led
investigation which may involve a planned interview under
caution or premises search. A PORA is required for each
suspect involved in the investigation, In order to manage
the risks effectively Investigators should conduct any risk
related intelligence checks and/or enquiries that they feel
are necessary as part of the PORA process. The following
checks are available and thought to be the most relevant to
Post Office Security cases:

. Local Management check: This may also identify other
information such as health issues, including suspected drug
or alcohol habits, or outside interests e.g. domestic
circumstances which may impact on H&S.

. PNC Individual checks: This may identify “warning”
indicators or previous convictions of both suspects and
others at the address. It may also identify other

information which impacts on H&S such as any history
regarding the certification (or refusal) of firearms or
orders recalling persons to hospital.

. Full Equifax check: This check can be used to identify
current occupants at an address to be searched or visited. A
“Full Investigation” Equifax check should be undertaken.

. PNC Vehicle check: This can reveal registered keepers
of vehicles at a specific address.

. Land Registry checks: These will identify the owner of
property.

. Local Police Intelligence check: May identify risks
regarding the suspect or other incidents or persons at the
address(es) and the geographical area(s) to be visited. It

may also identify other law enforcement interest.

Risk Score. Where any risk is assessed as High, a Senior
Security Manager should be consulted and the assistance of
the Police sought before any investigation activities which
bring Investigators into contact with the suspect are
commenced.

Where the Planned Operation is assessed as Low or Medium
risk, line manager’s authority must be obtained before any
investigation activities which bring Investigators into
contact with the suspect are commenced.

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

13
CONFIDENTIAL

INTERVIEW

Where the rights of a lawyer to be present are offered to
the subject who wants their own solicitor and they are not
available, consider your position in terms of recovering
evidence and not compromising the investigation. In this
instance inform the suspect that as their lawyer cannot
attend within a reasonable time, arrange for the suspect to
be arrested and booked in at the local police station where
a solicitor from the nominated list or the duty solicitor
can be offered.

Reasonable time may differ depending on the circumstances
and any action taken needs to be justified and documented.
It is likely that an explanation for this course of action
will be required at court. A rule of thumb is what the
average lay person may consider reasonable given all the
facts. It is important to note that the need to gather
evidence and investigate the case in a timely manner is not
unduly compromised.

Arrest by the police may be justified on the basis that
there are reasonable grounds to suspect an offence has been
committed and there are reasonable grounds for believing
that the arrest is necessary. The statutory criteria for
what may constitute necessity are set out in para 2.9 of
Code G PACE. Inviting the suspect to the police station to
obtain legal representation may not be effective as the
alleged offender is at liberty to leave at any time. The
investigator should direct the investigation appropriately
to remain in control of the evidential process without
jeopardising the suspect’s legal rights.

Consider maximising the opportunity to capture evidence at
the earliest stage, ie where there is a significant comment.
In more complex cases where a more in depth interview is
required hold a _ preliminary interview, cover off the
significant comment and hold a second interview at a later
stage when more evidence is gathered. Think of the Golden
Hour of capturing the evidence. Always follow the PEACE
model [Planning, Engage and Explain, Account, clarification
and challenge, Closure, Evaluation] . Consider the
ingredients of the offence; dishonestly appropriates
property belonging to another with the intention of
permanently depriving the other of it. Ensure that these are
established during the interview. Deep dive into areas where
defences are likely. These can be countered by careful
planning and skilful questioning.

One on one interviewing should be considered on a case by

case basis. There is no reason why in a straight forward
investigation where there have been admissions and risk is

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

14
CONFIDENTIAL

considered low, that a one on one tape recorded interview
should not be considered. This will free up resources and
should be encouraged wherever possible. Clearly in more
complex cases, where there is a need to pre prepare and the
nature of the investigation may benefit from an interviewer
with greater subject knowledge, then the interview must be
conducted by two persons. Similarly for training and
development purposes.

Should the recent Second Sight review be brought up by a
suspect or his representative during a PACE interview the
Security Manager should state:

I will listen to any personal concerns or issues that you
may have had with the Horizon system during the course of
this interview

The following three areas need to be covered in as much
detail as possible at an appropriate point during all PACE
interviews, regardless of whether Horizon is mentioned or
not. Where the case clearly has no link with Horizon (e.g.
theft of mail) then you must gain authorisation from your
line manager to proceed outside of this process.

. Training

. How long have they worked at the Post Office?

. Had they any previous PO experience?

. How long did their initial training last? (Please see
guidance below and get as much detail as possible)

. What did it cover? (ie transactions, balancing, ATM,
lottery etc)

e Did they request any follow up training? (if so who
with?)

. Was there a period when the accounts balanced? If so,
then why did things run smoothly then?

. Support

. Who did they tell that they were having problems?

. Why didn’t they request any help?

. What support are they aware of (ie NBSC, HSH, area
managers)

. Have they contacted the NBSC for support before?

. Horizon

. Have they contacted the HSH before?

. If they believed that there was a fault with Horizon

then who did they report it to and when? If they didn’t
report it then why not?

NBSC call logs should be requested for all cases. As should
HSH call logs.

Training records for all new cases are automatically sent by
casework team. For info the current standard is:

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

15
CONFIDENTIAL
. SPMR receives 6-8 days of classroom training (this
depends on the products that their office transacts)
. SPMR receives 6 days of onsite training and support
including at least one balance.
. SPMR receives an announced visit after one month to

provide support, go through the compliance requirements and
for a cash check to be completed.

. SPMR receives an announced visit after 3 months for
further support, compliance questions and a cash check.

. SPMR receives an unannounced visit after 6 months for
further support, compliance questions and a Financial
Assurance audit.

SEARCHES

In all cases a search of vehicle and premises should be
considered, searches are conducted by consent and should be
conducted in the spirit of PACE where reasonable grounds to
suspect there is evidence on the premises that relates to
the offence.

If the subject refuses to consent to a voluntary search the
investigators line manager should be contacted and if
required further advice and guidance sought from the
criminal law team.

If the subject refuses to consent to a voluntary search and
there are reasonable grounds to suspect that evidence
relating to the offence may be found, then contact police
with a view to arrest the suspect. A search can then be
conducted by police following arrest. The investigator
should agree this course of action with their line manager
and advice sought from the criminal law team.

NOTEBOOK

Notebooks are an essential element in a Security Managers
toolkit. They are the recognised and preferred way of
recording evidence that is not recorded elsewhere in a more
formal document. They are numbered individually and are
issued to all Investigators performing investigation duties.

Due to the nature of the information recorded in a notebook
it can be produced, if required by the Investigator, in a
Court of Law. It is essential that all notebooks be
completed with a degree of uniform professionalism.

General rules

. Make all entries in chronological order.
. All entries must be made in ink (black preferably).
CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

16
CONFIDENTIAL

. Any errors must be crossed out with a single line, so
that the original entry can be seen and then initialled.

. Do not remove any pages, they are all numbered
sequentially.

. Do not make additional entries between the ruled
lines. If it is of paramount importance that, if you make
an additional entry, make it at the end of your existing
entry explaining why it is not in chronological order.

. A single line should be scored through any blank
spaces or lines.

. All entries should be signed, timed and dated.

. All notes made on informal pieces of paper such as
newspapers, should be transferred to the notebook as soon as
practicable. The entry should include why it was not

practical to enter the note directly into the notebook. The
Investigator must retain the original note.

POST INTERVIEW

48 Hour Offender Report: To be emailed to Team Leader,
Casework Team, Financial Investigator (if appointed) Primary
Stakeholder within 48 Hours of the interview.

FES Report: Financial Evaluation Sheet to be emailed to
Financial Investigator within 48 hours of the interview.

Write the Case Summary Report: This is to be written using
example report and guidelines that can be found on the Secps
sharepoint site. The case summary should be a_ succinct
chronological account of the investigation highlighting key
facts. The rule of thumb is to produce an account which the
reader can quickly digest to get a general overview of the
allegation. Key witnesses and a brief outline of what they
say can be included as well as a synopsis of what was said
during interview. The statements, interview record and
exhibit list can be examined should the reader require
further information.

Write Discipline Report. Discipline report to be written
using example report and guidelines.

INTERVIEW NOTES

In the majority of cases at initial submission, the Notes of
interview need to be a brief account of the interview and
any significant comment. It is therefore good practice to
write down a note of the interview and generally what was
said on completion.

An example note could be: throughout the interview the
subject stated that he had borrowed the money to make up a
shortfall and when challenged over this accepted that it was
wrong/dishonest to take the money.

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

17
CONFIDENTIAL

No comment interviews should not be transcribed. Unless
there is a very good reason for a full transcript, in the
majority of cases for the initial submission a note of
interview will suffice.

Where the prosecuting lawyers request a transcript as part
of the advice process or for preparation for committal
proceedings it will be completed by the typist, checked and
sent by the Security Manager.

Where appropriate to transcribe the Audio recording of an
interview the request should be sent to the typist. An email
should be sent to cathphilbin@aol.com. The email should also
be copied to Helen Dickinson to ensure return of the CD.

STATEMENTS

In all instances the following standard statements should be
taken and submitted with the green jacket.

. First Officer Statement
7 Second officer Statement
. Horizon System Statement
. SPMR Contract Statement
. Lead Auditor Statement

In the course of an investigation other statements may need
to be acquired, these could be statements to describe a
particular process such as how to carry out a particular
transaction. If the Post Office Legal and compliance Team
(POLCT) consider that such a statement is required to
progress the prosecution they will send an advice requesting
this further information.

Where statements can be taken over the telephone this should
be done to save time and resources and it must be
encouraged. Statement taking over the telephone is an
accepted and modern practice.

Rather than a hand written Section 9 statement, there is no
reason why a draft statement cannot be prepared in note
form. The statement can then be typed up subsequently, with
any changes, clarification or ambiguity amended. It is vital
that the original notes are retained. On typing up the
statement it can be sent to the recipient for checking and
amending. Once agreed, the statement must be signed and sent
back to the investigator.

BUSINESS FAILINGS.

18.1. If business failings or procedural weaknesses are
identified this should be completed on the relevant tab of

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

18
CONFIDENTIAL

the new case raised form and emailed to all stakeholders
including Commercial Security. This should be printed off
and associated in appendix C of the file.

FILE CONSTRUCTION

A Green Jacket should be constructed as per the following
guidelines.

Case files will include a schedule of unused non-sensitive
material and unused sensitive material [Public Interest
Immunity, Legal Privilege and documents that may highlight
the methods used for investigation] The Appendix “C” in the
case file will be retained by the Security Manager as oppose
to submitted with the file. Where solicitors may wish to
examine any unused material it should be requested and sent
by the Security Manager.

The body of the file.

. Case Raised Front Sheet

. Event Log [added to as the case progress to conclusion
]

. File Contents Index

. Case File summary; numbered paragraph.

. Index of Statements (Actual Statements in Appendix A)

. Interview Summary

. Index to Exhibits

. Unused Material list [This negates the need to submit

Appendix C and fill the file with emails. The unused
material list can be added to as the case progresses]

General Rule Appendix A = Witness Statement B = Evidence C =
Other

Appendix A

. Typed Witness Statements

. Summons Documents

Appendix B

. POLOO1

. Evidence

. Notebook Entry

. Search Documents

. Working Tapes

. PNC check results (include no trace replies)

Appendix C (Appendix C should be collated, but NOT be
submitted with the file when sent to the criminal law team)

. Stakeholder Notification

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

19
CONFIDENTIAL
. HR Printout
. Assistant List
. Interview Letter
. POLO03
. Business Failings
. Discipline Report
. Antecedents
. NPAOL

FILE SUBMISSION

Cases for Advice.

In some instances where the investigator is unsure on the
strength of the evidence the case can be submitted to the
POLCT for advice. The POLCT will apply the evidential test
and will advise on the next course of action such as further
statements or case to be closed.

On completion of the file, it will be submitted to the team
leader for checking, signing off and forwarded to the POLCT
via registration. Should further investigation be deemed
necessary at this stage, the file will be returned to the
Security Manager. Where a request is made from POLCT for
further enquiries, the team leader will be copied into the
relevant email. It is imperative that the progress of
enquiry document is comprehensively kept up to date and
copies of any generated emails saved. These can be inserted
into the file in appendix C when the enquiries are complete.

Should advice be sought from Cartwright King solicitors, the
Team Leader and POLCT will be copied into any requests for
further evidence. The details of investigation log must be
maintained and copies of emails retained. On completion of
the enquiry, the green docket case file will be sent to the
Security Manager for copies of any emails to be inserted
along with the progress of investigation log prior to final
submission to Head of Security via the Team Leader.

Each case file should the follow the stated process:

. Security Manager > Team Leader > Post Office Legal and
Compliance Team > Cartwright King > Head Of Security > Team
Leader > Security Manager

Security Manager > Team Leader

. Once the file is ready for submission the investigator
should send the green jacket to their Team Leader for
review. The Team Leader should sense check the case file and
ensure it is evidentially robust and properly constructed.
The Security Manager should send electronic copies of the
offender report, audio transcripts and discipline report to
Post Office Security.

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

20
CONFIDENTIAL

Team Leader > Post Office Legal and Compliance Team

. The Team Leader will then forward the file to the
POLCT The file will be reviewed by the POLCT and a decision
made whether further progression be made with the case. If
the decision is No Further Action the file is returned to
casework at that point (next step 5.6). If the POLCT decides
that further enquiries are required this will be forwarded
to the investigator including Casework and the Team Leader.

Post Office Legal and Compliance Team > Cartwright King

. If the decision is to proceed with the prosecution
case the file is the forwarded to Cartwright King for advice
on charges. (In some instances POLCT will put charges
together).

Cartwright King > Post Office Legal and Compliance Team

. Cartwright King will prepare advice and charges for
the case (or advise no further action). If further enquiries
are required they will contact the investigator direct,
copying in the team leader and send an advice detailing the
further enquiries. The advice along with charges and case
file is then sent back to casework.

Post Office Legal and Compliance Team > Head Of Security

. The file is then forwarded to the designated
prosecution authority (DPA) for authority to proceed. The
DPA will review the case file and decide whether to proceed
with the advice from the POLCT and Cartwright King or
whether to take a different course of action. The authority
to proceed (or other instruction) will be inserted into the
case file.

Head Of Security > Team Leader

. The file is the forwarded back to the casework team.
Team Leader > Security Manager.

. The file is returned to the investigating officer with
advice and charges submitted in the case file for the
Security Manager to proceed.

SUMMONS

If advice from Cartwright King or the POLCT is to prosecute

and the Head of Security has given authority to proceed,
then the investigator needs to obtain a summons.

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

21
CONFIDENTIAL

The Security Manager will make contact with the relevant
Magistrates’ Court to set a date for the suspect’s first
appearance at court. Summonses are also applied for. Upon
receipt of the summonses the Security Manager will serve the
summonses by way of posting them to the suspect offender
using the Royal Mail Special Delivery service.

Set a Court Date
. Contact the Magistrates court where the offence took

place and confirm that court deals with the matter and the
address where the summons are to be sent for signature..

. Contact listings and inform them you are a private
prosecution - (certain courts have set days for non-police
prosecutions) .

. Obtain a date normally six weeks from date of request

but no more than 8 weeks.

Acquiring Arrest Summons (AS) Number

. Update the front of the NPAO1] with the date of the
court hearing and the details of the court,

7 Complete the offence and the method used in offence
section on the front of the NPAO1.

. Email the updated NPAO1 (and NPAO2 if required) to the

casework team. The casework team will apply to the relevant
police force for an AS Number which is required for the
court to sign the summons. The AS number will be emailed
back to the investigator within a few days of the submission
of the NPAOQ] (different police forces work to different
timescales to times will vary).

Applying for the summons.

. Prepare three copies of the summons
. Prepare one information sheet.
. Send to the court for signature with covering letter -

all three copies of the summons should be signed and
returned.

. Court will retain the information sheet.

. Inform the agents Solicitors appointed by POLCT of the
time and date of the court appearance.

On receipt of the summons

. Take a photocopy of the defendant’s copy of the
summons.
. Send the original copy of the defendants summons

together with a POLO44 (Charge or summons notice) and a copy
of the means form,

. Summons can be either served personally or via Royal
Mail Special Delivery to the offender.

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

22
CONFIDENTIAL

Once conformation has been obtained that the summons has
been received POLCT and Cartwright King must be informed.
The back of the defendants photocopied summons should be
endorsed with the following:

. I certify that today, (date), I personally served a
copy of the summons upon (Name), the defendant named
overleaf.

or
. I certify that a copy of the summons overleaf has been
served upon (Name), the defendant named overleaf. The

summons was sent via Royal Mail Special Delivery (number)
and was delivered (date and time).

Prepare and send to POLCT a covering letter confirming the
summons has been served, together with a copy of the POL033
and any TIC’s by post. Update the front of the NPA form with
the summons was applied for and the date the summons was
served. Complete the offence and the method used in offence
on the front of the NPAOL.

Email Casework team and POLCT the confirmation of service
letter together with the NPAQl. If the case is a FI case
then the FI should be copied into the email.

Copies of the summons go in Appendix A of the file.
COMMITTAL

Committal Checklist

POLOO6B Self Disclosure

POLOO6c Schedule of non-sensitive unused material
Sensitive Material

Cont Disclosure Report

Witness List

Witness Address

Witness Non Availability

List Of Exhibits

Memo to POLCT

DEBARMANT
CASE CLOSURE

On completion of the investigation, it is vital that a
review of the root cause of the investigation is undertaken
by the Security Manager. It is important to ascertain
whether any system processes, integrity of the financial
commercial product, technical issues, training delivered or
procedures may have provided an opportunity to commit the
offence. Equally important, the vulnerability of the product
or process in its current form and likelihood of similar
offences being committed in the future needs to be

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

23
CONFIDENTIAL

considered. A comprehensive report outlining the cause of
the offence will be submitted to Commercial Security at the
conclusion of each investigation.

As part of the Post Office retention policy, case files must
be archived and retained for at least 7 years.

Case closed Notification.

. The Case Closed notification should be completed and
emailed to the investigators team Leader, Post office
Security all major stakeholders and Commercial Security
team.

. As much detail as possible should be included in the
case closed notification explaining the decision for the
course of action taken.

. In some instances a case will be closed with no green
jacket, this could be a case where the matter was dealt with
under conduct and no criminality identified. If there is no
green jacket this should be highlighted on the case close
notification and also annotated at the top of the email to
Post office Security.

One of the key programmes of the Security Operations
strategic plan for 2013 has been the case file review.
Separation from Royal Mail Group has presented opportunities
to shed outmoded investigation practices and tailor
processes that not only meet the current needs of the
business, but challenges us as a team to work smarter, and
deliver a professional, comprehensive and fair investigation
in a timely manner. With the advent of the Second Sight
interim report it is likely that scrutiny will continue to
focus on the fairness, evidential quality and professional
standard of criminal investigations. Completion of the
investigation review, which serves as a guide to Security
Managers in the conduct of their investigations is a timely
document which embodies the ethos of Care, Challenge and
Commit.

5 Exceptions

One of the key programmes of the Security Operations
strategic plan for 2013 has been the case file review.
Separation from Royal Mail Group has presented opportunities
to shed outmoded investigation practices and tailor
processes that not only meet the current needs of the
business, but challenges us as a team to work smarter, and
deliver a professional, comprehensive and fair investigation
in a timely manner. With the advent of the Second Sight
interim report it is likely that scrutiny will continue to

CONFIDENTIAL

POL00030670
POL00030670

24
POL00030670

POL00030670
CONFIDENTIAL

focus on the fairness, evidential quality and professional
standard of criminal investigations. Completion of the
investigation review, which serves as a guide to Security
Managers in the conduct of their investigations is a timely
document which embodies the ethos of Care, Challenge and
Commit.
6 Violations
It is the responsibility of each system owner to make sure
that they are keeping their departmental systems in
compliance with the above stated policy. Failure to do so
constitutes a violation of policy.
7 Enforcement
Post Office Security Operations Management will regularly
assess for compliance against this policy. Any violation of
this policy will be investigated and if the cause is found
to be due to wilful disregard or negligence, it will be
treated as a disciplinary offence. All disciplinary
proceedings are coordinated through the Human Resources
Department.
8 References

AE Application Enrolment Identity NPA Non Police Authority

AS Arrest Summons PACE Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984

ATM Automated Teller Machine PAH Primary Account Holder

CCTV Close Circuit Television PEACE

DPA Designated Prosecution Authority PNC Police National Computer

DVLA Department of Vehicle Licencing POCA Post Office Card Account

DWP. Department of Working Pensions POL Post Office LTD

ECF Event Capture Form POLCT Post Office Legal and Compliance Team

CONFIDENTIAL

25
POL00030670
POL00030670

CONFIDENTIAL
FES Financial Evaluation Summary PORA Planned Operation Risk Assessment
FI Financial Investigator ROMEC
HP Hewlett Packard SPMR Sub Postmaster
H&S Health and Safety Tc Transaction Correction
HSH Horizon System Helpdesk
NBSC Network Business Support Centre
NFSP National Federation of Sub Postmasters
CONFIDENTIAL

26
