POL00039629
POL00039629

Support Advisor

@

POL00039629
POL00039629

About Post Office

The Post Office has thrived at the heart of high streets and local communities across the UK for
over 370 years. As one of the country’s most trusted brands, we take our commitment to
providing essential services to customers across the UK very seriously.

We’re the UK's largest retail network, as well as the largest financial services provider in the UK,
with over 11,600 branches nationwide - more than all of the UK’s banks and building societies put
together.

We know that the best way to provide a great service for customers is to evolve our business and
adapt to their changing needs. That’s why we have a range of over 170 products and services, from
personal financial services like banking, insurance, payments and travel money, to telecoms and,
of course, mails. And we’re improving our online and in store experience for customers. We know
that our customers never stop changing, so neither will we.

Securing the future Post Office’s future:

We are working hard to ensure that the next chapter of the Post Office’s history is a bright one.

We are the current guardians of an iconic business and we want to hand over a thriving network
of branches which can continue to provide essential products and services for our customers for
many years to come. This is a uniquely exciting and challenging time for the Post Office - we’re
shaping the future and creating a business we can all be proud of.

Working at the Post Office:

Post Office colleagues are the driving force behind our business. Whether they are in our branches
or supporting from our offices, we are proud of the energy, commitment and customer focus our
people all have in common.

All Post Office people are guided by our three values and behaviours, see Code of Business
Standards:

We care by always thinking customer
We strive to make things ever better through honest challenge
We commit to decisive delivery

The basics
Job Title: Support Advisor
Grade: PO
Post Reports to: Team Manager
Division: Service and Support Optimisation
Business Unit: coo
Budget Responsibility: None
Number of Direct Reports: None
Location: Chesterfield

The purpose of the role

By showing a passion for resolution and showing Postmasters empathy by truly listening to them and putting
yourself in their shoes, you'll effectively deliver consistently high levels of Postmaster satisfaction via all
contact channels.

Page 2 of §
POL00039629
POL00039629

The role is challenging and isn’t for the faint hearted. Sometimes you won’t know the right answer, but
you're the kind of person who is always up for the challenge. You'll use your resilience and rely on your
resources and training to quickly research a detailed and honest response in order to support the Postmaster.

The role does lend opportunity for you to build meaningful relationships and create positive change for
Postmasters and the wider Post Office business. You'll be empowered to make decisions in the best interests
of the Postmaster and our business.

Principal accountabilities
As a Support Advisor your role will be to:

1. Provide quality service to Postmasters, focusing on finding ways to support therm with their issues
and queries.

2. Offer assistance to Postmasters in a multi-channel environment through telephone, web chat, and
email.

3. Take ownership of Postmaster issues, enquiries and complaints and manage them through to
resolution, ensuring Postmasters are kept up-to-date at all times.

4, Ensure that all case details are captured fully and accurately using case management applications.

5. Communicate outcomes to Postmasters simply, but effectively, ensuring that Postmasters are
satisfied with the outcomes you give.

6. Escalate any issues that you are unable to resolve, whilst making sure that the Postmaster is kept
up-to-date as the case is escalated.

7. Achieve agreed targets, particularly your quality and productivity targets.

8. Find and share opportunities to improve the service offered to Postmasters and in Post Office
processes.

9. Keep yourself up-to-date with changes within Post Office so that you can continue to offer great
service to Postmasters.

You will also have role specific bolt-on accountabilities. These are:
Branch Support Advisor

Your role will be providing first line support to our Postmasters and branches when they raise issues and
queries with Post Office relating to the operation of their branch. You will be an expert in Post Office branch
operations and know how to help Postmasters and branches resolve their issues. You will also complete
administrative activities to ensure that issues captured in first line support are effectively managed and
resolved for Postmasters and branches.

IT Support Advisor

Your role will be providing first line support to our Postmasters, branches and colleagues when they raise
issues and queries relating to IT. You will be an expert in Post Office IT and systems and know how to help
Postmasters, branches and colleagues resolve their issues. You will work with the Post Office IT team and our
IT suppliers to develop ways of working to ensure that issues captured in first line support are effectively
managed and resolved.

Issue Resolution Support Advisor

Your role will be managing through to resolution feedback, issues and complaints raised by Postmasters and
branches. You will be an expert in Post Office branch operations and have relationships across Post Office
that allow you to coordinate responses to Postmasters. You will be dealing with multiple cases at any one
time, focusing on fast and effective first-time resolution.

Network Monitoring Support Advisor

Your role will be using data sources to effectively monitor the compliance and risk in the Post Office branch
network, with a focus on the integrity and accuracy of cash and stock in the network. You will be an expert in
Post Office branch operations and be able to support Postmasters and branches where you identify
compliance issues or risk. You will be dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on fast and
effective first-time resolution of the issues you identify in the network.

Page 3 of S
POL00039629
POL00039629

Network Support Advisor

Your role will be using data sources to effectively monitor the compliance in the Post Office branch network,
You will be an expert in Post Office branch operations and be able to support Postmasters and branches
where you identify compliance issues. You will be dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on
fast and effective first-time resolution of the issues you identify in the network.

Reconciliation Support Advisor

Your role will be using multiple data sources, including Horizon and third party client or customer data, to
identify where transaction corrections are required to support branches to maintain accurate branch
accounts. You will be an expert in the Post Office products that you monitor and be able to support
Postmasters and branches where you identify the requirement for a transaction correction. You will be
dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on ensuring that transaction corrections are delivered
quickly and effectively to branches.

Enquiries Support Advisor

Your role will be dealing with enquiries from branches and third party clients where transactional errors have
been identified that may require transaction corrections. You will be an expert in the Post Office products
that you support and be able to support Postmasters, branches and third parties to attempt to resolve the
transactional errer. You will be dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on ensuring that
enquiries are dealt with quickly and effectively and that any required transaction corrections are delivered
quickly and effectively to branches in order for branches to maintain accurate branch accounts.

Tier 2 Resolution Support Advisor

Your role will be investigating balancing queries and transaction correction disputes raised by Postmasters
and branches. You will be an expert in Post Office branch operations, particularly branch accounting
processes, and be able to use multiple data sources to support Postmasters and branches to find the causes
of branch discrepancies. You will be dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on fast and
effective first-time resolution of the balancing query or dispute.

Postmaster Account Support Advisor

Your role will be providing support to Postmasters and branches for any balances settled centrally (or to a
nominee account) at the end of trading periods. You will be an expert in Post Office branch operations,
particularly branch accounting processes, and be able to support Postmasters and branches to identify if the
cause of the discrepancy has been established or requires further investigation. You will manage the
processes for resolving established gains and losses with current and former Postmasters and multiple
partners. You will be dealing with multiple cases at any one time, focusing on fast and effective resolution.

Qualifications, experience and skills
Experience required

* You will have experience of working in a service environment.

« You will have experience of working to service levels and quality targets.

e You will demonstrate good all-round IT skills, be able to use the Microsoft Office and be familiar with
case management applications.

e You will have excellent verbal and written communication skills.

* You will be used to acting as a brand ambassador.

Skills required

e Empathetic - You'll be able to put yourself in your Postmasters’ shoes and understand their individual
circumstances

Committed ~ You will want to do the best job you can possibly do to making Postmasters lives better
Curious - You're always looking to find different ways of doing things

Attentive - You enjoy listening to Postmasters and what matters most to them

Connected - You want to develop strong, trust-based relationships

Page 4 of
POL00039629
POL00039629

e Courageous ~ You are willing to put your neck on the line to drive change

Where does this role fit in with the rest of the team?

IT permissions

Please note that the following section is to be completed by the Line Manager:

IT permissions

Job Role

TT Equipment Standard Equipment
Applications Standard Application Build
System Access Standard System Build

Other System/Application Credence, POLSAP, HoRice, MapPoint, Success Factors, Quatrix
Approved by [System

Owner]

Job Title [System Owner]

Date

Page Sof
