POL00460717
POL00460717

Audience Drafting Getting SEG sign-off _I Publishing Timing
Note to Board OW - OW COMPLETE
DBT (policy & press) I OW : OW COMPLETE
UKGI : : LG COMPLETE
ModJ (policy & press) I MS : MS COMPLETE
Horizon Inquiry GL - GL COMPLETE
Peters & Peters NM : NM/MS COMPLETE
Advisory Board NM : SR COMPLETE
FOl team MC - RM COMPLETE
Statement for MC /TB MC / TB Cardew JK COMPLETE
website Cardew

Note to colleagues - I MC - RS COMPLETE
Digest

Note in weekly MC - AB COMPLETE
Postmaster email

Statement for website - PUBLISHED

https://corporate.postoffice.co.uk/en/governance/key-reports-statements/letter-to-justice-
secretary-january-2024/

Post Office is today publishing correspondence from 9th January 2024, sent by the Post
Office to the Ministry of Justice, copied to the Department for Business and Trade.

The purpose of the correspondence was to explain the work that Post Office had requested
its legal counsel, Peters & Peters, undertake to proactively identify, on the papers available,
any convictions that could be unsafe. This was primarily to offer the Government any
support that might assist them as they consider relevant issues in advance of passing
legislation, without any value judgement on what the correct course of action might be.

The letter references a note provided by Post Office’s legal counsel, this note was not
solicited by Post Office and, as can be seen, was sent to express the personal views of its
author. Post Office was in no way seeking to persuade Government against mass
exoneration.

Post Office are fully supportive of any steps taken by Government to speed up the
exoneration of those with wrongful convictions and to provide redress to victims, with the
information having been provided to inform that consideration.

Note to Board - SENT

The Advisory Board has asked for a copy of Nick’s letter to the Lord Chancellor and the
associated legal advice. They want it before their meeting late morning tomorrow. We think
it would be inappropriate to refuse, and so we will release in the morning. But
simultaneously, we will publish both on our website with context (i.e. the legal advice was
unsolicited and we were rightly obliged to share it with Govt etc). We need to determine
whether NV’s name is redacted or not. And Lorna, I would appreciate your advice on
whether/who we should advise in Govt.

One other matter. I answered questions (quite robustly) about HS’s actions and the
suggestion that we were asked to slow down compensation at our Town Hall meeting this
morning. It turns out that someone recorded this and has shared my comments with the
Guardian who will be publishing this evening.
POL00460717
POL00460717

Advisory Board covering letter - SENT

Thank you for your email requesting sight of Nick Read’s letter to the Lord Chancellor, a
copy of which is attached. I have also attached a copy of the Peters and Peters note
referred to in Nick’s letter. This note was not solicited by Post Office and, as can be seen,
was sent to express the personal views of its author. Post Office are fully supportive of any
steps taken by Government to speed up the exoneration of those with wrongful convictions
and to provide redress to victims, with the attached information having been provided to
inform that consideration.

In the interests of transparency we are publishing the letter and the Peters & Peters’ note
on our website shortly.

We stand ready to assist the Advisory Board and wider Government in any way we can.
Similarly, Peters and Peters would be happy to attend to answer any questions you or your
colleagues may have.

Note in Postmaster weekly email - SENT

Following recent media and political interest, we have today published two documents
shared with government in January relating to legal work surrounding the convictions of
Postmasters. Post Office remains committed to righting the wrongs of the past and fully
supports the government's efforts to speed up the exoneration of those with wrongful
convictions and to provide redress to victims.

Colleague note — One Digest - SENT

Following recent media and political interest, we have today p' iS
shared with government in January relating to legal work surrounding the convictions of
Postmasters. Post Office remains committed to righting the wrongs of the past and fully
supports the government's efforts to speed up the exoneration of those with wrongful
convictions and to provide redress to victims.

