POL00397360
POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Rtnmaassenan

HNG X Programme

PCI Incident Response Plan

Author(s) Richard Barber
Reviewer(s) POL Head of Information Security (Sue Lowther)
HNG Design Authority
(Torstein Godeseth)
PCI Project Manager
(Connie Penn)
Security Incident Manager
(Alan Simpson)
Head of POL Security
(John Scott)
Live Service and Business Continuity Manager
(Gary Blackburn)
Head of Product & Branch Accounting
(Rod Ismay)
Sign off authority Sue Lowther
Reference configuration POL/HNG/PLA/OO1
Operational Baseline Number
Version 0.52
Status Issued
Classification Working Document
Date October 2010
Circulation HNGxX Joint Test Team, Operations Control,

POL Security teams

Date of Issue 27/05/2008

Draft Version 0.5

POL-BSFF-0224030

Page 7 of 30
Information Security

POL00397360

POL00397360

PCI Incident Response Plan

1 Document Control
1.1 Version History
0.1 18/02/2008 First version of PCI Incident Response Plan
02 22/02/2008 Updated following informal review
03 29/02/2008 Including comments from informal review
04 13/05/2008 Including comments from formal HNGX review
Expanded forensic process
Added appendix for approved QFls
Added appendix for Streamline incident helpdesk
05 27/05/2008 Revised to include Major Incident Alert and further comments from
review team
Added reference to ACPO Guidelines for computer evidence.
1.2. Change Co-ordinator

13

All changes to this document are to be sent to the Change Controller below:

Name
Business Address

Business Telephone Number(s)
Email Address

Related Documents

HNG Project Support Office
148 Old Street
London

EC1V 9HQ

1 CON/MGM/006 CMT high level procedures 0.53
2 S15 RMG Information Security Incident
Response Policy (S15)
3 PCI DSS Payment Card Industry Data Security 1
Standard
4 ACPO Guidelines Good Practice Guide for Computer-based I 4
Electronic Evidence (Association of Chief
Police Officers)
5 1S027001 Information technology. Security 2005

techniques. Information security
management systems. Requirements

Date of Issue 27/05/2008

Draft Version 0.5 Page 2 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0001
Information Security

POL00397360
POL00397360

PCI Incident Response Plan

1.4 Abbreviations

Card Schemes Means those companies that produce payment cards (credit or
debit) e.g. Mastercard, VISA, American Express, Diners Club, JCB etc

CPP Common Point of Purchase. A term used by the Card Schemes to
refer to merchants suspected of being used to compromise
payment cards

QFI Qualified Forensic Investigator. An investigator who has expertise
examining computer systems for evidence of malicious activity
For this PC! Incident Response Plan such investigators must be
approved by the Card Schemes otherwise they must not be
engaged to investigate a PCI Incident. Refer to Appendix A.

Fs Fujitsu Services Ltd

HNGX Horizon Next Generation

HNGx Data Centre Fujitsu Services Data Centre(s) used for provision of services for
HNGX

IRE11/IRE19 Fujitsu Data Centres for HNGX. IRE11 is Primary. IRE19 is

Secondary

Merchant Acquirer

An organisation, usually a bank, that contracts with one or more
Card Schemes to engage and contract with merchants who will
accept payment for goods or services by a payment card (credit or
debit)

PAN Primary Account Number. This is the number embossed on the
face side of a credit or debit card. Usually 16 digits in 4 groups of 4
but may vary by Card Scheme

Pcl Payment Card Industry

POA Fujitsu Services Post Office Account (= RMGA)

POL Post Office Ltd

RMG Royal Mail Group

RMGA Fujitsu Services RMG Account (= POA)

SAN Storage Area Network

User ‘An employee of Royal Mail Group, a contractor ora third party

employee, authorised to access Royal Mail Group information
systems for resources or for the purpose of providing IT support or
maintenance.

Date of Issue 27/05/2008

Draft Version 0.5

Page 3 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0002
POL00397360

POL00397360
Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
This page intentionally left Blank
Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 4 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0003
POL00397360

POL00397360
Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
Contents
[TOC \o "1-3" \h\z]
Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 5 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0004
POL00397360

POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

2 Introduction

While the POL Major Incident Management process is owned and managed by the Business Continuity

Team within Operations Control the PCI aspect is owned by Information Security which manages and

escalates a PCI incident as far as possible using processes already established within POL.

A PCI Incident may impact POL in a number of ways. Minor incidents will be handled using established

processes within and across POL Security teams

‘A Major PCI Incident will require escalation to and management by the Operation Control Major Incident

Management Process as defined in document CON/MGM/006.

This document derives from RMG Information Security Incident Response Policy (S15).

2.1 Purpose

The purpose of this document is as follows:

® =To define a PCI Incident

® To specify how a PCI Incident should be categorised.

® To define the roles and responsibilities in managing a PCI Incident at its various stages and the
methods by which management will be notified and informed of an incident

® To outline the forensic response to a Major PCI Incident

© To define why and when a Major PCI Incident may necessitate the elective invocation of a Major
Business Continuity Incident at the HNGX Data Centres

® To identify reporting requirements

© —Toidentify test requirements and propose test scenarios

22 Scope

This document applies to POL HNGX programme after it goes live.

This document only applies in respect of the contract between POL and Streamline. It does not apply to.

any other payment card service used by or for POL.

This document does not apply to suppliers other than Fujitsu Services Ltd Post Office Account.

This document does not apply to any Web Portal.

3 PCI Incident Definition

APC Incident is one where information is received that indicates that cardholder data may have been

compromised. It is not necessary to demonstrate that cardholder data has been compromised to

declare an incident. Part of the PCI Incident Response Plan will be an investigation to confirm whether a

compromise has or has not taken place.

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 6 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0005
POL00397360
POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

PCI Incidents are defined as Minor or Major.

3.1 Minor PCI Incident Definition

The definition of a Minor PCI Incident is not an exact science and will involve the judgement of the POL
Security Incident Manager. Such an incident will typically appear to be the work of opportunist theft not
organised crime.

Such an incident is one where, for example:

a) Up to 1,000 cardholder details are suspected of being compromised over a period of 12
months or more in four or more locations, AND

b) It can be shown conclusively that a HNGX Data Centre cannot have been involved in the
compromise

3.2. Major PCI Incident Alert Definition

The definition of a Major PCI Incident Alert is not an exact science and should involve the judgement of
the POL Security Incident Manager and the POL Head of Information Security, The evidence giving rise
to an Alert will appear to be an organised activity to obtain credit or debit card details and will
necessarily imply large scale compromise of data. Regardless of the volumes of data involved an Major
Incident Alert will be raised if any HNGX Data Centre appears to be involved, The suspicion that an
HNGX Data Centre is involved will depend on an interpretation of the circumstances surrounding the
allegation and the evidence obtained.

Thus a Major PCI Incident Alert is one where, for example:

a) asingle large volume compromise appears to have occurred e.g. more than 1,000
cardholder details over a period of no more than one week in four or less locations, OR

b) the evidence indicates that payment card data compromised may have come from POL
systems.

(2) Where a Merchant Acquirer has announced POL to be a Common Point of Purchase (CPP).

4 PCl Incident Management

This section describes the entry points to the PCI Incident Management Process and the decision points.
leading to a Minor Incident declaration or a Major Incident declaration.

The process is shown in Figure 1 on page [ PAGEREF Figure_1 \h ]. and described in Table 1 on page [
REF Table_1 \h ][ REF Table_1 \h ][ PAGEREF Table_1 \h ].

4.1 Initial Reporting

An Initial Report is one made by any POL team receiving an allegation from any source that payment
card data may have been compromised while in the possession of POL.

Sources include (but are not limited to): Business Partners, Suppliers or External Agencies, Customers or
Users,

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 7 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0006
POL00397360

POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
Itis also possible that the Merchant Acquirer may be the source. This may occur if POL has been
identified as a Common Point of Purchase (CPP).
An Initial Report is the first indication received of the possible compromise of cardholder data whilst in
the POL environment (counters, business processes, data centre networks, systems, suppliers etc).
Each POL team that may be expected to make an Initial Report must ensure they know what
information must be obtained from the source. See Section [ REF _Ref191293597 \r \h ] and [ REF
_Ref 191302592 \r \h ]
42 Escalation Path
The Initial Report must be passed to the first person in the list below. That person must respond with a
positive written confirmation that the Initial Report has been received and that they are dealing with it.
If no such response is received within 24 hours then the Initial Report must be passed to the next person
on the list in exactly the same manner and each time allowing 24 hours for a response.

1 POL Security Incident Manager

2 POL Head of Information Security

3 POL Operations Live Service Manager
43 Severity Analysis
The person receiving the Initial Report (as defined in the Escalation Path section [ REF __Ref191991069
\r\h }) will obtain, confirm and review the evidence of the incident if it is not provided with the Initial
Report. It is presumed that such evidence will be a copy of the cardholder data that is alleged to have
been compromised, The content and format of the cardholder data may point to how the incident may
have taken place.
The POL Security Incident Manager or the POL Head of Information Security must review the evidence
and classify the severity of the incident as Minor or raise a Major Incident Alert. See Section [ REF
_Ref191122514\r\h]
If the Initial Report has found its way to the POL Operations Live Service Manager their responsibility
will be to acquire the evidence as above and ensure that it is reviewed by the POL Security Incident
Manager or the POL Head of Information Security. If that is not possible the evidence is reviewed and
the incident severity determined as Minor or a Major Incident Alert is issued by the POL Operations Live
Service Manager in conjunction with a senior manager within POL who will take responsibility for the
incident in the place of the POL Head of Information Security and fulfil all the relevant duties in respect
of the incident process.
If no evidence exists then the incident is closed,
The Severity Analysis will be entered into the Incident Report.
Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 8 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0007
POL00397360

POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

44 Initial PCI Incident Report

The POL Security Incident Manager is responsible for completing a PCI Incident Report. These reports
will use the general incident report format used for all Information Security incidents.

PCI Minor Incident Reports are passed to the POL Head of Information Security and reviewed on a
monthly basis.

PCI Major Incident Alerts must be passed to the POL Head of Information Security within one hour of
the Major Incident Alert being determined.

45 — PCI Minor Incident Declaration

Based on the evidence received the POL Security Incident Manager may declare an incident a PC! Minor
Incident.

The POL Security Incident Manager will also pass a copy of the PCI Incident Report to the Head of
Product and Branch Accounting in the Finance Department so that the Merchant Acquirer can be
informed of the incident. The PCI Incident Report remains open until the incident is resolved. The PCI
Incident Report must be updated with any progress made and this must also be communicated to the
Merchant Acquirer through the normal channels. See Section [ REF _Ref191314394 \r\h ]

If the Initial Report and the evidence shows that a HNGX Data Centre may be implicated then the
incident is automatically a PC! Major Incident.

NB In addition to the PCI Incident Response process all PC! Minor Incidents should be passed to the POL
Security (Fraud) Team for investigation of the possible fraud.

46 PCI Major Incident Alert

If the person reviewing the evidence decides it justifies a PCI Major Incident Alert the PCI Incident
Report must be passed to the POL Head of Information Security within 1 hour of the Alert being issued.

The POL Head of Information Security will review the allegation and the evidence and must confirm or
downgrade the Severity Analysis.

If the Severity Analysis is confirmed this is entered into the PCI Incident Report and a PCI Major Incident
Alert is issued. This is described in Section [ REF _Ref191314464 \r\h ].

Once a PCI Major Incident Alert is raised it will necessitate the sare process as used by POL Operations

for a Major Incident using CON/MGM/006. The circumstances and the evidence will be reviewed by the

Working Group which will direct an investigation to confirm whether the Alert merits being escalated to
a Major Incident Declaration.

Itis required that the Working Group will confer with POL senior management, POL Operations, POL
Head of Information Security and the Supplier before electing to declare a Major Incident.

Both the investigation and any subsequent Elective Disconnect must be achieved in a forensically
sound manner in accordance with both ACPO Guidelines and the QFI requirements of the Card
Schemes. The latter may be found in Appendix D.

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 9 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0008
POL00397360

POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

47 — PCI Major Incident Declaration

If the Major Incident Alert is confirmed then the Working Group must issue a PCI Major Incident
Declaration. POL then has 72 hours in which to engage a QFI. The decision to initiate and complete the
Elective Disconnect of IRE11 will be made by the Working Group as part of the POL Operations Major
Incident Management Process,

The Elective Disconnect must be achieved in a forensically sound manner in accordance with both
ACPO Guidelines and the QFI requirements of the Card Schemes. The former may be downloaded from
the Internet? and the latter may be found in Appendix D.

The POL Head of Information Security must pass a copy of the PCI Incident Report to the Head of
Product and Branch Accounting in the Finance Department so that the Merchant Acquirer can be
informed of the Major Incident. The PCI Incident Report must be updated by the POL Head of
Information Security as part of the Working Group (see Section [ REF _Ref196586554 \r \h }) with any
progress made and this must also be communicated to the Merchant Acquirer through the normal
channels.

The POL Operations Major Incident Management Process (CON/MGM/006) must be used to manage the
incident. See Section 6.

5 PCI Minor Incident Management Process

APCI Minor Incident will not have occurred within the HNGX Data Centres. However applications hosted
within the HNGX Data Centres may have been used to compromise cardholder data.

PCI Minor Incidents could be a result of abuse of Horizon systems, Post Office processes or Supplier
systems or processes by POL, RMG or Supplier staff using privileges to obtain cardholder data from
Audit, Transaction Enquiry or other systems. Or they could be the result of PO Counter staff falsely
obtaining cardholder data at the Counter e.g. through techniques such as “skimming”.

The POL Security Incident Manager will obtain, confirm and review the evidence of the incident. It is
presumed that such evidence will be a copy of the cardholder data that is purported to have been
compromised. The content and format of the cardholder data can point to how and/or where the
incident may have taken place.

Minor Incidents will be passed to and investigated by the POL Security Team. The POL Security Team
will become responsible for the incident and will report progress back to the POL Security Incident
Manager who will update the Incident Report and distribute according to Section [ REF _Ref191297306
\W\h].

Whichever team receives a PCI Minor Incident Declaration will investigate the incident following their
normal processes and with due regard to safeguarding evidence that may be needed for a prosecution.

6 PCI Major Incident Management Process

6.1 Introduction

In the event of a major incident, activities must be co-ordinated within POL and Supplier businesses in
order to minimise adverse impact and protect service to both customers and clients. Due to the large

* http ”Awmw.acpo.police.uk/asp'policies/DatalACPO%20Guidelines%20v18,pdf
2 http:/www.7safe.com/electronic_evidence/ACPO_guidelines_computer_evidence pdf

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 10 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0009
POL00397360
POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

number of teams and activities involved this cannot effectively be managed by POL Information
Security,

Consequently a PCI Major Incident requires the invocation of the Operations Control Major Incident
Management Process.

This process is identified in Operations Control Procedure CON/MGM/006. The highest incident level in
that process is Level 3 and is applicable to a PCI Major Incident.

The reason that a Major PCI Incident is automatically a Level 3 Major Incident is because the
requirements of the forensic investigation process may necessitate the decision to disconnect the
entire data centre from alll its connecting networks in order to preserve and analyse the data within for
evidence.

The Elective Disconnect is described in [ REF _Ref197514729 \r \h ] below.

6.2 Differences from Operations Control Procedure CON/MGM/006

This description and the Operations Control Process refers to the ‘Working Group’. This is made up of all
or specified members of the POL Business Protection Team, as selected by the POL Live Service Team
for the specific incident.

The key difference is that a Major PCI Incident Alert invokes the POL Major Incident Management
Process and convenes a Working Group from the Business Protection Team.

Under this change the Alert is managed as though it were an actual incident to ensure proper
management and investigation can take place and to meet the requirements of the Merchant Acquirer
and the Card Schemes.

The investigation of a PCI Major Incident Alert and any subsequent Declaration requires the formal
engagement of an external company approved by MasterCard and VISA to provide a Qualified Forensic
Investigator (QF!). Normally this QFI is imposed by the Card Scheme usually via the Merchant Acquirer.
However it is vital that POL engage their own pre-selected QFI.

The POL Head of Information Security will maintain a list of POL approved QF! company in Appendix F
of this document using the process defined there.

The POL Live Service Team within Operations Control retains the co-ordination point for this incident
process.

The POL Head of Information Security must be an active participant in the Working Group. If the POL
Head of Information Security is not available they will appoint a substitute and will communicate this
to the Live Service Team. If the POL Head of Information Security cannot be contacted then the POL
Operations Manager will assume that role supported by members of the Working Group.

The POL Head of Information Security will report the progress and findings of the forensic investigation
to the Working Group established to manage the incident.

The Working Group must ensure that the PCI Incident Report reflects any progress made during the
incident investigation and is formally communicated to the Merchant Acquirer via the Head of Product
and Branch Accounting.

The POL Security Incident Manager must re-locate to the HNGX Data Centre where the investigation is
taking place and act as coordinator and liaison between the POL Head of Information Security, the
HNGxX Data Centre Incident Response Team and the QFI.

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 11 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0010
POL00397360
POL00397360

PCI Incident Response Plan

Information Security

Figure 1: PCI Incident Management Flowchart

, 4.
{ START )
XY = J

¥

Incident
Reported

aa

PCI Incident
Report

“Beverity
Analysis —~

Se (@)

Minor Incident

POL Security Team le
Declared

Investigation

Major

Downgrade Severity

a. ee

Verify Major
Incident

y y

Inform Merchant Acquirer

v
Engage
Forensic
Investigation
Team

Establish local Escalate to POL
liaison at POA Live Service
Data Centre Team

ea

wa

¥
Transfer incident
management to
POL Live
Service Team

‘Appoint working group
and hold conference call a
‘See CON/MGM/PLA/001

cf Box 5 Figure 1 and =
Table
First formal advisory to
Merchant Acquirer

Page 12 of 30

Date of Issue 27/05/2008

Draft Version 0.5

POL-BSFF-0224030_0011
Information Security

POL00397360
POL00397360

PCI Incident Response Plan

Table 1: PCI In

lent Management Process

1 I Incident reported Incident identified (clause [ REF _Ref191991055 \\h)
The Initial Report is passed to the POL Security Incident Manager or another member of the Escalation
path (clause [ REF _Ref191991069 \r\h }). A minimum of 24 hours and a maximum of 72 hours is
allowed
ZI PClincident Report © The Initial Report is reviewed Within one business] POL Security
© Copy of Evidence is obtained day of Initial Report yee
@ Incident Report opened sitenative.
3. I Severity Analysis Evidence reviewed and incident is Within 2hoursof I POL Security
© closed, or Incident Report Incident
© classified as Minor, or being opened Manager or
alternative
@ assessed as Major
if the incident is Minor impact go to box 11. If the incident is Major proceed to box 4:
4 I Verify Major incident Tneident Report with Severity Analysis and evidence is Within 1 day of POL Security
passed to Head of Information Security if a Major raising a Major Incident
Incident Alert is issued Incident Alert Manager or
alternative
5. I Confirm Severity Analysis incident Report with Severity Analysis and evidence is Within 1 day of POL Head of
assessed. If downgraded incident passes back to POL raising a Major Information
Security Incident Manager. If confirmed the Alert is Incident Alert Security or
escalated to the POL Live Service Team who will initiate alternative
an investigation to determine if a Major Incident
Declaration is warranted
If Severity Analysis is downgraded go to box 11. If the incident is confirmed as Major proceed to box [ REF _Ref191302110\r\h]
6. I Escalate to POL Live Service Team Email Incident Report to POL Live Service Team Within 1 day of POL Head of
© follow up with phone call raising a Major Information
Incident Alert Security or
© Set out PCI Major Incident Management Process stenanve
requirements should these be needed
7, I Engage Forensic investigation Team @ Select and engage OF from list of POL approved Within 3daysof I POL Head of
companies raising a Major Information
© Authorise OF! to investigate Alert Incident Alert Security or
© OFlwill report whether Alert is justified obernane
8. I Establish local liaison at HNGX Data Centre POL Security Incident Manager relocated to POA to effect I Within 3days of I POL Head of
local liaison and incident management with Supplier raising a Major Information
teams Incident Alert Security or

Date of Issue 27/05/2008

Draft Version 0.5

Page 13 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0012
Information Security

POL00397360
POL00397360

PCI Incident Response Plan

[Box] Title” Description

9. I Transfer incident management to POL Live Service Team Control of Incident is passed to POL Live Service Team inI Within 7 day of POL Head of
conjunction with POL Head of Information Security raising a Major Information
because of specialist security assessments and skills, Incident Alert. Security or
required alternative

10. I Appoint working group and hold conference call The POL Live Service Team appoints a working group to I Within 1 day of POL Live Service
participate in the management of the incident. raising a Major Team and

Incident Alert. appointed
The working group will be made up of appropriate working group.
representatives from the Business Protection Team,
relevant POL business/technical managers and
appropriate representation from supplier domains [if
appropriate]
If Alert is confirmed then a conference call is held and will
decide next steps; initiate the Elective Disconnect and
compose the first formal (contractually required)
communication with the Merchant Acquirer.
On direction from the Working Group and MIEG the Head
of Product and Branch Accounting will formally
communicate the existence of the Major Incident to the
Merchant Acquirer through the established channels
Further communication with Merchant Acquirer will be via
Head of Product & Branch Accounting at intervals to be
agreed with Merchant Acquirer or as directed by Working
Group
Low impact incident [continued from box 3]:

11. I Minor incident Declared @ Incident confirmed as Minor on Incident Report Within 4hoursof I POL Security

© Copy of PCI Incident Report sent to Head of Product I incident being Incident
and Branch Accounting for formal communication to I Confirmed as Minor I Manager or
Merchant Acquirer. alternative

12. I POL Security Team Investigation POL Security Incident Manager passes control of incident I Within 4 hours of POL Security
to POL Security Team for investigation (PCI Minor incident being Incident
Incidents are managed using existing business as usual confirmed as Minor I Manager or
processes by the POL Security Team) alternative

13. I Inform Merchant Acquirer Head of Product and Branch Accounting formally Within 4 hours of Head of Product
communicates PCI Incident Report to Merchant Acquirer I receiving Minor PCI I and Branch
and acts as liaison for future updates to this report. Incident report Accounting or

Date of Issue 27/05/2008

Draft Version 0.5

Page 14 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0013
POL00397360
POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

alternative

If a PCI Minor Incident escalates to a PCI Major Incident, i.e. the initial impact worsens, then the incident would be reassessed and the process would proceed to box 4.

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5

Page 15 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0014
POL00397360

POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

7 Reporting

7.1 Initial Reports

An Initial Report is the first indication received of the possible compromise of cardholder data whilst in
the POL environment (counters, business processes, data centre networks, systems, suppliers etc).

An Initial Report is a term that describes the details that must be taken when it becomes apparent that
cardholder data may have been compromised.

An Initial Report may arise from any Supplier or External Agency or from within POL or RMG

An Initial Report may be taken by any of the channels that normally receive calls from any party
external or internal to POL. Examples of external parties could be Law Enforcement Agencies, Suppliers,
Merchant Acquirer, APACS, members of the public, the media — this is not an exhaustive list.

The channels that might receive calls from external parties could be Business Service Centres, RMG
Corporate Security Centre, POL Security Team, RMG Portal Webmaster(s), eBusiness team, Horizon
Service Desk or National Business Support Centre.

Whichever channel receives a call from an external or internal (POL or RMG) party should log the call
using their local procedure and in addition ensure they obtain the details for an Initial Report and then
pass the details to the POL Security Incident Manager in POL Information Security.

The details that must be taken for a Initial Report are defined in [ REF _Ref191303020 \r \h J.

7.2 PCIIncident Reports

PCI Incident reports must be completed and logged by the POL Security Incident Manager using the
normal Incident Report format or as otherwise determined. Within any Incident Reports PCI Incidents
must be clearly marked as such

PCI Incident Reports will include all the details of the Initial Report plus the Severity Analysis.
Additionally the PCI Incident Report will include a unique Incident number; a summary of the incident,
status of incident, issues arising from incident and chase/resolution dates.

The PCI Incident Report must be updated until closed. Updates for Minor incidents must be copied
directly to the Head of Product & Branch Accounting for onward communication to the Merchant
Acquirer in accordance with the requirements of the contract between POL and the Merchant Acquirer.
Updates for Major incidents must be passed to the Working Group and then communicated to the
Merchant Acquirer via the Head of Product & Branch Accounting.

PCI Minor Incident Reports are passed to the POL Head of Information Security and reviewed ona
monthly basis.

7.3 PCI Major Incident Reports
Itis presumed that PCI Major Incidents will only occur within HNGX Data Centres.
The POL Security Incident Manager will complete a PCI Major Incident Report as soon as the incident is

declared. This report will be made available to all management involved in deciding how to manage the
Incident.

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 16 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0015
POL00397360

POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
The PCI Major Incident Report must include a unique incident reference (which clearly shows the
incident as Major) and will describe the incident, the reason for the severity (which will also describe the
evidence), the status and the likelihood that the Data Centres are at risk.
PCI Major Incident Reports will be updated following the process for reporting defined in the Operations
Control Major Incident Management Process.
The POL Security Incident Manager will liaise with external organisations involved in the incident e.g.
Third Parties, Forensic experts etc in preparing a Post Incident Report. All such liaison will be
communicated to the POL Head of Information Security and be communicated via the channels
implemented within the Operations Control Major Incident Management Process.
The POL Security Incident Manager will complete and distribute a post-incident report, initially within
one week of the incident. Such report will include a root-cause analysis and will be passed to the POL
Head of Information Security to approve and distribute to senior management.
8 Testing
PCI DSS requires the plan be tested at least annually. The POL Security Incident Manager is responsible
for ensuring that test plans are provided and appropriate
Test scenarios may be worked into the existing Business Continuity tests and this is preferable for a
Major Incident.
Testing must include a scenario where a Merchant Acquirer declares POL is a Common Point of
Purchase.
Minor incidents should be tested more frequently and should cover likely scenarios involving low
numbers of cardholder details e.g. 100 PANs over 6 months
Tests should at least focus on:

a. ensuring that channels of communication work as expected and are timely

b. ensuring that Initial Reports are accurate and reliable

« ensuring that evidence is gathered

d. ensuring that severity analyses are conducted; are effective and are appropriate

e. confirming that staff, third parties and especially key suppliers are aware of their

responsibilities and have effective incident processes in place

f. confirming that all third party forensic response and capability is appropriate and effective.

g. ensuring that lessons learned are adopted back into the incident process
9 Awareness and Training
PCI DSS requires that appropriate training be given to those with security breach responsibilities. The
POL Security Incident Manager is responsible for ensuring that Awareness & Training is planned; that
content is appropriate; that relevant staff are trained or made aware and that the POL Head of
Information Security received a report on its effectiveness.
Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 17 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0016
POL00397360

POL00397360
Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
The Awareness & Training content needs to ensure, at the least, that the following teams, in POL, RMG
and Third Parties, are aware of their roles and responsibilities in the event of a suspected and a declared
breach:
a. Security teams
b. Helpdesk teams.
c. Operations teams
As a minimum training needs to focus on:
a. Awareness of the importance of and need for Payment Card Industry cardholder data
security
b. Appreciation of the potential impact of a Major incident
ie Awareness of the PCI Incident Response Plan
d. How to complete an Initial Report;
e Ensuring that Initial Reports are passed to correct contact with positive confirmation of
receipt
f. Ensuring that incident information is not disclosed to unauthorised parties and especially
‘that POL liability is not admitted
Staff with specialist roles must receive training appropriate to their responsibilities.
Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 18 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0017
POL00397360
POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix A Payment Card Industry?

Card schemes set the business rules that govern the issue of the payment cards that carry their logo.
Typically, these rules apply throughout the world to ensure interoperability of cards. In many countries,
domestic schemes also operate. The schemes operate the clearing and settlement of payment card
transactions. In the UK, banks and building societies must be members of the appropriate scheme to
issue cards and acquire card transactions. Examples of international card schemes in the UK are [
HYPERLINK "http//www.apacs.org.uk/resources_publications/glossary_8.html" \I “Visa” ], [ HYPERLINK
“http/www.apacs.org.uk/resources_publications/glossary_5.html’ \I "MasterCard" ], American Express
and Diners Club.

A Merchant Acquirer is a bank having a business relationship with merchants, retailers and other service
providers to process their plastic card transactions. Acquirers obtain financial settlement from the card
issuers, typically via the [ HYPERLINK "http//www.apacs.org.uk/resources_publications/glossary.html" \I
“card_scheme#tcard_scheme’ ] which maintain the clearing systems, and pay the proceeds to the
merchant, charging a fee.

The Card Schemes define a security standard on all merchants which is legally binding on all merchants
by virtue of their contract with the Acquiring Bank. For the purposes of this document the Merchant
Acquirer for POL is Streamline. This standard is the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI
Dss).

PCI DSS requirements are applicable if a Primary Account Number (PAN) is stored, processed, or
transmitted. If a PAN is not stored, processed, or transmitted, PCI DSS requirements do not apply. At
present the design for HNGX falls under these requirements.

The PCI DSS security standard requires a documented incident process for any incident that affects or
may affect the security of cardholder data. This documented process is required to be audited and
tested annually and must be invoked should it be suspected that cardholder data may have been
compromised.

Cardholder data includes all data on the Payment Card or on its magnetic stripe or encoded into the
chip if it is a so-called Chip and Pin card. This data includes but is not limited to the: Primary Account
Number (PAN), Cardholder name, Service code, Expiration date, Security codes (e.g. CVV2 etc), magnetic
stripe data, PIN code etc.

Qualified Forensic Investigators are approved by VISA for investigating breaches of payment card data.
VISA maintains this list for themselves. Other Card Schemes also may use this list. The list may be found
at [ HYPERLINK “http:/Awww.visaeurope.com/" ] by searching for the term” Qualified Forensic
Investigator’,

° http://www apacs.org.uk/tesources_publications/glossary_7.html

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 19 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0018
POL00397360
POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix B Excerpt from PCI DSS v2 [October 2010]

12.9 Implement an incident response plan. Be prepared to respond immediately to a system
breach.

12.9.1 Create the incident response plan to be implemented in the event of system compromise.
Ensure the plan addresses, at a minimum: roles, responsibilities, and communication and
contact strategies in the event of a compromise including notification of the payment
brands (for example, informing the Acquirers and credit card associations), specific
incident response procedures, business recovery and continuity procedures, data backup
processes.

12.9.2 Test the plan at least annually

12.9.3 Designate specific personnel to be available on a 24/7 basis to respond to alerts

12.9.4 Provide appropriate training to staff with security breach response responsibilities

12.9.5 Include alerts from intrusion detection, intrusion prevention, and file integrity monitoring
systems

12.9.6 Develop process to modify and evolve the incident response plan

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 20 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0019
POL00397360

POL00397360
Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
Appendix C Content of Initial Report
Anyone receiving an initial report must NOT under any circumstances admit any liability for or on
behalf of POL and must not pass any personal opinion regarding the incident. At this stage the
incident is not confirmed.
An Initial Report must include:
a) Date and time
b) Agent name, contact details and network identifier. An Agent is any person representing Post
Office Ltd in receiving an allegation of a compromise of cardholder data in the context of this
PCI Incident Response Process.
° contact details of the person making the report e.g. name, organisation (e.g. Police, member of
public, RMG, Supplier etc), landline telephone number, mobile telephone number, address etc
d) Complete description of the cardholder data and format in which it may have been
compromised e.g. PANs (Primary Account Numbers — the 16 numbers normal found on the
front of the card), cardholder name etc
e) Caller’s description of events that indicate a compromise of cardholder data may have taken
place.
f) How many card details are thought to be involved
9) How the compromise happened
h) Why the caller believes POL is involved.
i) Agent must ask and record what is the evidence that cardholder data may have been
compromised
j) ‘Agent must also ask for copies of the evidence that cardholder data may have been
compromised,
Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 21 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0020
POL00397360
POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix D Forensic Investigation of PCI Major Incident

Purpose and Background

Itis assumed that this Major Incident involves the HNGX Data Centres. It is a contractual requirement
on POL that an external and fully qualified forensic team must investigate a PC! Major Incident.

The POL Head of Information Security will maintain a list of approved forensic investigators. See
Appendix F. No other forensic team may be involved without the explicit written approval of the POL
Head of Information Security or the Working Group otherwise POL risks a breach of contractual
obligations which may result in a cessation of payment card processing by the Merchant Acquirer.
The forensic investigators may decide that the incident may only be resolved by an elective disconnect
of the Data Centres. The decision to disconnect all or some of the systems that comprise HNGX will
necessarily involve the correct level of management via the Working Group.

All parties involved in the PCI Major Incident must support the forensic investigation performed by the
Qualified Forensic Investigator, There are mandatory actions performed by the QFI during a forensic
investigation which are required by the Card Schemes and which will include the following:

a) Determine the cardholder information at risk

a. Number of accounts at risk. Identify those stored and compromised on all test,
development and production systems

b. Type of account information at risk:
i. Full magnetic-stripe data (e.g. track 1 and 2)
ji, PIN blocks
ii, CVV2
iv. Account Number (PAN)
v. Expiration date
vi. Cardholder name
vii. Cardholder address
. Alldata exported by intruder
d. The timeframe of account numbers stored and compromised
NOTE: If applicable the QFI must run a packet sniffer on the compromised entity’s network
b) Perform incident validation and assessment:
a. Establish how compromise occurred
b. Identify the source of the compromise
Determine the timeframe of the compromise

d. Compromised entity must provide a diagram of the network that includes

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 22 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0021
POL00397360

POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

i. Cardholder data sent to data centre
ii, Upstream connection(s) to third party payment processor(s)
iii, Connection to Merchant Acquirer
iv. Remote access connections
v. Specifics on firewall, infrastructure, host and personnel findings
e. Review the entire network to identify all compromised or affected systems,
considering the e-commerce, corporate, test, development and production systems as
well as VPN, modem, DSL and cable modem connections and any third party
connections
f. Determine if compromise has been contained
° Check for Track 1 and Track 2 data, CVV2 and/or PIN block storage
a. Examine all potential locations — including payment application — to determine if
CVV2 Track 1 and Track 2 data and/or PIN blocks are stored, whether encrypted or
unencrypted (e.g. in production or backup databases or tables used in development,
application logs, transaction logs, trouble-shooting or exception files, stage or testing
environment data on software engineers’ machines etc).

d) If full track data, CVV2 and/or PIN blocks are stored by a payment application, identify the
vendor name, product name and version number.

e) Preserve all potential electronic evidence on a platform suitable for review and analysis by a
court of law if needed.

f) Perform external and internal vulnerability scan

9) Based on their findings the QF! will report to Merchant Acquirer the compliance status for each
of the twelve basic requirements under the PCI Data Security Standard.

h) Report findings to the Merchant Acquirer

Process Assumptions

a) There will be a phased approach to forensic investigation of data in HNGX. This would utilise a
principle of “least invasive to most invasive’

b) Once a Major Incident is declared POL has 72 hours in which a QFI must be involved in this
process.

oO The Working Group convened under the POL Operations Major Incident Management Process
will decide whether the Alert justifies declaration of an Major PCI Incident and will take advice
on when an elective disconnect of IRE11 and/or IRE 19 might need to happen.

d) The parallel steps ie. A1, A2 etc, can only take place if there are sufficient QFis to carry out
those steps in parallel. Fewer resources will increase the number of steps needed.

e) Live service from IRE11 and IRE19 will be maintained as long as possible with minimal
interruption to service

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 23 of 30

POL-BSFF-022.

'4030_0022
POL00397360

POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

f) Provision (process and equipment) will be made during an Incident to obtain a forensic copy of
data in the SAN in IRE11.

9) The Elective Disconnect will be utilised in order to ensure containment of an incident.

Forensic Investigation Process

Al Forensic experts (QFI) briefed on design of data centre, network diagram, PCI data flows,
storage locations, data formats, audit and logging points, approved memory processes, sockets
and protocols etc.

A2. Immediately suspend all planned changes to data centre servers, applications, storage etc. ie
no code releases, no servers deployed or removed from service.

A3. All admin access to data centre hosts restricted to “four-eyes" access e.g. administrators must
be effectively escorted during any access to any host by another administrator.

A4. _ Initiate an immediate physical security escalation of data centre access. Secure data centre
CCTV and access control records, work records etc.

B. Initial Report reviewed by QF ls to determine which systems, transport networks or processes
may be out of scope. This is based on a comparison of the evidence against the data in the
systems and processes.

Cc Based on the Initial Report QFI assess what external links, servers, applications, processes and
storage might be compromised. All others placed out of scope.

D. QFI decides what SAN data must be secured and begins activities to identify and secure that
data

E. Any external links implicated are physically checked for monitoring tools by external team
from POL, assisted by external FS staff and escorted by FS data centre operations manager

Fl QFI review all SYSMAN3 logs

F2. QF lreview IRE11 bladeframe server processes in live memory for rogue processes,

F3. _ QFl copy selected areas of SAN in IRE11 for systems and applications in scope of forensic
investigation.

F4. QFI review SAN data for evidence of security breach

G. If none of the above yields sufficient information to exclude the possibility that data has been
compromised (and arriving at this stage this is exceedingly unlikely) then elective disconnect of
IRE11 is invoked if that is the only remaining option for forensic investigation.

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 24 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0023
POL00397360
POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix E Elective Disconnect of HNGX Data Centre

This is a major Business Continuity Event in which a Data Centre is disconnected from its connecting
networks in a planned and organised manner.

It is similar to a major Business Continuity Incident but is different in that it is planned and is forced by
the requirement to comply with an obligation under contract with the Merchant Acquirer.

The purpose of the Elective Disconnect is to ensure that no network based process or traffic may
deliberately or unintentionally change the state of the processes or data in the affected environment.

The consequences of not complying may be the withdrawal of the facility to process card transactions
under that contract. This in itself may not have the same overall effect on POL operations at the
Counters as disconnecting the Data Centre(s) but which may endure for a good deal longer. Whether
this would be the case and how much longer it would last depends almost entirely on negotiation with
the Merchant Acquirer.

The worst case scenario is one where the Merchant Acquirer is not influenced by outside pressures or
negotiation and denies POL the facility to process any relevant payment card transactions until
satisfied that the security breach has been completely identified; that the breach did not compromise
or no longer compromises cardholder data.

Relevant payment cards are those falling under the contract with that Merchant Acquirer. In the scope
of this PCI Incident Plan that would be Streamline.

Planning the Elective Disconnect
This ideally would have already been completed by the Data Centre supplier. It should form part of the
annual test of this plan.

The disconnect must identify two scenarios:

a). The Primary Data Centre must be disconnected from all external networks e.g. Fujitsu
corporate network, the internet, the POL Counters environment and any other Data Centres.

b) Specific systems within the Data Centre must be disconnected from internal networks as
advised by the QFI.

Any disconnection must be achieved in a forensically sound fashion and with due regard for the need to
contain an incident.

It should also include a planned re-connection. It might be assumed that would be the same as bringing
the Data Centre(s) back online after a major BC incident. However a test would demonstrate whether
this would be the case or not and a test should therefore be undertaken.

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 25 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0024
POL00397360

POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix F POL Approved OF Is

This is the formal list of those Qualified Forensic Investigators which have been assessed by POL and
considered experienced to handle the forensic investigation of the HNGX data centres.

Fil Requirements for POL Approved QFI

The key considerations for the formal approval by POL of a company capable of the forensic
investigation of HNGX data centres are threefold:

1 First and foremost the company offering forensic investigation services must hold a current
approval from VISA as a PCI Qualified Forensic Investigator. This may be confirmed
independently by referring to the VISA website at [ HYPERLINK "http//www.visaeurope.com’ ]*
and then obtaining the most up to date QFI list by searching? for the term “Qualified Forensic
Investigator’. The current Master Card QF1 list must be obtained from Master Card as it is not a
public document.

2. The company offering QF services must appear on the POL Preferred Suppliers List

3. The QF must have a separate commercial contract for the provision of services as a QFI quite
apart from any other commercial contract for any other services which the company may
provide.

4. The QFI must satisfy the POL Head of Information Security that they are capable and
experienced in the forensic investigation of virtualised bladeframe and SAN environments

5. The QFI must satisfy the POL Head of Information Security that they are familiar with and fully
support the process described in [ REF _Ref 191123384 \r\h \* MERGEFORMAT ] “Forensic
Investigation of PCI Major Incident”

F2 Responsibilities of POL Head of Information Security
Itis the responsibility of the POL Head of Information Security to:

a) Correctly assess a candidate QFI for inclusion on the list according to the criteria set out above in
[ REF _Ref 196630398 \r \h ]

b) Ensure that the list is kept current and that the details are accurate and complete.
° Ensure that all key parties are informed of the latest list when it has been updated

d) In the event of a PCI Major Incident to select a QFI from the list; confirm this selection with senior
management (if need be) and communicate this selection to the Working Group and other key
parties e.g. Merchant Acquirer, Fujitsu RMGA, IRE 11 and 19 Data Centre Operations Manager etc.

This is important because in the event of a PCI Major Incident affecting HNGX data centre other parties
in POL or Fujitsu may refer to this list and select a QFI from it in the absence of the POL Head of
Information Security,

+ Itis very important that this search only be performed on the [ HYPERLINK “http:/www.visaeurope.com” ] website since VISA
Europe is a separate legal entity from any other VISA organisation

5 Itis also very important that this search be performed from the [ HYPERLINK "http:/www.visaeurope.com' ] website as other search
engines may retum an outof-date QF list

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 26 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0025
POL00397360

POL00397360
Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
Selecting a QFI that does not meet the necessary criteria given above may cause unnecessary delays to
the incident management process or at worst compromise the effectiveness of the investigation and
potentially bring harm to POL and/or RMG brand.
F3 List of POL Approved QFls
List of POL Approved QFls
Company Contact

Name:

Email:

Phone:

Name:

Email:

Phone:

Name:

Email:

Phone:
Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 27 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0026
POL00397360
POL00397360

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix G How to Contact Streamline

The text in this section has been reproduced from the Streamline Merchant Operating Instructions
which may be found online6.

What to do if data is compromised

If you believe that cardholder information has been obtained by an unauthorised person or company, this
fact must be reported to Streamline as soon as possible together with details of all the account numbers
involved and all the circumstances of the compromise.

Acting promptly to notify us and limit the possible consequences after a compromise incident has
occurred is vital.

Have a business continuity plan in place should a data compromise be identified, whether the problem is
in your own systems, or as a result of a support failure, or a failure by another organisation with which
you share information.

Should you encounter or suspect a cardholder information compromise, please notify the Streamline
Merchant Helpdesk on! Gi ‘ie

* Max call charge from BT landline is 3p per minute. Calls from other networks may vary. Telephone calls may be monitored and recorded to
improve our service.

The opening hours are:

1. 8 am. to 8 p.m. Monday to Friday
2 9am. to 6 p.m. Saturday

a 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Sundays

4. 9 am. to 5 p.m. on Bank Holidays

An answer phone message is in place outside of these hours. Calls may be recorded.

® hittp:/ www streamline. worldpay.com/supportkkb/moi/moi htmi#moiS100.html

Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 28 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0027
POL00397360

POL00397360
Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
Appendix H Information Flows
This diagram illustrates where an allegation may enter POL and once inside POL where it may be routed
until it reaches the POL Security Incident Manager (Information Security).
The routes from Compliance and Product & Branch Accounting are different in that one tracks
movements of large transactions and so is internally generated and the other relates to a Common
Point of Purchase (CPP) declaration coming from a Merchant Acquirer via their contact in P&BA.
All these flows describe what are current information or escalation processes within POL.
Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 29 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0028
POL00397360

POL00397360
Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
Figure 2: PCI Information Flowchart
/ POL Product & Branch,
Accounting )
(RFI from MA) /
4
(Post Office Post Master or), National Business Support POL Security POL Security Incident
(Gastipeiecenae canine > (Casework Management > Manager
\ Team) (Information Security)
rN
Grapevine
— (POL public service)
Date of Issue 27/05/2008 Draft Version 0.5 Page 30 of 30

POL-BSFF-0224030_0029
