POL00084770

POL00084770

@ branchstandards

Address Line 1
Address Line 2
Address Line 3
Address Line 4
Address Line 5

Dear Subpostmaster

I am pleased to send you the Post Office® branch standards booklet. This is a summary of some of
the contractual instructions we have sent you in the past, which are set out in operational instructions
such as Operational Focus.

Branch standards are therefore not new, and they cover the things the majority of branch teams do
successfully every day. The booklet summarises many of them and we hope it will be useful in helping
you ensure:

You provide a great customer service

Your branch is secure

You sell products compliantly

Your cash is managed correctly

You are controlling costs and reducing losses

vVvvVvVvVvv

Although it is not a substitute or a replacement for the more detailed operational instructions you
already have, we hope the booklet will help you see more easily where you may need to make
changes to ensure you are running your branch efficiently and compliantly.

Applying branch standards consistently across the network will reduce the risk of regulator fines
and customer complaints. It will also help reduce our costs, as non-compliance with some branch
standards can result in a direct cost to Post Office. Given the competitive environment we operate in
we have to keep these costs to an absolute minimum.

As you will see, one of the branch standards deals with anti money laundering procedures. In June
last year we told you about our decision to stop remunerating non compliant bureau de change
transactions. We are now introducing further measures to reflect some of the costs of
non-conformance with some of the other branch standards included in the booklet.

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ
Post Office and the Post Office Logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.
POL00084770

POL00084770

@ branchstandards

Starting on 4 June, we will pass on to you the cost of any visits to your branch to ensure that
compliance training has been completed. We will also pass on the cost of any further training if you
are not carrying out your overnight cash or ATM declarations properly, including the cost of visiting
your branch to deliver the training. We will also pass on to you the charges we have to pay for missing
motor vehicle licence (MVL) discs. The details of how these measures could affect you are shown in
the ‘Conformance with branch standards’ booklet included with this letter.

I expect the instances where we will need to pass on these costs, or charge for missing MVL discs, to
be very few and that most subpostmasters will not be affected by this at all. The branch standards
booklet should help you avoid any potential charges.

Getting all the branch standards right in your branch will help you run your Post Office business
efficiently, professionally and securely. Please take the time to read the booklet and to share and
discuss it with your teams.

Thank you for your continued support as we work together to create a more successful and
sustainable Post Office network for the future

~ GRO I

Lynn P Hobbs
General Manager, Network Support

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. Registered Office 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ
Post Office and the Post Office Logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.
