POL00448125
POL00448125

CTO2016 July 2023 SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

Mails conversation
The science behind the 5Ws

ry i WOULD you like itto I WHEN would you WOULD you
WHE: _get there tomorrow? a like a si
ivy aha =) Ukeittoarive? I net thea ae

It is important to ask the right questions to find out the customer's needs and to be able to offer the correct
service. There are reasons why we ask certain questions when a customer comes in to post an item, to make
sure we are recommending the most appropriate service that matches their needs.

WHERE is it You need to know if the item is an inland or international item to make sure you quote
going? the correct service and price. Customers sometimes don't offer the destination and
will assume you can tell. In addition, the rules for Prohibited and Restricted items are
different between inland and international, and even if you have seen where the item
is going to or the customer has given you the information already, there is no harm in
confirming the fact, as this displays confidence in what you are doing.

WHAT's inside? Firstly, the customer needs to understand why you are asking the question. You need
For the purpose _ to be sure that the item the customer is sending is not prohibited or restricted. You do
of safety this by asking “for the purpose of safety what's inside the parcel?”, as this explains why
you need to know. In doing so, the customer is more likely to give you the information.
Refrain from simply asking “what's inside?” as the customer may think you don't need
to know and give a negative response.

‘WOULD you These are the Inland/International ‘speed’ questions and they will give you information
like it to get that you can use to offer the correct service to the customer quickly and efficiently. The
there tomorrow? customer may answer yes to the question (Inland) or indicate how many days they
WHEN would Want the item delivered in; in which case you would be able to recommend our Inland/
you like it International Guaranteed services straight away. However, always remember to ask the
to arrive? next question to find out the value of the item as all guaranteed services offer different

(International) _ levels of cover for the customer's item.

WHAT's the Keeping it simple by asking “what's the value?” will prompt the customer to give you an

value? actual amount, rather than you having to ask multiple questions to ascertain the value.

You need to know the value in order to understand the compensation requirements.

Don't simply ask “is it worth more than..2” There are two main reasons why this

question does not work effectively:

1. The customer may answer yes to the question and you then have to ask another
question to clarify further.

2. The customer can also be suspicious about the question and they think if they
answer “yes” to the question it will likely cost them more money to send their item.
Direct yet simple keeps you on track.

WOULD you like This helps you to understand the importance of the item. If the item is important enough to

a signature or require a signature or tracking, then it is important that your customers get peace of mind
tracking? that their item has been delivered.
r-- --- --- --- -<--- —— --- -<--

Remember: Ask the 5Ws questions for all mails items, letters and parcels. It is important to remember

I that customers often come in and ask for a particular service without fully understanding the features and '

' benefits of the service they have asked for, or all of the options available to them. It's our job to ask

foustorvers the right questions, to make sure we understand their requirements and advise them of
duct: i

fice INTERNAL. Dis
ice and for the purpose intended, is not permitted!

19, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
on behalf of Post

Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence
Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084
SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

Mail Services
Royal Mail Inland

Royal Mail offers different levels of inland mail service at

Post Office. Asking the 5Ws questions to every customer

posting an item will help you to offer the right services to

meet their needs:

» Special Delivery by 9am and Special Delivery by 1pm:
tracked, guaranteed and includes a photo and signature
on delivery. Saturday delivery also available

» Tracked 24 and Tracked 48: tracked, photo on delivery,
delivery aim of 24/48 hours. Tracked 24 and Tracked
48 with signature captures a photo and signature on
delivery

» 1st Class Signed For and 2nd Class Signed For:
signature on delivery

» 1st Class and 2nd Class: standard delivery

Measuring items of mail

Always use the size guides available to correctly identify
the format of an item of mail. If you don’t get the format
right each item and simply guess wrong, a customer will be
charged too much or too little and this will impact on the
delivery of their item. To determine the format of an item:
» Ask the customer to place the item on the scales
«For Letter and Large Letters use the Letter template
«Small parcels can be checked using the small parcel
guide, but if in doubt, use the tape measure
For medium and large parcels always use the
tape measure
» Size and weight limits information can be found in the
‘Royal Mail Our Prices’ leaflet, and on Horizon Help

To process an item of mail

« Weigh the item and check the size to determine
the format

» Select ‘Post Mail Items’ from the Front Office
Home screen

» Ask the customer the 5Ws questions, and use their
answers to make the relevant selections on Horizon

© Offer the appropriate service to the customer that best
meets their needs, and press ‘Select’ next to the service

» For relevant mail items and all Special Delivery items,
follow the process for processing prohibited and
restricted items (see next page)

» Input address details when prompted and continue to
print a label

POL00448125
POL00448125

CTO2016 July 2023

Fas]

Royal Mail
Tracked 48°

Royal Mail
Tracked 24°

' Note: Please see Section 07 i
and Section 08 for International I

1 services and customs information
4

The contents ofthis document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

(on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

@

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0001
CTO2016 July 2023

Mail Services

Prohibited and Restricted items

Always ask the 5Ws questions to every customer

sending an item of mail. When a Royal Mail or

Parcelforce parcel service, or Special Delivery is selected,

the Dangerous Goods screening options will appear.

Depending on the contents of the customer's item:

» Clarify the contents with the customer

* Select the appropriate option on the DG Screening
screen and follow the prompts

» For restricted items a label may need to be applied —
read all screen prompts carefully

» If anitem is prohibited, politely refuse the item.
Horizon will produce a receipt for the customer. Hand
this to them with a copy of the Dangerous Goods
leaflet

» The option to scan the laminate is available if you are
unsure of the contents

ee ee eee ee eee eee eens
Top Tip: You can complete the Dangerous Goods '
process before processing a mail item if you think that !
the item might be prohibited and therefore cannot be I
sent. Select ‘DG Screen’ on the Home screen, and you
will be taken straight to ‘DG Screening’. 1

Parcelforce

When processing a Parcelforce item, it is important
to remember:

» For Parcelforce Guaranteed services, a Horizon label
is not printed

«The customer receipt will print before the transaction
is settled — remember to take payment

«Hand all Parcelforce customers a copy of the
‘Conditions of Carriage’ leaflet and ask them to sign
their receipt to confirm they have received it

» Complete the date of despatch details on the label

» _ Fill in the boxes on the label to show how many
parcels there are, for example, for a customer sending
one parcel, you would write ‘1 of 1’

POL00448125
POL00448125

SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

= ‘ron ow rican areca Uk

setoenatns oat
SERRE tee

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

@

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0002
SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

Mail Services

Parcelforce Consignment

If a customer has more than one item going to the same
address by the same service, the parcels can be sent as
one consignment.

A maximum of 15 separate items can be sent as a single
consignment, and the customer is charged for the total
weight of the items.

To process a customer's items as a consignment:

«Select ‘Post Mail Items’ from the ‘Home Screen’

» Ensure the total weight of all the items is entered on
the ‘Post Mail Items’ screen

» Select ‘Consignment from the service selection
criteria

» Continue the transaction following the usual mails
acceptance process, including Dangerous Goods
where applicable

» When requested, scan a barcode for each item until
you have captured all of the consignment items

» Press ‘Enter’ to continue. A certificate of posting will
be printed for the whole consignment

»  Fillin the boxes on the label to show how many
parcels there are, for example, for a customer sending

three parcels as a consignment you would write ‘1 of
3', ‘2 of 3’, ‘3 of 3”

POL00448125
POL00448125

CTO2016 July 2023

{ Remember:

1° There is no limit to the weight

1 of amulti-parcel consignment

' but individual parcels cannot

I _ exceed 30kg. When you select

1 ‘Consignment’ on the ‘Post Mail

1 Items’ screen, Horizon will remind
! you to enter the total weight of

} the consignment

1 © Compensation included is for the
1 entire consignment, so the value
' of all the items together should be
I __ entered into the ‘Value of Goods’
1 field

.

The contents ofthis document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

(on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0003
CTO2016 July 2023

Collections and Returns

Customer collections

Royal Mail and Parcelforce Worldwide provide customers
with the option to collect their mail from Post Office
branches. There are four collections services:

» Royal Mail Local Collect

» Royal Mail Redelivery

»  Parcelforce Worldwide Convenient Collect

»  Parcelforce Worldwide Convenient Delivery

Accepting mail items into the branch

The Royal Mail delivery officer will scan the items as they

are handed over to you:

» Ifa signature is needed, the Royal Mail delivery officer
will ask you to sign the PDA device. When the customer
tracks the delivery, they will see the branch name

* Ifasignature is not needed, simply accept the mail
item/s from the delivery officer

«The Parcelforce delivery officer will scan the items
before handing them over to you, and you will need to
sign the delivery officer's PDA device

You need to confirm receipt of all Royal Mail and Parcelforce

items by scanning them into Horizon as soon as possible

after accepting them from the delivery officer. Scanning the
items acknowledges that they are in your branch and forms
part of the tracking process.

To enter them into Horizon:

» From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Local Collect’, then
‘Accept from Carrier’

» Scan the barcode

» Then store the item/s securely

» Anotification will be sent to the customer to inform
them their item is ready to collect

1 Remember:

* Allitems need to be scanned in on the same day they I

are accepted from the delivery officer 1
» For Royal Mail Tracked, Royal Mail Special Delivery 1
Guaranteed and Royal Mail Signed For items, scan the !
service barcode '
» Only keep uncollected items for the agreed retention
period, before scanning them out by selecting ‘Return
to Sender’ on the ‘Local Collect’ screen

POL00448125
POL00448125

SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

Royal Mail
Redelivery
(standard non-
barcoded items)

Royal Mail
Redelivery
(Special Delivery,
Tracked 24 and
Tracked 48 and
Signed For)

Royal Mail Local
Collect

Parcelforce
Worldwide

Barcode on the
‘Redelivery to
Post Office’ label

Service barcode
on original label

Service barcode
‘on original label

Service barcode
on original label

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

‘on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence ©

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0004
SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

Collections and Returns
Customer collections

Local Collect Age and ID Verification

Local Collect items with ‘Age Verification’ printed on the label, as
shown, can only be collected by customers who are over 18 years
old. The only acceptable ID for this service is a valid passport, driving
licence or the Post Office Easy ID app.

— esl intents
4 You don't need to check Age Verification ID if the customer is

1 clearly over 25 years old
te

Local Collect items with ‘ID Verification’ printed on the label, as
shown, can only be collected by the addressee (the person named as
the recipient on the label). Only valid photo ID is acceptable for this
service, such as passport, driving licence, other photo ID cards such
as an NHS or Royal Mail employee card or the Post Office EasylD app.

" You should not give ID verification labelled items to friends, family i
1 orneighbours of the intended recipient, even if they produce valid I
1 photo ID of the addressee. 1

Fy

Customers using EasylD to collect items

Customers can use the Post Office EasylD app to prove who they are
when collecting parcels at Post Office. EasylD will also confirm their
age for Age Verification items.

The customer simply shows their Easy!D on their smartphone.

Local Collect Inflight

Local Collect Inflight is a delivery option for customers receiving items
sent by retailers using Royal Mail Tracked 24/48 and Special Delivery
Guaranteed by 9am/by 1pm items. It allows the recipient to change
when and where their item is delivered, after it has been posted by
the sender. One of the delivery options for customers is a Post Office
branch.

» Customers who opt to change the delivery to a Post Office branch
will see a list of the five nearest branches

«Royal Mail will apply an Inflight label with the new delivery
address to the mail item next to the original label. Normal
acceptance procedures apply when you accept an Inflight item

POL00448125
POL00448125

CTO2016 July 2023

Special Detivery
Guaranteed by m

Sottoeuen Name) (Lecsten Tye)

‘Special Detivery
Guaranteed by m

am ane

Assressae Name

i

Melissa Peterson

Over 18
oy EA

Inflight Delivery Address Change

Feb ocat Collect 1@)

into your branch
» There is no fee payable by the customer for this service

fon behalf of Pe

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &®

intende permitted

Office and for the pu

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0005

POL00448125
POL00448125

CTO2016 July 2023 SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

Collections and Returns

Customer collections

Customer collecting an item from the branch

Before you do anything on Horizon, please accept the missed
delivery card or order confirmation from the customer and
check their ID. If a customer doesn’t have a missed delivery
card or order confirmation, they will need to produce two forms
of ID, one of which needs to show their address. There is a
complete list of acceptable ID on Horizon Help.

Locate the parcel and check the following:

» Is the tracked barcode number the same as on the
missed delivery card OR the order confirmation email/text
message?

»  IIs the name on the parcel the same as the ID shown?
(remember - if someone else is collecting the parcel for the
recipient, they need to show ID for the recipient, not for
themselves)

To complete the collection on Horizon:

» From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Local Collect’, then
‘Customer Collection’ and scan the barcode on the Local
Collect label

» Check the customer's ID and complete the Alternative
Collection Service card P5769

© Obtain a signature and press ‘Enter’ to continue. Horizon
will identify any extra checks for Local Collect age and ID
verification

* Select option: ‘No Fee payable’ or ‘Fee payable’. For some
Parcelforce Convenient Delivery items there is a £1 fee to
pay, so make sure to check the label

«If there is a £1 fee, collect it from the customer and place it
in the till

Note: If a fee is applicable and the customer does not have or
refuses to pay it, do not issue the item to them and cancel
the transaction.

» Press ‘Settle’ to complete the transaction and hand the item
to the customer. If a fee was payable, then the system will
print a receipt

» Destroy all missed delivery cards that you have accepted
from customers in return for their items, either after each
transaction or at the end of the day. It is important that
these are destroyed completely (ie. so that all personal
details recorded on them can no longer be read), as they
contain customers’ names and addresses etc.

Dake reson

r=
important: Please retain all P5769 !

ternative Collection Service 4
1 cards in branch fortwo years.

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

@

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0006
SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

POL00448125
POL00448125

CTO2016 July 2023

Collections and Returns
Mail Returns and pre-paid items (Click & Drop)

The Royal Mail Returns service allows internet retailers

to provide a customer with a special label they can use to
return an item. This can be done at any Post Office branch
for free.

There are two main types of Royal Mail Returns:

* Labels to Go, including Click & Drop pre-paid items
» Tracked Returns using a barcode supplied by the retailer

Note: You don't need to follow the Prohibited and Restricted
process for any Royal Mail Returns services.

1. Labels to Go returns and pre-paid postage (Click &
Drop)

Labels 2 Go is available to customers using a Royal Mail

pre-paid returns service or where a customer has purchased
postage online using the Royal Mail Click & Drop service:

» Customers will bring a barcode, either on their phone or
printed out, and their parcel which will have no labels
on it

» Make sure the barcode is a standalone barcode within
an email and not part of a returns label

» From the ‘Home Screen’ scan the barcode

» Insert a Post2 postage label into the printer — this will
print the recipient's address and barcode

Note: Check the quality of the printed label. If it is not

clear, select to reprint the label. Poor label quality results

in delayed items, or tracking not being available to the
customer

» Attach the label onto the front of the item

«Input the weight and press ‘Enter’

» Issue the customer with a free certificate of
posting receipt

2. Tracked Returns using a barcode supplied by the
retailer

» From the ‘Home Screen’ scan the 2D barcode on
the label

» Check that the return address that appears on Horizon
matches the destination address on the pre-printed
label; if it doesn't, politely refuse the parcel

* Input the weight and press ‘Enter’

» Issue the customer with a free certificate of
posting receipt

' Remember! Please check that pre-paid
return items do not exceed the size and
weight limits for the Returns product:

» 1.5m length (3m combined
length+width+height), with a 20kg
weight limit

»  Segregate all return items into the
correct mail bags

7
1
1
1
'
i}
1
1
i
i
1
1

a

Feed the
Post2 label
into the
counter
printer this
way.

Tracked 48 wie
mv

2D
Barcode

Important! Check that all Tracked
Returns labels have all the required fields,
as indicated on the label above in red. If
any are missing, please politely refuse to
accept the item.

The contents of

(on behalf of intended, is not permitted

Office and for the purpot

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

@

is document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0007
CTO2016 July 2023
Segregating mail

Mails segregation is an important part of mail

POL00448125
POL00448125

SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

acceptance in your branch and involves separating H Important: If a customer pays for a parcel to be !
certain items before the Royal Mail collection. 1 sent 1st Class and it's placed in the 2nd Class
ae . 1 Parcel bag in error, the item will be delayed for I
Mail is segregated first by format (size) and then by the recipient and the customer won't receive I
product (class or type of mail). 1 the service they paid for. 1
I Royal Mail prioritise the processing of 1st ;

Organise the ‘ordinary’ bags in this order: t Class mail H
ie Se eee ie ei

‘st Class Parcel Bag aa Letter/Large Letter 82g) =— [SES]

2nd Class Parcel Bagi *

‘Any mallitem thats.
“Large etter sie or smaller upto 7509
EXCEPT for.

-Franked/Meter Mal
“Account (PP) Mall
Pity Mail

When segregating mail items, remember the following points:

» The ‘Keep Separate’ laminate shows which items should be stored

separately from the ordinary mail

» Franked/Metered pouches or letters should be kept separate in an
unsealed mail bag. The ‘Keep Separate’ laminate shows how to
identify Franked/Metered mail

»  Letter/Large Letter sized items over 750g are treated as a parcel

» International Standard Letters/Large Letter should be placed in
the Letters/Large Letters bag

» International Standard Parcels should be placed in the 1st Class
Parcels Bag

» Standard grey mail sacks should be used, except for Royal Mail
Special Delivery items which should be placed in green sacks
where available

» Seal all bags with a plastic tie and the appropriate bag label
attached (except Franked/Mailmark and Account Mail) and tuck in
the long end of the tie

» Bags should weigh no more than 11kg each

» For branches with Self-Service Kiosks all mail should be checked
and fully segregated

»  Franked/Signed for Large Letter sized items should be placed in
the loose items bag for franked mail

» Do not put Account Mail (PPI) in any mail bag. These items
should be kept separate in a sealed bag for each customer. For
PPI operational instructions go to Horizon Help, Postal Services,
Inland Operational Instructions, Account Mail bearing Printed
Postage Impressions (PPI)

» Clear all items from your branch at each collection

Top Tip! Each laminate
shows which items go into
each Horizon bag. If you
are not sure, check the item
against the information on
the laminates.

The 2D labels contain a
segregation indicator, in the
bottom right corner, to assist
with mails segregation.

The content
on behalf of

2 and for the purpose intended, is not permitted

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

@

is document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0008

POL00448125
POL00448125

SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

CTO2016 July 2023

Drop & Go in branch

To access Drop & Go services, select ‘Drop & Go’ on the ‘Home
Screen’. The options available in the Drop & Go menu are:

» Balance and Top-Up » Edit Account

» Count Mails » Request Close
» Start Mails » Complete Close
» Open Account. » Replace Account/

Card Number

Count Mails: Customer drops off their items

The customer will bring in their items with a completed

manifest containing their 8-digit account number:

» Check that the customer has completed the manifest, listing
the services they require for each parcel

» Ask the customer if they are sending prohibited or
restricted goods. If any parcels contain restricted goods,
they will need to use the normal counter service and the
restricted items can be followed. If any parcels contain

prohibited goods, advise them they cannot be sent a

» From the ‘Home Screen’ select ‘Drop & Go’ and then ‘Count == I
Mails’ = E

« Enter the customer’s Drop & Go account number and press pe eee eee eee eee eee
‘Enter’ 1 Remember: If some of the details

* Confirm the customer details are correct. The prompt will "don't match, they can be updated by

show if the customer has opted in to ‘Auto Top-Up’. If not,
they will be given the option to top-up now

» Enter the number of items the customer is sending and
check it matches the manifest

» Horizon will prompt to ask if the customer requires a

Certificate of Posting, and will state the latest date it will be

held in branch for them to collect
* Select ‘Settle’. Horizon will print two mails acceptance

receipts. Give the customer one copy and staple the other
copy to the manifest

Auto Top-Up function

The Auto Top-Up function ensures that the balance on the

customer's account will always cover the services requested.

«Ifa customer does not have Auto Top-Up activated, an
opt-in message will appear on Horizon when they top up
in branch. An email is then sent to the customer explaining
how to set this up online

» _ Ifa customer has opted in to Auto Top-Up but does not
have enough balance to cover the transactions, from the
Drop & Go home screen select ‘Initiate Auto Top-Up’. The
customer's account will then be topped up by an amount
set by the customer

1 selecting ‘Edit Account’ in the ‘Drop &
{ Go’ menu, or the customer can update
them online. (ID is required for some

I changes made in branch, please check
Ton Horizon Help for details).

' Important: Auto Top-Up ‘Opt-In’ and!

‘Opt-out’ options are available via ‘Edit ll
Account’. The customer willthenbe =,
[notified by email how to add/remove 4
I this via their online account. if

The contents ofthis document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

(on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

@

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0009
CTO2016 July 2023

Drop & Go in branch

Processing Drop & Go items

Process the items the same working day, or as agreed with
the customer if the last collection time has passed:

From the Horizon ‘Home screen’ select ‘Drop & Go’ and
then ‘Start Mails’

Enter the customer account number and press ‘Enter’

Check the customer account details are correct and that
there is enough balance available

If the available balance is low and the customer has
Auto Top-Up activated, the ‘Initiate Auto Top-Up’ button
will be available. Select this button and the customer's
account will be topped up with an amount set by the
customer

If the available balance is low and the customer does not
have ‘Auto Top-Up’ activated, the ‘Notify (Text / Email)’
button will be available. Select this button and the
customer will be notified (via their preferred
communication preference) that a Top-Up is required

Poe cee sere esses esses esses =4
Important: The ‘Initiate Auto Top-Up’ and ‘Notify Text/ I
Temail’ buttons should only be selected when there is not 1
enough balance to cover the items being posted

From the ‘Drop & Go’ screen select ‘Post Mail items
Process the items as detailed on the manifest

Once completed, select ‘End Mails’ and then ‘Settle’. The
customer's account will now be charged

Retain all the receipts and attach these to the manifest,
to return to the customer when they are next in branch

Close to ‘real time’ account balance

When you process mail items using Drop & Go, the
customer's balance is displayed on the screen:

As Drop & Go mail items are processed the customer's
balance will update on the screen as each item is added
to the basket

If Horizon is left idle it is advised to the screen to keep
the balance updated; select ‘Balance Enquiry’ on the
‘Start Mails’ screen

If the balance falls below what is needed to complete
processing all of the items and Auto Top-Up is not
enabled, select ‘Notify (Text/Email) & End Session’ on
the ‘Start Mails’ screen to notify the customer that a
top-up is required

POL00448125
POL00448125

SECTION 6 Mail Services V4.0

1 Remember! Support with all Drop &
i Go process can be found on:

1° Horizon Help

1
l
!
Branch Hub: Type ‘Drop and Go’
into the search bar on the home 1
page, or select the ‘Training’ tileto 1
access the Drop &Go Distance I
Learning Pack it

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working
on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development

Delivering Operational Excellence

@

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000084_0010
