POL00091418
POL00091418

Message

From:

Sent:

To: Paula Vennell:

cc: Angela Van-Den-Bo;

Subject: “RE? Postmaster Litigation - Remote Access: extract from draft Letter to Freeths - LEGALLY PRIVILEGED - DO NOT

FORWARD.
Attachments: ATT89334 1.jpg

Thanks Al

lagree this is a difficult issue and believe it or not, these statements have been watered down already .... The purpose of
the call at Spm is to understand our QC’s concerns as he is the one who is arguing for the stronger positioning.

Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Fioor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

iad

Mobile number

From: Alisdair Cameron
Sent: 28 November
To: Jane MacLeod }
_€c: Rodric Williams!

Mark R Davies
_..GRO__ ewww!
: Postmaster Litigation - Remote Access: extract from draft Letter to Freeths - LEGALLY PRIVILEGED - DO NOT

FORWARD

Thanks Jane. Strong letter. I paused and sucked my teeth on this para

1. At each stage, Post Office did its honest best to ascertain the position so to respond to the question it believed it was
being asked. With the benefit of hindsight, some of Post Office's statements may have been incorrect in light of what has
now been identified in relation to Fujitsu's administrator access (see below). However, Post Office refutes any suggestion
that it ever made false statements deliberately or did so to mislead or deceive. The Post Office personnel responsible for
those statements believed the statements when they were made. What was said reflected what they understood the
position to be after making relevant enquiries.

For the avoidance of doubt, I am sure it is true, it just reads defensively and as a conspiracy theorist’s
wet dream? Happy to leave it with your best judgement but rather than making value statements
about honesty, may have been incorrect, I did wonder if we would be better off simply saying..."We
now understand the question more fully and would answer questions X and Y as follows: “Fujitsu can
do X but there are rigorous controls of Y etc.”

POL-0090440
POL00091418
POL00091418

Only a thought and no need to change it if you disagree, I am not a lawyer!

Thanks Al

From: Jane MacLeod
Sent: 28 November 2016
To: Paula Vennells 4

om Wechsler
Mark R Davies

Subject? Postinastér Litigation = Réiiote Access: extract from draft Letter to Freeths - LEGALLY PRIVILEGED - DO NOT
FORWARD

Paula, Al

Attached is the current draft of the proposed wording regarding remote access that is to be included in a much longer,
and largely procedural letter to be sent to Freeths later tomorrow. We have a further call with our QC at Spm this
evening to review this wording again with the team and Mark Davies is included on that. For reference the key
statement made in the letter to Freeths in July, was as follows:

istrator access to databases. Database and server access and edit permission is provided, within strict controls
(including logging user access), to a small, controlled number of specialist Fujitsu (not Post Office) administrators. As far
as we are currently aware, privileged administrator access has not been used to alter branch transaction data. We are
seeking further assurance from Fujitsu on this point.”

Freeths have picked this up and therefore the new wording is designed to address their challenges.
Please let me have any comments asap

Jane

Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor

<< OLE Object: Picture (Device Independent Bitmap) >> 20 Finsbury Stre
EC2Y SAQ

Mobite number} — GRO

<< File: _DOC_34439974(1)_RA comments on Response to Letter of Reply_ 27 November....docx >>

POL-0090440
