POL00108453
POL00108453

Message

From: Rodric Williams:

on behalf of — Rodric Williams:

Sent: 23/04/2014 14:32:04

To: Westbrook, Mark \(UK - Mancheste

cc: James, Gareth \(UK - Manchester\)

Subject: STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL — aims

Attachments: Lepton Report - Appendix 1 (redacted).pdf; Lepton credence data for 04-10-12.xls; Lepton fujitsu data for 04-10-12
GJ.XLSX; Lepton 4 to 25 Oct 12.xls; Lepton Events 4 to 25 Oct 12.xls; Spot Review 1 Response - redacted.pdf; Re: Post
Office Mediation Claims.

STRICTLY PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL — SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE
Mark,

As discussed, I! am forwarding the “Lepton Report” (with attachments) as sent in response to an email from a solicitor
advising a number of applicants to the Mediation Scheme (also attached).

As you will see from our email response, the issue raised in the Lepton Report was more fully addressed in our response
to “Spot Review 1”, which you have already seen. I nevertheless attach this now in case it assists in providing an
example of how Post Office uses Horizon data. My apologies if it would have been helpful for you to have received this

sooner

Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

@® 148 Old Street, LONDON, ECLV 9HQ
©

& @postofficenews

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 15 April 2014 18:39
To: p.sin :
Subject: Pos!

fice Mediation Claims

Dear Ms Maru

ngh
I refer to your email of 7 April 2014 to Chris Aujard.
The version of the report sent to Ms Robinson ("the Lepton Report") was redacted to protect the privacy and personal

information of the individuals named in that Report. This was done to ensure compliance with the Data Protection Act
1998. We will therefore not be providing an un-redacted copy of the Lepton Report.

POL-0106551
POL00108453
POL00108453

As requested, please find attached a copy of Appendix 1 to the Lepton Report along with copies of the spreadsheets
embedded in Appendix 1. To protect the privacy of those referred to in these documents we have again redacted any
personal data. In particular, in the spreadsheets we have deleted the data from the "user id" and “employee id"
columns.

l also attach a copy of Post Office's response to Second Sight's Spot Review 1, which was prepared and disclosed to
Second Sight before the publication of its interim report. Again, this document has been redacted to protect the privacy
of the individuals involved. This Spot Review addresses the same transactions as raised in the Lepton Report. However,
whereas the Lepton Report is focused on the presentation of data from Horizon, the Spot Review 1 Response directly
addresses the issue raised in your email about reversal transactions. I trust that this document helps demonstrate that
the reversal transactions in question did not occur without the knowledge of the subpostmaster.

For the sake of good order, I note that Post Office disagrees with the statements in your email about the integrity of
data on Horizon and the safety of convictions. Further, Post Office maintains that the disclosure of the un-redacted
Lepton Report or Appendix 1 to that report was not required for it to comply with its prosecution disclosure duties.

I do not believe that this matter should delay the submission of your clients' CQRs. However, should you require further
time on any particular case you may of course apply in the usual way to the Working Group for an extension — please

make this request in writing to schemeenquirieg GRO

Yours sincerely, Rodric Williams

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

S

POL-0106551
