POL00099153
POL00099153

Message

From: Lesley J Sewell

on behalfof Lesley J Sewell

Sent: 09/07/2013 14

To: Paula Vennel
Flemington {

ce: Dave Hulbert t

Subject: Actions _

Dear All

For discussion at our call at 4.

How do we manage activity going forward:

. Assign a programme lead and internal project manager, the recommendation is that this is an external to
support the working group. Ideally someone who has had previous investigative experience to enable management
of SS. (note Simon is leaving the business shortly).

. Consider establishing an internal ring fenced working group to support the remaining Spot Reviews.

. The Branch User Group needs to be considered alongside the existing structure with the
NFSP. Recommendation/ToR and approach.

. Agree the ToR with SS for the remaining spot reviews.
. One to one meetings with interested MPs?
. Terms of Reference to be developed for the Independent review of new cases.

Immediate actions from the SS report:
Technical considerations:

. Review the messaging and procedures when a SPMR has to deal with a communications failure — change as
appropriate.

. Review the hardware failures. Identify improvements.

. Consider a ‘suspense account’ at a branch level. Cost/process/implementation.

Process:

. Interventions team — change of name? review the current contracts.

. Create a central repository for all SPMR cases. All 47 cases which have been raised with SS in the first instance

and then Legal cases. Review all sub post master interactions, eg P&BA, Legal, Security, NBSC.

. Review/Create process map for support of Sub post masters and change where appropriate.

POL-0098736
POL00099153

POL00099153
. New cases: Reissue communications to the branches and agree mechanism for adding new cases to be
reviewed
. Consider an ‘outreach’ investigations support function. Cost/scale/responsibilities.
Behaviours:
. Check how we are dealing with cases and ensure we are handling delicately — how can we demonstrate that we
are improving. Angela
. Review our current training in light of the comments made in the SS report (process and behaviours).
Communications:
. Communications plan for the summer to cover BBC, and computer weekly et al.
. Communication to all MP’s who have cases.
. JA/AB

Regards Lesley

Lesley J Sewell
Chief Information Officer

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

POL-0098736
