POL00108037
POL00108037

Message

From: Paula Vennells I T

on behalf of Paula Vennells 4. i

Sent:

To:

cc: Theresa Iles. Chris M Day
Subject: JFSA/SS

hi there, I do hope everyone has had a great weekend and is well rested after a difficult end to the
week.

a couple of notes re priorities for early this week:

1) JA meeting and our proposed process:
Thanks to Simon for his late work on Friday evening and to all of you for the difficult call. I think we
got to a reasonable place: Simon's next steps and flow chart, and the lawyers mitigation scenario, are
all the right focus for you to work through tomorrow (Monday) am. This now needs to be brought together
into a coherent programme plan of how we will work, inc with the various stakeholders.

Could we get together at 13.15 to review what we will be presenting to the JA meeting at 15.30. Susan as
I said last week, you should come in to lead this. If you want to bring in others, let's discuss the
tactics at 13.15. Alwen, it would be good to keep you in for continuity - is that ok?

susan, if you need to ‘borrow’ Martin to do a challenge/ check on the content with a fresh pair of eyes,
please do.

2) Programme planning and horizon scan:

Alasdair Marnoch has offered to cast an eye over our proposals. I am grateful to him. This will be
helpful for two reasons: he is experienced in directing complex high profile programmes, so I would want
to give him the opportunity to challenge us; secondly, as Chair of ARC he will need to be very closely
briefed and it will be important there are no surprises.

I would like Susan to lead a team to take him through where you are - on Tues/Wed. It will be as
jmportant that we can demonstrate concrete proposals for how progress will be monitored, dates for
meetings, Board updates, etc. TIe., reassurance on the programme management, as well as the process
itself. And I know you will have this logged - but it needs to be the whole programme plan, which is
wider than what we are presenting to JA. (Ie., including costs, prosecuting authority review,
compensation/insurance, the breadth of what Angela will be looking at - internal policies, training etc.)

Martin, can you see if you can fit this into Alasdair's schedule for Tues or wed?

Plus, I have asked Alasdair (probably next week), to ‘horizon scan' with you to make sure we have started
to scenario plan and consider contingencies. I suggest you discuss this with him when you meet this week.

3) If anything isn't clear, please try and catch me before 9am.

4) Board update: this was a major discussion at the Board and I would like to be in a position to update
them before I go on leave on Wednesday evening. (Martin to lead.)

thanks, Paula

sent from my iPad

POL-0110917
