Postmaster
Support Guide

POL00027921
POL00027921

FOREWORD =

Foreword

Dear Postmaster,

When I took up this job in September 2019, I said that the
key priority for me and the business was to transform our
relationship with you.

For our respective businesses to succeed, Post Office needs to
adopt a fresh approach in how it supports you, as you serve
our shared customers every day. This first support guide for
postmasters is just one example of this new approach in action,
and I hope you will find it useful.

I would ask you to feed back any ideas for improvement you
have to your area manager. I want to build a new, genuinely
two-way, partnership with you and we'll always look to make
improvements wherever we can.

So, I want to reaffirm what I said when I joined. How we work
with and support you remains my central priority. It is our job to
make your job easier.

Thank you for all you are doing serving customers in
communities across the country.

Nick Read, Group Chief Executive Officer
POLO00027921
POL00027921

CONTENTS =

What’s in this guide?

SECTION 6
FOrE WOT ...sssesecsesseeseessettesnenensenssssssseeseeee 1 Managing cash and stock
and branch balancing...
The purpose of this guide ..........:00 3
Branch SeCUTFIty ....eseseeccscssseessessnneneneeeees 25
SECTION 2

The relationship

SECTION 3
General SUPPOFt......ssssssssesseesseeeeeeeeeee 5 Boculie
Disputes and Contract... 27
SECTION 4
Training ...essecsssecceessessssssssssunsesenseseeeeseeesses g  ESscilleishe
Communications...
SECTION 5
Customer experience ........cecee 12
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 1

The purpose
of this guide ©

This guide has been written to share the support that is available from

Post Office for postmasters. It is not intended to be a guide to everything that
is available to you as a postmaster, but is intended to help signpost key support
routes. Nothing in this guide alters any of the terms of the contract between
Post Office and postmasters or introduces any new operational procedures, it
is simply a guide to the available support.

Why has this guide been created?

Post Office has changed - and continues to change. The support Post Office offers
postmasters has been significantly increased, both in the network and in the support
centres. This guide shares what that support looks like, so every postmaster can access
support when they need it and to ensure postmasters are aware of the most up-to-date
support available to them.

We also recognise that sometimes things go wrong, and when they do we'll work with
the postmaster to resolve things as quickly as possible through the support processes
we have in place. We know Post Office hasn't always got things right and we hope this
guide gives you confidence that Post Office has changed, with postmasters at the heart
of everything we do.

POLO00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 2 =

The relationship

You hold a unique position at the heart of the community you serve.
A position of trust. A position of respect.
You have chosen to invest in the Post Office brand and in the local community.

With all this, we share an obligation to the The contract between Post Office and
thousands of customers who use Post Office postmasters requires both parties to act in
branches to ensure that we are providing the good faith. Post Office will behave fairly and
highest quality service and standards. It is professionally when working with postmasters,
beneficial for both Post Office and postmasters and as a postmaster we know you will do the
to work together to achieve this, and same in return. This guide has been written to
Post Office is committed to supporting you support the relationship between Post Office
as a postmaster and resetting the relationship and postmasters, outlining the expectations of
with any postmaster where we have got things _ both parties to ensure we collectively deliver
wrong in the past. for the customers and communities we serve.

If you don't think we are getting it right, or don’t think a member of the Post Office team is
behaving in the right way, we want to know. In the first instance you should contact your

area manager or regional manager, but you can also approach any member of the Post Office
management team, who will take any complaint you have seriously.

POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 3 =

General support

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU AND/OR Y'

TEAM:

We provide several direct sources of support for postmasters, including face-to-face support,
telephone support and digital support.

Face-to-face support

Your primary contact point is your area manager. Your area manager can be contacted by
telephone, email or WhatsApp. They provide tailored support for an individual branch’s needs
and can share performance data and discuss operational issues with you. Area managers and
regional managers also hold events and meetings for postmasters, which are valuable networking
opportunities. You can add your area manager's name, phone number and email address below
for reference.

Area manager:

Telephone:

Email:

We also have a range of other support options available including training advisors, business
support managers, security managers and audit advisors. They are all available to support you
in the successful runni
Support Centre on!
first instance.

POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 3 =

General support

al support

Branch Hub (branchhub.postoffice.co.uk) provides a digital platform for many tasks that used
to be done over the phone. Information to help you troubleshoot issues is available on Branch
Hub. More useful tools are being added regularly to make Branch Hub a one-stop shop for
postmasters. We see Branch Hub as an important tool to provide even better support to
postmasters and welcome any ideas for more things we can make digitally available for you

Branch Hub also contains the Digital Service Desk, an online version of the IT Service Desk, to
report IT issues. If you have an IT issue and are unable to use the Digital Service Desk, we also
provide a phone number to contact the IT Service Desk of

You will see throughout this guide that where digital support exists we have
highlighted it with the arrow icon below so you know you can use a digital option whenever
it is available.

Support with day-to-day transactions

We provide information on Horizon about how to transact products and services and topics such as
branch balancing and discrepancies. To access this Help resource on Horizon, please press the Help Home
button and then press the appropriate button for the topic you need

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU A R YOUR TEAM

Please use the support available to you as soon as possible if you experience an issue. Keep in touch with
your area manager and please join events and meetings you are invited to as these are designed to benefit
you and your business rf >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 3 =

General support

Telephone support

The Branch Support Centre can help if you experience an operational issue and should be your
first port of call if yo! ort but don’t know how to get it. The Branch Support Centre
can be contacted orf, you need support with any of the following issues, the
best number to call is listed belo

Arranging to resolve Loss Recovery

a discrepancy

ATM issues Bank of Ireland ATM Helpdesk 7

Branch balancing Branch Support Centre 7

Cash ordering Inventory Support Desk 7

Fit and Proper declarations Branch Support Centre [

IT issues IT Service Desk Ke

(The Digital Service Desk on Branch Hub is also available to log an incident) iS

Missing posters or leaflets Branch Support Centre [
stock queries

Remuneration queries Remuneration Support Centre [

Reporting a security incident Grapevine G RO 7

Reporting suspicious Grapevine 7

activity, fraud and suspicions
of money laundering

Safe repairs Insafe

Security equipment Post Office Equipment Team 7

Signage replacement Futurama (approved 7
signage manufacturer)

Smart IDs Branch Support Centre 7

Transaction Corrections (TCs) for an explanation of the TC it’s t

the Branch Support Centre

to dispute a TC it’s the
Disputes Team

You can find a full list of contact numbers at onepostoffice.co.uk/telephone-directory @®)

< 7 >
POL00027921

POL00027921
SECTION 3 =
Mission
The NFSP The NFSP is a membership-led organisation, supporting
The National Federation members to operate Post Office and retail outlets. It represents
of SubPostmasters (NFSP) their interests at every level of policy and decision-making.
is the trade association of It offers an opportunity to belong to, and take part in, a
those who own and operate community working together for a more successful future.
Post Offices around the Membership is free.
country. As postmasters
themselves, they are acutely The Board of Directors
aware of the challenges The Board of Directors are either postmasters themselves or
postmasters face ona representatives of owner/operators of Post Offices and provide

day-to-day basis. a national reach for networking and support on all issues
relating to Post Offices. They work with Post Office on behalf
of members to enable a positive and productive relationship
between the network and Post Office.

Networking

Split into 10 regions, there are regular seminars that are open
to postmasters with guest speakers from across Post Office,
Royal Mail and other stakeholders, with the aim of informing
postmasters of the latest product information and retail trends.

Retail Support

The NFSP offers free advice, help and support to postmasters
to improve the business and help drive sales. This covers store
layout, preferred suppliers, commercial property and finance.

Mails Support

A key component of every Post Office is mails segregation.
The NFSP Mails Segregation Team offers support to enable
postmasters to collectively achieve the agreed targets with
Royal Mail.
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 4 =

Training

Early days support

The support we provide as you begin your journey with Post Office is key to helping you build
a vibrant Post Office. We start with the basics and build your confidence to help you realise the
commercial opportunities that a Post Office brings.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

We'll ensure that we fully support you during your early days of appointment to guarantee you
have the best possible start as a postmaster. We'll reinforce and embed our training and build on
the basics brilliantly to make sure you are proficient in Horizon navigation, balancing and cash
management. To help you achieve this, we'll deliver to you a comprehensive package of training
that will see highly skilled training professionals deliver up to six days of on-site support. This
support will be supplemented by a minimum of one repeat balance visit, ensuring that you are
comfortable with the preparation of the weekly accounts.

The completion of on-site training is not the end of the early days support relationship; after this
period we pass the baton to your personal business support manager. Their goal is to tailor their
support to help you and your team move from being good to great during the early months of
appointment.

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

Make best possible use of our skills, knowledge and experience - it really is that simple. Please
arrange for you or your nominated team member(s) to be on site and available during the six days
of initial training.

On completion of your six days’ training, please be honest about any areas you and your staff
require greater support on and make sure you use the experience our business support managers
offer. They are highly skilled retail professionals and some have been postmasters themselves -
they know just how you feel.

Above all, never be afraid to shout out for additional support. We recognise that we all learn in
different ways and we have the willingness and flexibility to meet your needs.
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 4 =

Training

We also appreciate that training support is not just about those early days. It is important that
you and/or your team continue to feel confident when conducting Post Office transactions and
processes using Horizon.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR Y'

— We'll provide a comprehensive operational training package to you and/or your team. We
want you to feel you can complete the basic transactions and processes brilliantly

— We have a blended learning approach, which means we provide a combination of online
learning programmes, in-branch training, face-to-face classroom courses and operational guides
and work aids. There really is something for everyone who needs to operate in branch using
Horizon

— Our Postmaster Operational Training Catalogue is available and has details of all the different
options available. You'll find details of how the training can be assigned or booked, how long it
is expected to take and where to go for further help with your learning needs

— We'll monitor and review changes in regulations for products and services and we'll provide
you with the training you and your staff need to complete regularly to make sure your branch
remains compliant and your customers are protected

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Please take advantage of the learning available to you and your team. This will give you the
confidence and skills to deliver great customer service

— Remember operational training is available to any new or existing members of your team
so please browse the catalogue and take advantage of the learning options available.

The catalogue is available at http://onepostoffice.co.uk/media/47392/pmr-ops-training-
catalogue-june-2020-approved-v10.pdf

— Please make sure everyone completes the required compliance training on time. If the need
arises, please work with our Branch Standards team to address any compliance issues

— Remember to register all assistants and make sure each individual working on the Post Office
counter has their own Smart ID

10 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 4 =

Training

Did you know?

We ask for feedback on all our courses. Here is what some postmasters had to say:

“I’ve gained better “Amazing training pack, “Trainer was very
understanding of brilliant training, every professional and
how to investigate question asked was knowledgeable, the
discrepancies.” answered confidently training exceeded
and explained in depth.” _—s my expectations.”
Investigating One-Day Basic Balancing One-Day Basic
Discrepancies pilot classroom course Transactions

classroom course

Knowledge Articles

Did you know there is information on Branch Hub to help you troubleshoot common issues and to
boost your knowledge about Post Office processes, products and services? Frequently accessed
examples include:

Help with Transaction Correction processes

Help with completing and monitoring reversals

Help with weekly and monthly stock unit processes

Help with IT issues

You can also raise your IT incident there if you can’t resolve it using the information provided.

More documents are being added all the time. It’s worth checking there first if you experience an
issue or want to find out more information - it could save you a phone call to the
Branch Support Centre.

You'll find the information on Branch Hub at branchhub.postoffice.co.uk

iT >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 5 =

Customer experience

Customers visiting your branch want to have the best possible experience. Obvious aspects

such as keeping your premises clean and tidy, having well-stocked shelves, being open when

the customer information says you will be open and friendly, knowledgeable staff all contribute
to the overall experience. Not only does this ensure the customer enjoys their visit, but it is also
likely to have financial benefits for your business. Acting on customer feedback, both positive and
negative, can make a real difference and mean customers will want to come back. When there

is a consistently good customer experience in the Post Office network, the Post Office brand is
strengthened and both Post Office and postmasters alike benefit from that strong brand.

STANDARDS

It is important to keep the branch safe, clean and accessible so customers can enjoy the
branch experience.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We provide advice and feedback on branch standards through your area manager. We can
also help you with any further understanding of what is required to meet the Post Office
branch standards through your area manager if you think you need it

— We provide branches with a customer feedback tool through Qualtrics
(https://postoffice.eu.qualtrics.com)

— We have provided a simple and easy-to-follow Display Standards Guide that outlines the Post
Office display standards for each area of your branch, including checklists, and contact details
of where to find more help. Please ask your area manager for a copy

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU q

— Asaminimum, please keep the outside of your branch
clean and well-maintained and make sure the entrance
is accessible to everyone and your business complies

Did you know?
with the Equality Act 2010. id you know

Postmasters regularly win awards and

— Inside, please keep the branch clean, tidy and recognition for their high standards and
well-kept and the aisles clear and accessible. Please customer service. Read their stories
keep all counters and counter screens free from clutter. on the One website. @&)

12 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 5 =

Customer experience

Opening times

It is important branches open for their advertised opening
times as it gives customers confidence they can access

O P E N Post Office services when we've said they can. Making sure
we have the correct opening hours for your branch also means
we can accurately reflect this in your safe access and security
monitoring times, keeping you and your staff safe and secure.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR

— We advertise the opening hours for your branch on our online Branch Finder tool accessed by
customers at postoffice.co.uk/branch-finder. We aim to make the customer-facing website as
informative as possible for customers.

— We will consider any changes to opening hours you wish to make and work this through
with you.

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

Please make sure your opening hours match the ones advertised to customers on Branch Finder
so customers can access Post Office services during those times.

If you wish to make a permanent change to your opening hours, please contact the Branch
Support Centre in the first instance, and please wait for confirmation that the request has been
accepted before making any changes to your opening hours.

If the store is open longer than the Post Office, please keep the Paystation™ on the retail
counter so customers can access certain services such as energy payments out of hours.

If you have a combi counter, please ensure it is available during your retail opening hours with
trained staff available to serve customers.

13 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 5 =

Customer experience

Health and safety at branches

Like anyone operating business premises, postmasters have a legal duty of care to ensure, as far
as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare of your employees, customers and
members of the public at or outside your premises. There are specific duties under the Health and
Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 and the Occupiers’ Liability Acts 1957 and 1984, such as making sure
your premises are safe, including external signage.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We can direct you to the guidance available about your health and safety management
obligations, including guidance published by the Health and Safety Executive at
https://www.hse.gov.uk/

— Employers who have five or more employees should undertake a risk assessment and you can
find a tool for this at https://www.hse.gov.uk/retail /index.htm. Examples can be found at
https://www.hse.gov.uk/risk/casestudies/

— Your area manager has been provided with accessibility guidelines and can give advice

— Area managers are carrying out accessibility surveys at many branches already and this
work will continue. This information is due to be published on the customer-facing Branch
Finder site soon

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Please regularly inspect your premises, fixtures and fittings (including external signage) to
ensure you meet the necessary legislation and identify any potential issues that might need
maintenance or repair

— Please familiarise yourself with and follow the guidance available to you such as the Health and
Safety Executive guidance above

14 id
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 5 =

Customer experience

Signage
ANS Having clear and strong signage outside your store makes a big
difference in attracting footfall by shouting out that your
Ce) Post Office is there, communicating the main services on offer
C_] and letting customers know you’ open for business. Inside
your branch, strong signage helps the customer find the service
counters more easily, communicates when a position is open or
closed and tells them what services you offer.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU
— We provide advice and feedback on signage requirements and standards through your
area manager.

— We also have a useful shopfront guide available to help you create a highly visible, attractive
and cost-effective shopfront that will help you attract new customers. Please ask your area
manager for a copy

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— If you are planning a major refit or refresh, our Branch Design team can help with advice and

can be emailed at GRO

15 >
POLO00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 5 =

Customer experience

Marketing material

Marketing material helps you promote products, services and offers to your customers, to help
you grow sales.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— Periodically, new marketing material will be sent to you, according to the size of branch and
products available, along with detailed display instructions so you know what to place where

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Please display the material following the display instructions and remove any other older
marketing material that isn’t current

— Let us know, via the contact details in the display instructions, if you are receiving too much or
too little material and we'll adjust this to meet what you need

16 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 5 =

Customer experience

Products

We need to show our regulators and customers that we are following the rules around promoting,
introducing and arranging certain products including Financial Services, money laundering
compliance and data protection rules. It’s also important that all the products and services we
offer are transacted correctly, for example mails items following pricing in proportion guidelines.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We work with the relevant regulators and suppliers direct, saving you both time and cost

— We provide you with products and services that are easy to transact on Horizon, with clear
operating guidelines and training and support when needed

— Our website has a customer chat and contact function so we can answer customer queries
on your behalf

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Please make sure everyone working in the branch completes all their necessary compliance
training within the required timescales and applies the learning from this training

— To ensure the best possible customer experience, please make sure all staff know how the
products and services should be transacted

7 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 6 =

Managing cash and stock
and branch balancing

Getting cash and stock levels just right is an important part of
running a Post Office branch. Keeping too much cash and stock
is not only a security risk to you, your staff and customers,

but it could also mean there is not enough cash and stock

for other branches. Too little cash or stock and you may not
have enough for customers. There are also major productivity
benefits in managing the levels of cash, stock and currency at
the correct levels in that less cash, stock and currency makes it
easier for you to count.

Accurate transactions

Getting the basics right and ensuring customer transactions are processed accurately helps reduce
potential mistakes in branch, makes sure the customer gets the service they want and limits any
financial losses to you.

Some top tips:
— Please check the amount on screen after you enter the customer's transaction and make sure
the Horizon online basket is empty before serving the next customer

— When completing chip and PIN transactions, please make sure the correct withdrawal or
deposit icon is pressed

— Remember to double-check the physical cash or stock that’s being transferred to or from the
customer before the transaction is completed

— Please ensure any staff serving at the counter concentrate on the transaction in hand as this
makes sure customer transactions are dealt with accurately and it also helps protect against
sleight-of-hand incidents

18 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 6 =

Managing cash and stock
and branch balancing

Cash declarations and overnight cash holdings

Cash in branch needs to be accurately checked and recorded on a regular basis to ensure the right
levels of cash can be delivered and returned. It will also help you or your staff identify and resolve
any discrepancies quickly or ask for our help in doing so. Holding too much cash is inefficient for
you, but also presents a security risk that could impact your personal safety and that of your staff
and customers.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We make sure you have enough cash to meet customer demand, with notes and coins
provided at no cost to you, and we plan and carry out cash deliveries and pick-ups from
your branch

— We'll work with you to establish the appropriate levels of cash to hold if circumstances change
— We can provide you with information on what we think your cash holdings are at any time
— We'll provide support in investigating any cash discrepancies you may experience

— We provide you with the appropriate security equipment to store the cash and stock required
in your branch

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Please complete an accurate cash declaration on Horizon for all the stock units used every
day as close as possible to, but no later than, 7pm. This should include any stock units that may
have only been used to accept Transaction Acknowledgements or to transfer cash/stock/
currency. If a stock unit is not used, or if the branch is closed on the next day, please make sure
the cash declaration is the last transaction on Horizon that day

19 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 6 =

Managing cash and stock
and branch balancing

— During the declaration, please declare notes and coins against the correct denomination -
any damaged or mutilated notes should be declared as ‘unusable’. Your cash declarations
need to be accurate and a true reflection of the cash held in branch - otherwise it's difficult
to plan cash for your branch and to provide support if any discrepancies are identified. After
you've completed your declaration, use the variance check function - this makes sure you are
identifying any potential discrepancies on the day they happen

— Please check the planned order on Horizon before each remittance day to find out how much
cash the branch will receive or will have to return on the next remittance. Any cash return
pouches should be prepared ready for collection by the CViT driver by the appropriate time on
your remittance day

— You can keep reviewing the level of cash by looking at the balance snapshot and identifyin
the level of payments against receipts. Please let the inventory team know o
if there are any major changes to circumstances for your branch, such as a new
business customer

20 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 6 =

Managing cash and stock
and branch balancing

Balancing

All branches need to complete their Trading Period once a month within their designated group.
Best practice is to balance weekly so any discrepancies can be identified quickly and over a
shorter timeframe.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— Ifa branch discrepancy arises, we provide support and assistance over the phone to help
identify and fix the cause of the issue. If the reason for the discrepancy cannot be found, a
dedicated branch support case handler will work with you to investigate the discrepancy

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Please complete an accurate Trading Period each month, and a weekly balance whenever
possible, declaring and settling any discrepancies. If a discrepancy is settled to cash,
please make sure the corresponding physical cash is put into the account

=_lf:vau.need helo.with a branch discrepancy, please call the Branch Support Centre on

GRO

21 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 6 =

Managing cash and stock
and branch balancing

Remittances of cash, stock and currency

Please follow the correct process for preparing and receiving remittances to reduce the likelihood
of errors in branch.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— Weensure that any remittances sent to postmasters are prepared accurately to minimise errors
in branch. We'll issue a Transaction Correction if there is an error

— We'll investigate any discrepancies in remittances and highlight any issues in branch, for
example stock not being booked in, as soon as possible

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— When preparing a remittance, it’s worth having two members of staff on hand to double-check
the contents of the pouch before sealing it, if possible

— Please record the amounts being returned accurately and when receiving remittances check
the amount received matches the delivery note

— Please input a delivery of stock items into Horizon within 24 hours of delivery and
double-check manually when inputting quantities

— If there is an error in the remittance received, please contact the Branch Support Centre on
s soon as possible

Did you know?

Our cash centres use Bank of England-approved equipment including High Speed Note Sorters to
identify discrepancies and counterfeit notes. The note sorters are tested regularly to ensure only
authentic, good quality notes are recirculated to branches. Bank of England carries out regular
announced and unannounced audits to ensure we are complying with procedures, especially on
how the equipment is used and to ensure we are adhering to the strictest of security standards.

Errors when returning cash are the largest cause of Transaction Corrections. This includes
branches sending more cash back to us than has been declared. In 2019/2020, more than £6.7m
was credited back to postmasters whose remittance pouches contained more than the amount
identified on the Horizon remittance slip.

22 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 6 =

Managing cash and stock
and branch balancing

Transaction Corrections

Transaction Corrections should be kept to a minimum in an efficient branch, and following the
guidelines on managing cash and stock will help you ensure this for your branch. However,
occasionally a Transaction Correction will need to be issued. If you keep getting Transaction
Corrections for the same reasons, it would be worth checking your operational processes, and
please don’t hesitate to ask us for support if you need to.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We always explain the reason for a Transaction Correction and answer any questions you may
have about it

— We always try to process Transaction Corrections as quickly as possible

— If you dispute a Transaction Correction, we'll work with you and/or your team to
investigate it

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— It is up to you how you manage Transaction Corrections in your branch. For example, you
may only want to accept or dispute them yourself and for staff to leave them for you to deal
with - if this is the case, then please make sure your staff know what to do with Transaction
Correction messages on Horizon

— If you don’t understand a Transaction Correction, please call the telephone number shown on
the Transaction Correction notification

— If you don’t agree with a Transaction Correction, please contact the Transaction Correction
Disputes Team ont GRO for email I GRO :

— Please note you won't be able to complete your monthly balancing until all Transaction
Corrections are accepted

23 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 6 =

Managing cash and stock
and branch balancing

Branch monitoring

To ensure the accuracy and integrity of branch cash and stock across the Post Office network,
the accounting and transactions completed by branches is monitored remotely by Post Office to
provide you with the best support.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR Y'

If we identify a potential issue with branch accounting or transactions, we'll complete a desktop
investigation to understand the potential issue in more detail

— If the cause of the issue is simple, we'll telephone the branch to explain how to resolve
the issue

— Where the cause is more complex or the branch requires more support, we'll arrange to visit
the branch and work with you to try to resolve the issue

— If we can't identify the cause of the issue, we'll arrange for an audit at the branch. The aim of
an audit is to ensure the accuracy and integrity of cash and stock at the branch and to provide
support to the postmaster with any accounting and compliance issues. An audit will always
be conducted by at least two Post Office staff and we will always explain the reason(s) for
conducting the audit at the start

— If the audit identifies an issue with the accuracy and integrity of cash and/or stock, then we will
carry out further investigations into the potential causes of the issue

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Please follow the processes for managing cash and stock. Meeting the expectations around
cash management, cash declarations, balancing, remittances and Transaction Corrections helps
us to identify any branches that may need additional support to achieve that

— If you experience any unexplained discrepancies in your branch, please notify us as quickly as
possible, whatever the size of the discrepancy. We can then provide you with the right level of
support to try to resolve the situation

— If we contact you about any issue identified in your branch, please work with us to help rectify
the issue or provide additional information

24 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 7 =

Branch security

Your safety and the safety of your team and your customers is very important to us. Full guidelines
on branch security for your particular branch format can be found in the Security Operations
Manual - please follow the guidelines at all times. This can be found on Horizon Online Help or

you can request a copy by contacting Grapevine orf GRO.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— Where applicable, we supply security equipment to every branch according to each branch’s
circumstances and contract type

— We work with the police and other external authorities on your behalf to help protect the
network from crime

— We provide support to promote security compliance
— We have a zero tolerance approach to issues of violence and abuse towards you and your team

— We provide support in the event of any security incidents at branches

WHAT WE ASK OF Y'

— For your safety, please follow the correct procedures for opening and closing the branch.
When entering the branch, make sure the door is locked before the alarm is turned off

— Please formally identify all visitors, including contractors, and record their details

— Always keep your working cash to a minimum and never have more than the maximum your
branch format allows

— Please store bulk cash in the safe, with any time-overlocks on at all times, and please keep all
safes locked with the key removed from the safe lock

— Please secure the keys to the cash funding units (e.g. BidiSafe) and drop safes in the main safe
during business hours

— Please make sure you use appropriate security equipment

— If you or your team experience any abuse or violence at the branch, please call Grapevine on
{ quickly as possible

— You can register with the Grapevine service by calling: GRO ito receive proactive
security alerts for your area and for the network

25 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 8 =

Remuneration

When running a business that includes a Post Office, you'll need to understand the revenues and
costs of that part of your operation. We provide a monthly advice or invoice that breaks down
your branch's revenues by product type and sales volumes, so you can look at your branch sales
performance and identify opportunities for growing income and margin.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We remunerate you for transactions that take place in your branch and any that take place
online or through our direct channels that are linked to your branch

— We make sure those fees are accurately calculated and paid in line with our obligations, as set
out in the contractual remuneration booklets. We occasionally update those remuneration
booklets and provide all interim notifications of contractual changes to the remuneration
booklets through the monthly remuneration advice/invoice inserts, or by personal letter to
your registered contact address

muneration Support Centre that you can contact by phone on
L jor email at} GRO Lif you have any questions
about remuneration

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— If you haven't already, please check whether your business should be VAT registered -
information can be found at https://www.gov.uk/vat-registration. Please inform us if you
should be VAT registered so we can ensure your contract and remuneration are set up correctly

— Many postmasters already have, but if you haven't done so please register on the online portal
at http://www.opustrustweb.co.uk/pol-agents/ to download and review each monthly
remuneration advice/invoice. Where VAT is paid, please use these monthly invoices to
complete your quarterly VAT returns. If you identify any discrepancy with your own records
(or with reference to a Horizon Remuneration Report) please contact the Remuneration Support
Centre above as quickly as possible. You can also contact this team if you forget your password
for the online portal above or if you need a temporary password to register on the portal

— Please read and make sure you understand your remuneration booklet and any interim changes
we let you know about. If in doubt, please contact your area manager

— If you make any changes to your company, your contact email address or personal address, or
your bank account details, please tell the Remuneration Support Centre as soon as possible

26 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 9 =

Disputes and
contracts

Disputes

If things do not quite go to plan, we want you to be confident that if you report the issue to us we
will be there to support you. By working together to find a solution, we hope to be able to work
out reasonable and practical steps to resolve any issue. By taking this approach, we want to be
able to resolve issues amicably without either postmasters or Post Office having to incur significant
costs or it taking too long to reach a conclusion. We know we haven't always got this right in the
past, but we are determined to work with postmasters on resolving issues

going forward.

Whistleblowing

We are committed to conducting business with the highest standards of honesty, integrity and
openness. You and/or your team can raise concerns in confidence, secure in the knowledge that
we will take those concerns seriously and act on them.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We support anyone who raises a genuine concern, even if it turns out to be mistaken. You will
not be treated unfairly or liable to any contractual action as a result of doing so

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— If you have a concern, in the first instance please either contact your area manager or contact

Grapevine on GRO___1 If this doesn’t answer your concern, please contact the
whistleblowing officer at! GRO !

27 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 9 =

Disputes and
contracts

Transaction Corrections

The Transaction Correction Disputes Team will fully investigate all cases, contacting relevant
teams and using several systems to try to identify the cause of the discrepancy.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We acknowledge all disputes in writing within three working days

We fully investigate each case, contacting relevant teams and using several systems

We send you the results of the investigation with any evidence found to support the findings
within 10 working days

We'll arrange any extra support and/or training for you and your team, if required

While the dispute is being investigated, you won't be asked to repay the amount

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

Transaction Correction

— Please respond to any requests for information from us as soon as you can

28 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 9 =

Disputes and
contracts

Investigation process

We ask that as far as possible you or your team undertake your own investigations in branch and we can
provide support for you to do this. Help and support can also be provided by the NFSP by contacting
your local representative, through the NFSP website (www.nfsp.org.uk) or through the NFSP helpline

e have a four-tier investigation process (please see next page) to investigate issues
and reach resolutions with postmasters to disputes. Not all investigations will require all four tiers of the
investigation process and the vast majority of issues requiring investigation are resolved very quickly
and simply.

Did you know?

Postmasters or their staff who are responsible for branch balancing

and require further support in identifying causes of discrepancies

and how to resolve them can attend a classroom course for

support. The Postmaster Operational Training Catalogue can

be found on http://onepostoffice.co.uk/media/47392/pmr-ops-
O training-catalogue-june-2020-approved-v10.pdf

Reviewing the reversals report is a good way of identifying
issues in branch and whether any of your team may need some
extra support.

29 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 9 =

Disputes and
contracts

Tier 1 investigations are simple investigations that are usually resolved quickly. These investigations
include calls to the Tier 1 team at the Branch Support Centre about balancing, desktop investigations
undertaken by the branch monitoring team and some Transaction Correction and settlement disputes.

Tier 2 investigations are more skilled investigations. A Tier 2 investigation would be triggered because
the matter could not be resolved in Tier 1. These investigations include calls into the Branch Support
Centre that are escalated to the Tier 2 team, more complex Transaction Correction or settlement
disputes, and branch audits.

Tier 3 investigations are specialist investigations. A Tier 3 investigation would be triggered because
the matter could not be resolved in Tier 2. These investigations include security investigations (such
as after a robbery or burglary) and investigations undertaken by the Contract Investigations and
Resolution Team. Very few investigations reach Tier 3.

Tier 4 investigations are the most complex investigations we carry out and are completed by the
Case Review Team. A Tier 4 investigation would be triggered either because a matter could not
be resolved at Tier 3 or because the matter is historical and complex. It is exceptionally rare for an
investigation to reach Tier 4.

30 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 9 =

Disputes and
contracts

Issues with Horizon

We have a process in place to proactively identify issues that have the potential to impact
branches. We also have a process in place for Fujitsu to investigate potential issues raised by
postmasters. We inform branches about issues that affect their operations through Branch Focus
or, for more urgent issues, through a Memoview.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We make sure we address all issues with Horizon that have the potential to impact branch
accounts or operations

— If you have any balancing discrepancies that you cannot explain, we'll check for any Horizon
issues and advise you if Horizon could be the cause

— If you think there is an issue with Horizon that may explain a balancing discrepancy, we will ask
Fujitsu to investigate and we will keep you updated. If Fujitsu does identify that the issue raised
could impact branch accounts or operations, we will follow our processes to resolve the issue

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— If you experience any branch discrepancies, please follow the support guidelines set out in the
Branch Support Guide. You can find this at http://www.onepostoffice.co.uk/media/46509/
branch-support-guides-oct-2019. pdf

— Please notify the Branch Support Centre o
issue with Horizon

if you experience an operational

31 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 9 =

Disputes and
contracts

Contracts

There may be times when you want to refer to your contract with Post Office. We understand
that postmasters may not always be able to easily find their contract in their own records, but

if you can, referring to it may be enough to answer your query. However if this doesn’t answer
your question, please contact} GRO tand we'll be in touch to answer
your query and provide a copy of your specific contract where required.

Contract performance

There may be occasions when the obligations as set out in your contract are not being met. If
this is the case, Post Office will take steps to ensure performance of the contract, while also
supporting you in this process.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— If there is an issue, we ensure that all necessary steps have been taken by our teams, including
your area manager, to support you and address the identified issue. We'll gather as much
information as possible relating to the issue that has come to light, working as appropriate with
both you and other Post Office teams, before taking any formal contractual action

— We'll act on any contact from you, written or otherwise, as quickly as possible

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Where reasonably possible, please work with us to resolve any performance issues through the
available methods

— Once any investigation has been concluded, please comply with the terms of any letter
(including a written direction) issued by us

32 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 9 =

Disputes and
contracts

Suspension

There are rare circumstances where it is necessary to suspend the postmaster from operating the
branch. Any period of suspension should be as short as possible and any suspended postmaster
will receive appropriate support throughout this time. A specific contract advisor will be assigned
to keep any suspended postmaster up-to-date with developments during their suspension and will
act as a single point of contact through this process.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We only carry out a suspension where absolutely necessary and when all alternatives have
been considered

— We'll ensure you are supported and keep in regular contact with you throughout the
suspension period, and respond to any contact from you as quickly as possible

— We pay remuneration during the suspension

— We'll keep the suspension under regular review and bring it to a conclusion as soon
as is practical

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— If asuspension takes place, please comply with the terms of the suspension and be open and
honest with us so the situation can be resolved as quickly as possible

— Please respond to any written correspondence and telephone calls from us as quickly as
possible and please remain flexible and available for meetings with the contract advisor to
minimise the length of the suspension

33 >
POL00027921
POL00027921

SECTION 9 =

Disputes and
contracts

Termination

Termination is an extremely serious step and it is vital that the termination process is as clear as
reasonably possible so any potential misunderstandings between the postmaster and Post Office
can be avoided.

There may, however, be circumstances when termination of a postmaster’s contract needs to be
considered and a decision to terminate made.

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We'll gather as much information as possible relating to the issue that has caused termination to
be considered, working as appropriate with you and other Post Office teams

— We'll treat you fairly throughout the termination procedure

— We'll act on and respond to any contact from you as quickly as possible

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Please be open and honest with us and please respond to written correspondence and
telephone calls as quickly as possible to support the decision-making process

— Please remain flexible and available for meetings with the contract advisor if required

34 >
<

POL00027921

POL00027921

SECTION 10

Communications

WHAT WE'LL DO FOR YOU

— We provide Branch Hub as an interactive tool for
you and/or your staff. Branch Hub provides a digital
platform for several tasks that used to need a phone
call. Tasks such as stock ordering and finding information to
help you troubleshoot issues are available on Branch Hub
and more useful tools will be added to help make Branch
Hub a one-stop shop for postmasters

— We provide the One website at
@® www.onepostoffice.co.uk. We also send a regular
One News email to postmasters that summarises
current news

— We publish operational information each week in Branch Focus that branch teams
need to know, such as product updates. This is published on Horizon, by email
and on One

— We send pop-up memoview communications that appear on the Horizon terminal
for urgent operational information

— Regional Facebook groups are available for you to connect with us and with
other postmasters

— We provide an email address you can use to ask Post Office-related questions at
i GRO jand we reply to all emails as quickly

as possible

WHAT WE ASK OF YOU

— Please read and use the communications channels we provide for you to ensure you keep
up-to-date with Post Office news. We welcome your feedback and questions

— Please make sure you and your team are aware of and implement any changes to products
and services or ways of working that we communicate to you

— Please keep us up-to-date with your latest contact details so we can make sure you get
communications the way you want to receive them

35
POL00027921
POL00027921

Postmaster Support Guide. V1. July 2020

