POL00214317
POL00214317

CMS

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP

Mitre Hi
BBC Programme Legal Advice 160 Alderegeto Street

British Broadcasting Corporation London EC1A 40D
Room WC 2251 DX 135316 BARBICAN 2
White City
London
W127TS

URGENT
NOT FOR BROADCAST

Your ref
Our ref SCB/SCB/MIT/111850.00038

Dear Sirs
Post Office Limited
We refer to our earlier letter of today’s date.

We have since seen a broadcast on the BBC News at One, which included footage of your correspondent,
Matt Prodger. This broadcast did not make any reference to the context of the complaints with regard to
the Horizon system, as explained in our letter and as also made clear by Mark Davies on the Today
programme. As we stated in our earlier letter, any reference to the Horizon system clearly needs to be
seen in the context of some 6 million different transactions conducted through the system every day and
the tens of thousands of people in the different subpostoffices who carry on their business using the
system with no difficulty. Rather the contrary, Mr Prodger referred to there being one computer system
“in every Post Office” and said that “Not every Post Office has reported problems with its computer
system”. He also stated that “there is little evidence that customers have been short-changed”. In fact a
tiny percentage of Post Offices have reported problems and there is no evidence of any negative impact
on consumers. Please ensure that any further broadcasts in relation to this matter do not include such
serious inaccuracies and do not misrepresent the position in these significant ways.

All of our client’s rights remain reserved.

Yours faithfully

CMS Qyroee, Mokena LLP

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP

UK - 202605706.1

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is 2 limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registration number 0C310335. It is a body corporate which uses the word
“partner” to refer to. member, or an employee or consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications. It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority of
England and Wales with SRA number 423370 and by the Law Society of Scotland with registered number 47313. A list of members and their professional qualifications is open to
inspection a the registered office, Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Strect, London ECIA 4DD. Members are ether solicitors or registered foreign lawyers. VAT registration number:
974 899 925. Further information about the firm can be found at www-ems-cmnck.com

CMS Cameron McKenna LLP is a member of CMS Legal Services EEIG (CMS EEIG), a European Economic Interest Grouping that coordinates an organisation of independent
law firms. CMS EEIG provides no client services. Such services are solely provided by CMS EEIG's member firms in their respective jurisdictions. CMS ELIG and each of its
‘member firms are separate end legally distinct eniies, and no such entity has any authority to bind any other. CMS EEIG and each member firm are liable only for their own acts
cor omissions and not those of each other. The brand name "CMS" and the term "firm" are used to refer to some or all ofthe member firms or their offices. Further information can
bbe found at www.cmslegal.com

Notice: the firm does not accept service by e-mail of court proceedings, other processes oF formal notices of any kind without specifi prior writen agreement,

