POL00025672
POL00025672

The Markets Crown Office
6-16 New York Street
Leeds

LS2 7DZ

Mrs. A. Henderson
Worstead Post Office
Back Street
Worstead

North Walsham
NR28 9RN

Strictly Confidential
24 February 2010

Dear Mrs. Henderson
Post Office® Worstead branch at Back Street, Worstead.

Thank you for your letter of 23 February 2010 purporting to give notice of your
resignation as the Subpostmaster of the Post Office® Worstead branch. We note that
your letter gives less than the three months’ notice required by your Subpostmaster
Contract and it is therefore not a valid notice to terminate that contract. However, we
are willing to accept your letter as notice to terminate your contract with effect fram 23
February 2010, which will be your official last day of service.

Your notice of resignation is accepted without prejudice to any rights or claims Post
Office Ltd may have under the subpostmasters’ contract or in law. You are still required
to make good any outstanding shortages, as well as any further deficiencies highlighted
by future enquiries which arose whilst you were subpostmaster.

I must also make it clear to you that Post Office Ltd regards your resignation as one
made in order to avoid summary termination of your contract. It will not be possible for
you to withdraw your resignation without our prior written consent.

As you have now resigned, I will not need to meet with you on 03 March 2010 as
suggested in my last letter to you

Post Office Ltd will now assess what to do in respect of the vacancy that termination of
your contract has created and will conduct a review of service provision in the area to
ensure that Post Office® services are provided by the most appropriate means available
to us. It would greatly assist us in our task here if you could complete and return the
enclosed reply slip to me as soon as possible.

Please note that you will not be eligible to make an application to the Discretionary
Fund, should the branch be closed or relocated
POL00025672
POL00025672

Yours sincerely

Alan Lusher
Agent Contract Manager
Post Office Ltd
POL00025672
POL00025672

Reply Slip to: Alan Lusher
Agents Contract Manager

From: Mrs Allison Henderson, Worstead Post Office® branch

To help Post Office Ltd plan for the provision of Post Office® services in the area, please
complete this reply slip by answering questions 1 and 2 below and return to me at the address
given above.

1. If requested by Post Office Ltd to do so, would you be willing to make your premises at Back
Street, Worstead available for use by a temporary subpostmaster appointed by Post Office Ltd
for the purpose of providing continuity of Post Office® services to customers? YES/NO

2. Do you intend to market the premises/private business at Back Street, Worstead? YES/NO
3. If you answered yes to question 2, please also complete the attached pro forma.

Please note that:

e if you do not intend to market your premises/private business, your premises cannot be
the location for the provision of Post Office® services

if you do intend to market your premises/private business, you should not assume that
Post Office Ltd will appoint your purchaser to be its agent in providing Post Office®
services

«If you intend to market your premises/private business, Post Office Ltd may decide to
provide Post Office® services in the area from a different location or in a different
format. We will aim to notify you of our plans as soon as possible.

Signed: eevee
Name: Mrs Allison Henderson
Dated:

Details of the premises and associated retail business, should Post Office Ltd
decide to advertise.
Address

Contact name and number:

Type of accommodation: *Freehold / Leasehold

*Lock up / residential

Details of any retail business:

Asking price:

Business Transfer Agent contact details

* delete as appropriate

POL00025672
POL00025672
