POL00374656
POL00374656

Branch Support Programme

Steering Group Meeting — Friday 11'" July 2014

Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL

POL00374656
POL00374656

Agenda

Action point up-date
Up-date on KPIs
Progress against work streams.

New risks and issues

Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL

POL00374656
POL00374656

Branch Support Transformation Programme

Programme Summary - To improve the support we provide to subpostmasters
and operators in the running of their Post Offices from the moment they join to

the point where they leave the business.

Programme Scale
Cost C. £4.1m (+ VR c£4m)
Timescales - complete by March 2015

Customers, Colleagues and Third Party Engagement,

(Customers Whist theres no drect mpact on customers, the actly within the work
‘steams should have a positve impact on the customer experience, The reduction in
Isubpostmaster suspensions has meant a conti of service in areas where the branch]
may prevously have been closed due to sourcng and transferring to @ temporary
'subpostmaster.

Performance (Benefits) Ported 3
— Target I Actual I Target I poroca,

cioat Ga) YTD To (RAG) pormcees
IOperating cost reduction f3m__I £3m 1556
Number of spmr suspensions 5 ope I 60
Reduction in agent net debt 1m etm [15/16 al yoar
Satistaction wth training 2 wm I osm 1576
Reduction in calls to NESS 2% [ee I 28m tait6
eduction in >£10k shortages 7 [tee] “sox I “Floor

‘Batu Update (i) The prociype Tor he on ine ragaatary omplance Waning s naw We and
beng tested by users (2) he atemave complance prototype proviged by Sabals an rack
avery w/c An duly (3) The Change Request o Fuisu for HORA has been accopied and
‘approved (4) The revised gang process forthe financial and camplance aus has boon
launctiod with ho lll Suppor: Advisors (5) The duptcate bureau recept sn rack or tein h
the model office on the 218 uy (8) The vdeo plato fr siock ordering progressing (7) Debt
Salus red due to 2 brge aut shortages (8) NBSC cal reducton wil be vse n Peto ©

(Colleagues Branches are currenty testing the omine regulatory complance raring
prototype. Positive feedback has been receved. Branches have also been vsted as part
lol the cheque remmittance improvement process. The Programme continues to involve
caleagues in work streams to deploy mproverent activites. The Branch User Forum
willbe visting NBSC ni August as part of wider business awareness piece,

[Third Parties The NFSP ramian postive about the Programme: A regional mestng has
been attended and e full workshop was held to go through work stream plans. Positve
feedback was received and they are fuly on board with approach. Royal Mal and

Parcettorce are attending July meetng of Branch User Forum,

Ietanon eta vgs tworroessey

retro emcemnore

a AG] poet] UKGIOC! ocr mugaton i i n-ne
7 ee eee aarertx me Delivery Plan RAG status (Time) oni
[mao pcorg ast Imran Re esurs pan wih HR rsue eae
meters ceveresteougs I 4g I 4 I 4 weogtmisersepomertoppmirier an pes]
fesucenivesours kia Cac noc mayest HORICe Regulatory
fans su pals res Lonaioes Ttmetnecumertyoonamorees II [Rovoa launched Compliance
ondine
penne eer tein FscwinkensywteterDyaméswit I] I Soproscn modules
JnostaspropiatetoatodenerteI “© I $ I ° praesent oem launched
[Programme requirements wer \
= seas ae We Poon 2S,
oe oF a]

POL00374656
POL00374656

Up-date on KPIs ©

* Impact on net debt is showing red against target this month. This is due
to 2 large audit shortages (£130k + £50k) which has wiped out the
benefits seen in Period 1 and 2

* Delays in deployment HORIce could lead to increased risk of further high amount audit
shortages

+ Average debt figures were running at £9m in 2012/13 prior to the change in suspension
policy and out-turned at £7.5m. Debt is starting to increase back up to £8m.

* Suspension figures still in line with expectations. Whilst we are tracking
the overall number, this will not form part of Contract Advisors’ targets as
this may drive the wrong behaviour

¢ Baseline figures have been agreed with NBSC. We will be tracking
against the top 5 call areas based on last year and this year.

* The regulatory compliance on-line training prototype is being tested
which includes a feedback survey. This will give us a satisfaction
baseline for on-line training.

Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL

2 Special Audit requests were arranged in Period 2 for branches where Security had raised concerns about ATMs,

Baseline we will be using for reduction against NBSC numbers will be the Top 5 areas listed below
POL00374656
POL00374656

ActivityWork I Owner Benefits/Metric a I
stream associated
Pre-appointment Lin Norbury £30k per annum taunt Je i. ps
resource saving Steamine supporting interview process
Training Sarah Malone £450 saving evan Colnbn baning room eons -
95% satisfaction to omsine patform
Communications Richard Weaver Ay t21nch branch communication researen
eee cee eae ne
‘Agent engagement survey launched
Operational Amanda Stevens £635k NBSC A. stertplot wit sc A. evioy crm
‘Support £640k FSC Boot cause analysis of NOSC cals begins 1 t958 Ops
Paarl A, 310 of Network Services view !
Physical Support Drew Mebride £250k audit admin A Centrasation of aut admin ea
£100k audit review A tesncred
T Peer BYECa 7 WSS eS Ty es
(A. Sr 20eh pre options scoped, agreed and buld starts
A buve01 dupicate receipt aunched AY Revised cheque rem process
juneched
Leavers Lin Norbury £1m net debt A BeFs0d contractual breach policy aunched
50% spmr suspensions
On-tine Gayle Peacock £51k joiners (14/15) A Petotype eady for testing
Regulatory £135k additionally after New joiners process leunched
Compliance full migration Being migiation of remaining network
HORIce Gayle Peacock 50% reduction in audit Launch of HoRIce pict A
shortages > £10k
Post Office®™ CONFIDENTIAL Cn

POL00374656
POL00374656

Workstream status

Pre-appointment High level plan and benefits identified .
“End-state” vision agreed by group

Potential options for improved web-
application process scoped

‘Synergies with NT electronic business

plan identified and approach agreed

Lower level plan agreed

Training “End-state” vision agreed by group
Activities identified to deliver business
benefit with high level milestones
identified

Project Manager resource requested

Operational Support “End-state” vision agreed with group .
High level list of required activities
identified

Analysis done on NBSC call types to
initiate areas for root-cause analysis. Top
3 areas are “mails", “stock” and
“telephone numbers” driving in 25% of
calls

Input into branch profile tool
Improvement plans created with NBSC
‘and FSC to tackle “quick wins” in bau
Lower level plan identified

Progress improved on-line
application process

Meeting scheduled for 15" July
to confirm project manager
resource

Pilot Dynamics case
‘management in FSC

+ August - preliminary feedback
on review of appointment
process:

+ Meeting scheduled for 15" July
to confirm project manager
resource

Meet with Ciber to build pilot
‘case management for testing in
Fsc

+ Visitto FSC

Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL

POL00374656
POL00374656

Workstream status

Physical support + Options for supporting 2020 strategy + Agree approach with key + July 16” — present compliance
‘identified ‘stakeholders audit proposal to stakeholders
+ Revised way of logging audit results for acceptance
currently being tested after FSA training
+ Agreement reached with Risk and
‘Compliance on suggested alternatives
for compliance audits
+ Revised audit logging process launched
Tr + Branch profile requirements identified ‘+ Agree approach with Ciber for + 21%" July for model office
with business stakeholders ‘Case Management Tool testing for bureau receipt
+ Suggested approach discussed with NT + 16” July ~ Ciber discovery day
and IT architecture for approach to pilot in FSC
+ Bureau 2™ receipt transaction scripted
+ Revised cheque rem process identified
Management Tool
Leavers + Revised suspension process already + Policy PIR to be undertaken + 34% July
implemented with supporting policy
Hines
+ Scope of work stream increased
On-line Regulatory, + EMC prototype being tested + Review prototypes against
+ Make recommendation for
wider roll-out
HORIce + CR approved with Fujtsu + Produce delivery plan with + 15! July to produce delivery
Fujitsu plan
CS)
Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL

POL00374656
POL00374656

New risks ©

¢ IT have confirmed that Dynamics is the only solution available for any
business unit regarding development of a case management tool.
There has been no rationale for this decision provided and therefore
until we pilot the solution, we will not be able to fully understand
whether it will provide the function required. If it doesn’t there is a risk to
the benefits predicted which at this stage we are unable to quantify
what this would amount to. In waiting for this decision to be made, we
have lost valuable time which will impact on our ability to implement an
alternative before the Programme officially closes down.

Post Office® CONFIDENTIAL

POL00374656
POL00374656

Risks and Issues

7 “ee a ee ee

Fujtsu and intemal POLIT 5 Plan to be produced by IT mapping areas for
teams do not have resource to ‘change. priorities and resource required.
deliver Programme changes Pian for escalations within Fujistu need to be
which is significantly made available to stakeholders
impacting on delivery date
Majority of savings costsare 4 4 16 Planto be created across Programme where Drew
through people/resource resource efficiencies are Identified. Craig
savings, increasing risk of ‘Vacancies to be sourced on temporary basis Amanda
surplus poo! ‘F not filed where there is a reduction Rod
Other pressures on time 3 4 2 ‘Steering group to review area representation Programme Steering 13 June 2014
‘creating inabilty to mobilise ‘on Programme and ensure priorities are Group
work streams. clearly communicated
‘Subpostmasters and 3 4 2 Involvement throughout in on-tine build and _Angela/Gayle
‘operators don't embrace new testing of solutions. Planned phases of
‘on-line training methods delivery to ensure buy-in
Reduction in spmr 3 4 2 Number of suspensions, reasons and impact CraigiRod
‘suspensions increases net ‘on overall debt being monitored. HORIce will
debt figure ‘enable earlier intervention.
HORIce may notbetoolto 3 3 9 Requirements fully scoped with experts from Gayle
reduce debt the area based on knowledge of fraudinon-
conformance activity
Call reduction into NBSC may 3 4 2 Review BAU operational plan with NBSC and Amanda 30" June 2014
not be realised Identity metric for identitying "exceptional Gayle
activity” driving calls into NBSC
Potential double counting ot 2 4 8 ‘As above. ‘Amanda 30" June 2014
benefits for NBSC cost Gayle
savings
Post Office” CONFIDENTIAL

