POL00423585
POL00423585

GROUP POLICIES
Whistleblowing Policy

Version - V4.2

Chief Executive’s Endorsement

The Post Office Group is committed to doing things correctly. Our Values
and Behaviours represent the conduct we expect. This Policy supports these
to help us ensure that colleagues know how to report concerns regarding
wrongdoing or dangerous practices and that they can do so without fear of
recrimination.

Internal and External Page 1 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238400
POL00423585
POL00423585

:

Internal and External Page 2 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238400_0001
1 « Overview

1.1. Introduction by the Policy Owner

The General Counsel has overall accountability to the Board of Directors for the
implementation of controls ensuring Post Office meets it Whistleblowing obligations.
Whistleblowing is an agenda item for the Audit and Risk Committee and the Post Office
board is updated as required.

1.2. Purpose

This Policy has been established to set the minimum operating standards relating to the
management of Whistleblowing throughout the Group’. It is one of a set of policies which
provide a clear risk and governance framework and an effective system of internal control
for the management of risk across the Group. Compliance with these policies supports the

Group in meeting its business objectives and to balance the needs of shareholders, Staff? _

and other stakeholders.

1.3. Core Principles

“Whistleblowing” refers to the act of exposing potential or actual wrongdoing, misconduct
and/or dangerous practices by reporting it either internally within an organisation, or to
an external party. A whistleblower is a person who raises a genuine concern in relation to
any wrongdoing, this includes criminal activity, regulatory breaches, miscarriages of
justice, damage to the environment, financial impropriety, reputational damage, any
breach of legal or professional obligations, dangers to health and safety and the deliberate
attempt to conceal it. In order to encourage Whistleblowing and provide appropriate
protections to whistleblowers, the governance arrangements described in this Policy are
based upon the following core principles:

+ To encourage the reporting of any concerns as soon as possible in the knowledge that
Post Office will take all concerns raised seriously and investigate fully, and that the
confidentiality of all individuals will be respected;

+ To provide guidance as to how to raise those concerns;

+ To provide whistleblowers reassurance that all genuine concerns are raised without
fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken;

* Post Office is committed to and oversees the implementation of the Policy in line with
the Group's risk appetite. The Policy and associated procedures (set out or referred to
in this document) are proportionate to the risks and complexity of the Group;

* Post Office undertakes a training and awareness program to ensure all employees are
aware of the Whistleblowing policy and procedure.

"In this Policy “Post Office" and "Group" mean Post Office Limited and any wholly owned subsidiary that formally adopts this

policy.

2, Inthis Policy "employes" and “staf means POL or Group's permanent, temporary and fixed term employees, workers
Including temporary workers, agency workers (where the terms on which they are engaged are not substantially determined
by them), contractors, consultants and anyone else working under a contract with Post Office, in all cases having regard to
.230(3) and s. 43K Employment Rights Act 1996.

Internal and External Page 3 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423585
POL00423585

Commented [SS1]: Words added in footnote to add
further clarification re group

{

‘Commented [EF2]: Footer definition expanded to.
Include ‘employees’ and ‘staff

POL-BSFF-0238400_0002
POL00423585
POL00423585

1.4. Application

This Policy is applicable to alll staff within the Group and outlines the manner in which
Post Office will encourage, receive and investigate incidents of whistleblowing and the
protections provided for whistleblowers by law.

In order to encourage reporting of wrongdoing, Post Office will, where appropriate, and
to the extent possible, follow equivalent principles to encourage, receive and investigate
incidents of whistleblowing by Postmasters, Agent Assistants, and members of the public
and will not subject any such persons to any detriment (including the termination of any
contract or relationship with Post Office) for raising a genuine whistleblowing concern in

an appropriate manner.

1.5. Legislation

The Group seeks to comply with all relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements
including (but not limited to) the following legislation as amended or supplemented from
time to time:

+ Employment Rights Act 1996
* Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998

1.6. Protecting the Whistleblower (Your Legal Rights)

Post Office has a statutory obligation to protect whistleblowers and will support any
individual person who raises genuine concerns under this Policy in an appropriate
manner, even if they turn out to be mistaken. In respect of a certain class of person
(broadly “staff” as defined under this policy) Post Office has a statutory obligation not to
subject such persons to detriment or to dismiss them for whistleblowing.

Where a member of staff is subject to a Post Office settlement agreement, any clauses
within it will not prevent the member of staff from whistleblowing. This should in any
event be made clear by the terms of the settlement agreement itself and staff should
receive independent advice in relation to those terms when entering into a settlement
agreement.

Post Office will, at all times, respect the confidentiality and protect the whistleblower’s

identity, however:

+ It may be necessary in the course of an investigation to share this information with a
relevant stakeholder (e.g. an investigator).

+ There is no requirement for a whistleblower to provide personal contact information,
but not providing this information may reduce Post Office's ability to undertake a
thorough investigation into the concerns raised.

Post Office will take all reasonable steps to ensure that whistleblowers do not suffer any
detrimental treatment as a result of raising a genuine concern in an appropriate manner.
Detrimental treatment includes disciplinary action, dismissal, threats or other
unfavourable treatment connected with raising a concern. Serious action, typically
disciplinary action, will be taken against any individual who threatens or retaliates
against whistleblowers in any way.

If a whistleblower believes that they have suffered any such treatment, they should
inform the Whistleblowing Officer immediately. The Whistleblowing Officer.
3 willshould take all necessary steps_at the earliest opportunity to

address any victimisation, which may include working with the HR team to put

‘Commented [EF3]: Reworded for clarity )

Internal and External Page 4 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238400_0003
POL00423585
POL00423585

appropriate remedial measures in place. If the matter is not addressed the whistleblower
(where they are staff) should raise it formally using Post Office's Grievance procedure.

In all cases the whistleblower’s concerns will be treated sensitively and in confidence.

1.7 The Whistleblowing Officer

Post Office has appointed the General Counsel as the Whistleblowing Officer who can be
ELEFERUNK “"mailtorwhistleblowing? } or by telephone on:

internal reports raised, regardless of the channel used, review any concerns raised and appointed by the Whistleblowing Officer
determine the best course of action, if any. They may ask for further information in
order to make this decision.

The role of the Whistleblowing Officer and their nominated deputies is to receive all L SS TEFA]: Clarity re. nominated deputies ]

The Whistleblowing Officer is also responsible for the Post Office's overall

Whistleblinaewer Ppolicy and governance framework. which -ensuresing that reports are
investigated and responded to in a timely manner. They are responsible for determining
the appropriate parties who should investigate the allegations raised, taking into account

the sensitivities and seriousness of the report and the need to protect the whistleblower.

‘Commented [EF5]: Reworded for clarity )

The Whistleblowing Officer is also responsible for identifying key trends or issues, and
providing assurance to the Board that the policy is complied with.

1.8 How to Report Whistleblowing

Post Office supports and promotes a number of reporting mechanisms:

* Direct to the Whistleblowing Officer ([ HYPERLINK
*mailto:whistleblowing™

+ Via a complaint to a froiit Tirié teaii, 6g. customer complaints, BSC and Grapevine.
These may be verbal or written communications.

+ Contacting the “Speak Up” line, a confidential reporting service which is run by an
independent company NAVEX Global (formerly Expolink Europe Ltd)

Contact details for the Speak Up line are:

+ [HYPERLINK *httpz//postoffice.ethicspoint.com/" ][ HYPERLINK
"https://secure. ethicspoint.eu/domain/en/report_custom.asp?clientid= 106826"

which is a secure on-line web portal

‘Commented [EF6]: Updated web address )

What should be reported?
Whistleblowers should raise a concern if they are aware of, or suspect, certain wrongdoing
which affects others (e.g. customers, members of the public, colleagues or the Post Office).
The following lists some examples (this is a non-exhaustive list) of situations where an
inetvidual may raise a concern:
Where Post Office or the Group is in breach of any legal obligation to which it is
subject (usually a statutory rather than a contractual legal obligation)

+ Financial Crime including Fraud, Money Laundering and financing of terrorism,
Giving, offering or taking of bribes originating both inside or outside Post Office but
related to Post Office business activities,

Financial mismanagement, Tax evasion and Misreporting

Racial, sexual, disability or other discrimination (Improper Behaviour)-,
Practices that could put individuals or the environment at risk,

Breach of Post Office internal policies and procedures

{Commented [EF7]: Wording added for clarity }

Internal and External Page 6 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238400_0004
+ Concerns about slavery or human trafficking?, and
* Any conduct likely to damage Post Office's reputation

This policy should not be used by staff wishing to raise complaints relating to their own
personal circumstances, such as the way they have been treated at work. Grievances and
matters such as bullying and harassment should be raised in accordance with the
procedures set out in the appropriate HR policy.

If an individual is uncertain about whether something is within the scope of this Policy they
should seek advice from the Whistleblowing Officer, whose contact details are set out in

this Policy.

1.9 Responding to Whistleblowing Reports

In all instances any whistleblowing reports, regardless of reporting method, will be
responded to within 5 working days and passed onto the Whistleblowing Officer.

All reports will be fully reviewed and investigated and any information, including emails,
or records of telephone calls, letters, or any other form of communication stored
securely and confidentially.

The time frame for investigating the reports raised is dependent on the nature of the
report and the investigation required, however, the whistleblower will be given feedback
via the reporting channel they have used, or have given the Whistleblowing Officer
permission to use (Speak Up line, e-mail or phone call) during the investigation and once
it has been concluded.

The whistleblower may be kept informed of any action taken, however, this information
may be limited if it is required to keep the confidence of other people.

Where a report received is anonymous, whistleblowers will not ordinarily be able to
receive feedback and details of action taken by Post Office may be limited.

1.10 External Disclosures

The aim of this Policy is to provide an internal mechanism for reporting, investigating
and remedying any wrongdoing in the workplace and to demonstrate Post Office's
commitment to listen to the concerns of workersstaff. In most cases individuals should
not find it necessary to alert anyone externally.

However, the law recognises that in some circumstances it may be appropriate for
individuals to report their concerns to an external body such as a regulator. It will rarely,
if ever, be appropriate to alert the media at least without informing Post Office or an
external agency first and usually in that order.

We strongly encourage individuals to seek advice before reporting a concern to anyone
external. The independent whistleblowing charity, Protect (formerly Public Concern at
Work) have a list of prescribed regulators for reporting certain types of concerns. Their
contact details are as follows:

Helpline:
Website: [ HYPERLINK “htt

Ioww.peaw.org.uk/advice" }-line/

3 More information in relation to Modern Slavery can be found here - [ HYPERLINK
“hitpillcorporate,postoffice.co.uk/slaverystatement”]

Internal and External Page 6 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423585
POL00423585

{Commented [SS8}: Wording added to reinforce culture)

POL-BSFF-0238400_0005
Protect operates free, confidential advice to people concerned about crime, danger or
wrongdoing in the workplace. All Protect advisors are legally trained and supervised by
qualified lawyers and their advice is fully confidential and subject to legal privilege. All
information, including emails, or records of telephone calls, letters, or any other form of
communication with Protect advisors is stored in a fully encrypted format.

Post Office Management Services (POMS) is directly regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA), Post Office Limited is an appointed representative of Bank of Ireland
(UK) Limited. As such individuals may decide to whistleblow directly to the FCA, and can
do so by using one of the following channels.

HYPERLINK “mailto:whistlel_
Website: [ HYPERLINK "http://wwwfca.org.uk/site-info/contact/whistleblowing" ]

Address: Intelligence Department (Ref PIDA), Financial Conduct Authority, 12 Endeavour
Square, London, E20 1JN

Whistleblowing concerns usually relate to the conduct of our staff, but they may
sometimes relate to the actions of a third party, such as a customer, supplier, agent,
Postmaster or service provider. In some circumstances the law will protect individuals if
they raise the matter with the third party directly. However, we encourage individuals to
report such concerns internally in the first instance.

Internal and External Page 7 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423585
POL00423585

POL-BSFF-0238400_0006
2. Risk Appetite and Minimum — Control
Standards

2.1.

k Appetite

Risk Appetite is the extent to which the Group will accept that a risk might happen in
pursuit of day to day businesses transactions. It therefore defines the boundaries of
activity and levels of exposure that the Group are willing and able to tolerate.

The Group takes its legal and regulatory responsibilities seriously and consequently has*:

+ Tolerant risk appetite for Legal and Regulatory risk in those limited circumstances
where there are significant conflicting imperatives between conformance and
commercial practicality

+ Averse risk appetite for litigation in relation to high profile cases/issues

+ Averse risk appetite for ligation in relation to Financial Services matters

+ Averse risk appetite for not complying with law and regulations or deviation from
business’ conduct standards for financial crime to occur within any part of the
organisation

+ Averse Risk Appetite in relation to unethical behaviour by our staff.

The Group acknowledges however that in certain scenarios even after extensive controls
have been implemented an action may still sit outside the agreed Risk Appetite.

2.2. Policy Framework

Post Office has established a suite of policies and procedures, on a risk sensitive approach
which are subject to an annual review. The policy suite is designed to comply with
applicable legislation and regulation. The Whistleblowing Policy should be considered and
read in conjunction with other policies where relevant. These may include the Financial
Crime Policy, the Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy, Health & Safety Policies and HR Policies
where relevant.

2.3. Who Must Comply?

All third parties who do business with the Group, including consultants, suppliers and
business and franchise partners, will be required to agree contractually to this policy or
have their own equivalent policy.

Any investigations will be carried out in accordance with the Investigations Policy which is
available on the Post Office Intranet

“The Risk appetite was agreed by the Groups Board January 2015

Internal and External Page 8 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL00423585
POL00423585

POL-BSFF-0238400_0007
POL00423585
POL00423585

2.4. Minimum Control Standards

‘A minimum control standard is an activity which must be in place in order to manage the risks so they remain within the defined Risk
Appetite statements. There must be mechanisms in place within each impacted business unit to demonstrate compliance. The minimum
control standards can cover a range of control types, i.e. directive, detective, corrective and preventive which are required to ensure risks
are managed to an acceptable level and within the defined Risk Appetite.

The table below sets out the relationships between identified risk and the required minimum control standards in consideration of the stated
risk appetite. The subsequent pages define the terms used in greater detail:

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards Who is responsible When
Receipt and Failure to meet legal and Directive Control:

investigation of regulatory requirements Post Office must nominate a Post Office CEO and Board I Ongoing
whistleblowing reports Whistleblowing Officer to receive

reports, ensure that all reports
are fully investigated and that
any appropriate corrective
action is undertaken.

The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer Annually
provide a whistleblowing report
to the R&CC and ARC at least
annually.

Any serious whistleblowing Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
concerns must be promptly
escalated to the Chairman of the
Post Office Audit and Risk

Committee.
Preventative Control:
All employees are trained and —_I Whistleblowing Officer Training must
the policy is available to them be provided at
least annually
and within 30
Internal and External Page 9 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238400_0008
POL00423585
POL00423585

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards Who is responsible When
The Whistleblowing Officer must days of joining
ensure that appropriate Whistleblowing Officer: Post Office, { Commented [EF11]: Clarity of training requirement _}

arrangements are in place to
ensure that whistleblowing

reports are addressed promptly Ongoing
including during absences.

Communications and awareness
provided to all employees-and Head of Financial Crime

the Intranet, {Commented [EF9]: Correction of wording )
OngoingAnnualt

Corrective Control ¥ I Commented [EF10]: 2 new minimum control standards,

The Whistleblowing Officer must added to reflect practice

escalate WB reports to the Whistleblowing officer Ongoing

appropriate Investigating
manager for investigation to
take place.

The nominated Investigating
manager responsible for Investigating manager Ongoing
conducting the investigation
must report the findings back to
the Whistleblowing Officer

Breach of Failure to ensure Preventative Control:
confidentiality confidentiality for the Whistleblowing PolicyIis robust Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
whistleblower and up to datel, — {Commented [EF12]: Reworded for clarity }
Confidential Speak Up line Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing

reports are shared only with the
Whistleblowing Officer and
nominated deputies

Whistleblowing email inbox Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
access is restricted to the

Internal and External Page 10 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238400_0009
POL00423585
POL00423585

Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
Whistleblowing Officer and
nominated deputies

Whistleblowing Officer must put I Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
arrangement in place to protect
the confidentiality of the
whistleblower during
investigations

Corrective Control: Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
All incidents of breaches are
escalated to the Whistleblowing
Officer to review and take
necessary actions.

Incorrect handling of An individual may raise a Preventative Control:
whistleblowing report I whistleblowing report with _I Training provided to contact Whistleblowing Officer Annually and
other individuals in the teams to identify potential within 30 days
Group. Details may then be I whistleblowing reports and of joining the
shared with various ensure these are correctly Post Office, — (Commented [EF14}: Clarity of training requirement )
stakeholders before being handled, e.g.:
passed onto the * Grapevine,

* NBSC,

* Customer Support, and

* Executive Correspondence
Team.

Whistleblowing Officer

Communications and awareness I Head of Financial Crime

provided to all employees. and
the Intranet. Annually _—- (Commented [EF13]: Correction of wording )
Ongoing
Corrective Control: Whistleblowing Officer
All incidents of breaches are
escalated to the Whistleblowing
Internal and External Page 11 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT I

POL-BSFF-0238400_0010
Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
Officer to investigate and take ‘Ongoing
appropriate actions.

Insufficient Failure to capture/report Directive Control:

Information sufficient information about I Individuals are encouraged to _I Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing

the issue may mean that report issues and provide full
the underlying issue cannot I information and their contact
be properly investigated and I details, where they feel able to
resolved do so.
Corrective Control:
All reports, including those Whistleblowing Officer Ongoing
where insufficient information
has been provided and no
further action was taken are
recorded on the Whistleblowing
database, which is reviewed for
trends and issues.
The ‘Speak Up’ Service Failure to effectively record I Preventative Control:
whistleblowing reports and I The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer Annually
pass onto the review the effectiveness of the
Whistleblowing Officer, due I service provided by NAVEX
to factors such as resource I Global (formerly known as
or IT failure. Expolink Europe Ltd) at least
annually.
The Whistleblowing Officer must I Whistleblowing Officer Annually

Internal and External

review the effectiveness of the
processes operated by
Grapevine, BSC, Customer
Support, and The Executive
Complaints Team at least
annually to ensure that
whistleblowing reports are

Page 12 of 18

[FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423585

POL00423585

POL-BSFF-0238400_0011
Risk Area Description of Risk Minimum Control Standards _I Who is responsible When
identified and communicated
promptly.
Treatment of Breach of whistleblowing Preventative Control
Whistleblowers guidelines such that a Training must be provided to all I Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing
whistleblower suffers people managers as part of their I #R-People Training
prejudice, detriment or induction process as a manager I Manager
dismissal as a result of and on appointment to Post
making a whistle blowing Office
report
Annual training must be Ongoing
provided to all Post Office staff Whistleblowing Officer and
to remind them of the HR-People Training
protections available to Manager
whistleblowers and the
importance of identifying and
reporting wrongdoing
The Code of Business Standards
must refer to the whistleblowing I Whistleblowing Officer and I Ongoing

policy and must be provided to
all new joiners as part of their
induction programme.

HR-People Training
Manager

Internal and External

Page 13 of 18

[FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423585

POL00423585

{Commented [S515]: Changed ttle

POL-BSFF-0238400_0012
3. Definitions

3.1. Definitions

Grapevine

24/7 Security Support Centre provided by Kings Ltd. Grapevine provide security advice
and record all security incidents across the business, this includes burglaries, robberies
and the reporting of suspicious activity.

Telephone Number:
E-mail: [ HYPERLINK “mail

NBSC
ranch Support Centre (NBSC) is a helpline and the first port of call for Post Office
branches if they have any operational query or require assistance.

Telephone Number:
E-mail: [ HYPERLINK

i
enquiries!

Customer Support Team
Complaints handling team based in Chesterfield. The team address complaints reported
into Post Office via various channels, including post and telephone.

E-mail: [ HYPERLINK "mailto:customercare,

Executive Correspondence Team
This team handles all complaints addressed directly to the Group Executives. The team
liaise with various stakeholders within the business in order to resolve complaints.

E-mail: [ HYPERLINK "mailto‘flagcaseadvisof,

Internal and External Page 14 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423585
POL00423585

{Commented [EF16]: Correction of team name )

POL-BSFF-0238400_0013
POL00423585

POL00423585
4 a Where to go for help
4.1. Additional Policies
This Policy is one of a set of policies. The full set of policies can be found at:
[ HYPERLINK
“https://poluk.sharepoint.com/sites/thehub/SitePages/Key%20policies.aspx?web=1" ]
4.2. How to raise a concern
Any Post Office employee who suspects that there is a breach of this Policy should report
this without any undue delay. Whistleblowing can be reported via the following channels:
«Their line manager,
* Asenior member of the HR Team, or
* If either or both are not available, staff can contact the Post Office’s Whistleblowing
Officer, who can be contacted by email
"mailto:whistleblowin ] or by telephone on: ]
* the confidential Whistlebl service ‘Ethicspoint’ provided by Navex
Global via telephone on {~~
or via a secure on-line web portal: [ HYPERLINK "http://postoffice.ethicspoint.com/"
ILHYPERLINK
"https: //secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/en/report_custom.asp?clientid=106826" ]I (Commented [EFI7I: Updated web address J

In some instances it may be appropriate for the individual to report in the form of a
complaint to Grapevine, the Customer Support Team or the Executive Correspondence

Team.

4.3. Who to contact for more information

If you

need further information about this Policy or wish to report an issue in relation to

this Policy, please contact the Policy sponsor or Policy owner.

Internal and External Page 15 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0238400_0014
POL00423585
POL00423585

5 a Governance

5.1. Governance Responsibilities

As at the date of approval of this Policy, the General Counsel is both the Policy Sponsor
and Policy Owner, responsible for oversight of the Policy.

The Audit and Risk Committee are responsible for approving the Policy and overseeing
compliance.

The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s risk appetite.

Internal and External Page 16 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL-BSFF-0238400_0015
6. Control

6.1. Policy Version

Date Version I Updated by Change Details

April 2016 14 Jane MacLeod Sponsors review and sing-off

August 2017 15 Vitor Camara Annual Review and update.
September 2017 16 Thomas Richmond I POL R&CC approval

September 2017 2 Thomas Richmond _I Final version approved

June 2018 24 Vitor Camara ‘Annual review and update.

July 2018 2.2 Sally Smith POL R&CC approval

July 2018 2.3 Sally Smith POL ARC approval

September 2018 2.4 Sally Smith POMS ARC approval

September 2018 3 Vitor Camara Final version approved

‘June 2019 3.1 Sally Smith ‘Annual review and update

June 2019 3.2 Sally Smith Incorporating legal review comments
July 2019 3.3 Sally Smith POL R&CC approval

September 2019 3.4 Sally Smith POMS ARC approval

September 2019 4.0 Sally Smith Final version approved

April 2020 41 Sally Smith Updated with new Speak Up service

contact details
June 2020 42 Sally Smith Annual review and update

6.2. Policy Approval

Group Oversight Committee:

Risk and Compliance Committee and Audit and Risk Committee

Committee I Date 4.0 Approved
POL R&CC 4" July 2019

POL ARC 29% July 2019

POMS ARC 19" September 2019
Committee Date Approved

POL R&CC

POL ARC

POMS ARC

Policy Sponsor:

Policy Owner:
Policy Author:

Next review:

Company Details

Whistleblowing Officer
Head of Financial Crime

July 20210

Group Director of Legal, Compliance & Governance

Post Office Limited and Past Office Management Services Limited are registered in England and Wales. Registered numbers
2154540 and 08459719 respectively. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2¥ 9AQ.

Internal and External

Page 17 of 18

[FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL00423585
POL00423585

POL-BSFF-0238400_0016
POL00423585
POL00423585

Post Office Management Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FRN 630318. Its
Information Commissioners Office registration number is ZA090585

Post Office Limited is authorised and regulated by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC), REF 12137104. Its Information
Commissioners Office registration number is 24866081.

Internal and External Page 18 of 18 [FILENAME \* MERGEFORMAT }

POL-BSFF-0238400_0017
