POL00104815
POL00104815

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

P&S Doc 5.1, V3

FORENSIC SERVICES & TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT gul 08

1. PURPOSE.

The purpose of this document is to provide Investigators within Royal Mail Group
Ltd (RMG Ltd), with clear understanding in relation to Forensic Services and
Technical Equipment available to Investigators.

2. CONTENTS
Section 3 Introduction.
Section 4 Forensic Ser
Section 5 Technical Equipment.

3. INTRODUCTION

rensic services are normally accessed to determine the significance of
evidence recovered, particularly in cases that are thought to present a high
risk of challenge in court. There are a variety of forensic tests, which
are detailed in Section 4 but the majority of RMG Ltd forensic examination
is in the comparison of fingerprints and the comparison of handwriting
samples.

3.2 Technical services may be defined as the accessing of particular equipment
to support an investigation. This might be technical equipment deployed at
the start of an investigation to help gain evidence, to the tape machines
used to record an interview or the examination of digital equipment during
an investigation, right up to the copying of CCTV images in order that
evidence may be placed before a court. Electronic Tracking Devices (ETD)
used to track postal packets, individuals or vehicles are covered in their
own Procedures & Standards which can be found on the Group Security Database
- Criminal Investigations - Investigation Procedures & Standards -
Investigation Activities Surveillance & Testing.

3.3. Forensic and technical services are split in two in this document, to aid
clarity. However, both services are intended to support the RMG Ltd Policy
of prosecuting dishonest employees or their agents, and also on occasion
members of the public who perpetrate crimes against the RMG Ltd.

3.4 Currently RMG Ltd purchases forensic support from a ‘one stop shop’, the
Forensic Science Service (FSS). Therefore any reference to suppliers of
forensic services in this document will deemed to be FSS, albeit the
contract may alter, and on rare occasions the FSS may sub-contract work to
other suppliers. Most forensic experts charge between £70 and £120 an hour
for their expertise. The most common RMG Ltd cases referred to the FSS
include fingerprint identification and handwriting comparisons. Analysis of
samples of these may result in costs of between a few hundred pounds to
several thousand pounds per case, depending on the complexity and quality of
evidence submitted.

3.5 Technical support is rendered by a variety of people, but all the services
may be accessed via Mark Blackwell Security System Support Manager (SSSM) in

Royal Mail Letters Security (RMLS). If any doubt exists about any part of
title: Forensic Services and Technical Equipment
» Ref Sel, V3
July 2008
Owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104815
POL00104815

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

Back to Contents

ent Title: Forensic
. Ref 5.1, V

July 2008
Owner: Ray Pratt

ces and Technical Equipment

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104815
POL00104815

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

4. FORENSIC SERVICES

4.1 The Forensic Science Service (FSS) consists of privatised former police
forensic laboratories. The FSS provide many separate services to their
customers including the following;

1. Fingerprint examination and comparison.
2. Handwriting examination and comparison.
3. Document examination to determine;

a. If alterations have been made to it by both the addition and

removal of entries.

b. The “hidden writing” entries which have been obliterated by ink or

correction fluid.

c. If it is genuine or counterf.

Reassembly of torn ox shredded documents.

Date-stamp or print examination and comparison.

Indented handwriting examination (ESDA) and comparison.

. Envelope/Pouch examination to determine if they have been opened and

resealed.

Analyses of inks, paper, glue, toner etc.

9. Analyses of office equipment to identify the source of

Sou

cs

nted

documentation.
10. DNA analysis, profiling and matching.
ll. Video recording enhancement.

For further details of the services provided by the FSS go their website at:
http://www. forensic.gov.uk/forensic_t/inside/services/events/com_ser.htm

4.2  RMLS currently provides services relating to the copying of CCTV footage and
images. In these cases advice should NOT be sought from the FSS, but
lackwell the SSSM RMLS contactable on mobex
I. RMLS also provides services relating to the
igital media, such as computer hard drives and mobile
phones. In these cases advice should NOT be sought from the FSS, but
referred to the Jo Dixon Computer Forensic Team on mobex

4.3 All Investigators must check with their Line Manager prior to submitting any
evidence for forensic examination. The eventual decision must be approved
by a Territorial Investigation Manager (TIM), or equivalent. This is in
order to ensure costs are not incurred unnecessar It has been the case
that forensic tests have been conducted that have resulted in costs of
several thousand pounds to RMG Ltd, yet upon being interviewed, or re-
interviewed, the suspect has admitted the offence without even being shown
or told about the forensic evidence. As always, efforts should be made to
keep expenditure to a minimum.

4.4 Clearly, it is impossible to judge precisely when to seek forensic
assistance, as cases will vary, and people may change their plea at court,
but generally it is expected evidence should be put to most suspects before
forensic tests are run, in case they admit the offence, and obviate the need
for forensic tests. However, in very serious prosecutions, or cases where
the forensic evidence may be thought to degenerate significantly, it may be
considered prudent to get the forensic analysis completed straight away. In
these cases Investigators should immediately consult and seek guidance from
their Line Manager before any submission is made.

4.5 In order to elicit the support of the FSS the f

llowing process should be

title:  Forensi
P&S Doc. Ref 5.1, V3
Date July 2008
Owner: Ray Pratt

Services and Technical Equipment

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104815
POL00104815

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

followed;

1.

2.

Investigators must establish with their Line Manager the need for
forensic examination to be conducted.

Having got agreement from a TIM, or equivalent, via the Line Manager,
Investigators should phone the FSS using the phone number listed on the
forensic submission form GS302, and explain the nature of the work to be
undertaken. The FSS will take these details, and duly supply a rough
quote and a rough timescale to complete the work - by definition these
may vary when the FSS actually see the work.

P&S D
Date
Owner:

Fore!
5.1, V3

July 2008
Ray Pratt

Services and Technical Equipment

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104815
POL00104815

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

The cost and timescales should be communicated by the Investigator to

their Line Manager. If agreed by the TIM or equivalent the Investigator

should again contact the FSS by phone. They will be instructed where to
submit the work, and how.

4. Once the FSS have given the instructions the Investigator should complete
the GS302 submission form and arrange for this form and the w to be
delivered as instructed to the appropriate laboratory. There is a
Purchase Order reference number on the Group Security website immediately
before accessing the GS302 form. This reference is applicable to all
cases submitted by Royal Mail Lett! and Parcelforce, and must be quoted
in the relevant section on the GS302, prior to posting. POL will need to
contact their Casework Team for the appropriate Purchase Order number

5. On no account should evidence be posted in the ordinary mail - Special

Delivery must be used if the evidence is not delivered by hand by an

Investigator.

Once evidence is submitted the FSS will conduct the checks, and contact

the Investigator with the results. If subsequently required they will

provide statements, and may attend court. They charge separately for
these services. The FSS send the appropriate invoice to the RMG
accounts team in Chesterfield for payment.

7. I£ any problems are experienced or any concerns arise with the service

provided by the FSS the Investigator should contact the Royal Mail SSSM,

and make them aware of these issues. The SSSM will feed back concerns to
the FSS, for them to address. Additionally, if the FSS have any concerns
or issues with work submitted they may contact the SSSM and make them
aware of these, in ordex remedial action can be taken, where appropriate
Back to Contents

4.6 PROCESS MAP FOR SUBMISSION OF EVIDENCE TO FORENSIC SCIENCE SERVICE (FSS)
> FORMS
Investigator seeks 1. 68302 Forensic Submission
permission from TIM (or form

equivalent) via Line Manager 2. Feedback form supplied by

te sunt sfidence to SS RM Security Systems Support
Permission agreed.

Investigator phones FSS Permission refused.
using number on GS302, and No further action
FSS take détails and duly Gosts and/or timescale not
provide rough cost estimate and agreed. Seek alternatives
+4 La ho Tnuactiaat

Costs and times agreed by - - —
Investigator and TIM (or Tf issues with submission

equivalent) via Line Manager. then FSS to feedback to
Investigator submits GS302 with PML Me

Purchase Code and evidence in
suitable manngr to relevant FSS

¥
FSS complete the tests and
contact Investigator with
at

If issues with FSS then
Investigator to seek
feedback form from RMLS SSS!

—________>

FSS submits invoice to RM

accounts in Chesterfield for
a

Back to Contents

For

ic Services and Technical Equipment

5.1, V3
July 2008
Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104815
POL00104815

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

5. TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT

5.1 Various technical procedures exist and if required Mark Blackwell SSSM RMLS
“plain these. He is contactable on mobex or mobile
) I. The main procedures are as follows.

5.2 The repair of PACE interview tape machines, or similar equipment (form
GS304), The Neal twin or three deck tape recorders are supplied and repa
by David Horn Communications. The company details, including the address
and contact phone number, are listed on form GS304. They should be
contacted for details on costs, and timescales. The cost for the supply and
repair of such equipment is now borne by each separate Business Unit.

Before any expenditure is undertaken it should be agreed with your Line
Manager and the relevant budget holder. Repairs to additional equipment
should be as normal for office equipment, either repaired by the relevant
supplier, or disposed of, as deemed appropriate.

5.3. The copying of CCTV or similar evidence (form GS307). RMLS retains the
capability to copy CDs, DVDs, VHS tapes and various forms of DVR hard
drives, particularly foz subsequent use in court cases. Business Units can
currently access this service for free. Prior to completing form GS307 the
Investigator should contact Mark Blackwell SSSM and seek advice. If the work
can be undertaken the Investigator should complete the GS307 work form and
forward it with the work to be undertaken to the SSSM. Timescales will vary
according to the work requested and annual leave commitments, but routinely
will normally involve a turnaround of just a couple of days.

5.4 Examination of computer equipment and digital devices (form GS308). RMLS
retains the capability to forensically examine digital devices, such as
computer equipment, mobile phones and the like, particularly for subsequent
use in court cases. Business Units can currently access this service for

An on-line form exists in the Group Security Database, foxm 65308.

Int from Jo Dixon, Computer Forensic Team on

5.5 The supply and removal of covert CCTV camera equipment (forms GS305 and
GS306 respectively). A separate policy exists for the covert CCTV camera
process, and may be found on the intranet. If advice is required please
contact Mark Blackwell SSSM.

5.6 Miscellaneous services, including the replenishment of forensic consumables.
Advice should be sought from Mark Blackwell, SSSM.
Back to Contents

Fore!
P&S D 5.1, V3

Date July 2008
Owner: Ray Pratt

Services and Technical Equipment

CONFIDENTIAL
