POL00298403

POL00298403

From: Susan Crichton[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=SUSAN CRICHTONCS5FA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-
BE4237A4AD4F]

Sent: Mon 19/08/2013 5:54:25 PM (UTC)

To: Angela Van-Den-BogerdI

Ce: Andy Holt

Subject: Fw: Horizon review workflow

Attachment: Mediation pack August.docx

Hi there comments from SHEX - I know u have spoken to NFSP but cannot remember what their response was....

From: Batten Peter (ShEx) I. GRO.

Sent: Monday, August 19, 20: :

To: Susan Crichton

Cc: Martin Edwards; Simon Baker; Gibson Will (ShEx) {~

1; Whitehead Mike (ShEx)

“Subject: FW: Horizon review workflow
Hi Susan, cc Simon,

Again, thanks for sharing this draft. Has it yet been formally agreed by JFSA and SS? It would be very useful
from our perspective to understand a little more of the specifics of the proposed scheme, and to this end I've
marked up some comments in the attached. These aren't drafting suggestions, but are a couple of areas
where it would be helpful from our perspective to know more. I've copied the questions below:

* Will 31 October be enough time for SPMs/ex-SPMs to apply? Has this date been discussed and
agreed with the JFSA?

* Why is this described an ‘initial' scheme? Suggests that there will be a follow up scheme at some
point.

* On the workflow, what happens if the agreement is not reached?

* Is there a limit on the number of applications to the scheme a SPM can make?

* Is there an approved list of advisers, or will SPMs be free to choose their advisers?

* Will the Mediation Working Group be required to make unanimous decisions, or majority? Who
carries deciding vote?

+ What is the definition of 'settled' in the FAQ?

* Is POL dropping all current live cases?

* What kind of claim are you imagining SPMs might make? i.e. a civil claim for lost earnings, or
reputational damage, etc

Additionally:

* Has the NFSP been involved/informed about any of the engagement with JFSA / SS?
* Is POL providing a secretariat function for the group?
* Has anyone been identified as an independent Chair for the working group?

Mike and I are over in Old Street between 2.00-3.30 on Wednesday. Would it be possible to meet for thirty
minutes either before or after this meeting for a quick chat on progress?

Many thanks
Peter
POL00298403
POL00298403

Peter Batten I Policy Adviser I Post Office N
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I;

www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and higher
skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: Susan Crichton
Sent: 12 August 2013 16:20
To: Batten Peter (ShEx); Martin Edwards

Ce: Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Gibson Will (ShEx); Simon Baker
Subject: RE: Horizon review workflow

Peter - I have attached the latest draft to this email, this draft was created following two meetings with the
JFSA and SS, and sets out the process we have agreed. We have sent it to them and are waiting for their
feedback. The process map is near the front of the pack.

Can you let me know which are the sub postmasters and the MPs so we can check whether we already have
them on the list.

Let me know if you need anything else.
Thanks

Susan Crichton I General Counsel

From: Batten Peter (ShEx)
Sent: 12 August 2013 09:
To: Susan Crichton; Martin Edwards

Cc: Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Gibson Will (ShEx)
Subject: Horizon review workflow

Dear Susan, cc Martin,

When we met at the end of last month you mentioned that there was now a process in place agreed
with the JFSA to handle new cases relating to the Horizon system. We have received a few more
letters from MPs that I need to reply to quickly - could you please send me details of the workflow?
POL00298403
POL00298403

Many thanks
Peter

BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I;
www.qov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth
and higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
