POLO0096545
POL00096545

Message

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd I

on behalf of Angela Van-Den-Bogerd.

Sent: 23/05/2012.11:27:43.

To: Mia Porter}

Subject: RE: James Arbuthnot - Meeting with MP's
Mia,

Pm available.

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Network Services
Post Office Ltd

Ist Floor Admin, Swansea Mail Centre,
\SEA, S.
Mobex

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply

email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Mia Porter

Sent: 23 May 2012 12:23
To: Alwen Lyons; Susan Crichton; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Lesley J Sewell
Cc: Diane Martey; Jorja Preston; Glenda C Hansen

Subject: FW: James Arbuthnot - Meeting with MP's

Hi all,
Further to this email can we arrange a phone call for Friday at lpm? Can you please confirm you are available?

Thanks
Mia

From: Mia Porter On Behalf Of Paula Vennells
Sent: 22 May 2012 18:32

To: Alwen Lyons; Susan Crichton

Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Theresa Iles; Mia Porter
Subject: James Arbuthnot - Meeting with MP's

Alice and I have agreed that we will follow the well worn path for the above meeting and will attempt to replicate how the
conversation went with JA/OL.

Please can Alwen update/re-shape the briefing note. The rough outline of the JA/OL meeting was as follows:

e JA —Overall introduction
e Alice intro — take the issues seriously ete

POL-0096128
POLO0096545
POL00096545

e Paula follow on — confirm this and outline the challenges we face in addressing these issues and how we plan to
explain to them the integrity of the system and the improvements that have been made in our
training/support/escalation processes.

Angela — talk through two or three anonymous examples

JA — explain how he was persuaded/reassured and to present his recommendations of a forensic accountant
Paula — explain/offer to investigate MP’s individual cases and have the process validated by the FA.

Alice/JA — gain agreement/finish meeting

eoeee

Alwen — I’m sure it would be helpful to you if you and I grab 10 mins over the next couple of days just to go through this.
Thanks in advance for your help.

Finally, we need to pull together the brief/timing for the FA and Alice and we have agreed that either one of us (whoever
has the diary availability) should ‘interview’ the individual , so that we are happy with their engagement as well as
technical ability. Who will progress the brief/timing? I have just noticed that we have committed to go to the MP
meeting, having found a FA suitable to carry out the task. Susan can you help with this? Any queries at all please don’t
hesitate to ask as this is really important — it may be just what we need to resolve the outstanding challenges on horizon.

p.s. Just to be on the safe side [’ll ask Mia if its possible for the 4 of us to arrange a conference call for Friday.

Mia Porter

Assistant to the Office of the Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

POL-0096128
