POL00296463
POL00296463

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ANGELA.VAN DEN BOGE1C5FCFE7-2672-42D9-
B324-4EA8D2814853]

Sent: Thur 09/05/2013 8:16:37 PM (UTC)

To: Simon Baker{j
Subject: RE: Spot review responses
Simon,

Intentionally not answering questions raised by 2nd Sight will in my view give rise to suspicion ie that we
have something to hide and is not in the spirit of our interaction/engagement with Ron and lan. By trying to
dodge answers that may not present POL as positively as we would like will in the long term come back to
bite us. I would much rather be upfront from the start. There was always a risk that our policies, procedures
and processes would come under the spotlight and in some cases be deemed to not be as good as some
would expect whether this expectation is reasonable or otherwise — this was a risk I believe we accepted
from the start and whilst the integrity of the Horizon system may be intact we should not ignore any lessons
learnt that come out of these investigations.

You may think that I’m being overly holistic here (and perhaps I’ve missed something by not attending as
many of the recent meetings/conf calls) but I don’t believe I am and would be interested in the views of
Alwen and Susan although I am aware that they did not raise any issues/questions on the spot reviews.

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships
seconsscsnuntennatbnsiaionemssimenniconsiacatisagmacinichioateants

© 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

Mobex: f

@) Post Office stories

® @postofficenews

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Simon Baker

Sent: 09 May 2013 20:52

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: FW: Spot review responses

Angela
POL00296463
POL00296463

Thanks for your comments.
Responses on them below, please let me know if they don’t answer your questions.

Regards, Simon

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailto:
Sent: 09 May 2013 10:23

To: Simon Baker

Subject: RE: Spot review responses

Simon
My thoughts embedded below.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Direct: I . —_

Fax:

Follow Bond Dickinson

From: Simon Baker [mailto:
Sent: 09 May 2013 08:59
To: Parsons, Andrew
Subject: Fw: Spot review responses

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent: Thursday, May 09, 2013 07:32 AM
To: Simon Baker

Subject: RE: Spot review responses
Simon,

As requested my feedback is below:

e Spot review 1 — happy with our response
POL00296463
POL00296463

« Spot review 11 — we have not responded to the request “POL is requested to provide statistical information
about the number of days taken to send TCs to the SPMRs in the Horizon Investigation Sample

We have intentionally not provided the stats on TC submission times for the following reasons:

1. This is irrelevant to the Second Sight's scope of work — the time taken to submit TC is a POL operations issue
not a Horizon issue.

2. There is no simple answer to this question — the time taken to respond to any particular TC depends on the
product, nature of error, investigation process, date the error is discovered, etc.

3. Compiling this information would be disproportionately expensive / time consuming for in light of (1) and (2)
above

4. Anecdotally, the view is that these stats would show POL in a negative light as there will always be a material
lag between a transaction and a TC. There is no simple way to spin this in POL's favour.

5. The submission date of a TC does not fairly reflect the date on which the SPMR will have knowledge of an
error. In many cases, an enquiry regarding an error will have been raised with the SPMR before the TC is
issued. Providing TC stats would lead to a misleading view that there is a long delay between transaction date
and the SPMR's opportunity to investigate an error.

The above points cannot be explained in concise way that would not detract from an otherwise very positive response
on the accountability of GIRO transactions (which is the core issue in SR11). It was therefore thought best to simply
avoid this question for now. If Second Sight pushes for these stats, POL can then produce a separate and bespoke
response that addresses above points in detail.

« Spot review 12 — we state that “there will be around 100 cases per month where it becomes apparent

that a cheque has actually gone missing”. Could we present this as a % to demonstrate that this is not a
big issue in terms of volumes.

The figure of "100" missing cheques a month is anecdotal only. We would need to ask Andy Winn / Linn Norbury if
there is any hard data to back-up this figure or to convert it to a % of total cheques processed.

It would also be helpful to give some average time taken to raise a TC — discrepancies between
cheques received at processing centre and cheques remmed out would be identified relatively quickly
(within how many days?). A cheque that didn’t clear and that had been accepted incorrectly would be
returned to branch within xx? number of days.

See comments on SR11 above.

* Spot review 13 — happy with our response

Thanks,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

lobe

®
©
POL00296463
POL00296463

(= Post Office stories

®© @postofficenews

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Simon Baker

Sent: 01 May 2013 16:47

To: Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Cc: Lesley J Sewell

Subject: Spot review responses

Susan, Alwen, Angela
Attached are our response to the second sight spot reviews for your approval.

The first zip file contains the four spot review requests from second sight, the second zip file contains our responses to
these requests.

Please could you send me your feedback by Monday.

Thanks, Simon

Simon Baker Head of Business Change and Assurance

2" Floor, 148 Old
GRO

postoffice.co.uk
@postofficenews

——

in, EC1V 9HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POL00296463
POL00296463

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

coeeeentert erent erennes SoS IDI III:

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

d and protected by law. simon.baker{"""" GRO" } only is authorised to access
Yas possible and delete any copies.
hhments i prohibited and iiay be unlawful

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privil
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not simon, baked" 3 please notify
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication of Copying of this Communication or att

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC31766 1. Our registered
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
