POL00462747

POL00462747
Classification: Confidential

STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF CONFIDENTIALITY UNDERTAKING

NOT FOR WIDER CIRCULATION

Solicitor to the Inquiry

Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry

Sth Floor,

Aldwych House,

71-91 Aldwych,

London,

WC2B 4HN

By email: Solicitof == +=GRO ee i

3 April 2025

Dear Solicitor to the Inquiry

POST OFFICE HORIZON INQUIRY: RULE 9 REQUEST (68)

1. We write regarding Rule 9 Request Number 68 dated 18 March 2025 ("Rule 9(68)"), Post Office's
letter of 26 March providing its response (‘letter of 26 March 2025") and the Inquiry's reply
requesting further information (“letter of 27 March 2025").

2. In the letter of 27 March 2025, the Inquiry requested further information from Post Office, as
follows:
the names and dates of death of all individuals (other than those whom you have already provided
details of) whom you have identified also fall within the category of having taking their own life, and
this having been attributable to Horizon. This includes individuals who were:

+ Branch Managers;

+ Assistants;

+ Employees;

+ Family members of a Subpostmaster or the above category or otherwise.

3. The purpose of this letter is to provide Post Office's response to the letter of 27 March 2025, as
follows:

a) As outlined in its letter of 26 March 2025, Post Office is primarily alerted to a death by suicide,
which has been attributed to Horizon related shortfalls, via an application to the Horizon
Shortfall Scheme ('HSS') and in responding to Rule 9(68) Post Office has focussed its efforts
on the HSS and the Overturned Convictions process ('OC') as the most likely repositories of
relevant information. Post Office has not, in the time available, conducted manual checks or
forensic searches across the entire business, however, by way of assurance in responding to
the expanded categories listed in the Inquiry's letter of 27 March 2025, Post Office reviewed
3,485 responsive documents in Relativity. Post Office did not identify any further cases within
scope of the letter of 27 March 2025 of which it was not already aware.

The cases listed below all came to the attention of Post Office via the HSS, save for that of
it on been stated in media articles that
6 New Street Square, London, EC4A 3BF
annie =e - : INVESTORS IN PEOPLE

BS2.0ZX. A list ofthe members may be inspected atts registered ofce. Further information about Burges Salmon entities, including details oftheir
regulator, is set out on the Burges Salmon website at www buraes.-salmon.com
POL00462747
POL00462747

Classification: Confidential

Page 2

was by other means.’ Post Office has included
completeness, in light of this uncertainty.

b) The cause or contributory factors of suicide is of course a very complex and sensitive issue,
especially for bereaved families. Post Office has included below only the names of deceased
where Post Office has information or documents available to it that confirms that the death
was by suicide and that there has been an allegation that the death is linked to Horizon as
requested by the Inquiry. Where Post Office does not know, on the basis of documents it has
seen, whether a suicide has any connection to Horizon, the deceased has not been included
in this list.

in the list below for

4. The deceased individuals falling within scope of the Inquiry's 27 March 2025 letterare listed below:

Name of deceased person Date of death by suicide

[IRRELEVANT I

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

Unknown

IRRELEVANT!

5. Where Post Office has stated ‘unknown’ in respect of the deceased's name or date of death, this
is because Office was not provided with this information in the HSS application (or, in the
case of} IRRELEVANT ; via other means).

6. As stated in its letter of 26 March 2025, Post Office again respectfully requests that the Inquiry

notify Post Office if it intends to publish, or share with Core Participants, the names of the deceased
listed above.

7. Ifthe Post Office can assist further, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Yours faithfully

Burges Salmow LLP Fieldfisher LLP

BURGES SALMON LLP and FIELDFISHER LLP

_IRRELEVANT _
