POL00301440
POL00301440

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ANGELA.VAN DEN BOGE1C5FCFE7-2672-42D9-
B324-4EA8D2814853]

Sent: Wed 22/01/2014 11
To: Dave Pardo.
Subject: FW: POST OFFICE READ THIS

04 PM (UTC)

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

® 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
©

@® @postofficenews

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Susan Crichton

Sent: 23 September 2013

To: 'William.Gibsor: {

Cc: Mark R Davies; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: Fw: POST OFFICE READ THIS

Hi Will this came through from Alan Bates today we are investigating the case and will get back to you tomorrow.

Susan

From: Alan Bates,
Sent: Monday, September 23, 2013 04:02 PM

To: Paula Vennells; Susan Crichton; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Andy Holt
: swinsonmpstcot

janet.walkert

Subject: POST OFFICE READ THIS

This afternoon I received the following email, it is a prime example of the thuggery being exerted on defenceless
POL00301440
POL00301440

subpostmasters (as POL deny legal representation) by arrogant and uncontrolled Post Office personnel. Despite
assurances from on high that this type of thing is in the past, it is clear from POL's actions, it is still alive and active
through the ranks.

Hello Alan

lam writing on behalf of my son-in-law Martin Griffiths who has recently been in touch with you about the treatment
doled out to him by the hierarchy at the crown office in Chester. He had an armed raid in May, and the faceless
wonders at the crown office have intimated he was culpable. Had him at the Kangaroo court where he was not
allowed any representation of his own, he was a broken man then.

However, he was sent for last Friday to attend a meeting with the crown post office personnel again, and all week-
end he has clearly not been himself.

This morning he drove off to work, got out of his car and walked in front of a bus.
He is dangerously ill in Hospital at Liverpool, the post office had driven him to suicide.

All the family are at the hospital, I am alone waiting by the phone for further news of him.
I would urge you to publicise this, another incident that has been caused by the Bully Boys at the crown office.

May God forgive them.

I am aware of Martin's case, and I know he was terrified to raise his shortages with POL because of just this type of
thing happening to him, but POL got him in the end. Regardless of what may or may not have occurred with him, why
did POL have to hound him to the point of trying to take his own life? Why?

Despite numerous warnings of never to attend any discussion with POL without legal representation, Martin, trying to
be helpful, didn't take anyone with him as per the conditions POL demand. If POL cannot control their personnel,
then the very least they can do is authorise and insist on a subpostmaster taking legal representation with them to
any meeting with POL.

lam very, very angry about this, and as per the wishes of the family I will be contacting many of the media contacts
we have built up over the years.
