POL00028324
POL00028324

AES a ]

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

ES AUTOMATION TRANSFORMATION
PROGRAMME

Automation Transformation Steering Group
Notes of meeting on 23 June 1998

Present Paul Rich (chair)
Rob Durrant
Mike Granville
Dave Miller
Wendy Powney
David Smith
Basil Shall
Roger Tabor
Paul Thorton
Elena Marsh (Notes)

Apologies Jonathan Evans
Duncan Hine
Dave Morphey
Mena Rego
Stuart Sweetman

Distribution As above
Automation Process Group
Automation Working Group
CEC distribution list

Next meeting is 10 am, 24 July in Second floor Board Room, KEB.

POL00028324
POL00028324

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

Actions
Item 1 Actions from last meeting

See update action point summary

Action It was agreed that there is a need to identify the dynamics between the Dave Smith
back end projects and Horizon to identify critical dates and
programme issues, and identify impact of delays.

Action It was agreed that the Horizon programme Board should take place at Dave Miller
the beginning of July.

Item 2 Red Light issues

2.1 Dave Smith gave a verbal update on new issues. There was one new
red light issue, being the quality of the Horizon project comprising of
three components:

° Testing

The testing strategy is not being deployed as originally planned.
There is evidence that the early phases of testing are not covering the
scope that they should, and there is a danger that the true purpose of
MOT testing will be lost, that major faults will be detected during it,
and that this will result either in delay or in workarounds.

¢ Transaction times

Research done on a sample of the 200 offices now in operation has
shown that transactions are taking 25% longer than contracted for.
The drivers for this are: appropriate procedures not followed, layout of
the office, system performance

¢ EPOSS .

Action It was agreed that these issues should be addressed by the Horizon Dave Miller
Board which will be re convened early July.

Other issues 3 :
2.2 ADS is concerned that POITS may be diverting resource from ADS to

other new Group projects. This has been raised at the POCL customer

forum. It was agreed that this should be included in the ATSG issue .
Action : log to ensure that some action is taken and that Wendy would follow Wendy

this up. Powney
2.3 It was noted that the lack of adequate SAP resource and the lack ofa

contingency plan to find extra resource are potential risks to the
programme and the single client project in particular.

Action It was agreed that Paul would raise at TSSG the pace and accuracy Paul Rich
with which business requirements are agreed.

Item 4 EPOSS
Dave Smith gave an update on the status of the work on EPOSS

design.
Item5 - Overall automation business case
5.1 The MaPEC paper with the overall business cases was presented to the

ATSG for comments on content and positioning. A number of
comments were made on the content and it was agreed that these
changes should be made for the CoMPEC meeting.

POL00028324
POL00028324

° I
IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

Actions

Item 6 Risk Register

6.1 The top risks were reviewed. There was one addition to the risk
register, regarding Horizon testing scope and timescales. It was
agreed that Dave Miller would address this at the next Horizon Board.

(action point already captured under item 2).

Action It was noted that the majority of the top risks have been on the register Elena
for most of the past year and that they should be critically reviewed to Marsh
identify reasons why they are not reducing and possible actions (for
August ATSG).

Item 7 AOB

71 Service Management
A report from PA will be presented to the CEC in July. The report is
focusing on managing the service provided (i.e. Pathway) and
managing the service delivery, and may give rise to further costs not
budgeted for.

72 Year 2000

. There is some slippage on the compliance programme on work

required for individual systems. Whilst on a system by system basis
this may not be material, it is material to the whole programme as it
can lead to an overrun in testing. This could result in POCL’s
inability to test the systems end to end, as adjacent testing slots have
already been booked by other PO businesses.

Action It was agreed that there is a need to discuss the resource implications Elena
of testing with IS services and identify actions to manage this risk. Marsh

13 TSSG update
EMU- It was agreed at the TSSG that: EMU is a corporate governance
issue, the systems aspect of it should be dealt with by a project team
separate from the Year 2000 team and that a Group wide decision is
needed on this issue.
It was noted that SAP systems must be upgraded to version 4 to be
compliant. $

14 IS/ IT organisation- A number of proposals were presented to the
TSSG and it was agreed that the IT architecture function should be
centralised but that IS should remain in the businesses. Work is
currently being undertaken to identify the implications of this
decision and whether affordable technology for the business can be
achieved through this split. Confirmation of the decision will be
communicated once this work is completed.

15 Communication
There is concern about communication to clients regarding
automation.. There is a need to identify what messages should be
communicated to clients for the July meetings already set up. The
message that “POCL is committed to automation” still stands but may
be supplemented by further information arising from the results of the
Treasury review.
It was agreed that communication would be addressed as part of the Paul Rich.
strategy workshop.

POL00028324
POL00028324

I

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

Actions

Meeting review
+ Well chaired meeting

- - debated issues at inappropriate points on the agenda
- apparent disconnect with Group

