POL00222757

POL00222757
From: Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)[:
Sent: Thur 26/02/2015 12:24:36 PM (UTC)
To: Rodric Williams, GRO } 'martin.smithi GRO I
co GRO. 7 James, Gareth (UK -
Manchester)”
Subject: RE: Project Zebra - Draft Report
Attachment: Project Zebra Consolidated Report Draft Subject to Change 21_08_2014 18_....pdf

Thank you Rodric.
Please find attached the version of the report authorised for release via the hold harmless.

Mark

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C30367S. Its registered office is 2, New Street
Square, London EC4A 382, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited ("DTTL"), a UK private company limited by
guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL
and its member firms.

This communication contains information, which is confidential and may also be privileged. Its for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the intended
recipients), please (1) notify it.security. uk bby forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure, distribution, copying or
use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK
email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union.

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to
the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in thi of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by it.
Fro
Sent: 20 February 2015 13:04

To: 'martin.smith: GRO

Subject: Project Zebra - Draft Report

Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)

Martin, Mark,

Please find attached the “hold harmless” letter, countersigned by POL.

Kind regards, Rodric

POST
OFFICE #

POL00222757
POL00222757

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
