POL00423194
POL00423194

Security 4 Weekly Report 09/04/2010

HOT TOPICS:
Risks and Opportunities

Full year results
e Fraud Casework losses year to date amounts to £2.44m in 197 cases,
an average loss of £12.4k

e Supply Chain losses year to date were £415.5k against a target of
£850k which is £434.5k or 51.1% below target

e Network losses year to date were £1540.6k against a target of
£1750.0k which is £209.4k or 11.97%below target

e Weekly Incidents Report for first week —

Weekly Inddent Report 29Mar - 4th Apr 2010.zip

Significant Incidents (Network, Supply Chain or Fraud)

* Network Robbery at Melsonby SPSO, DL10 5NF, on 23"? March. Sub
Postmistress fatally wounded after a robbery before opening
time. Loss £16.1k

* Network Robbery at Milltown SPSO, BT8 7SW, on 24** March.
Assailants dropped through the ceiling as the REM was being
secured. No reported injuries. Loss £75k.

*® Robbery at Fleetville SPSO, AL1 4LJ, on 3*4 April. The office had
closed but the retail shop was still open. One man wearing black
clothes grabbed the retail assistant and forced the
Subpostmaster to open the secure door, claiming he had a weapon.
The Subpostmaster was preparing a cash remittance and the safe
was open. No injuries. Loss £67.6k

e CvIT Robbery at Drift Bridge SPSO, KT17 3LB, on 31%* March. After
collection, at the CIT vehicle, two men demanded and grabbed the
I-box. No injuries. Loss £19k.

* CvIT Robbery at Thamesmead SPSO, SE28 8BG, on 31°* March.
Delivery officer was grabbed from behind and threatened with a
gun. The I-box was placed on the floor, which the attacker took
and fled to a waiting motorbike. No injuries. Loss £25k.

Accomplishments
Casework Results

e Starcross SPSO, EX6 8NY - £16.1k Fraud Recovery

Richmond Road SPSO, KT2 5EL - £14k Fraud recovery

Fowlmere SPSO, SG8 7SN - £13.6k Fraud Recovery

e New Cheltenham SPSO, BS15 1UL - £9k Fraud Recovery

e Stoke Newington CO, N16 7JN - £7k Fraud Recovery

e Barrow on Humber, DN19 7AA - Defendant sentenced to 6 months
imprisonment suspended for 2 years together with 220 hours of
unpaid work.

e Farndon Green SPSO, NG8 1DU - Defendant sentenced to 12 month
Community Order with a Supervision requirement.
POL00423194
POL00423194

Culverstone SPSO, DA13 ORQ - Defendant sentenced to 120 days
imprisonment suspended for 2 years with a Residence Order for 6
months.

Fishpool SPSO, BL9 9AX — Defendant sentenced to 12 months
imprisonment suspended for 2 years with a 12 month Supervision
Order and requirement to complete 200 hours of unpaid work.
Downderry SPSO, PL11 3JZ - Defendant sentenced to 180 days
imprisonment suspended for 18 months with a curfew until 7 May
2010

Network arrests

CcviT

2 men have been arrested in connection with a number of
offences, including the armed robberies at Hensall SPSO, DN14
OQY, on March 4th, and at Owston Ferry SPSO, DN9 1RB, on March
16th,

2 males have been arrested following the attempted retail
robbery at Moore SPSO, WA4 6UD, on 3*4 April.

attack arrests

A male has been arrested and bailed in connection with the CViT
robbery outside Clayton PO on January 19th 2010, however he has
been subsequently re-arrested and remanded in custody in
connection with another offence. A further male is still
outstanding in connection with the Clayton incident, but is
actively being sought by GMP.

Project & Programme update

Network

In preparation for the transfer of the POL Hostage Helplines
from Romec Arc to PWL on 19th April 2010, refresher training on
the processes and procedures to follow has been given to the PWL
Emergency Response Staff.

Following daytime attacks on ten Post & Go machines across the
Crown Office branch network, mainly in London, a number of
meetings have been held with Wincor Nixdorf to identify
solutions to the issue of the locking mechanisms which are able
to be opened without keys on some machines. The supplier
visited Trafalgar Square Crown Office on 6/4/10 and tried a
temporary solution, but this was not successful. Lock re-
alignment in two of the machines did correct the problem, but it
is not known how long this will last. We are currently awaiting
a formal recommendation from Wincor Nixdorf as to their
proposals for a permanent solution to this issue.

Communications have been sent to all Crown Office branches
requesting that the note safe is defunded each evening and this
appears to have had the desired effect as no further incidents
have been reported since 29/3/10.

RoMEC: Meeting held with Romec to explore ways in which we can
develop cost effective security equipment solutions with greater
emphasis on innovation by providing them with up to date risk
information.

Collaboration with PFW: Security engaged with Parcelforce
Worldwide (PFW) to offer support and guidance in respect of
driver and loneworker protection for PFW staff.
POL00423194
POL00423194

Supply Chain

e The inspection phase and subsequent draft report has now been
completed into CvIT Depots and Cash Centres as part of Operation
Ingress. A risk assessment is now being undertaken with regard
to the recommendations made.

e Mobile Billboard: Deployment of the mobile billboard,
advertising the businesses rewards policy, has commenced with
visibility being given in high risk areas of Leeds. It is
anticipated that this initiative will also be deployed around
Manchester in the coming weeks.

e Case Across the Counter: Analysis in relation to the ‘Case
across the Counter’ trial has been completed by the security
team. Visits to the nominated offices are due to commence next
week to view the sites physical suitability for inclusion.

e CViT Home Office Meeting: Security attended a meeting with Home
Office Minister for Crime reduction for a meeting focussing on
CViT crime with other industry leaders.

Security programmes for products

e ATMs - Security, Network Support and the ATM Service Team met on
7th April to review 29 branches that regularly declare in excess
of their maximum ATM cash limits. These branches are being
targeted with intervention telephone calls by the Branch
Performance Team. Use of this data stream and ongoing
intervention/inclusion in the Branch Profile is also being
explored.

e POSS - A conference call took place on the 1st April to discuss
the content and messages to be included in the various
communications articles that will be deployed to the network to
support the migration of POSS onto automated card. A timeline for
all communications has been agreed and the first operational
focus article is due out on the 22nd April 2010, week 5. Both the
Security Team and P&BA will be involved in agreeing all the final
articles.

e Stock Issues - The Security Team have continued to work closely
with Supply Chain and P&BA to explore the SAPADS system to try
and extract information to develop a process to help P&BA
reconcile stock remittances out of branch into Swindon. Initial
investigations are positive and access to SAPADS is being
requested for the Security Team to assist with future analysis.

e Whistleblower - As part of the ongoing fraud risk activities a

new project is being undertaken for launch during 2010/11. A
‘whistleblower' campaign is to be introduced whereby employees
and associated third parties can communicate concerns about
potential fraud and misconduct. A Project Initiation Document
(P.I.D.) has now been produced and approved, with a Programme
Plan setting out key milestones in preparation for launch.
iNet2Door - The business is developing a new service whereby
customers can order certain items on-line and arrange to pay for
and collect from Post Office branches. This service is to be run
as a pilot across 700 branches within the M25 and requirements
are currently being agreed. The Security team have provided
POL00423194
POL00423194

requirements around payment, identification, storage, collection
and monitoring of fraud risks to ensure the pilot is successful.
If the pilot is successful, which is due to run until the end of
year, full roll out will take place around April 2011.

e DVLA - The relationship continues to develop with a number of
recent successes with branches and DVLA issues. Two recent
branches have identified persons involved in criminal activity
which has resulted in reductions of manual transactions. A number
of communications are to be deployed across the DVLA Network over
the coming months. These are top tips devised as a result of the
improving business partnership with DVLA.

e AEI - The new AEI (application, enrolment and identity) booths
currently on trial are to be further rolled out to branches. One
risk has been raised by WHSmith around any possible increased
risk of attacks due to the AEI booth being closed in on 3 sides,
with the remainder facing the counter position.

e Camelot Receipting - The current manual process for managing
prize payments is to be replaced by an automated system driven
solution. The levels of non compliance in this area are high,
although fraud is minimal. The branches receipting templates and
customer information requirements have generated the greatest
discussions and work with product and compliance is ongoing with
Camelot to come to a workable solution to all.

e Horizon Online - As part of the cash verification activities
associated with migration, in particular any potential fraud
issues, Security and P&BA will continue to monitor all branches
pre/during/post migration.

e FONCH (Foreign Overnight Cash Holdings) - Work is ongoing to
produce the reconciliation and discrepancies. It is been agreed
that a business project should be raised to resolve the wider
issues on this, with full support from security and analytics.

e Spoilt Postage and Rejected Labels - A meeting has taken place
between the Security Team, Business Efficiency and P&BA to scope
the possibility of embedding phone call intervention activity at
P&BA as business as usual. Process recommendations will then be
made via the Fraud Forum for feedback and a decision in relation
to introducing this process will be made in collaboration with
the appropriate stakeholders.

Business Programmes, Security Issues

e The delay to the new eBusiness Portal means the Group as a whole
will not be ready for a full PCI audit across the group for
December 2010. This will need to be carefully managed with the
acquirer

e Positive engagement with RM Information Security to get RM PCI
programme properly started. They have done a good deal of
background work for us. RM PCI Programme now beginning to take
shape.

e Detailed Programme Plan produced but this requires further work
to define stakeholders, owners and meaningful timescales.

e The programme library has been created and is now being
populated. Need to agree who needs access to the library.
POL00423194
POL00423194

We now have the details around the RMG Telephony Project.

Contact has been made Clare Taylor in Tallents House to discuss
ongoing IT Projects and PCI Compliance

Roll out of the Royal Mail course, ‘Conflict
Management /Disengagement. Physical Intervention Skills’ has
commenced. A large number of POL Security Advisors will be
undergoing this training.

Financial Services Specialist - Since the introduction of

laptops for FSS's, 15 of those laptops have been stolen, we are
in discussion with Commercial Security to determine what steps
can be taken to reduce this, and to decide if 'laptops' are the
right equipment for the job.

Insurance - There are a number of incidents on both over 50's
insurance web site and motorcycle insurance web site - these are
low volume products, but the problems are symptomatic of poor
performing 3rd parties and could have a knock on effect to other
direct channel products.

POca work continues around POca2 and the Holly Contract.

SMOTS (simple money transmission service) - security plan
development is almost complete.

IPS tender preparation is underway.

Progress has been made with Fujitsu in moving towards the
delivery of evidence to support acceptance, although there is
still considerable work to be done in the area of patch
management. The work on risk assessment is continuing and is
likely to deliver an acceptable plan, but this is at the expense
of the longer-term I1S027001 certification strategy. It appears
there is a lack of suitable resource within Fujitsu including
the failure to have found a replacement Security Architect.
Projects in which we have had involvement are continuing to
progress and collaborative working with the likes of Service
Delivery is continuing.

The work on the E&Y audit is virtually complete, other than
dealing with the feedback and observations.

There continues to be an increasing demand on resource from
projects which are typically requiring responses turned-around

in less than a week to some complex issues.

Security Team
