POL00104836
POL00104836

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

P&S Doc 8.3, V5 Jun

WRITTEN RECORDS OF TAPE RECORDED INTERVIEWS 10

1. PURPOSE

The purpose of these Procedures & Standards (P&S) is to provide Investigators within
Royal Mail Group Ltd, with clear understanding in relation to producing written
records of tape recorded interviews.

2. CONTENTS
Section 3 Introduction.
Section 4 Short Descriptive Notes.
Section 5 Taped Interview Summary.
Section 6 Full Taped Interview Transcript.

3. INTRODUCTION

3.1 In most circumstances following a tape recorded interview with a suspect an
Investigator will be required to prepare a written record detailing what
occurred during the interview. The purpose of the record is to;

1. Provide a balanced, accurate and reliable record or summary of the
interview.

2. Identify possible lines of defence and mitigation.

3. Assist Casework Management Teams (CMT) to decide if a case should be
forwarded to the ©: inal Law Team (CLT) or in Scotland and Northern
Ireland the appropriate Prosecutor.

4. Assist the CLT or Prosecutor to decide whether a criminal prosecution
should proceed and, if so, what charges and mode of trial are
appropriate.

5. Enable the CLT or Prosecutor to comply with “Advance disclosure”.

6. Assist the prosecution, the defence and the court in the conduct of the
case. (This is only where the written record of interview has been
accepted by the defence).

3.2 A written record will be required in respect of every interview that
Investigators conduct with suspects except;
1. Where the case is deemed suitable for a Simple Caution.
2. Where there is to be no prosecution. (Cases where no further action is
to be taken or the interviewee is returned to duty to be dealt with
under the conduct code).

3.3 Investigators must seek agreement of the CMT in theiz business unit before the
decision not to produce a written record of interview is taken. Once it is
agreed the pertinent facts of the interview should be included in the Suspect

ender Repor

3.4 There are three types of written record of taped interview and these are;
1. Short Descriptive Notes (SDN) - to be used when paragraph 4.1 applies.
2. Taped Interview Summary - to be used when paragraph 5.1 applies.
3. A Full Taped Interview Transcript - to be used when paragraph 6.1
applies.

3.5 The lead interviewing Investigator is responsible for ensuring that the
written record of interview is accurate.

Document Title: Witten Records of Taped Interviews
P&S Doc. Ref 8.3 Version §

Date: Jun 2010

owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104836
POL00104836

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

All written records of intervi
Tape Recorded Interviews” and

w should be recorded on form GS015 “Record of

xm GSO15A the continuation form. There is a
ersion of the forms for England, Wales & Northern I

Ireland and a version for
Scotland. The preamble of the rm should be completed in full in all written
records.

Document Ti

Date:
Owner:

+ Ref

Back to Contents

let Witten Records of Taped Interviews
Version 5
2010

Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104836
POL00104836

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

4. SHORT DESCRIPTIVE NOTES

4.1 SDN are a brief account of what was said and done during an interview. They
must only be used when there have been full, unambiguous and unqualified
admissions to all provable offences and guilty pleas are anticipated. This is
so even in cases where there are denials to some matters, as long as the
denials appear to be incapable of proof. (Should the Investigator believe that
any denials are capable of proof then a summary or transcript should be
produced as appropriate).

4.2 Ambiguous and Qualified admissions. An ambiguous admission would be where one
of the main points to prove is missing. A qualified admission is where the
suspect is raising a defence. The following are examples of when SDN should
not be used because the admission is ambiguous or qualified:

Ambiguous Admissions

1. A suspect admits taking surcharge or other official money to pay for
theix lunch but states that they did not think anyone would mind as they
were intending to pay the money back the next day.

2. A suspect interviewed for intentional delay states that they were unable
to perform their del in the time given and as a result they had
left mail in their and forgotten about it.

Qualified Admissions

1. A suspect interviewed for intentional delay states that he did delay the
mail, but it was delayed because of his involvement in industrial
action.

2. A suspect admits going into a colleague’s desk and removing £10.00
without the colleague’s knowledge, but states that he believed that he
had a right in law to recover the money that was owed to him.

In essence SDN should only be used when the suspect admits being fully
responsible for their criminal actions.

4.3 SDN should commence with the facts that the interviewee was cautioned and
offered their legal rights. Mention should also be made of any significant
statements or silence made before the taped interview commenced. Each tape
should have its own SDN.

4.4 SDN must include details of the following 5 subject matters;

1. Admissions. Investigators must ensure that the SDN accurately reflect
what was specifica admitted. The admissions should be summarised in
detail, thus enabling the Criminal Law Team to draft all the appropriate
charges in the case. This means;

a. That all points to prove of the offence are detailed.

b. That the circumstances of the offence are fully detailed. This
includes making clear what has actually happened, for example, has the
suspect admitted stealing postal packets, or stealing from postal
packets or even stealing items (such as money) which were found
loose. It also includes in theft of mail cases details of where the
recovered mail was located, its type, age and condition.

a suspect admits stealing 20 to 30 postal packets a day then
this fact must be detailed in the notes. Investigators must not “round
up” the admission and only refer to the theft 30 items per day.

Investigators will find it easier to produce SDN if they get in the

habit of summarising the circumstances of each admission, prior to

moving on to the next topic during the interview. Whilst producing SDN
it is not sufficient to say that the defendant fully admitted the
offence.

Description of exhibits. If items of evidence are shown to the suspect

during the interview and they are relevant to the charges then details

(including the item reference number) should be included.

nN

Document Title: Witten Records of Taped Interviews
P&S Doc. Ref 8.3 Version §

Date: Jun 2010

owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104836
POL00104836

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

3. Aggravating Factors. For example the defendant was stealing from a
charity, or very personal items. It would also include such things as
previous warnings about relevant previous behaviour. If the suspect was
shown a P13 this should also be included in the SDN detailing when it
was signed.

4, Mitigating Circumstances. Any circumstances which might tell in favour
of the suspect must be included. Examples of which could be illness,
sincere regret, attempt to repay etc. Care must be taken however to
distinguish between mitigation and lines of defence. If a line of
defence is offered then the case is not suitable for a SDN and a Record
of Taped Interview Summary should be prepared in accordance with section
5 below.

5. Other Important Points. These are other matters not detailed above which
are considered important and relevant and should be included to
effectively describe the circumstances of the case.

SDN need not include conversations about potential offences that that have

been denied and cannot be proved.

4.5 SDN should be written in reported speech in the third person. To enable the
CMT and the CLT to verify statements made in the SDN, the tape counter time,
relating to the point of the interview where this is most clearly demonstrated
must be noted in the appropriate column on the GS015. There is no requirement
to use the ‘person speaking’ column. For reference, examples of SDN are
contained within Appendix 1 to these Pés.

4.6 Important Note. Although SDN are a brief account of the interview it is
imperative that they contain enough detail of the admissions to allow both CMT
and the CLT to advise on the future conduct of the case and appropriate
charges, (including offences “Taken Into Consideration”). I£ it is thought
that the SDN does not have sufficient detail then the CMT within the relevant
business or the CLT may request a Record of Tape Interview Summary.

Back to Contents

5. TAPED INTERVIEW SUMMARY

5.1 A Taped Interview Summary should be produced in all cases where;

1. The interviewee has given partial, ambiguous or qualified admissions
(see 4.2 above).

2. A “not guilty plea” to some or all of the potential charges is
anticipated.

3. A “not guilty plea” is entered at Court.

4, No plea is entered at Magistrates Court and the defendant elects trial
at the Crown Court.

5.2 It is therefore possible that having completed an SDN because a “guilty plea”
was anticipated, the Investigator will have to produce a Taped Interview
Summary.

5.3. Each Master Tape and each Taped Interview Summary must be produced as
individual exhibits in the lead interviewing Investigator’s witness statement.
The second interviewing Investigator will merely state that they were present
at the interview and will make reference to the tape exhibit(s) in theiz

witness statement.

5.4 The Taped Interview Summary will include aspects which should be recorded
verbatim and other aspects which may be summarised. The following should be
recorded verbatim.

1. Admissions. All admissions and the questions leading up to them
including partial, ambiguous or qualified admissions (see 4.2 above).
2. Reference to bail and alternative pleas or charges. These should
Document Title: Witten Records of Taped Interviews
P&S Doc. Ref 8.3 Version 5
Dates Jun 2010
Owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104836
POL00104836

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

not be discussed d However, if this is raised by
the suspect their questions and the replies should be recorded verbatim.

3. Details of Special Warnings (if given by a Constable), or the
failure or refusal by the suspect;
a. To account for any object, substance or mark which was found at

the time of his apprehension, either on his person; or in or on his
clothing or footwear; or otherwise in his possession; or in the place
where he was apprehended.

b. To account for his presence on apprehension at the same place, and
at or about the same time, which the alleged offence occurred.
c. To answer questions whether adequately or not at all, which deal

with a material part of the allegation.

5.5 Wherever verbatim direct speech is referred to in the Taped Interview Summary
the tape counter time should be recorded at the start of the direct speech in
the relevant column. The identity of the speaker should also be recorded in
the second column by using their initials.

5.6 The following points may be summarised.

1. Denials. Details of offences that the suspect is denying.

2. Aggravating Factors. (See 4.4.3 above).

3. Mitigating Circumstances. (See 4.4.4 above).

4. Any other relevant point which has not already been included. (See 4.4.5
above) .

5. Events in the Interview. Such as periods of significant silence,
changing the tapes or breaks in the interview.

5.7 When Investigators summarise parts of the interview they should do so in
reported speech in the third person. Additionally they should record the start
time on the tape counter of the information summarised.

Back to Contents

6. FULL TAPED INTERVIEW TRANSCRIPT

6.1 ll Taped Interview transcripts are to be produced in the circumstances
detailed below;

1. In all cases being referred to the Criminal Law Team for advice where
the suspect offender has declined to answer any, or the majority of
questions put to them.

2. The CLT (or the prosecutor) requests a full transcript due to the
complex nature of the investigation.

3. An Investigator requests transcripts due to significant operational
commitments or the complex nature of the enquiries.

6.2 Post Office Ltd have their own arrangements for producing Full Taped Interview

Transcripts, details of which can be obtained from the Casework Management
Team. Royal Mail Letters & PFWW Investigation Team members should follow the
process detailed in 6.3 to 6.8 below.

6.3 No Comment Interviews. Copies of the “working” tape(s) to be transcribed
should be forwarded to the Prosecution Support Office (PSO) along with a
completed GS108. (The origin ing” tape(s) should be retained with the
file).

6.4 Requests by the CLT or Prosecutor. Following a request the PSO will obtain
from the Investigator a copy of the working tape(s) and a completed form
Gsi08.

6.5 Requests from an Investigator. The Investigator must in the first instance
make a request to a Casework Manager. If it is agreed that a transcript

Document Title: Witten Records of Taped Interviews
P&S Doc. Ref 8.3 Version §

Date: Jun 2010

owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
POL00104836
POL00104836

CONFIDENTIAL
ROYAL MAIL GROUP LTD SECURITY —- PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

should be prepared the Investigator must complete form GS108 and send it with
copies of the working tape(s) to the PSO.

6.6 The PSO will then send the tapes to the external supplier; The Essential
Secretary. The completed tape transcript will be returned by email to the PSO
who will forward it to the Investigator by the next working day. Once checked
and amend as necessary the Investigator is required to return a copy of it to
the PSO, who will send it by email to the Criminal Law Team. Where the PSO is
in possession of the case file, a copy of the transcript will be paginated in
and a further copy placed in Appendix B. Investigators will do the same if
they hold the file.

6.7 Important Note Case files should not be delayed merely to await the Full Tape
Transcript. They should be forwarded as normal but commenting in the report
that the transcripts will be associated as soon as practicable

6.8 Any copies of the “working” tapes submitted for transcripts to be prepared
must be hand-delivered or sent to the PSO by Special Delivery.
Back to Contents

Document Title: Witten Records of Taped Interviews
P&S Doc. Ref 8.3 Version §

Date: Jun 2010

owner: Ray Pratt

CONFIDENTIAL
