POL00069741

POL00069741
Stephen Dilley
Frova: Stephen Dilley
Sent: 20 November_2006 08:30 -
To: ‘john.h.jonesi... !
Ce: andrew.wise¢_ {Dunks Andy; Chamber: ;.Pinder Brian;
cath.oglesby«~ lavlyn.cumberlan¢._..
gillian.hoylant

ken.crawley{

wendy.n.smith@
Subject: RE: Trial Date: Post

The case has NOT settled out of court.

noone Original Message-
From: john.h.jones,

Sent: 20 November 2006
To: Stephen Dilley.
Cc: andrew.wisé..
davlyn.cumberland.
john.h.jonest™
mandy.talbot¢
Paul. William:
tony.h.kane

homas Bourne;

‘om Beezer;

7) wendy.n.smitht~
Post Office Limited -v- Mr L Castleton

Stephen

Only last week you advised me that the case had been settled out of court and were awaiting the necessary
signatures to concluded the case.

Grateful if you advise of the precise situation.
John

John Jones

Senior Account Manager
Post Office Ltd

2nd Floor

Tonbridge Mail Centre
20 Vale Rise

Tonbridge

Kent

TNS 1AA

' External Email

Postlin

Andy"
17/11/2006 17:56

<liz.morgani

<ruth.simpson¢_

<Paul.Williamsot

cc: "Pinder

<Tom.Beezer(,

<tony.h.kane€
"Thomas Bourne"
POL00069741
POL00069741

<Thomas.Bourne¢ GRO I

Subject: Trial Date? Post OFFICE Lifiiited -v- Mr L Castleton

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Just to confirm the case is still going to trial starting on 4 December 2006. We are endeavouring to agree a
sensible trial timetable with Mr Castleton's solicitors and I will update you again as soon as I am able.

In the meantime, if there are any dates when you cannot make it which you have not already given me, please let
me know and copy in my colleague Tom Bourne [°

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley

Solicitor

for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP
DD:
Main
Fax:
www.bondpearce.com

From: Stephen Dilley
Sent: 24 October 2006 11:09
To: 'Chambers Anne O'

ken.crawley(~~

ann: simpsor{
: 'Pinder Brian’; Tom Beezer; ‘mandy. talbot¢.
Subject: Trial Date: Post Office Limited -v- Mr L Castleton

Ladies and Gentlemen,

There was been a procedural hearing at Court yesterday to review the timetable on this case and set new
directions.

The Master decided that, amongst other things, the trial must proceed in December 2006. Accordingly, it will
commence on 4 December 2006 and will probably last 7 to 10 days. It will take place at the Royal Courts of
Justice, London. As previously indicated, please could everyone who has given a witness statement blank out two
weeks in your diaries starting on 4 December 2006 and keep these dates free for the time being. You will not be
required to attend for the whole of that time and we liaise with Mr Castleton's solicitors:

1. to agree that as many of you as possible should not have to attend Court to give oral evidence. (For example,
I'm hoping to persuade them that most if not all of our witnesses from P.O Chesterfield and P.O Leeds should not
attend. If they agree, this will help shorten the trial and save costs); and

2. for those of you that are needed to attend, we have a timetable, so we can give you a specific time for when
you will be required to be there to keep the inconvenience to a minimum.

I will keep you fully updated as and when I hear further, which is likely to be some time after 10 November at the
earliest.

In the meantime, if there are any particular dates from the 2 weeks commencing 4 December 2006 onwards when
you definitely cannot attend Court, please let me know as soon as possible.

I look forward to hearing from you.
Kind regards.

Yours sincerely

Stephen Dilley

Solicitor

for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP
DDI:

POL00069741
POL00069741

Main, office-ohane.
FAX Sh ncngenyee GR!
wv’ bondpearce.com

The information in this ail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number 0C311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP.

Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

JERS ERS IEICE ICE OIC IDS IOSD IE IESE SEE IEIOS ORI IOI ORI AIA A EI
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JERSE ISIE IE ECORI OER Ca ICC AR OCE ROSE IE IEISKIOKIA SETI AAI IG AK A
