POL00031348
POL00031348

Message

From: Steve Allchorn j GRO nnn

Sent: 19/06/2013 12:02:26

To: Parsons, Andrew [/O=BOND PEARCE/OU=First Administrative Group/cn=Recipients/cn=ap6]

cc: Gaisford, Rosie [/O=BOND PEARCE/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Rosie Gaisford65d]

Subject: SRO0S - Additional Info

Attachments: Notes from second sight post office meeting regarding SROOS 12 June 2013.doc

Hi Andrew

An additional piece of information that enhances the isolation of the test environment to the live Horizon system in
2008.

One of the further challenges asked was despite there not being a capability to interact with the live Horizon from the
test area in the basement at Bracknell, could it take place if someone had a criminal intent to hack the system from the
basement. The response is:

“There is no network connectivity between the test environment in Bracknell to the live data centre in Belfast (or in
2008, in Wigan/Bootle). So even if you were an IT wiz, you wouldn’t be able to connect to the production service as
there is no network to allow it. Security and penetration testing against both Horizon and HNG has been performed
against the production environment to ensure this is the case”.

Could you ensure this additional context is included in the Spot Review response — I suggest under section 2 (as was the
version I sent to you) detailing the set up within Bracknell at the time.

Thanks
Steve

From: Steve Allchorn

Sent: 19 June 2013 O§
To: Parsons, Andrew
Cc: rosie.gaisford¢ GRO H
Subject: FW: SROOS meeting

Andrew

Attached are the notes from the conference call with Second Sight (Ron Warmington) last week which summarise the
additional questions raised.

You will note that there are initial notes sketched against the questions ~ these do not represent a formal response
however they reflect the discussion that took place on the conference call.

Ron Warmington was particularly keen to polarise some further investigation into Mr Rudkin’s stated visit to Bracknell
and whether we could ‘nail’ (his term} what took place on that day. There was also a request for further clarity on what
was actually going on in the basement area of Bracknell at the time in question. This has led to the rather detailed draft
spot review response that I sent to you yesterday, however I do believe Second Sight need this detail to cement their
own understanding as well as set a counter to the allegation.

POL-0028250
POL00031348
POL00031348

The element that is absent from the current draft is a response to a challenge raised a statement in the Operations
Manual regarding back-office Finance ability to access live data. I should have a response on this sometime today and
will forward on when I have it. It will contain just a few sentances.

Thanks for your on-going assistance in this Andrew.

Steve

From: Simon Baker
Sent: 12 June 2013 19:19
To: Steve Allchorn
Subject: SRO05 meeting

Steve

You were probably taking better notes than me. Can you check that I have covered off everything we agreed.
Thanks Simon

Simon Baker Head of Business Change and Assurance

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH SOI IOI AIS IID IO DOI IDI ISO ITD ADI IDI AIA

POL-0028250
