POL00069737
POL00069737

Nicola McSherry

From: mandy.talbof

Sent: 10 November 21

To: Stephen Dilley

Subject: Re: Confidentiality agreement

Thanks v much.

Have a good weekend.

Mandy

"Stephen Dilley"
illeyt..

: To:  <mandy.talbott_
ce:
Subject: Confidentiality agreement

10/11/2006 17:35

Mandy,
Nicola tells me you'd like a confidentiality clause.

This is the sort of thing we usually include in a schedule to a Tomlin
Order:

"The parties acknowledge that the provisions in this Schedule are

confidential to the parties and each party undertakes in favour of the

other(s) not to disclose any of these provisions to any person not a party save as may be necessary for the
purposes of implementation of this Agreement or if compelled to do so by any court or authority of competent
jurisdiction."

Hope this helps.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

www.bondpearce.com

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number 0C311430.

1
POL00069737
POL00069737

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP.

Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

JES ORCS IOS SIO SIS OSI SISOS ISITE SE ISI CKACI ISI TOKAI ORI IAAT
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JOKE UII OSE OIRO E IDO IEE ACRE AIEEE OFIE BE IICOCIC OIE II IAA
