CT02017 July 2023

Royal Mail
International mail services

Customs requirements

All international items that contain goods (except those
from Northern Ireland to EU) need to have both a normal
written customs form, as well as an electronic data capture
requirement. The data capture is entered into Horizon at the
time of processing.

Note: Items sent to BFPO addresses do need a customs
form but do not need electronic data capture.

Customs forms - completed by the customer

There are three customs forms for goods being sent abroad

via Royal Mail: CN22A, CN22B and CN23. Goods worth

up to £270 need either a customs declaration CN22A or

CN22B.

» CN22A - This contains no barcode and isused with
barcoded Royal Mail international mail services such as
International Tracked and Signed, International Tracked,
International Signed

» CN22B - This contains a barcode and is used with non-
barcoded Royal Mail international mail services such as
International Economy and International standard

» _CN23 - Goods worth over £270 need the customs
declaration CB23. This should be attached to the parcel
in an adhesive plastic wallet (SP 126)

Customs Data Capture on Horizon

After you have printed the postage label for an international
item, the Customs Data Capture process will launch on
Horizon:

» Confirm the item details

» Enter the sender's details. Press ‘Enter’

» Enter the recipient's details. Press ‘Enter’

» Select the contents of the parcel category. Press ‘Enter’

Note: If selecting ‘Sale of Goods’ and the items are being

sent to the EU (except items sent from Northern Ireland)

please see the next page for the IOSS process)

» Enter the description of the item, selecting ‘Add Another
Item’ if required. Select ‘Complete Customs Data Entry’
when all items have been added

» Enter details in the customs data fields (if known). Press
‘Enter’

» Check the details on the Customs Data Summary and
select ‘Confirm’

POL00448126
POL00448126

SECTION 7 International Mail RM V5.0

(Sais Sa eee ere exe

Important: The sender is legally
esponsible for the information on the i
customs declaration, so it’s important 1
1 toensure that it is accurate and 1
1 complete. To find out more, please 1
1 visit Horizon Help or the Post Office
1 website.

CN22A CN22B
id a

: Incomplete customs forms 1
land/or non-completion of the customs 1
I data capture results in parcels being I
"delayed or returned. 1

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

on behalf of Post

Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence

@

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000085
SECTION 7 International Mail RM V5.0

Royal Mail

International mail services

Marketplace sellers and the Import One Stop
Shop (lIOSS)

Items sold to EU destinations from Great Britain are
subject to the local rate of VAT and charges of the
destination country.

«The EU has set up a scheme called the Import One
Stop Shop (lOSS), which enables sellers to register
on the scheme to pay VAT charges at the point the
customer purchases goods with a value of up to
€150 (Euro)

» The IOSS scheme is not relevant for items being sold
into the EU from Northern Ireland

Customs and IOSS transactions

When ‘Sale of Goods’ is selected during the customs
data capture journey you will be asked ‘Is the item being
sold via a marketplace?’:

«If the item was sold via a marketplace: Select the
correct Marketplace from the list on screen if it is
available

«If the item was sold outside of an online
marketplace: If the customer has an OSS number
select ‘Other’ and enter the IOSS number. Press
‘Enter’

» Continue with the Customs Data Capture process

» Place an IOSS sticker onto the item

' Remember: An IOSS sticker needs to be
' Used for any ‘Sale of Goods’ items being

sent into the EU (except items sent to the
1 EU from Northern Ireland)

POL00448126
POL00448126

CTO2017 July 2023

[6 a
CUSTOMS DECLARATION CN 22
Cg MORTALS tyne,
Seems “Sct
= I

or. ora
‘Sonewaea tegen” I

Top nono I
Se
Sp ncedeaeie
je = aa e

‘The contents of this document are classified Post Office INTERNAL. Disclosing, copying, distributing the information contained within this document to any third-party not working

on behalf of Post Office and for the purpose intended, is not permitted.

Operational Training & Development
Delivering Operational Excellence &

Post Office - Operational training guide

POL-BSFF-104-0000085_0001
