POL00025781
POL00025781

Message

From: Matthews, Gavin

Sent: 16/02/2015 18:

To: jane.macleodé_

cc: Rodric Williams (i

Subject: FW: CCRC letter - Subject to privilege [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Attachments: Ltr from Frazer Stuart CCRC 12th Feb 15.pdf

Jane

Andy Parsons has forwarded on your message below and as I have been working closely with Rod and Brian Altman QC
on this matter I thought I would offer up a few initial thoughts on the CCRC response:

1. it neatly circumvents both questions POL asked in the letter under response — clearly there is no individual
applicant challenging his/her own prosecution so that must mean that the CCRC considers that there are
“exceptional circumstances" which justify this investigation though they do not say so explicitly and their response
is very weak.

2. itis also clear that at this stage the CCRC have no idea of the documentation they are looking for save for the
Altman report — I suspect their plan is to start there and then to ask for more and more documentation as they go
along.

3. We can disclose the Altman report subject to all the protections of $25 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1995 ie it must
not be disclosed without our consent (note that there are limitations on this).

4. in relation to the Horizon system, that is a very wide definition of documentation. They will have seen the Second
Sight report from July 2013 because SS published that. in my view that documentation is not relevant to their
search. What is relevant is the review process POL went through after production of the SS report and the
subsequent disclosure process carried out by Cartwright King — we need to think about “guiding” them in that
direction but only to a sample of files.

5. Overail we need to consider how far POL pushes back on this latest letter ~ the danger is that once we open the
door to them we will find it hard to close it!

These are my preliminary views and I am happy to join a conference call with you/Rod any time this week (although lam
out of the office on Friday)

I hope this helps
Kind regards

Gavin

Gavin Matthews
Partner

ickinson

www.bonddickinson.com

POL-0022260
POL00025781
POL00025781

From: Jane MacLeod [/__ _
Sent: 16 February 2015 16:27
To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Parsons, Andrew

Subject: CCRC letter - Subject to privilege

Rod,

Please see attached letter from the CCRC. Essentially they are looking for sight of the Altman report although see the
paragraph on p2 where they state that they expect that this would also cover the Horizon system.

Based on previous discussions, I think we will need to disclose the Altman Report although we should ensure that this
disclosure does not waive privilege. The letter also enclosed a copy of the ‘Formal Memorandum: Disclosure by the
Commission’ (available at http://www.justice.gov.uk/downloads/about/criminal-cases-review/policies-and-
procedures/casework/disclosure-by-commission.pdf} which sets out at p22 the considerations around privilege.

In relation to the Horizon system, we should consider what can be provided around this; would any of Second Sight’s
own reports assist on this?

{note you are out of the office until Thursday and I am off from Thursday! Its possible I could do a call before 10 on
Thursday morning or on Friday afternoon.

Let me know what works for you.
Thanks,

Jane

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0022260
