POLO0099005
POL00099005

Message

From: Mark R Davies

on behalf of — Mark R Davies

Sent: 04/07/2013 21:06:48

To: Paula Vennells’” “jAlwen Lyons ]; Susan Crichton
Lesley J Sewell f

cc:

Subject: Statement

All

I have been working today with Nina, Ruth and Portland to formulate our overarching statement for Monday
I am pasting it as it stands below. It takes in comments and overall positioning set out by Paula
earlier.

This is of course in draft but I felt it helpful to get this to you ahead of tomorrow (just!). I also
paste below a key question and answer (the full Q&A document is being updated with some new elements
following receipt of the first half of the ss report

Grateful for comments and thoughts.
Mark
statement

The Post Office is today publishing an interim report into alleged problems with the Horizon computer
system used in transactions in the post office branch network

The review is being conducted by an external firm, Second Sight. The interim report, based on a review of
four of 47 cases being considered, is available on the Post Office website.

The report suggests that there are no systemic problems with the Horizon system, but calls on the Post
office to improve its support and training systems for subpostmasters.

Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells said:

“we commissioned this independent review to address concerns that have been raised with us about the
Horizon system and we welcome its publication.

"The Post Office is committed to supporting its people and improving the way we do so. while this interim
review makes clear that the Horizon computer system functions effectively across our network, it has
raised questions about the training and support we offer subpostmasters.

“we take this very seriously and apologise to any subpostmaster who has felt that our standards of
support or training have not met their needs or believes we simply have not been “human” enough in our
dealings with them. I am determined to act on this and will not be waiting for the full report in doing
so -- indeed we have already taken significant steps in some areas.

"all those who work in the post office network in communities across the country are the lifeblood of
our business. We take our responsibilities to them very seriously and recognise that we can always
improve the way we support them and their business.

“I have therefore decided to create a new Branch User Forum to provide a way for subpostmasters and
others to raise issues around business processes, training and support at the highest level. It will be
chaired by a member of our Executive Committee and report to that committee.

“we will be inviting interested parties such as the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance (JFSA) to take
part in this forum. Representative groups such as the NFSP and our trade unions will also be invited on
to the forum.

"We will also be conducting a review of our support processes and training to ensure they meet the
standards expected of us. We have made many changes over the last few years but are not at all complacent
and again hope that the JFSA and others will take part in a working group to consider how we can make
further improvements.

“We hope further to work collaboratively with the JFSA and MPs to conclude the ongoing review and will of
course act on any further recommendations.

POL-0098588
POLO0099005
POL00099005

“It is important to stress, as the review itself does, that the Horizon system has around 68,000 users in
more than 11,500 post offices and processes more than six million transactions every day. The vast
majority take place without any issues, underlining our cause for confidence in the system.

“But we are determined to learn from the review and hope the action we are already taking in response
will demonstrate our commitment to continually improving the way we support all those who work in our
unrivalled branch network.”

The Post Office has assessed the interim report and will work with relevant external parties to build on
steps already taken to improve processes:

- investigative support to subpostmasters

- collation of data and approach in relation to disputed cases
- provision of information to subpostmasters

- training and support provision

QB

You have accepted that your support processes could be improved. Do you think this means subpostmasters
have been unfairly convicted?

We cannot comment on individual cases. Where cases have been prosecuted through the courts, there are
avenues open to those who feel they have been wrongly convicted.

We take forward very few prosecutions - approximately 50 a year - and with a network of 11,800 post
offices that means such cases are not commonplace.

We have a duty to investigate where there is suspicion of wrong-doing. Subpostmasters are pillars of the
community and must abide by high standards of probity in that role. The public would be surprised if we
did not take action where public money may have been misappropriated.

Sent from my iPad

POL-0098588
