POL00099346
POL00099346

TO GO ON POST OFFICE LIMITED'S HEADED PAPER

By post and email: sally.berlit

For the attention of Mrs S Berlin
Criminal Cases Review Commission
5 St Philip's Place

Birmingham

B3 2PW

23 July 2013

Dear Mrs Berlin
Horizon Computer System
I refer to your letter of 12 July 2013.

This letter briefly explains the background to the matters raised in your letter and the steps currently
being taken by Post Office Limited (POL). I anticipate being able to provide you with a more detailed
response by the end of this week.

At the centre of POL's business is an IT system known as Horizon. This system is used by over 11,000
subpostmasters to conduct transactions with members of the public on behalf of POL. As you will be
aware, POL has commissioned an independent firm of forensic accounts (called Second Sight) to
investigate and report on the integrity of the Horizon system. The aim of this report is to highlight any
issues in Horizon and its surrounding support infrastructure.

This month Second Sight released an interim report that highlighted a number of issues that required
further investigation but also reached the interim conclusion that there were no systemic problems with
Horizon.

The data stored on Horizon is sometimes used by POL in the prosecution of criminal offences (typically
theft and false accounting). Historically POL was a division of the Royal Mail Group (RMG), however
POL was separated out of RMG on the 1st April of 2012 and each became separate and unrelated
organisations. Prior to separation it was RMG who conducted the prosecution of criminal offences
committed by subpostmasters and/or their clerks, however post-separation POL assumed the role of
prosecutor.

We are now looking at Second Sight's findings in detail and are also investigating whether those findings
have an impact on any historic or ongoing prosecutions. I hope to be able to send you a more
comprehensive response on these matters by the end of this week.

Yours sincerely

[Paula Vennells]

NOTE: THE CCRC LETTER WENT TO PAULA SO THE RESPONSE SHOULD PROBABLY COME
FROM PAULA

48_27178432_1 1
