POLO0110406
POL00110406

Message

From: Tom Wechsler I I a

on behalf of I Tom Wechsler ]
Sent: 10/04/2016 23:

To: Paula Vennel

ce: Avene Regan

Subject: Jane's 121

Attachments: FW: Corporate Services Budget savings

Hi

Ihave kept Jane’s PDR and any brief for 121 issues separate (see earlier email). I hope that is ok.

Looking at the issues below:

Accountabilities

® Good to get a clear view on outstanding issues and a clear logic to this following the strategy / TOM. That
said, are there any issues that cannot wait until then? Iam not aware of any although your thoughts today

on postmaster engagement were instructive.
« A gentle and minor reminder to include me in any meetings so that I may represent your view.

Corporate Services Budget

* Attached is the last position you have been sent on the corp servs budget.

* Ido honestly think that Jane and team are taking this seriously; and that there is a risk that they ae being
singled out unfairly.

e suspect that corp servs were the most extreme of the cases of taking an ideal budget rather than “flat” into
the budget setting process; I also suspect they were starting from the lowest base of competence and
understanding.

Sparrow

e We do need to ensure that this does not gather any greater momentum.

® Beyond the CCRC and any legal action, we have done as much as we can.

e Fully respecting Tim’s position as an individual, and fully aware of pressures on ministers, we do need to
close down further lines of enquiry.

* There must be an end to this. Ultimately, if there is a case, the protagonists must make it in Court. (Jane
knows this better than me ~ we just need to be consistent).

And we should not let the quiet and competent closure of the mediation scheme pass unremarked. There was a
quiet and small gathering of the team last week. For my part I am very pleased that the expertise and

commitment of key team members has been picked up within the business.

Tom

To: Paula Vennells

POL-0111316
POLO0110406
POL00110406

Ce: ne Regan
1:1/PDR for Monday 11 April

Attached is my self-assessment for 2015-16. Draft objectives for 2016-17 and commentary on my 2015-16 objectives
have already been provided to Avene.

Other issues for discussion on Monday:

¢ Output of the Accountabilities discussion at GE — there was agreement on most issues however there are a number
of areas outstanding. We agreed that these would be deferred and resolved as part of the TOM required to
underpin the strategy as approved by the Board in June. I will walk you through the outstanding issues on Monday.

e Corporate Services budget — I have a meeting with Al to discuss this on Tuesday and we are currently finalising the
pack for that meeting. I will walk you through the main issues and my areas of concern.

@ ~~ May RCC/ARC cycle —I would like to walk you through the main items for discussion so that you are sighted on
these. From my perspective the paper I am most concerned about (which I am writing) is to support the discussion
on how the POMS (and POL) Boards get assurance that POL is compliant with its (regulatory) obligations under the
Appointed Representative and related agreements. Give the concerns of the POMS Board (which have been relayed
to the POL ARC), and the potential for conflict, this will need to be carefully positioned.

e  Onarelated point, at the FS Training session for GE, we agreed that Nick and I would work with PwC to review the
materials which the POL board/committees should receive in order to have effective oversight of the FS
business. So you are aware, this session is scheduled for next Thursday (14*" April).

e — Tim’s meeting with BN-R to discuss his enquiry ahead of her meeting with Lord Arbuthnot — this needs to be
carefully positioned and both Tim and BN-R need to be aware of the limitations of what can be said to Lord
Arbuthnot

It would also be helpful to get your feedback on whether our monthly 1:1s provide you with sufficient information and
oversight of the various activities within my areas of responsibility. To that end, please let me know if there is anything
else you would like me to cover.

Have a lovely weekend.

Jane

® Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile numb

POL-0111316
