POL00149675
POL00149675

From: Patrick Bourke[f.__
Sent: Wed 26/11/2014 1

To:
Ce: Rodric Williams{.
Subject: Re: FJ Remote Access conversation with James Davidson...

Thanks Mark - I think JD just needs to get things off his chest and am quite relaxed.

From: Mark Underwood1

Sent: Wednesday, November 26, 2014 01:23 PM

To: Belinda Crowe; Patrick Bourke; Tom Wechsler; Parsons, Andrew
Cc: Rodric Williams

Subject: FJ Remote Access conversation with James Davidson...

Hi all,
For the moment, the below is just for info, but certainly something to be mindful of.

I had a call from James Davidson (FJ) this morning with regards to the proposed Remote access papers we sent across
for them to:

1) Provide answers to the questions posed, and then;
2) Sign off.

Broadly speaking he seemed happy and said he would provide answers within the next couple of days or so.
Hopefully, that will allow us to put the issue to bed.

However, at the end of the call he made a point of saying (in a completely pleasant and professional manner) that FJ
had previously asked POL to respond to the less than accurate statements made about Horizon by SS.

He stated that should such ‘repeated inaccuracies’ continue to be made by SS, then FJ would, at some point in the
future (though he said this was not imminent) have to consider legal action against SS with regards to the potential
for reputational damage.

After discussing this with Andy P, it is felt this is most likely just an attempt by FJ to make us take a firmer line with SS.

Rod —1 CC’d you in case this does ever escalate as it is likely it will fall on your desk I am afraid.

Mark

Mark Underwood
Initial Complaint and Mediation Scheme

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.
POL00149675
POL00149675

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
