POL00448079
POL00448079

POST OFFICE LIMITED

ae lo: CIJ 5 Loss Prevention A
Title: Assurance Review Overall Rating
Findings

- 29 unique actions of which 2 related to HIJ and have been excluded from the scope of the review. and it should be noted that all the original actions
have been completed.

- 20 (69%) actions are complete and can be demonstrated via evidence

- 9 (31%) actions require improvements, 2 of the original actions have not been

duplicates,

completed and 4 are work in progress. A further 3 actions were

Subject

Assurance finding

Recommendation/Improvement opportunity

Loss Recovery

Loss Recovery policy and process created but not approved.
This makes it difficult to recover genuine losses (identified
through investigations)

Establish a process & policy to recover genuine losses.

Stock Auto Rem

This action is not complete and currently sitting with IT

Confirm if this action is being taken forward or another
solution has been identified

Automated MI
solution

The automated MI solution has not been implemented due to cost
challenges. Interim stop gap measures for High usage lines and Stock
in transit have been developed.

Introduce a review of MI and reporting to improve Governance.

Obsolete stock

Knowledge of when stock became obsolete could not be evidenced. GE
dashboard and day to day operational KPI do not comprise obsolete
stock reporting.

Retail confirmed a process is in place (next time stock becomes
obsolete).

Test process in place when stock becomes obsolete.

PDA rollout and order
tracking by PMs

PDA rollout has started and due to complete in Nov 2023.
Order tracking can only happen once PDA roll out is complete

Confirm decision made on whether to take the order tracking
initiative forward or not.

Auto stock
replenishment &
Interim process

This has not been taken forward, Power BI dashboard which
shows branches that have too much, too little or negative
stock. It’s unclear how this information is used by for example
Area Managers when they visit branches — no evidence of this
data on the Branch Insight Tool (BIT)

Confirm how the data is used to support branches to reduce
risk of discrepancies

Resourcing Concerns about reduction in resourcing could cause delays. i.e., I Monitoring activity should be in place to ensure staffing remains
issues impacting on branch accounts go undetected due to a lack of adequate to manage the stock risk
analysis.
Strictly Confidential Page 1 of 1
