Memo

3" October 2008

Fraud Team Post Office Limited

c.c. Mike Wilcox

POST OFFICE LIMITED v SUSAN JANE RUDKIN
ASE N OLTD, (0104

Read and noted thank you. In my opinion the evidence is sufficient to afford a
realistic prospect of conviction of the above named on the charge set out on the
attached Schedule. You will note that I have charged the offence of theft at this stage
however it may well be that as the case progresses that we may wish to consider the
false accounting charges. Could you therefore please let me have the relevant copies
of the Trading Statements.

In view of the serious nature of this offence and theft of £43,894.15 this offender should
be prosecuted.

This case is, in my opinion, more suitable for trial in the Crown Court. Once the
decision has been made please proceed to obtain summons.

No further statements need be obtained at this stage.

if the Defendant should elect trial or if the Magistrates refuse jurisdiction or if a Not
Guilty plea is entered, the Investigation Manager should obtain and associate all
necessary statements and exhibits. I list below the statements which appear to be
necessary in this case, but the Investigation Manager should also consider whether
there are any other areas which can usefully be covered and include any such
evidence.

4 Copy statement regarding Ms Rudkin’s appointment, duties and role in the
Ibstock Post Office. I should be grateful if this statement could cover the
training and explaining in detail of how the Horizon system operates and the
various documents it produces.

2 Statement from Paul Field dealing with his involvement in the matter and also
producing the audit of the Office.

3 Statements from the Investigating Officer Colin Price dealing with his
involvement in the enquiry.

4 Copy statement from Mike Wilcox and Gary Thomas dealing with the interview
and searches.

© Royal Mail 2002 ~ Page 1 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group pic. Registered number 4138203

POL00046488
POL00046488

The Real Network

Legal Services

www.royalmail.com
Memo

Cont...

5 Any continuity statements,

In this event, please prepare one set of typed copies of those statements and exhibits.
Please also prepare typed draft lists of statements and exhibits (statements to appear in
chronological order and exhibits in the same order in which they are produced by the
witnesses). A separate typed list of witnesses, showing their addresses, should also be
supplied.

You will be aware of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act
1996 concerning disclosure. Please confirm whether there is any material which might
reasonably be considered capable of undermining the Prosecution case or assisting the
Defence case and which has not already been disclosed. Please also let me have
Forms CSO06C, D and E in any event.

The papers must be sent to this Office at least 14 days before the proposed committal
proceedings or summary trial date.

‘There will be an application for compensation in the sum of £43,894.15.

If you wish to make an application for Investigation costs could you piease let me have
a breakdown schedule prior to the first hearing. In the event of a conviction, an
application will be made to recover these costs pursuant to Section 18 of the
Prosecution of Offences Act 1965. I would be grateful if when making an application for
Investigation costs the Court is provided with the information that Royal Mail Limited is
a private prosecutor and a brief explanation of how theséCosts are ited. If you
require any assistance please do not hesitate to gon ict me. \

John H Dove, Solicitod Advoc:
__i(Telephone/ No.

Senior er
Criminal Law Division

Ref: CRM/260283/JSX

© Royal Mail 2002 ~ Page 2 of 2

Royal Mails a trading name of Royat Mail Group plc, Registered number 4138203

m\criminat work foiders\singh jarnait crm\260283 - rudkin\260283m1.doc

POL00046488
POL00046488

e.

\?

