POL00099510
POL00099510

Message

From: Alice Perkin:

on behalf of — Alice Perkin

Sent: 29/08/2013 07:24:10

To: Paula Vennells!” i -
ce: Susan Crichtoni._ GRO 4; Chris M Day}
Subject: Re: SS and costs -_

I would simply like to know what we have agreed with SS about their rate/fee going forward and how this
compares with the basis on which they were being paid up to the interim report.

Thank you.

Alice

----- Original Message
From: Paula Vennells [
Sent: Wednesday, Augus
To: Alice Perkins
Cc: Susan Crichton
Subject: Re: SS and

Thanks Alice. Useful for me too. And I did receive your other mail, which is the next task in hand.

The Horizon costs have been scoped, and a budget is now in place. We have needed to look at the end to
end costs: for instance, the mediation process, as well as internal and external resources to see us
through. I'm grateful to Susan who has led this review and has devised a way of time limiting the Second
Sight costs.

If I try to remember the exact figure estimated for Ss, I will get it wrong so have copied Susan to
respond, as she and Chris worked on this together. The intention is for Second Sight to have finished
their work by year end (I think calendar year?). And then for any ongoing activity to be handed over to
Angela and her team, so that it becomes a BAU process. Angela will work hand in glove with SS over the
next few months to enable this, and as importantly, to give SS the reassurance that they can safely hand
over to her. So far, I understand this is working well and they have expressed respect for her input and
capability.

Susan, could you and/or Chris update re the SS/costs?
Thx Paula
Sent from my iPad

on 28 Aug 2013, at 15:24, “Alice Perkins”

> Hi Paula,

> That was'a useful catch-up this morning, thank you. You should by now have had my thoughts on the ToR.
I realised while I was looking at those papers that I should have asked you where we got to on $S's costs
which had not been fixed by the time I went away. Perhaps you or someone else could let me know?

> Many thanks

> Alice

>

> This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

HRW HWW HWW WHR WH NWN N WR RR WWII IIR HHH Ses Ss oo aes sess aa sea te

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0099093
