POL00394026

POL00394026
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

Document Title: Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Operations

Centre
Document Type: Report
Release: N/A
Abstract: This document presents the results of a planned audit into

the activities and operation of the Horizon Data Centres at
Wigan and Bootle and the Operations Centre in Belfast.

Document Status: APPROVED

Originator & Dept: J. Holmes (Quality & Audit)
G. Hooper (Security)
M.Ascot (IPDU)
Contributors:

Reviewed By: P. Jeram M. Riddell
M. Stewart C. Johnson (ISD)
S. Gardiner (ISD) P. Sandison (ISD)
A. Gibson (ISD)

Comments By:

Comments To: Originator (& Pathway Document Controller)
Distribution: ICL Pathway Document Management

S. Muchow P. Jeram

M. Riddell M. Stewart

G. Hooper C. Johnson (ISD)

S. Gardiner (ISD) P. Sandison (ISD)
A. Gibson (ISD)

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 45

© 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd
POL00394026

POL00394026
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01
0 Document control
0.1 Document history
Version Date Reason
0.1 12/11/01 First internal draft for comments
0.2 19/11/01 Following review cycle
2.0 21/11/01 For Approval
0.2 Approval authorities
Name Position Signature Date
P. Jeram Programme Director
M. Riddell Customer Service Director
0.3 Associated documents
Reference Vers I Date Title Source
0.4 Abbreviations
Acronym Meaning
ACP Access Control Policy
BDC Bootle Data Centre
BOC Belfast Operations Centre
CGIA Consignia Group Internal Audit
CKC Cryptographic Key Custodian
cs ICL Pathway Customer Service
DEK Data Encryption Key
IPDU Infrastructure Products Delivery Unit
ISD Infrastructure Services Division
KEK Key Encryption Key
SFS Security Functional Specification
UKSS United Kingdom Support Services
WDC Wigan Data Centre

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 2 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01
0.5 Table of content

1 INtrOdUCtION..... eee cece ececeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeesseneneneeeeseteneeeeeeeeeeess 5
2 Scope & COMAUCE........ eee eceeeececceccecesceceeceeeesesecseesescesecseeateecseeseeeseeseeeeeees 5
3 Management SumMary...............:ccccceseseseeceeeeseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenereeeetereenees 6

3.1 Data Centres...

3.2 Operations Centre
4 Detailed Observations.

4.1 Organisation and Structure... ececccceeecececeeeeeeeseseseseeeeeeseseeeeeeeaeees 7

4.2 Policy, Contractual and other Security Requirements (Belfast).

4.3 Physical Security..
4.3.1 Data Centres.
4.3.2 Operations Centr

4.4 Data Centre Safes... ccc eee eeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseseseeeeesieee
4.5 Personnel Security and Vetting... eee eeeeeeeeeeseeeereeeeee

4.6 Access Control and Account Administration (Belfast)
4.7 Remote Administration (Belfast)

4.8 Storage and the use of Sensitive Information (Belfast)....................
4.9 SecurelD Administration (Belfast)........0.0.0..ceeceeeeeseereeeseseeeeeeeees
4.10 Event Handling (Belfast)... eee cece cee eeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees
4.11 Software Distribution, Installation and Platform Builds (Belfast)...
4.12 Cryptographic (Non-Zergo) Key Management..............:cceeee
4.13 Cryptographic (Zergo) Key Management.................:eceeeeeeeeeeeeee

4.13.1 Data Centres... cceccecccccecececeeeeeeseeeeeeeceseseseesenesseeeeeeserees

4.13.2 Operations Centre.
4.13.3 Review and Audi
4.14 Firewall Management.

4.15 Network Management.................ceeceeeeeee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees
4.16 Backups and Offsite Storage... ceeeceeeeee eee eseseseereeeeeeeeeeeeees

4.17 Business Continuity.
4.17.1 Data Centres..
4.17.2 Operations Centre.

4.18 Operational Procedures.................cceeccecceceseeseeceeeeseeeeeeseeseneeeeesees

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 3 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.18.1 Data Centres.
4.18.2 Operations Centre
4.19 Supplier Management..
4.20 Audit Workstations... eee e es eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees

5 Platform Configuration Audit Results...............:c:ecceceeceseeseeeeseeeeeeeeeeee 26
6 Annex A — Audit Terms of Reference................ccccececececeeeeceeeeeeteeeeeeee 28
7 Annex B — Configuration Audit Cabinet Check Results.................0.. 30
8 Annex C - Domains & Servers Audited with “SDUSYSTEST”............. 36
9 Annex D — Configuration Audit Observations & Recommendations....39

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

1 Introduction

The Belfast Operations Centre is a vital part of the Horizon solution. It is
responsible for the operational management of the Sequent and other
systems at the Pathway Data Centres at Wigan and Bootle. It is also
responsible for application support on Sequent and for Network Management
that is undertaken at the Pathway Data Centres. Both Data Centres and the
Belfast Operations Centre are managed by ICL’s Infrastructure Services
Division (ISD) on behalf of ICL Pathway.

2 Scope & Conduct

The audit was split into three elements. The first was to look at the operations
and activities of the Data Centres at Wigan and Bootle and to consider the
controls in place their against a number of pre-defined criteria, including
firewall management, cryptographic key handling and physical security. The
second was to look at the Operations Centre at Belfast where much of the
work carried out at the Data Centres is controlled. The third was a
configuration audit of a number of the live servers at the Data Centres to
provide assurances on the state of the platform builds.

This report is a distillation of a number of Working Papers describing what
was found and recording the various activities of the locations. It is not the
intention to present the full extent of that information here, more the opinions
and findings of the audit. If readers require access to the background material
it can be made available through the ICL Pathway Quality & Audit Manager.

The scope of the audit was defined in formal Terms of Reference, issued by
Pathway IA in October 2001 and presented at Annex A to this report. It is
part of the ICL Pathway Internal Audit Plan for 2001 and while it was primarily
interested in the applications and effectiveness of controls it also took into
account the requirements of IS09001:2000 and ISO17799:1998.

The audit was conducted during October 2001 by Jan Holmes (Quality and
Audit Manager), Graham Hooper (Security Manager) and Mark Ascot (IPDU),
all from ICL Pathway. Rashpal Dhesi from Consignia Group Internal Audit
attended the Wigan and Bootle elements of this audit as an observer.

The help and co-operation of all members of ISD staff interviewed is
appreciated.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

3.1

3.2

Management Summary

Data Centres

Although there are a lot of recommendations presented for the Data Centres,
the overall opinion is that the management and operations at Wigan and
Bootle are sound and under control.

Scrutiny of the recommendations indicates that a number are linked to the
over arching Pathway Process RS/PRO/036. This process must be reviewed
and updated to reflect local practice (KEK & DEK control forms), which was
considered to be good, and the issues around physical segregation of Keys in
the main safes where a ruling from the Pathway Security Manager may be
required. (See 4.4 and 4.13)

The lack of personnel security vetting, as required in RS/PRO/002, must be
addressed, particularly as this process was introduced following a
recommendation made in an earlier audit. (See 4.5).

The Firewall was being managed effectively although the underlying basis for
the Firewall rules is evolutionary and no real baseline has ever been
established. An audit of the Firewall rule base, followed by the production of a
specification, the continued application of the strong controls already in
place, and recommended improvements, should remove any uncertainty
about the integrity provided by this product. (See 4.14).

There is concern about the break in control between allocating an IP address
via OCP to a new terminal and then accepting it into the Network but a simple
check, followed by an update to the IP database, could remove that
weakness. (See 4.15).

The arrangements with Iron Mountain require a review, in particular the staff
vetting procedures and the receipting of tapes and material sent there for
storage. (See 4.16).

Operations Centre

Although there are a lot of recommendations presented the overall opinion is
that the management and operations at the Belfast Operations Centre are
sound and under control. Most of the recommendations are pertinent to a few
specific areas and non-compliance is generally the result of staff having to
undertake operational support on a complex architectural environment for
which the approved methods of administration are no longer sufficiently
effective.

Non-approved tools are being used to remotely administer the live estate
resulting in an inability to audit individual user activity as is required by
agreed policy. Alternative options are already being considered by Pathway
to address this issue.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

User account administration should be reviewed and enforced to obviate the
need to by-pass approved account policies by using Administrator privilege.

Secondary authentication procedures would benefit from review in
conjunction with CS Security

A number of extant operational security procedures need to be documented
and enforced.

The handling of cryptographic keys needs to be reflected within central
Pathway procedures.

The failure of a number of key processes is contributing to difficulties in
identifying and assuring the correct state of various live platform builds.

4 Detailed Observations

4.1 Organisation and Structure

Both Data Centres and the Belfast Operations Centre (BOC) operate within
an established organisational structure with clear line management and
escalation routes. This is particularly important at BOC where Pathway is not
the only ISD customer supported from that site.

At the BOC activities are segregated into discrete functional areas (DBA,
Pathway UNIX, Systems Management/Home Services UNIX and NT). DBA,
Pathway UNIX and Systems Management functions are dedicated to Pathway
operations whilst NT support is shared between Pathway and other ISD
supported areas.

Designated Managers are responsible for each functional area and the Head
of Pathway UNIX is dedicated as the lead managerial contact. Pathway’s
primary interface with BOC is via the ISD Pathway Operations Manager
based at IRE11 and the Pathway CS Service Manager based at BRA01.
Senior ISD Line Management at Belfast is also responsible for ISD GIO
operations at the Wigan and Bootle Pathway Data Centres.

At the Data Centres the split is essentially between Network Management
and Operations staff. Each site has a nominated Data Centre Manager and a
Duty Manager function operates during the day shifts with technical on-
call out of hours, though the DCs are manned 24/7.

4.2 Policy, Contractual and other Security Requirements (Belfast)

Baseline Information Security Requirements are driven largely by ICL Group
(GISI) policy. This mandates the use of ISO17799 as the approved standard
by which information security is established and maintained. This is
evidenced by Corporate Policy Framework relating to Security. These policies
are supported by legal and general contractual obligations to other customers
and best practice from these is utilised within other contracts including

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.3

4.3.1

Pathway. BOC do not undertake additional internal reviews outside the
requirements placed upon them by ICL Group.

The general security ethos within BOC is well established and permeates the
operation at IRE11.

BOC believe that they are required to support the requirements of Pathway
specific Contract Controlled Documents (CCDs) primarily the Security Policy
(RS/POL/002) and the Security Functional Specification (RS/FSP/001). Also
of relevance is the Access Control Policy (RS/POL/003). There is some doubt
however within BOC that the contract between Pathway and ISD formally
reflects these requirements.

It is recommended that the Pathway Service Manager for ISD reviews the
contract between Pathway and ISD to ensure that Pathway’s contractual
obligations are adequately reflected.

It is also recommended that extant versions of the SFS and ACP are issue to
ISD for formal review.

Physical Security

Both Data Centres are located inside existing Alliance and Leicester
premises and to an extent the general security requirements of those
organisations apply to the ISD staff working there. The approach here was to
look at physical security as a set of layered controls from barriers external to
the buildings to the use of tokens to control movement and access internally.

Data Centres

The physical barriers in place at Wigan, perimeter fence, road barriers,
secured door, Security Guard, visitor log and passes, airlocks and proximity
passes for access to the ICL parts of the building, were all found to be
working as expected. Visitors are escorted and an attempt to use a visitor
proximity pass to obtain access to the external building doors failed.

A log of ICL visitor passes is maintained and copies of passes issued
retained. It was noted that passes can be made out in advance of visits and if
not used left in the log.

It is recommended that this practice is stopped and any unused passed
marked as ‘NOT USED’ and destroyed — the record is retained on the second
copy of the pass.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.3.2

The workspace is mixed with A&L staff but there is sufficient segregation
between the two groups, including inside the Computer Room, to ensure the
safety and integrity of ICL’s activities there.

As with Wigan the physical barriers were exercised in order to gain access to
the ICL part of the building and, as with Wigan, were all found to be working
as expected.

However, it was noted that the main exit gate for this site was permanently
open allowing unrestricted access. This compromises what is otherwise a
strong regime.

Both Bootle and Wigan Data Centres are located on Alliance & Leicester
sites and are subject to elements of A&L’s security, Health and Safety and fire
requirements. A&L’s Property Manager was able to confirm that following
some problems in the early days there had not been any ‘difficulties’ or
security issues around the ISD tenancy. He also confirmed that a Wigan
Tenants Group had been established and had met a couple of times.
Unfortunately ISD had not been able to attend either one and it was stated
that the meetings often dealt with low level A&L site management and
personnel issues. However, there may be occasions when it is appropriate for
ISD to be represented and they should endeavour to attend Tenants
meetings at these times.

Operations Centre

Physical security at IRE11 is extensive and commensurate with the prevailing
threat. The site is contained within a well-defined and secure perimeter that is
adequately fenced and monitored via CCTV with infrared capability. Access
to the site is via a single entrance point for both vehicles and pedestrians.
This is adjacent to a gatehouse that it manned on a 24-hour basis. All visitors
are subject to bag-search at this point.

Within the perimeter there are separate buildings for the administrative and
data-centre operations. The car park is located some distance from both
buildings and visitor’s vehicles are allocated parking bays furthest away from
the buildings.

The administrative building has a reception point and all visitors are required
to sign in and be escorted at all times. Intruder detection operates within the
building and access to areas is controlled by proximity pass. Pass control and
the guard force is administered by Chesterton Workplace Management under
contract to ICL. Allocation of passes is permitted only when security vetting
procedures have been successfully completed and all leavers are removed
immediately from the system.

The Data Centre building is protected by an additional perimeter fence.
Access to the building is via proximity pass that permits access only to those
personnel that require access. Internal proximity detectors are configured to
provide further granular segregation so as to restrict access to specific areas
within the Data Centre — most noticeably to the machine room. Intruder
detection also operates within the Data Centre.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

No issues were identified or reported and it is considered that the physical
security, fire and Health and Safety arrangements at IRE11 meet or exceed
requirements.

4.4 Data Centre Safes

This is a specific section in the report as the provision and use of a main safe
at the Data Centres is vital to maintaining the security and integrity of the
Horizon solution. Central to this are the cryptographic keys used to encrypt
the hardware and networks, and the controls exercised over them by Data
Centre staff.

There are two safes at Wigan, The main safe is located in the Computer
Room an contains a variety of items. Of these, the key items are the non-
Zergo cryptographic keys and control documentation, the visitors day passes,
the crypto transfer safe and the CCTV recording tapes. Other important
documents and items are also held within the safe.

An inventory of the safe is maintained and checked on a monthly basis
although records only go back as far as August 2001. A simple tick is used to
indicate the presence of an item and this is not sufficient to identify when the
check as made and by whom.

It is recommended that the inventory check is dated and the checklist to be
signed by the person making the check to indicate the presence of items. A
countersignature should be obtained upon completion of the check. This
recommendation applies equally to Bootle where the same practice takes
place.

RS/PRO/036

Note : All recommendations marked RS/PRO/036 will be dealt with as a single
Corrective Action on the CAP.

The second safe is in the Control Room and this holds the Zergo
cryptographic keys, swipes and control documentation.

These are key operated safes and normal access is granted to the Data
Centre Site Manager (Paul Sandison), the Network Manager (Colin Johnston)
and the Duty Manager (Tim Roper). Other access is by exception.

RS/PRO/036 requires that ALL cryptographic key material is segregated from
other materials either through a separate safe or by some other form of
separation in a shared safe. The non-Zergo crypto keys are not segregated
within the main safe.

There is only one safe at Bootle and this is smaller than Wigan’s. There is
also no separate safe for Zergo keys resulting in both sets being stored
together and not segregated from other material in the safe.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

It is recommended that the requirements expressed in RS/PRO/036 regarding
the separation and segregation of cryptographic key material from other
sensitive material for storing in safes is reviewed by the Pathway Security
Manager. Both sites currently fail to conform to the requirements of the
process and a decision is required about continuing with the current
arrangements and amending the process to reflect that, or to escalate the non-
conformance and mandate the requirements. This recommendation applies
equally to Wigan where the same problem exists.

RS/PRO/036

4.5 Personnel Security and Vetting

The audit of Customer Service in January 1999 identified that personnel
security vetting was not taking place for Pathway employees. As a
consequence RS/PRO/002 - Pathway Security Vetting Process was
developed and published. The process is invoked by Pathway HR on
notification that a new employee has joined the project, either directly through
Pathway or via a key supplier such as ISD. The audit identified that no new
members of the ISD teams at Wigan or Bootle have been subjected to a
security vet for the last 2 years.

All personnel at IRE11 are required to successfully complete formal HMG
vetting requirements that include police (CRO) and Security Service Counter
Terrorist (CTC) checks. This level of vetting is more extensive than the
baseline requirement mandated by Pathway.

Notwithstanding this there is an ongoing requirement to administer the
approved Pathway vetting process. Whilst the BOC Admin reported that this
should be operating correctly it was not possible during the audit to meet with
HR and review implementation and compliance.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager and Pathway HR
review the operation of this process since it does not appear to have been
successfully implemented.

It is recommended that ISD Personnel be asked to confirm that the process
documented in RS/PRO/002 has appropriate visibility and is being complied
with for recruits to ISD BOC.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.6 Access Control and Account Administration (Belfast)

A fundamental security requirement is the segregation of duties relating to the
administration of Unix and NT. The organisational structure of BOC reinforces
this distinction and BOC users are allocated specific roles and
responsibilities based upon the agreed requirements of the Pathway Access
Control Policy.

In the main all users requiring Unix level access to the system access it via a
secure menu system on an NT workstation. This constrains the functions
called depending on the user’s role and audits all functions performed by the
user. Particular emphasis is placed on securing the role of System
Administrator, which has access to powerful resources including root
privilege, Unix commands and DBA functions.

It is noted that a decision was made following the initial release of Horizon
not to enable Unix auditing, but to enable “C2” compliance in the Dynix
kernel. At SIP14 Dynix was updated to version 4.4.4, which silently turned on
auditing when “C2” was selected. This was found to conflict with the
implementation of Metron Athene, and a Pathway decision was made to
disable C2 compliance in the kernel. From a security perspective it is
preferable to re-enable C2 in Dynix and a review of the impact on
applications and support will need to be carried out.

The BOC DBA is responsible for the maintenance of user accounts for access
to live systems. In the main this is controlled but there is evidence that
redundant domains, user roles and users are not being removed from the
system as is required by the SFS and ACP. This is in part due to non-
reporting to BOC of Pathway leavers.

Procedures for authorising access to the live estate are documented in
RS/PRO/040 and the process is considered to be effective. It was reported
that additional information could be captured on the request form to ensure
that the correct privileges are enabled. It is also apparent that the separate
forms used for KMS-related access and general live estate access should be
rationalised.

It is recommended that the process and activities surrounding access to the
live estate is reviewed. This should include :

e /SD undertaking a full review of the current user accounts with a view to
correcting discrepancies.

e ICL Pathway Security reviewing the process for informing BOC of
changes.

e ICP Pathway Security reinforcing with HR the need for regular monthly
updates of leavers.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

e ICL Pathway Security and ISD reviewing RS/PRO/040 to addressing these
issues.

The Root Administrator password for the live estate has recently been
changed following a request by CS Security. This global password must
however be changed at least quarterly to prevent unauthorised access to the
live systems. This has not been implemented.

It is recommended that ISD develop and document a process for changing
this password and ensure that it is applied by cross-referencing within the
Duty Manager's Checklist.

4.7 Remote Administration (Belfast)

Systems are generally configured to reduce the risks of human users
interfering with automated applications. Users accessing sensitive data at the
Data Centres or updating any information use secure build workstations that
are connected via the secure LAN. The corporate LAN is entirely separate.
Workstations have floppy/CD drives disabled except where exceptions have
been agreed. All users generally authenticate to the appropriate PWYDCS
domain (but see below) via secondary (SecurlD) token. There is evidence to
indicate that SecurlD is not enabled on some support workstations although
they are configured with a 10-minute lockout.

It is recommended that SecurlD be enabled on all workstations to comply with
requirements of the SFS and ACP. This will require BOC to monitor the
console sessions of the Firewall and ACE servers.

The SFS mandates the use of Tivoli Remote Console (TRC) for the remote
administration of Data Centre platforms. This records an auditable trail of log-
ins to all boxes accessed by the user. It is a matter of considerable
discussion and correspondence that TRC is slow and difficult to administer.
This has lead over time to BOC personnel relying heavily on the use of
unauthorised tools (predominantly Rclient) to remotely administer the live
estate. Its use is fundamental for the checking of errors. The tool does not
however record individual user access to systems but simply record an event
(2002 info, 2004 warning and 2006 info) on the remote box that Administrator
access has been used. No other information is provided including success/fail
so it is not possible to simply audit failures. Their use puts Pathway in
contravention of contractual undertakings to Post Office. (See also Software
Distribution and VNC).

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.8

It is recommended that Pathway APDU continues its work to establish an
alternative support tool that facilitates the auditing of individual user access or
creates a means by which the use of current tools can be similarly audited.

Where BOC staff need to access the PWYHQ domain they can only do so as
Administrator. This is because PWYHQ and PWYDCS domains have been
created as Master Domains and a trust relationship between the two cannot
be established. There is also evidence of high usage of access to systems
via PWYDCS using root Admin privilege.

It is recommended that the domain structure be reviewed by ICL Pathway
Security with a view to establishing a domain architecture that allows access
with least privilege.

It is also recommended that User Account processes are reviewed to obviate
the need for access using Administrator privileges. This applies equally to NT
and Unix.

Storage and the use of Sensitive Information (Belfast)

Designated BOC staff have access to a fire-safe held in the Technical
Support office. This is used primarily used to store passwords under cover of
sealed and signed envelopes. This includes Unix root and NT Global Admin
passwords. The safe is also used for non-Pathway related storage.

It is recommended that a discrete safe is obtained and used for Pathway
related information. Alternatively a smaller secondary safe should be provided
within the main safe to which only BOC personnel supporting the Horizon
system should have access.

RS/PRO/036

Few sensitive documents or data are held by BOC and all information is
handled within the secure operations area. BOC would however benefit from
the provision of additional, lockable cabinets to remove paperwork from the
operational environment.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.9 SecurelD Administration (Belfast)

The recent new ACE/Solaris secure build has caused problems because the
Console Buffer on the Terminal Server is filling, resulting in the system
hanging until a console connection is established in Belfast. This is also true
of the firewall build, and has led to the practice of leaving console sessions
on these platforms open in Belfast. Whilst these are in a secure area, this
effectively gives unmonitored physical access to the platforms.

User accounts are being locked out because the security model assumes
users connect frequently, whereas for these platforms the need to connect is
rare, when a user is on call and there is a problem. The only solution is to
force a logon through anonymous root privilege, which bypasses agreed
security procedures. It is understood that a fix has been developed but has
yet to be released.

It is recommended that Release Management arrange for testing and delivery
of this fix so that SecurlD administration can be performed in accordance with
agreed policy.

The current process documented in RS/MANO10 for SecurlD token
Administration can delay the time necessary to remove users from the
system.

It is recommended that RS/MAN/010 is reviewed to consider the disabling of
the token by CS Security when a user leaves prior to sending a system-
disabling request to BOC.

4.10 Event Handling (Belfast)

An extensive event handling system is managed by BOC utilising approved
tools BMC Patrol is run on the Unix hosts and HP Openview is used to
monitor networks at the Data Centres. Maestro Scheduler raises specific
events and system events are also forwarded via Tivoli.

Event filtering is undertaken by the use of KELs a recent review of which
substantially improved the handling of events.

For systems monitoring purposes Insight Manager is used to hook into the
BTI system and forward alerts direct to the Duty Manager.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 15 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.11 Software Distribution, Installation and Platform Builds (Belfast)

Tivoli Courier is the approved method of distributing and installing software
and patches to the live estate. This has proven unreliable and slow in the
majority of cases - particularly during major upgrades. The demands of
accuracy and expediency have forced the use of VNC, which is now used
extensively for installing patches and applying release notes to live. The use
of this product runs contrary to Pathway policy because it does not audit
individual access to the system or the changes made. This difficulty is
compounded because in the vast majority of cases, software packages
require Domain Admin privileges.

It is recommended that Pathway APDU continues its work to establish an
alternative software installation tool that facilitates the auditing of individual
user access or creates a means by which the use of VNC can be similarly
audited.

In the majority of cases software released from CM is sent to ISD via the CM
Signing Server and from there to the ISD Staging Server. This is used to
deliver software to the .26 Rig and is also accessed by ISD via an appropriate
share. ISD report however that they have no way of proving the integrity of
packages originating accessed via SYSDELO1.

It is recommended that this process be reviewed to determine whether it is
appropriate to include a signature verification check on the Staging Server.

A recurring problem concerns the ability of Pathway to obtain assurance that
the build state of live platforms, servers and workstations aligns with the
respective baselines delivered by PIT and held by CM. A significant amount
of historical evidence indicates that the build of live boxes is not
representative of approved Pathway baselines or of the build on the various
Test Rigs. The reasons for this may be manifold (e.g. a failure in the PinICL
process to update baselines after an interim urgent OCP fix has been applied
to live, a test workaround that has not been included in the Release Note, a
failure by ISD to follow the script or a combination of these).

It is recommended that these various processes be reviewed. The vagaries of
build states is a significant security risk that would affect the ability to recover
functional platforms in the event of a disaster and potentially lead to release
notes working in a test environment but failing in live.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 16 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.12

4.13

A contributory factor is the lack of a test rig that is fully representative of live.
Advances have been made recently in this area but consideration should be
given to the possibility of combining the Release and .26 Rig for this purpose.

The use of the PIT “Fingerprint” .exe was also designed to provide assurance
that the correct domain and platform were targeted for software upgrades and
that release notes were applied in the correct order. Whilst this provides
some assurance it does not validate the build nor indicate whom was
responsible for applying it.

It is recommended that until a suitable method is devised for tracking Release
Notes (i.e. via CM software), the Fingerprint script should include an event to
indicate who applied the release note.

There is evidence that the initial password included in the PIT baseline is not
being re-named prior to introduction to live. This is of significant security
concern.

It is recommended that ISD develop procedures that ensure that the initial
build password is re-named when platforms are commissioned to live service.

Cryptographic (Non-Zergo) Key Management

This particular aspect of the Data Centre’s operations was not covered in
sufficient depth to enable an opinion to be drawn.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager conducts a review of
non-Zergo key management at the earliest opportunity.

RS/PRO/036

Cryptographic (Zergo) Key Management

4.13.1 Data Centres

The requirements for these controls are defined in RS/PRO/036 v1.0 dated
12/06/00 available on the Pathway BMS and made available to ISD staff by
the ICL Pathway Security Manager. This has in turn been interpreted and the
ISD local procedure ICL/PW/NET/PRO/006 Zergo Operations Guide v4.0
dated 25/10/01 was seen.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 17 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

Details for the safekeeping of Zergo keys on-site are described in para 4.2.
The despatch of Keys to the Data Centres is controlled by the Pathway
Security Manager. On receipt at Wigan the Data Centre Site Manager
inspects the package for damage before opening and checks the content
against the Despatch Note enclosed. It was noted that the Despatch Note
refers to named links that do not reflect the real world link and this is a cause
for confusion when identifying Keys for transfer.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager review the Despatch
Note link identities to remove any confusing link names and replace them with
meaningful real-world identities.

RS/PRO/036

The Keys are sorted and those that are destined for Bootle identified and
placed for safekeeping in the secure transfer box inside the main WDC safe.
These are collected at some appropriate time by the Bootle Network Manager
are transferred to Bootle and stored in the main BDC safe. (See
recommendation in Para 4.4 regarding non-segregation of Key material in the
main Data Centre safes).

Access to the safes, and therefore the Keys, is currently limited to the Key
Custodian, the Deputy KC and the Duty Manager. This is contrary to
RS/PRO/036 that describes access by the Duty Manager as an exceptional
item and subject to extra control. It was suggested during the audit that
restricting access to the KC and DKC only was restrictive and the addition of
the Duty Manager is a necessity. This was subsequently confirmed during the
report review cycle.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager review the
arrangements for access as part of the broader review of RS/PRO/036.

RS/PRO/036

The Keys are held as sets in a specially made plastic wallet such that the
single KEK is associated with the physical key and the seven DEKs. A Local
Key Inventory Form has been introduced that mirrors the physical position of
the Keys in the wallet and provides details of receipt, use and destruction with
a name and date associated with each state. The nature of the form makes it
extremely easy to identify where a Key is missing and why.

This is a local initiative and was introduced in June 2001 to simplify the
tracking of Keys. It does not conform to the requirements of RS/PRO/036
although it is an improvement on the control documentation prescribed.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 18 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

Similarly there is a revised movement control form for Remote Keys and this
was introduced at the same time. As with the Local Keys Inventory Form the
new form is an improvement over that defined in RS/PRO/036.

It is recommended that RS/PRO/036 is reviewed and updated to reflect the
use of the new inventory and movement forms.

RS/PRO/036

Unfortunately the improvements provided by the new forms is offset by the
inconsistent completion of the fields and the use, on some occasions, of
pencil.

It is recommended that the forms are reviewed at both locations for
completeness, updated accordingly and that in future fields are completed
using a pen or biro or other permanent marker.

RS/PRO/036

Finally, it was reported that some of the links for which Zergo encryption keys
had initially been produced had since changed. As DEK and KEK keys are
printed with details of the remote site locations this has potential for
confusion.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager and supplier review
the key set and amend details to reflect the current requirements.

RS/PRO/036

4.13.2 Operations Centre

There is a designated Cryptographic Key Custodian (CKC) for BOC but this
role is not currently recognised within extant documentation (RS/PRO/036).
There is also no designated Deputy in the event that the Primary CKC is
unavailable.

It is recommended that RS/PRO/036 be revised to incorporate this role and
ISD identify a suitable deputy.

RS/PRO/036

The CKC is responsible for a small number of Key Encryption swipe cards
that are used on the Zergo hardware encryption devices at IRE11 and IRE19.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 19 of 45

POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

All handling appears to be generally consistent with requirements but the
keys themselves are stored (under sealed cover) in a safe to which
unauthorised individuals have access. There is therefore the potential that
keys could be compromised.

It is recommended that the CKC be provided with a separate safe for the
storage of keys. Alternatively given the small number, keys should be stored
in a separate lockable box within the main safe to which only the CKC or
deputy has access.

RS/PRO/036

The CKC has copies of a number of cryptographic procedural manuals
including the Zergo Operations Guide but not RS/PRO/036. A check of
cryptographic records held by the CKC showed that whilst due diligence is
being applied in the receipt, recording and maintenance of key related
functions, as with the Data Centres, the documentation being used is not as
defined in RS/PRO/036.

It is recommended that RS/PRO/036 be re-circulated for review to capture
BOC requirements and revised to include standardised templates.

RS/PRO/036

4.13.3 Review and Audit

There is no regular independent review of this process, either by ISD or
Pathway. While the audit has identified a number of minor issues at all
locations that, if considered independently or collectively, do not represent a
significant threat to the security and integrity of the network, nor is there any
suggestion of accidental or deliberate malpractice within the Data Centres,
the handling and management of the Keys is sufficiently important to warrant
a regular review by ISD management, independent of those who operate the
process.

It is recommended that ISD introduce a regular review of Key management
activity at the Data Centres and Belfast. A six monthly cycle is suggested as
being adequate.

It is also recommended that a review of Key management is conducted by
ICL Pathway on an annual basis. This can be achieved as part of an annual
audit of the Data and Operations Centres’ activities.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 20 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.14 Firewall Management

Firewall management is achieved through the implementation of the
FireWall1 product from Checkpoint. The current rule base has developed
over time and there is no ‘specification’ as such that established the original
requirement. While the firewall has been updated over time it is not clear
whether the most appropriate methods are being used. For example, new AP
Clients are simply added on as a new rule rather than adding a new instance
to an existing object group. A dedicated workstation exists at each location
and in terms of coverage Wigan is responsible for the maintenance of the
Wigan firewall while Bootle manages Bootle and all remote sites, eg. FELO1
and BRA0O1.

It is recommended that a design specification is developed for the Firewall
rule base that establishes the optimum approach for defining and maintaining
the rule base.

Changes are managed through the OCP process and evidence was obtained
of one such change (OCP3364) at Wigan. There is no complete audit log of
changes made to the firewall rule base although ISD have recently started to
include the OCP reference against the firewall record where a change has
been made but it is considered that this ‘change log’ would be enhanced if a
date and operator identity can be identified alongside the OCP reference.

It is recommended that the identity of the operator updating the firewall rule
base and the date of update is included in the ‘change log’ field of the
database.

There has not been any central review or audit of the firewall rule base since
its inception although the Pathway Security Manager has access to the
current settings via a terminal in the Secure Room in FELO1 AO. The lack of
regular review coupled with the historical evolution of the rule base could
lead to incorrect or irregular entries and settings.

It is recommended that the current firewall rule base be audited for
completeness and accuracy by the Pathway Security Manager and an
ongoing programme of reviews established.

It is a requirement that security violations are escalated to the Pathway
Security Manager. However, firewall exceptions have not been defined
leaving Data Centre staff unsure what would constitute a violation should one
exist.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 21 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.15

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager provides clear
guidance on what is a reportable security exception for the firewall.

It was noted that it is possible to monitor traffic passing through the firewall
along a specific link although this is only used accommodate bug fixing or to
monitor traffic across that link on demand. There is no active monitoring of
attempted firewall breaches or other inappropriate activity across the firewall.
It was stated that active intrusion detection is available in the current product
but was not part of the existing agreement between Pathway and ISD.

It is recommended that the Pathway Security Manager reviews the position
with regard to proactive intruder detection on the firewall and if considered
necessary initiate changes to the relevant agreements between ISD and
Pathway.

Network Management

The Data Centres continually monitor the state and status of the Horizon
network using the HP Openview product. Dedicated terminals exist at both
locations and each has a complete view of the full network. Although access
to the terminals is unrestricted within the Control Rooms it is members of the
Network Team who are solely responsible for the active monitoring of the
network. Audible warnings are provided by the system if a link is lost and a
visible notification is an item appears on the network that has not been
previously notified.

Additions and changes to the network are managed through the OCL process
and evidence was obtained (OCP2373) for one such change at Wigan. Upon
request the IP Database is accessed by Data Centre staff and a free IP
address allocated to the terminal. Unlike the Firewall rule base there is no
record on the IPDb of what initiated a change nor who made it and when it
was done.

When a new item is attached to the network is it identified by the HP
Openview and placed in a transit area on the screen. This is then associated
to the appropriate part of the network by one of the Network Management
team. There is no verification of the new item and the IP address is not
checked against the IP Database. Before an IP address is allocated to a new
terminal the addition would have to been approved through the OCP process
and, if initiated by Pathway, the CP process. These are strong controls but
they are compromised by the lack of verification of new items and there is a
risk that rogue items could be connected and accepted into the Horizon
network without check.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 22 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

It is recommended that the IP Database spreadsheet is improved to include
columns that identify the OCP number, operator identity and date for each
new or changed IP address. It is also recommended that more effective
checks be introduced to verify that new items identified on HP Openview are
verified and authorised by Network Management before being accepted into
the Horizon network. This could be achieved through a further column in the
IP Database and the relevant Network Manager ‘signing’ against the IP
address entry acknowledging that the terminal has been accepted into the
Network.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 23 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.16 Backups and Offsite Storage

Offsite storage is provided by Iron Mountain (IM), formally DataVault and is
controlled by Belfast although exercised by the Data Centres. The schedule
has been devised by Belfast who provide the Data Centres with a daily
schedule of tapes to be delivered to and collected from IM. This information is
transferred to a local form where any local additions are made and the tapes
picked and packed into strong boxes provided by IM. The local form is faxed
by the Data Centres to IM who pick the tapes for return and arranges for the
transfer of tapes at the Centres. IM provide a delivery schedule with each
load although they do not provide a corresponding receipt for tapes received
from the Data Centres other than the driver signing the local form.

It is recommended that Iron Mountain be requested to provide a Receipt for
tapes/packages taken into their custody. This could be delivered back to the
Data Centres with the next set of tapes being returned.

The handling of off-site storage of back-up media for BOC is also undertaken
by Iron Mountain. They provide secure facilities for the back-up storage of
Dynix operating system, Database and Applications data. A considerable
number of tapes and other media are entrusted to this company but it has
been some time since a review was undertaken into the continued security of
their operation.

It is recommended that a vetting review of Iron Mountain operations (storage
arrangements, schedules, staff vetting etc.) is undertaken by ISD in order to
provide continuing security assurance for assets entrusted to them.

4.17 Business Continuity

4.17.1 Data Centres

The requirement to provide effective Business Continuity is established by
R830 of Schedule A15. The overall Business Continuity Framework, including
that for the Data Centres, is owned and managed by Pathway Customer
Service and is documented in CS/SIP/002 v5.0 dated 31/10/00. This identifies
some 22 Business Continuity Plans covering a number of different technical
areas of the Data Centres, including the physical campus itself, and these are
regularly run by ISD on behalf of CS. A further key document is SU/MAN/018
the ISD Operational Procedures Manual Front-End Index. This identifies all
current ISD operational procedures that must exist in order to ensure
controlled and continued operations at the Data Centres and other ISD sites.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 24 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

While CS/SIP/002 clearly identifies the existence of SU/MAN/018 there is no
reciprocating identification from the ISD list up to the BC Framework. This is a
very minor point but without the upward reference the importance of
SU/MAN/018 in the overall Business Continuity Framework may be
overlooked.

It is recommended that SU/MAN/018 be updated to include clear references
to CS/SIP/002.

There is a scheduled series of Business Continuity tests that are co-ordinated
by Pathway Customer Service in conjunction with ISD. ISD also undertake
their own internal reviews of arrangements, the last such session being
February 2001. A short report was prepared and a follow-up visit made
approximately 6 months after the test. Copies of the report and follow-up
notes were obtained during the audit. Local procedure ICL/PW/NET/PRO/012
v1.1 dated 13/09/00 Business Support Contingency Operations Guide
describes this activity.

4.17.2 Operations Centre
The physical security arrangements in place at the IRE19 contingency site
were reviewed during the audit.

The site at IRE19 is an inconspicuous building within which BOC has a
designated area within which to conduct operational support for Horizon in
the event of a failover. Adequate physical security is evident comprising
perimeter fencing and CCTV. There is an on-site guard presence during the
day, which ensures suitable reception arrangements for staff and occasional
visitors. Regular failover / fallback tests are undertaken at the site.

Failover procedures are included in the operational procedures manual.

4.18 Operational Procedures

4.18.1 Data Centres

The opportunity was taken to review the existence and status of local
procedures as topics were discussed during the audit. A number of local
procedures were examined including :

ICL/PW/NET/PRO/006 v4.0 dated 25/10/01 — Zergo Operations Guide
ICL/PW/NET/PRO/010 v1.1 dated 05/01/01 — Remote Site Operations Guide

ICL/PW/NET/PRO/011 v1.6 dated 11/10/01 — Peripheral Operations Guide
(W)

ICL/PW/NET/PRO/012 v1.1 dated 13/09/00 — Business Contingency Guide

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 25 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

There were clearly many more documented procedures available in binders
positioned on the ‘bridge’ and available online on the DC Server. Procedures
are subject to regular reviews and this is indicated by some of the dates and
revision numbers of those seen. PRO/012 is probably due for a review being
now some 13 months old.

Elsewhere in this report there is evidence of process improvements being
made, in particular the local guidance for the handling and management of
Zergo Key material, and this is commended.

Special emphasis was placed on the handling and management of DLTs at
the Data centres following the recent problems with the broken audit trail and
current difficulties at Wigan. A placement audit of the DLTs in the Bootle tape
drives showed that DLTs were positioned in accordance with the layout plan
provided by Richard Laking. Given the problems being experienced at Wigan
the exercise was not repeated there.

4.18.2 Operations Centre

The operational procedures required by BOC to support the Pathway /
Horizon infrastructure are consolidated into the ISD Pathway Operations
Manual. ISD were not prepared to provide a copy of the manual at the time of
the Audit on the basis that this was an internal ISD document. ISD did provide
an overview of its content headings and format but it is difficult for Pathway to
obtain assurance unless it has formal visibility of this document.

It is recommended that the Pathway CS Service Manager (Mike Stewart) has
access to this document to provide assurance that operational procedures are
consistent with contractual requirements.

Based on the content headings the operational procedures appear to be
extensive in scope and categorise operational support procedures in terms of
application area. This approach is commensurate with service industry
documentation and lends itself well in providing the appropriate structure and
level of detail required to support the live estate. The document is web-based
allowing quick search and readily available guidance for support personnel. It
is reported to be updated regularly in response to changes in support
requirements and has formal approval sign of at senior level. It was evident
from a brief review that the content of at least one application area was in the
process of construction.

The procedures are designed to enable support personnel at any level to
respond to any type of problem by providing clear guidance on actions
required and appropriate escalation procedures. It supports the Problem
Manager model indicating where necessary who is needed to support end-to-
end resolution.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 26 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

4.19

4.20

The procedures are also used to populate a Duty Manager’s daily and weekly
checklist. This provides assurance that scheduled operations are actioned in
a correct and timely manner.

Extensive use is made of a pager alerting system via both BT pager and SMS
messages to mobile telephones to alert both duty managers and operational
support staff of issues that require resolution. This is managed automatically
by the BTI system, which operates on dedicated servers at the Data Centres.

Supplier Management

ISD’s involvement with suppliers is limited to dealing with them on a first line
support basis. Contracts are let to third parties by ICL Pathway and ISD are
only directly responsible for those elements under their direct control, namely
NTL.

Regular monthly meetings take place between ICL Pathway, ISD and the
suppliers where performance and issues are discussed. The suppliers
provide monthly reports some days in advance of the meetings and these
form the basis for discussion. Meetings are minuted and actions progressed
and documented

ISD did state that they are to introduce their own internal review cycle for
NTL.

Audit Workstations

In February 2000 user testing of the Audit Workstations at both Wigan and
Bootle identified that the required connections to the Audit Servers could not
be achieved. PinICLs PC0037623 and PC0038167 were raised and while
fixes have been developed and applied the opportunity to verify that the fixes
had worked had not arisen.

Objective 3 of the audit was to prove that the Audit Workstations were now
working as designed and could connect to their local Audit Workstation (eg.
Wigan AW to Wigan AS) and to the remote one (eg.Wigan AW to Bootle AS).
All four connections were proven and the PinlCLs can now be closed.

Platform Configuration Audit Results

As part of the audit NT Systems belonging to the Horizon solution located in
the Bootle and Wigan Data Centres were scrutinised for compliance to the
latest build release produced by Pathway Development. The current release
in the live estate being Cl4S10.

The platform configuration audit consisted of two parts. Firstly, each cabinet
containing NT systems was checked and the servers observed were
recorded. The purpose here was to cross check the findings against
RS/DES/054, the definitive statement of what should exist in the Data Centre.
Secondly, “SDUSYSTEST”, an automated tool was installed and executed on

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 27 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

a subset of the servers at each data centre. The subset of servers was
determined by the NT Domains to which the servers belong. “SDUSYSTEST”
generated a set of comma separated variable (csv) files. These files were
collected from the Primary Domain Controller for each NT domain audited. In
all cases the csv files and “SDUSYSTEST” were removed from the data
centre servers after they had been captured onto a CD-ROM.

The captured audit files were analysed later at BRAO1 using an Access
database populated with the Cl4S10 baseline configuration.

The results of the Cabinet Check can be found at Annex B to this report.

The results of the work using the automated tool can be found at Annex C to
this report.

The detailed observations and recommendations of this element of the audit
can be found at Annex D.

It is recommended that ISD draw up a Corrective Action Plan to address the
observations made at Annex D and put into place those actions that will
eliminate the weaknesses and nOn-compliances identified.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 28 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

6 Annex A - Audit Terms of Reference

ICL PATHWAY : Internal Audit Terms of Reference
AUDIT TITLE : Data Centres & Belfast Operations
File Reference : AUD/3/4/32

Date : 5" October 2001

Aim

The Pathway Data Centres at Wigan and Bootle and the Operations Centre at Belfast
provide processing and support facilities for the Horizon network and other applications
operated as part of the ICL Pathway project.

This audit will look at the ISD operations which are involved operating and supporting
Pathway, including security matters, both at the Pathway Data Centres and Belfast.

The audit is part of the planned programme of internal audits for 2001 and was also identified
as a pressing requirement in the audit of BS7799 Compliance, completed earlier this year.

The quality requirements expressed in ISO9001 : 2000 will be used as a basis for the work as
will the requirements of BS7799:2000.

Objectives

1. To provide assurance to Pathway management that the activities of Pathway Data
Centre and Belfast Operations Centre operations, with particular regard to their
management and security processes, are controlled and in accordance with agreed
arrangements, including :

e Physical and logical access controls;

e Management of backup procedures and media;

e Contingency planning and disaster recovery;

e User administration and token authentication (Belfast);

« KMS procedures and controls (Data Centres);

« Measurement of service quality and other operational performance indicators;

e Analysis of problems, their root causes and means of containing/preventing them;
e Maintenance of Data Centre procedures.

ISD staff will be given the opportunity to raise any problems or issues with regard to the
management of systems in the Data Centres.

2. To provide assurance that the operational state of the Pathway Data Centre systems do
not deviate from defined secure build specifications and that the correct security
configuration of servers, workstations and domain controllers is maintained.

This Objective will be accomplished using an automated compliance “toolkit", developed “in-
house” by SDU System Test, the output of which will provide an indication of the current
level of compliance with Build Scripts held in PVCS.

3. To provide assurance that the Audit Workstations at both Wigan and Bootle are fully
operational and capable of being used.

Dates

The audit will commence 29" October 2001 with completion and draft report production and
circulation targeted by 16" November. A final report will be issued together with the draft
Corrective Action Plan by 23 November.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 29 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

Audit Resources

The Data Centre element of this audit will be conducted by Jan Holmes, Pathway Audit
Manager. Graham Hooper, Pathway Security Manager will conduct the Belfast Operations
part. Mark Ascot (IDPU) will carry out the configuration audits in support of Objective 2.

Reporting
The report reference will be IA/REP/036. The CAP reference will be IA/CAP/036.

At the conclusion of the audit a draft report will be produced and discussed with the auditees.
A final report will be produced and distributed to the Director and Senior Managers of all
departments covered by the audit, as well as the Managing and Programme Directors of ICL
Pathway.

Further distribution will be at the discretion of Programme Management.

Based on the report content, a series of Corrective and Preventive Actions will be agreed and
documented in a Corrective Action Plan. This will be issued, and the agreed actions
monitored on a regular basis.

TOR Distribution

ISD

Andrew Gibson : Operations Manager

Paul Sandison : Data Centre Site Manager
Steve Gardiner : Service Manager

Colin Johnson : Network Operations Manager
Warren Welsh : NT Technician

ICL Pathway

Stephen Muchow : Managing Director

Martin Riddell : Customer Service Director
Peter Burden : Operations Service Manager
Mike Stewart : Service Manager

Tony Wicks : Business Continuity Manager
Peter Jeram : Director, Quality and Risk
Graham Hooper : Security Manager

Mark Ascot : IPDU

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 30 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

7 Annex B - Configuration Audit Cabinet Check Results

Data Centre I Server Name Missing Server Compliant I Comments
Names with
RS/DES/054
Bootle PBOPWYDCS01 No PDC for PWYDCS domain
PBOBVPNO1 Yes
BBOBVPNO2 Yes
PBOBOPSS01 Yes
BBOBOPSS02 Yes
PBOWSLAMO1 Yes
Bootle PBOBOOO1 Yes
MBOMASO1 No CP2903 should have removed this server
MBOMSD01 No P2913 should have removed this server
MBOHDG134 Yes
BBOPHG017 Yes
WBOISMO1 No ISD Insight Manager Server
Bootle MBOAGEO1 Yes
MBOAGE02 Yes
MBOAGE03 Yes
MBOAGE04 Yes
Bootle MBOVPNO6 Yes
MBOVPN11 Yes
MBOVPNOS Yes
MBOVPNOS Yes
MBOVPNO3 Yes
MBOVPNO7 Yes
MBOVPNO1 Yes
Bootle MBOVPMO1 Yes
MBOVEX01 Yes
MBOVPNO8 Yes
MBOVPNO4 Yes
MBOVPN10 Yes
MBOVPNO2 Yes
MBOVPN12 Yes
Bootle PBORMT015 Yes
Bootle MBOCORO1 Yes

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 31 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036

Operations Centre

Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01

Bootle MBOCORO2 Yes
Bootle MBOCORO3 Yes
Bootle MBOCORO4 Yes
Bootle MBOARCO1 Yes
Bootle MBOACF01 Yes
Bootle MBOSTGO1 No ISD Staging Server
Bootle MBOSSC01 Yes
Bootle weovow01 Yes
Bootle MOXRAPO1 No Temporary until Oxford SS can accommods
their site
MOXRAPO2 No Ditto
Bootle MBOWINGO1 Yes
Bootle MBOWINGO2 Yes
Bootle MBOWINGOS Yes
Bootle MBOWINGO4 Yes
Bootle MBOFLGO1 Yes
Bootle PBOPWYFTMSO01 Yes
MBOOCMS01 No Expected name to be MBOOCMO01
MBOLAPO1 Yes
Bootle BBOPWYKMSO1 Yes
BBOPWYKMS02 Yes
MBOKMSO01 Yes
Bootle BSBSCLIENTOOS No TIVOLI SYSMAN Systems
BSBSCLIENTO04 No
BSBSCLIENT003 No
BSBSCLIENTOO2 No
BSBSCLIENTOO1 No
BSBMASTEROO1 No
Bootle BSYSMASTO001 No
BSYSCLINOO1 No
BSYSCLINOO2 No
BSYSCLINOO3 No
Bootle BSYSINVO1 No

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 32 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Pr Date: 21/11/01
BSYSCLIENT004 No
Bootle BRAINBUILDERS No
BRAINBUILDER6 No
BRAINBUILDER4 No
Bootle BSYSDELO1 No
BSYSMASTERO02 No
BSYSCLIENTOOS No
Bootle BBOPPWYDCS01 No ‘Server not found
MBOAGE05 No Server not found
MBOAGE06 No Server not found
MBOAGEO7 No ‘Server not found
MBOAGE08 No Server not found
WBOACCO1 No Workstation not found
MBOACSO1 No Server not found
Wigan BWIPWYKMS01 Yes
BWIPWYFTMS01 Yes
MWILAPO1 Yes
MWIKMSO1 Yes
Wigan MWIVPMO01 Yes
MWIVEX01 Yes
Wigan MWIVPN12 Yes
MWIVPN11 Yes
MWIVPN10 Yes
MWIVPNO9 Yes
MWIVPNO8 Yes
Wigan BWiIPWYDCS01 Yes/No Labelled incorrectly. Real name is BWIPWYD!
BWIWSLAMO1 Yes
BWIPWYMASO1 No CP2903 should have removed this server
PWIWOPSS01 Yes
BWIWOPSS01 Yes
PWIWVPNO1 Yes
BWIWVPNO2 Yes
Wigan WWIMASO1 No CP2903 should have removed this server

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 33 of 45
POL00394026
POL00394026

ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Pr Date: 21/11/01
‘WWIMSD01 No CP2913 should have removed this server
PWIBOO01 Yes
Wigan PWIDLRO48 No CSR+ should have been removed at BP‘
withdrawal
BWIPHG048 Yes
MWIACSO1 Yes
WwiAUDO1 Yes
MWIHDG084 Yes
Wigan MWIAGE01 Yes
Wigan MWIAGE02 Yes
Wigan MWIAGE03 Yes
Wigan MWIAGE04 Yes
Wigan PWIPWYKMSO1 Yes
MWIFLGO1 Yes
MWIOCMo1 Yes
Wigan MWIVPNO1 Yes
MWIVPNO2 Yes
MWIVPNO3 Yes
MWIVPNO4 Yes
MWIVPNOS Yes
MWIVPNO6 Yes
MWIVPNO7 Yes
wwivowo1 Yes
Wigan PWIRMTOSO Yes
Wigan MWICORO1 Yes
Wigan MWICORO2 Yes
Wigan MWICORO3 Yes
Wigan MWICOR04 Yes
Wigan MWIARCO1 Yes
Wigan MWIACF01 Yes
Wigan MWISTGO1 No ISD Staging Server
Wigan MWISSCO1 Yes
Wigan WSYSMASTERO02 No TIVOLI SYSMAN Systems
WLCFTMRO1 No

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 34 of 45
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast

Operations Centre

Ref:

Version:

Date:

POL00394026
POL00394026

IA/REP/036
2.0
21/11/01

Wigan WTECO01 No
WTECO03 No
BRAINBUILDER2 No
Wigan WSYSCLNTOOS No
WSYSCLNT003 No
WSYSCLNT004 No
WSYSDELO1 No
Wigan WSYSMASTERO1 No
WSYSCLNTO01 No
WSYSCLNTO02 No
WSYSINVDLT No
Wigan WSBSCLIENTOOS No
WSBSCLIENTO04 No
WSBSCLIENTO03 No
WSBSCLIENTO02 No
WSBSCLIENTOO1 No
WSBSMASTEROO1 No

Wigan MWIAGEOS No Server not found

MWIAGEO6 No Server not found

MWIAGEO7 No Server not found

MWIAGE08. No Server not found

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 35 of 45
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast

Operations Centre

Ref:
Version:
Date:

POL00394026
POL00394026

IA/REP/036
2.0
21/11/01

8 Annex C - Domains & Servers Audited with
“SDUSYSTEST”
Domain Server Name Data Comments
Captured
PwyDCs PBOPWYDCS01 Yes
BBOPWYDCS01 No BDC does not exist, it should do
WBOOPS01 Yes
BWIPWYDCS02 Yes
BBOOT PBOBOOO1 Yes
BPOCL PBORMT015 Yes
BBOPHG017 Yes
BOPSS PBOBOPSS01 Yes
BBOBOPSS02 Yes
MBOCORO1 Yes
MBOCOR02 Yes
MBOCOR03 Yes
MBOCOR04 Yes
MBOWINGO1 Yes
MBOWINGO2 Yes
MBOWINGO3 Yes
MBOWINGO4 Yes
MBOARCO1 Yes
WBOAUDO1 No
MBOACFO01 Yes
MBOACCO01 No
MBOACSO1 Yes
MBOOCM01 No
MBOSSCO1 Yes
MBOAGE01 Yes
MBOAGE02 Yes
MBOAGEO3 Yes
MBOAGE04 Yes
BVPN PBOBVPNO1 Yes
BBOVPNO2 Yes
MBOVPNO1 Yes
MBOVPNO2 Yes
MBOVPNO3 Yes

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 36 of 45
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast

Operations Centre

Ref:
Version:
Date:

POL00394026
POL00394026

IA/REP/036
2.0
21/11/01

MBOVPNO4

MBOVPNOS

MBOVPNO6

MBOVPNO7

MBOVPNO8

MBOVPNOS

MBOVPN10

MBOVPN11

MBOVPN12

MBOVPMO1

B\F\F\FlFlFLE

wsovowo1

é

PWYFTMS

PBOPWYFTMSO1

MBOLAPO1

Yes

MBOFLGO1

Yes

WBOOT

PWIBOOO1

WPOCL

PWIRMTOSO

Yes

PWIPHG048

Yes

woPss

Pwiwopssot

Bwiwopsso2

MWICORO1

MWICORO2

MWICORO3

MWICORO4

MWIAGEO1

MWIAGEO2

MWIAGEO3

MWIAGE04

MWIARCO1

WWIAUDO1

MWIACFO1

MwiaAcso1

Mwiocmo1

wwissco1

PWIWVPNO1

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 37 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
P Date: 21/11/01
9 Annex D —- Configuration Audit Observations & Recommendations
No. Observation Recommendation Action Required from Unit Priority
1 RS/DES/054 has PDC for PWYDCS domain located in Belfast. It is actually located in I Update RS/DES/054 to reflect PDC is located in Bootle and also BDCs I IPDU Secure Builds Medium
Bootle. located in Belfast.
2 Servers MBOMASO1 and MBOMSD01 should not exist as part of the Bootle data I Physically remove servers from Bootle data centre. Make the server available I CS Security & ISD Medium
centre. for re-use.
3 WBOISMO01 and MBOSTG01 are not recorded in RS/DES/054. Include these servers in a future update. IPDU Secure Builds Low
4 APS Remote Gateways for Oxfordshire Social Services have been temporarily relocated I Networks TDA to confirm access arrangements for Oxfordshire SS. CS Security & Network TDA High
into Bootle data centre. Need to investigate network access for this APS client. They
use ftp to access their gateways. Can they use ftp to access Correspondence, Agents
and Host servers?
5 OCMS Server at Bootle is labelled as MBOOCMS01. RS/DES/054 states it should be I Confirm computer name. Update RS/DES/054 if required. IsD Medium
MBOCMO1 Determine why deviations from the agreed naming conventions are occurring if I IPDU Secure Builds
Deviations can result in a failure to populate local group memberships and apply file I required.
security on a platform. CS Security
PIT Secure Builds need server names to adhere to the stated naming
convention in RS/DES/054.
6 TIVOLI SYSMAN System names differ from those recorded in RS/DES/054. ISD/SMG to provide IPDU Secure Builds with a list of server names and the I CS Security Medium
‘No naming convention appears to have been followed for these systems, the names in Stated convention for generating new server names, ISD/SMG
Bootle differ slightly from those in Wigan. Update RS/DES/054 to include actual TIVOLI SYSMAN names or remove
altogether. IPDU Secure Builds
7 Server BBOPWYDCS01 not found. Confirm this server does not exist with ISD and update RS/DES/054. IPDU Secure Builds Low
8 ‘Servers MBOAGEOS — 08 not found. Update RS/DES/054 to remove these servers. IPDU Secure Builds Low
9 Servers WBOACCO01 and MBOACS01 not found. Confirm these systems do or do not exist with ISD and update RS/DES/054 as I IPDU Secure Builds Medium
required.
10 Server BWIPWYDCS01 is labelled incorrectly. The computer name identifies it as I ISD to re-label this server correctly. IPDU Secure Builds Medium
BwiPwyocso2 RS/DES/054 to be updated to show server as BWIPWYDCS02.
W Servers BWIPWYMAS01, WWIMASO1 and WWIMSD01 should have been removed I Physically remove servers from Wigan data centre. Make the server available I CS Security & ISD Medium:
by CP2903 and CP2913. for re-use.
12 Server PWIDLR048 should have been removed as part of BPS/DSS withdrawal. Physically remove server from Wigan data centre. Make the server available I CS Security & ISD Medium
for re-use.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 38 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
P Date: 21/11/01
13 I WWIIISMOt and MWISTGO1 are not recorded in RS/DES/054 Include these servers in a future update. IPDU Secure Builds Low
14 I The current installation log file generated by the PIT build scripts do not provide easy to I PIT Builds to be enhanced to generate a separate log file which records a I CS Security & IPDU PTI High
find information regarding platform build, release, increment, fast track, work package I summary of the build history in terms of release, increment, fast track and
identifiers. work package identifiers.
15 User account gstep01 does not appear to have been created from the secure template I Need to confirm whether this user account complies with Pathway Security I CS Security & ISD Medium
zzSYSMANDEV. policy for user accounts. If it has not been created from the secure role then
the account must be disabled and a new account generated from the said
secure template.
16 User account pspen01 created from a redundant secure role zzPWY FRM MAN. Need to confirm whether this account is still active. If not then at the least it I CS Security & ISD Medium
should be disabled if not deleted and removed from the system.
17 SecurlD is not installed on ISD Operational Support Workstations and therefore not I Confirm ISD have been given a dispensation to deviate from ACP/SFS. CS Security Medium
used to authenticate with SecurlD Token.
18 IIS has been installed a large number of platforms. It is only required on FTMS remote I PIT to confirm platform builds do not install IIS. An action plan is required to I CS Security & IPDU PIT Medium
platforms remove IIS from the errant platforms. Iso
19 Workstation WBOOPS01 is running SQL Server with Administrator account privileges I CS Security determine remedial action required CS Security Medium
instead of using a secure service user account.
20 I Platforms MBOACSO1, WBOOPSO1 and MWIACSO1 are not running the TIVOLI I PIT to confirm that the Auto Config Signing Server build does install and I CS Security & IPDU PIT High
Event Server Service (TecNT Adapter). This means these platforms are not forwarding I configure TecNT Adapter. Iso
NT Its fc iditi
Gvents Tor aucling Purposes. ISD to configure TecNT Adapter on both AC Signing Servers and all ISD
Platforms
21 Server MBOARC01 has D:\ shared with a share name of Richard. Identify whether these are legitimate requirements. If they are, they should be I CS Security & ISD Medium
protected with ACLs. If they are not required then they should be deleted
Correspondence Servers have a share for C:\ssc
Server MBOLAP01 has a share of c:\smc
These directories and shares are not documented in any design document and
therefore are not secured, ie the directories will have Everyone: Change permissions.
22 PBOPWYDCS01 PWYDCS PDC is populated with the following redundant Global I Confirm action is required to remove these groups from PWYDCS domain. CS Security & IPDU Secure I Low
Groups: Builds
PWY FRM MAN
DSS FIT
PWY FRM Analysts
PWY FRM Users

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 39 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
Date: 21/11/01
RDMC Admin
These groups should have been removed as part of BPS/DSS Withdrawal.
23 Local group Rconsole Users exists on a number of platforms. Members of this local I Resolve use of remote access tools and legitimise configuration required. CS Security High
group are:
PWYDCSISSC Apps Man
PWYDCSISSC Apps Sup
PWYDCS\Operational Man
24 Administrator account is not being renamed as per the PIT build instructions. These are both non compliance’s with the Pathway Security Design. IIS user I CS Security Medium
The IIS user account is present when it should not be. accounts should be removed or disabled at the very least.
Administrator accounts is a long running problem
25 Audit Policy set on PBOBOPSSO1 and BOBOPPS02 is not compliant to Security I IPDU Secure Build investigate determine whether this is right/wrong. And I IPDU Secure Build & PIT Medium
Design. investigate PIT build for these two Domain Controllers.
Audit Privilege use is set on for Success and Fail.
26 Configuration of Event Logs is not compliant to the security design for: PIT investigate build configuration for these platforms. CS Security Medium
MBOARCO1 ISD to correct event log configuration. PIT
MBOSSCO1 IsD
MBOAGE01
MBOLAPO1
MWIARCO1
27 I Configuration of user rights is not consistent for Correspondence Servers and Archive I PIT to confirm build is correct. CS Security Medium
Servers. ISD to correct user right configuration on these platforms. PIT
MBOCORO2, MBOCORO3, MBOCOR04 and MBOARC01 have Batch Logon Right
which is not compliant with the security design. 'sD
28 I Examination of recorded logins shows that the highest account usage is by: Use of administrator accounts instead of individual accounts means that I CS Security Medium
PWWVETMS\Administrator auditing of inivdual actions is pot possible. ISD to be reminded that
PWYDCS\Administrator
BOPSS\Administrator
PWYDCS\pstee01
WOPSS\Administrator
PWYODCS\Ikian01

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 40 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
P Date: 21/11/01
29 I Account Policy is being by passed. Users are not being forced to change passwords at I CS Security and IPDU Secure Build review the policy. CS Seourity & IPDU Secure I Medium
30 days as per security design. This mainly applies to the operational management and Builds
SSC users, ie-privileged accounts.
30 Evidence exists that users who leave are not being removed from the system. CS Security to review the policies regarding staff who leave. CS Security Low
31 User account tempftp suggests that an unauthorised user account has been created. I CS Security to investigate and review policy/processes. If necessary remedial I CS Security High
As templates are not used in PWYFTMS domain this account will be full NT unsecured. I action to be taken to remove this user.
32 There are a number of global groups across the domains which are not populated with I Further analysis required and review with CS Security. IPDU Secure Builds & CS I Medium
any members. This suggests that a number of the secure roles are not required. For Security
example OCMS DBA does not have a user account
33 Two users have been configured that do not use the secure build login script: Both users are disabled until it has been determined why these user accounts I CS Security & ISD Medium
° ; "
Pwypcsimbeato1 are non compliant with the security design and policy.
PWYDCS\spark01
Koy Duplicate templates exist for ACDB Admin and ACDB Users. This demonstrates that I Determine corrective action. CS Security Low
manual instructions passed from IPDU Secure Builds have not been processed by PIT
and delivered to the Live estate. Mike Holms-Sharp strikes again. (POU Secure Builds
IPDU PIT
35 The following accounts exist but are disabled: Determine corrective action. CS Security Medium
BOPSS\BMUIRO1 IsD
PWYDCS\ABROW01
PWYDCS\AVAUGO1
PWYDCSIRPATEO1
PWYDCS\SKUMA01
PWYDCS\SSUR001
The creation of a user account in BOPSS is a fundamental breach of the Security
Policy.
36 I The following user accounts are in more than one Secure Role: Determine corrective action. CS security Medium
PWYDCSIDDILLO2 ACDB Admin
PWYDCS\DDILLO2 OPERATIUONAL MAN
PWYDCSWSIMPO1 SSC APPS MAN
PWYDCSWSIMP02 SSC APPS SUP

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 41 of 45
POL00394026

POL00394026
ICL Pathway Audit of Horizon Data Centres and Belfast Ref: IA/REP/036
Operations Centre Version: 2.0
P Date: 21/11/01
PWYDCSINSTREO! SSC APPS SUP
PWYDCSINSTREO1 ACDB Admin
PWYDCS\PCARRO1 SSC APPS MAN
PWYDCS\PCARRO1 SSC APPS SUP
This is evidence that the processes used to manage user accounts are not being
followed. Multiple roles for a single user account is a clear breach of the Security
Design and policy.
7 Server MBOACF01 has ISS installed and configured services set to auto. PIT to investigate platform build for this platform type. CS Security & IPDU PIT Medium
IIS should not be installed and the services should not be set to auto.
38 Servers MBOACF01, MBOACS01,MBOVPNO3,MBOVPNO4, MBOVPNOS, I CS Security to investigate the use of this non standard service and I CS Security & IPDU PIT High
MBOVPNO6 have Compaq Web Agent Service configured and enabled. These I inconsistency of VPN server and Auto Config server builds.
services do not appear on the Wigan servers which says there is inconsistency between
the servers. What is Compaq Web Agent and why is it on these platforms.
39 Remote Console is installed and configured for use on 54 out of the 56 platforms I CS Security to identify policy on remote admin. Currently this deviates from I CS Security High
audited, the intended security design and ACP.
40 I TIVOLI OBJECT Dispatcher (port 8002) is disabled on BWIPWYDCSO2. It is running I CS Security determine why this platform differs from the other. ISD to take I CS Security Low
on all other platforms. corrective action
41 SDUSYSTEST tool is needed as an online tool available to CS Security to access and I Update Security Auditors workstation to include SDUSYSTEST on its I CS Security High
audit live servers as and when required. menuitoolset or develop special audit workstation for this task.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 42 of 45
