FUJITSU

POL00030559
POL00030559

Programme Post Office / Fujitsu IT Road Map
Document Author P Homan /M J How

Document Issue Date 11 November 2004

Document Version 4.0

Document Status Approved

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov- 2004 4.0 1 of 35
Fujitsu &

POL00030559

POL00030559

PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

Document Control

Amendment History

Date Issued: Version No. I Reason for Change:

Feb 2004 01 Draft

April 2004 0.2 1* Draft reflecting Feasibility Study

April 2004 0.3 2" Draft released for approval/review

April 2004 0.4 3" Draft released for approval

May 2004 0.5 4" Draft released by Fujitsu for approval

May 2004 0.6 Major POL edits and new material, centred around
Product Descriptions

18-June-2004 1.0 Issued by Fujitsu for approval

23-June-2004 ll Final POL edits, agreed to be signed-off

4" August 3.0 Final POL/Fujitsu agreement following POL Exec
comment

11° November 4.0 Corrected sign-off page to enable correct approval.

Replace Approval names due to staff changes.
Added document reference (PA/PLA/025) to headers

Mandatory Approval Authority

Post Office Ltd.

Date

David Smith

1 O’Driscoll

M Wells

D Norgard

Fujitsu Services

Date

C Morgan

L Foley

Issued by
M Paxton

Issue Date Version Page
11-Nov 2004 4.0 2 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 I PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU &

f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1 Management Summary
1 Summary of Objectives ....

12 Summary of Scope
13 Deliverables

Programme Structure...
Project Strands & Deliverable Definition...

Ie ph

Strand Leadership

Business Threat Strand

Strand Summary
Strand Leadership

Strand Summary
Strand Leadership

Implementation Planning Stran
Strand Summary.
Strand Leadership

Service Design strand.
Strand Summary.

Strand Leadership...
Technical Strand
rand Summai
Strand Leadership

3.7 Commercial strand
Strand Summary
Strand leadership

4 Organisational Structure.
41 Roles and Responsibilities: ...
5 Project Plan
5.1 High-Level Milestones
5.2 Initial View of Risk, Assumptions
Programme Resources...
Sign off Sheet...

Nis

Definitions

Post Office Business Dri

© Basis of agreement
e Timetable...

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 3 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 & PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025
Pre signature conditions a

Confidentialit

e Exclusive Period

TABLES

— Appendix I Deliverable Product Descriptions Summary Table20

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 4 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 I PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU &

f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

1 Management Summary

This document outlines the Terms of Reference for the Post Office / Fujitsu Services IT
Roadmap Feasibility Study project approved at the Post Office Executive meeting on 29"
March. The IT Roadmap “Next Generation” concept was judged, at that point, to be
sufficiently compelling to proceed to a full feasibility assessment and the development of a
business case.

The project is in two phases: the Full Feasibility Stage (covering the period up to early
September 2004), and the Heads of Agreement, covering the period from early September
2004 to 30" September 2004.

This project will be resourced and implemented jointly by Post Office and Fujitsu.

The project is required to ensure that there is a business case for Post Office and Fujitsu to
migrate to a new Business / Systems model (described as the “Next Generation”) ensuring
that the solution can withstand market scrutiny and provide a win / win for both
organisations.

This will represent the first formal stage in a longer programme of work, leading to the
implementation of the “Next Generation” solution and its associated business changes.

The success criteria for the Feasibility Study will be jointly agreed, however it must be
recognised that at certain subsequent stages either organisation may decline to move
forward if its key goals can no longer be met.

The document describes:
e The project objectives
© The programme structure
e The project strands and deliverables
e The organisational structure
e The project plan (and responsibilities)
e The programme resources
It should be noted that this document will be updated by Post Office and Fujitsu as details

of actual deliverables and checkpoints are agreed by the joint project team. As such this
will provide an audit trail of progress and decision making.

1.1 Feasibility Project Objectives

The overall objective of the IT Roadmap programme is to define and then deliver a new IT
technical strategy for POL which enables delivery of its business strategy and key business
objectives. To enable this, the Feasibility Study aims to:

e Refine the business case for change, based on a supporting financial model for
build, deploy and operate elements

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 5 of 35
Fujits

POL00030559
POL00030559

& PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
U f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025
Assess the viability of achieving contractual commitment

Formally capture strategic business inputs likely to materially impact the
architectural characteristics of the solution

Capture changes to Operations and Service Management likely to impact the
architectural characteristics of the solution.

Document the target technical architecture and intermediate architectural steps to a
sufficient level to support refined business cases for both Post Office and Fujitsu
Services

Document the operational and technical migration plan to sufficient detail to permit
feasibility assessment and cost estimation

Deliver a supporting commercial model, potentially including elements of
“Objective Based Contracting” and realigned Service Level Targets, better
reflecting business drivers.

Agree approach to acceptance of new solution

1.2

Business Objectives

1.2.1. Post Office Ltd:

In order for Post Office Ltd to proceed with a Horizon replacement, the following
criteria would need to be met:

— Less than 3 year payback for investment
~— At least 25% reduction in the total annual cost of ownership
— Must meet the agreed service requirement

— No material adverse effect on 2004/05 and/or 2005/06 Post Office Ltd profit
& loss account

In order for Post Office Ltd to proceed with Fujitsu Services without external
competition, the following additional criteria would need to be met:

o A cost outcome less than or equal to what Post Office Ltd would expect to
pay as a result of a competitive tender, after taking into account the
following add-backs:

- The cost of running a competition
- The costs of transition to a new service provider

- The risk of change (comprising a factor of the likely cost of the
tisk and likelihood of it happening)

- The financial impact of a “dead” period when it would be
uneconomic to undertake further Horizon development

o The outcome to be validated by a third party “trusted” benchmark

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 6 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 I PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU &

f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025
1.2.2 Fujitsu Services Objectives:

e To secure a revised contract which:

o Delivers no less a total gross margin in net present value terms measured
from 1‘ April 2005 over the life of the contract, than under the existing
contract measured over the period 1“ April 2005 to 31“ March 2010

o Achieves a Gross Margin of 25% on Revenue (Charges to Post Office
Ltd. Net of VAT)

o Has an extended term to 31 March 2015.

Other Considerations

+ Engagement will be made with Fujitsu Tokyo to gain buy-in to the significant
contract change

1.3 Summary of Scope

To ensure the overall objectives can be achieved consideration of the following must be
included:

e The Post Office Business Strategy

e The Business Migration strategy determined by business benefit realisation
requirements

¢ Definition of total POL target architectures - Business / Technical / Service
Management

e Architecture cost profile and benefits
e Contracting model and approach to proving VFM.

Other activities associated with the bid submission and evaluation process and contract
negotiation and approval processes (after the Heads of Agreement stage), are not
considered a part of this study, and will be managed separately though they may take place
in parallel with this study.

1.4 Deliverables

Section 3 Project Strands & Deliverable Definition identifies the full list of deliverables
initiated within the feasibility study. In summary, deliverables are:

e High level POL business requirements documented and agreed.

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 7 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

Fa & PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025
e Business Threat Analysis, from which security and availability requirements will be
derived, conducted, documented and agreed.
e High level business solution description and its rationale documented and agreed.
e High level Customer Services requirements documented and agreed

e The Testing and Acceptance strategy for the delivery of Next Generation products
and associated migration approach, and Next Stage Project Plan documented and
agreed.

e Technical Architecture and various components designed (high-level), documented
and agreed.

« Commercial agreements necessary to support the Next Stage, including but not
limited to a Gartner review of migration approach and value for money, Next Stage
business case(s) and Heads of Agreement.

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 8 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 I PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU &

f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

2 Programme Timetable

The following high-level progression for the IT Roadmap implementation was presented to
the EC in March 2004:

~y

March 2006
ww J I Live Counter Pitot
Counter User ome
ean Interface v3 4
J $90 Autumn
7 [echnical Desidy oc J 2005.
St 4
\y $80 — Q1 2005 a
Ne it i
Third Paty ¥ lormal Business
i Review y t :
Define I Jan 05 7
Lccontance 1 Commercials Finalised Back End —
i Commence Counter ‘Simplification
i ¥ Build Establish Central
i Heads of Agreement
Late September 04
dosti POL B counter Design & Development Systems Simplification /
J Pusiness Inint Vatiation
April 04
Seal

The above outlines the following major milestones:

e Full Feasibility Study project completed by early September 04 (revised from
original target of July 04)

e Heads of Agreement reached in late September 04 — (revised from original target of
July 04)

e Technical design starting October 04 enabling new counter development to
commence in January 05

e §80 release Q1 05. This release is the baseline position for the Next Generation
e $90 in Autumn 05, providing a Data Centre stepping stone towards migration
© Pilot Counter release March 06

e Full roll-out October 06

© Roll-out complete October 07

e Feasibility Study — associated commercial considerations:

e Commercial Terms will confirm that the Fujitsu Services resources will be
provided at no cost to Post Office for the period up to 31 July 2004; will set out the
IPR in respect of each of the deliverables described in PID; and the rights under
which Post Office may use the Fujitsu Services deliverables.

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 9 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 I PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU &

f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

From 1 August 2004, Fujitsu Services will continue to provide a base re-
architecture team of 5 people until the Post Office Business Plan (including Head of
Agreement) is approved; anticipated to be at the end of September or early October.
During this period, Post Office and Fujitsu Services can agree for Fujitsu Services
to provide further level of resource, above the base team of 5, on the common
benefit to current and future architecture work, which would be covered by
Commercial Terms, under the current contract, with the costs met by Post Office. It
is recognised that the IT RoadMap schedule may need to be revised if the Post
Office approval process becomes unduly extended or agreement to additional
resource is not reached and the Fujitsu team is deployed on other activities. If in the
event that Post Office approval is not reached by 31 December 2004 then Fujitsu
Services and Post Office will agree how IT RoadMap may be progressed.

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 10 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 I PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU &

f Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

3 Project Strands & Deliverable Definition

This section together with Appendix I (Deliverable Product Descriptions Summary Table),
describes the work strands and deliverables of the Feasibility Study project. The
deliverables described are an initial list which requires joint POL / Fujitsu review to ensure
relevance and content.

Following feasibility, Heads of Agreement are scheduled for end September 04 and final
contract for end January 2005. Separate commercial approval will be sought, following
completion of this project, to commence detailed requirements analysis and design
activities necessary to maintain target delivery dates.

The work strands are identified as:

Business

Threat Analysis

Solution

Implementation Planning
Services

Technical

Commercial

The following section describes the activities within each Strand.

Note: Deliverables are documented in Appendix I and changes may be made to these as the
Feasibility Study project progresses. Any such changes will be subject to Project
Governance.

Strand Leaders, identified below, are responsible for the day-to-day coordination of
resources and timely production of the deliverables within their strand.

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 11 of 35
IT Road Map

Document Hierarchy V3

Sit

PID
Review : POL / Fujitsu
ign-Off - Steering Group

POL00030559
POL00030559

i

Business Strand Solution Services
Strand Strand
1! ]
[Business Strategi ] felesee I Deltas POL Service

Requirements

Requirements

Business Design
Principles

Migration Design

New Branch
Installation
(post Migration)

Horizon External
Interfaces

User Interface
Requirements

“High Level”
Conceptual Design

New Branch
Implementation
(during Migration)

New Branch
Consumables

User Training

Service Design
Support Services

Service Design
User Services

Service Design
Specific Ops
Services

Security
Requirements

Performance
Requirements

“High Level”
Design Proposal

Commercial
Strand

IPR Principle:

Benchmarkin:
ToR / Proposa
NDA /Repor

Regulatory
Requirement:

Regulatory
Requirement:

Cost & Price
Model

POL Investme
Appraisal Mod

Business Cas
(POL and FS

Contracting &
Flexible Financ
I___proposals —

Heads of
Agreement

[—Commrerctat
Agreement / Pc
July 2004

POL00030559
POL00030559

Fe) ’ PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU &

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 13 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559
POL00030559
POL00030559

3.1 Business Strand
3.1.1 Strand Summary

The overall objective of this strand is to ensure that the Next Generation solution is informed by the most
up-to-date understanding of Post Office strategies and intentions, where these may have an impact on the
solution.

It is recognised that during the period of feasibility the level of detail available will be variable dependant
on the maturity of the business project. Where the consequences of strategic intentions are not yet fully
understood, working assumptions will be agreed, documented and verified when the detailed
implications of the strategy materialise.

Many of the topic areas identified here represent aspirations and opportunities that may not form part of
the final solution.

This strand will be owned by Post Office Ltd. Findings will be input to the Solution and Technical
Strands, as appropriate.

3.1.2 Strand Leadership

POL — Paul Homan
Fujitsu - Dave Cook

3.2 Business Threat Strand

3.2.1 Strand Summary

The overall objective of this strand is to ensure that the Next Generation solution is informed by the most
up-to-date understanding of Post Office business threats, where these may have an impact on the
solution. The key outputs from this strand will determine the service/solution Availability targets and
Security requirements, ideally expressed in business (rather than technical) terms

This strand will be owned by Post Office Ltd. Findings will be input to the Solution and Technical
Strands, as appropriate.
3.2.2 Strand Leadership

POL - Mike Wells
Fujitsu — Tony Drahota

3.3 Solution Strand
3.3.1 Strand Summary

It has been agreed in principle that documenting a full business requirement for the counter environment
would not be practical in the timescale (see technical strand regarding development of an acceptable
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 . PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU &

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025
approach to design and acceptance). This strand of activity seeks to document changes (“deltas”) to be
incorporated in the new solution. These arise principally from three areas:

e Changes arising due to fundamental differences in the solution model

© Changes to address fundamental shortcomings in the current architecture (e.g. lack of token
support in EPOSS service)

e Changes to enable (future) support for POL’s high level business drivers (identified in the
Business Strand)

The basic assumption has been made that the Next Generation solution will replace the current
functionality as delivered in the S80 release.

The Strand deliverables will describe how the Next Generation solution will differ from the S80 baseline
position. This strand will be owned by Post Office Ltd

3.3.2 Strand Leadership

POL — Clive Read

3.4 Implementation Planning Strand

3.4.1 Strand Summary

The overall objective of this strand is to ensure that agreement is reached to any deviation from the Joint
Working/IS Landscape processes that would be followed by the New Horizon
development/implementation project, with special focus on the Acceptance testing of the proposed
migration approach (“port plus delta’s”).

The strand will also jointly agree the detailed planning for the Next Stage of the project.
The strand will be jointly owned by Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services.

3.4.2 Strand Leadership

POL — Louis Prastitis
Fujitsu - M How

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 16 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 . PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU &

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

3.5 Service Design strand

3.5.1 Strand Summary

This strand will consider those topics necessary for successful delivery of the solution from a customer
services perspective.

The strand will comprise two sets of activities — those pertaining to definition of service requirements
from Customer perspective (these will be owned by POL) and those concemed with design of services

that meet the POL service requirements as well as ensuring that Fujitsu’s internal service needs are
satisfied (these will be owned by Fujitsu).

3.5.2 Strand Leadership

POL : Dave Hulbert
Fujitsu : Martin Riddell

3.6 Technical Strand

3.6.1 Strand Summary
The purpose of this strand is to validate architectural components and to verify current technical
estimates, assumptions, costs and timescales to deliver the Next Generation solution and to impart a

reasonable understanding of the overall solution.

The level of detail will vary depending on the topic e.g. the counter will be described to a level of detail
appropriate to a Design Proposal whereas minor changes will be covered by a delta description.

It should be recognised that the deliverables below will be developed during the full delivery lifecycle
and will only be completed during feasibility to a level of detail sufficient for estimating and
benchmarking.

Many of these deliverables will be refined, and taken to a further level of detail in subsequent work
following completion of feasibility. The strand will be owned by Fujitsu Services.

3.6.2 Strand Leadership

Fujitsu : Tony Drahota

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 17 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
rijirsu GD

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

3.7 Commercial strand

3.7.1 Strand Summary
The overall purpose of this strand is to ensure all commercial requirements have been identified and
appropriate actions put in place. It will consider benchmarking and contract optimisation opportunities.

The strand will be jointly owned by Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services.

3.7.2 Strand leadership

POL ~ Keith Baines
Fujitsu — Colin Lenton-Smith

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 18 of 35
POL00030559

POL00030559
2 & PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025
4 Organisational Structure
The project will be organised as shown in the chart below :
POL IT Working Joint Steering
Group Committee
I vent Project Fujitsu internal
i lanagement  — "1 project Board
H Team
Threat Impl tat
rand Strand

The roles and responsibilities of each entity are described below.

Note: It should be recognised that the feasibility phase is a strand within the overall Fujitsu Bid

Management structure.

4.1 Roles and Responsibilities:

Joint Steering

o Formally agree PID

Management Team

Committee o Provide direction for the project where issues cannot be resolved within the
‘Attendees: project teams

D Smith o Approve any change to programme timetable, budget or deliverable

T Lamb Revularly revi . ia Status R

10°Driscoll o Regularly review project progress via Status Report

L Foley © Understand programme risks and agree mitigating actions

M How . . ‘ ‘

M Wells © Approve final deliverables prior to Executive presentation

D Norgard o Brief project of external drivers not necessarily apparent to team members
Project © To prepare, review and recommend approval of PID to Joint Executive Steering

o To manage overall project against agreed plan and agreed budget.

Mike Wells o  Toensure that all deliverables are appropriately reviewed prior to acceptance.
Dennis Norgard . . . .

Liam Foley o To escalate project exceptions to Executive Steering Committee

Mike How o To monitor and direct team activities

Internal o Internal monitoring of progress against plan

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 19 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 & PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

Programme Board I o Commitment to local resource and resolution of risks and issues

(Fujitsu) © To review and approve deliverables (where appropriate)

© Toco-ordinate feasibility study activities with non-project activities (e.g. bid
preparation, approval preparation)

TT Working Group I o To provide Project Assurance on behalf of POL

o To review and assure business and solution strands

Strands o Day to day progress of deliverables to plan.

Table 1 — Roles and Responsibilities

The roles and responsibilities of the Project Boards and Groups are based on the following assumptions:

¢ The deliverable product descriptions identified within this documented are agreed by both POL and
Fujitsu. Agreement to the deliverable Product Descriptions is implemented as formal sign-off to this
document.

e Asingle POL / Fujitsu plan containing all activities and project resource will be baselined and then
used to manage progress against agreed activities and milestones. M Wells/ D Norgard and M How
will be responsible for the production of this plan.

The plan is scheduled to be baselined in June 2004.

Following commitment to resource, any significant change must be agreed by the Joint Steering
Committee.

e Following sign-off to the baseline plan, amendments can only be made through formal change
control managed through the Project Management Team and agreed by the Joint Steering Committee

e Formal progress reporting and meetings will be held with the Joint Steering committee on a monthly
basis.

Review of minutes and actions
Progress

Issues / Risks / Mitigating actions
Change Approval

ooo°o

e All project review material will be produced by:
o MHow/K Spence
o M Wells/ D Norgard

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 20 of 35
POL00030559

POL00030559
2 PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025
5 Project Plan
5.1 High-Level Milestones
This section will contain the dates for agreed milestones within the plan.
Tne Pnvonare r
lao si a a
foc estar rapes pst
os Sia mnt ~poanaa
lees Esres Renteens: at eateert Lee esren %
lsat 2 are Desist busts 3
[sas sens hexnca—~favoor
Joetvecble $2 Release + Detas feat RB
fost gan ee eaves ay
lec Hz tal ais kexnos ¥
onc cn francs q
fe San oak Ret
[siti 2 New Barston Poa) ese z
lei «New Barc rs ig at) home
Joebvecble 5 New Branch Corsumatles bawuos R
sina User tnt beauoce ¥
os 7 Seni eign Supe es hsanot g
[ont Sei e-em Sens fence e
[ont Seni Den Spee Op Sa aeren &
[Debate 10 Ont CartreRebsaton ot g
sient saceDean fame FA
few tesa henner fantatcoss +
let rans Tet Aas fannce 3
cal Sn heanss ~~~ fseree
[Debverable 17 Architecture Definition Pramod z
leh Hsh Leva estusre Dein brant q
jostle 1 Revise Curt Decomposton rat q
Joetvecble 20 Revise UI Design k7aucos q
[siete 2 Rese opty Mss sansa :
[seat Teta ation — g
sree Pra Esser By
ont 2 Nese brats 3
[sm sens raseoe——foserae
leit PRPs bears
[state 2 every TRPopn at y
leet 2 erstaring OA Fame &
oni erties ats hou
[ert es Reames seus Fa
Joetvecble 22: Cost &Fse Model jasePo4 ap
fost F eet Eom 2
joebesatle 25 Post ce Busress Cate boanse 2
Joetvecble 26 Fuss Business Case Konus g
ost 27 obit ae Cat rp hance }
leita Fest rare Porn! bears
lose Hess Fanart faseroe ?
[sci 1 Come mart ot Pont 204 Lear
bit Pig sar favour eres
fost rst favoee
lsat Tes Ate eaves
neti emer Par Lrsere Fy
5.2 Initial View of Risk, Assumptions
The risks, assumptions are held separately in the joint programme register.
Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 21 of 35
PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT

Ref: PA/PLA/025

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study

6 Programme Resources

The following people are provisionally named resource allocated to this programme.

POL00030559
POL00030559

Actual effort will be included following formal approval of the resource and after the plan has been

formally baselined.
Management PT & I Management
FT I LFoley

M Wells M How
D Norgard
Project Support T PT I Commercial / Finance 3 PT
LYau
L Prastitis C Lenton-Smith

K Spence
‘Commercial / Finance 3 PT I Architecture 6
O'Driscoll T Drahota
K Baines R Herbert
TBA J Stinchcombe
B Kirkup

Lab

K Bradley

P Gardner

E Kovaios
Architecture 4 PT I Business Analysts 2 rT
C Read D Cooke
T Gillott C Kenyon
P Stanton P Franks
T Goddesth M Paxton
R Cowan
D Craik
Business Solution Manager 3 Infrastructure 1 FT
P Homan
W Dare TBC
S Page
TBC
Business Analysts 2 PT I Customer Services / Delivery T T-FT

1-PT

K Thompson P Burden
+1 TBC
Process Analysts 2 PT I Process /Tools/ Techniques 1 FT
TBC
D Pamell TBC
Legal T PT I Legal 1 PT
R Silkin TBC
Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 22 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 & PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

7 Sign off Sheet

J agree that this project initiation document accurately reflects the current position of the project
and I also agree that it forms the basis for moving this project forward.

Project: IT Roadmap
Authors: P Homan / M J How
Date of Issue: 11" November 2004
Version: 4.0

David Smith

C Morgan

1 O'Driscoll

L Foley

M Wells

D Norgard.

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 23 of 35
ruisu GD

POL00030559
POL00030559

PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study

Ref: PA/PLA/025

Appendix 1— Deliverable Product Descriptions Summary Table

Strand Product Title Product I Purpose Composition
Owner
Business 1, Business Paul To provide a set of The content will be as per the
Requirements — Homan documents that following:-
Strategic describe the Strategic
Requirements Level Requirements e — List of topics or Business
Level of the Business for Areas, identifying full
those areas that are appropriate topic heading
anticipated to be coverage from a Business
potentially different perspective.
from a Horizon S80 e Single A4 (template to be
baseline, so that a attached) for each Topic/
High Level Business Area identifying
Architectural design in business terms
can be produced for a summarised requirements
Next Generation and descriptions.
Horizon solution. ¢ Requirement Statements
(categorised by topics as
To document all defined above) as per
candidate Strategic agreed Volere template for
Level Requirements Requirements Capture
of the Business for during Feasibility Stage
those areas that are certain fields only are
anticipated to be mandatory as identified in
potentially different attached template).
from a Horizon S80 e 1" draft Context diagrams
baseline, in order that for each Topic/ Business
a prioritisation and Area identifying alignment
filtering process can with existing Entity Models
be undertaken for the held within Systems
next stage by the Architect
ITWG
2. Business Design Paul To provide a The content will cover and
Principles Homan document that include the following:-
describes Business ¢ Key Business Drivers &
Design Principles in Objectives
order to set a context ¢ Key Business Performance
and be used to help Measures
shape overall High * Key Business Success
Level Architectural Factors
Design. e Key Business Operational
Criteria
Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 24 of 35
ruisu

POL00030559
POL00030559

PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study

Ref: PA/PLA/025

Customer
Services

3. Branch Installation

Douglas
Craik

To provide
understanding of
implementation of
New Horizon into
branches post
Rollout (Operational
Business Change-
Branch) and inform
costing of activity for
initial business case

A high level Change Impact
Assessment with key options
identified, anticipated to cover:

e Any significant degree of
change to current OBC
activities

¢ Any significant changes in costs
of OBC-B activities

e Any significant degree of
change on lead times of OBC-B
Any significant degree of
change to out-of-service time
during OBC-B

4. Branch
Implementation

Douglas
Craik

To provide
understanding of
implementation of
NGH into branches
during migration
and inform costing of
activity for initial
business case

A high level Strategy with key

options identified.

Anticipated to cover:

. Assessment of how
replacement equipment will fit
into existing estate

. Assessment of essential
modifications to existing branch
counter areas to allow
installation of replacement
counter equipment and
reconnecting existing equipment

. Assessment of how LAN
will be replaced or modified and
connection to WAN(s) will be
provided

. Assessment of how types of
individual branches (by size)
will be implemented, with
particular consideration of
degree of loss of branch service
(ambition is nil) and reduction
of service (ambition is less than
50%)

. Rollout Strategy in terms of
geography, branch type or other
proposed criteria.

. Rollout approach, including
maximum delivery by Fujitsu of

o Scheduling

o Communication

co Issue Management

o Supplier management

e Post Office Ltd rollout support

that will be required by Fujitsu
e.g.

o Scheduling

o Issue Management

. Network dimensions used
in assessment and effect of

Issued by
M Paxton

Issue Date
11-Nov 2004

Version
4.0

Page
25 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 , PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU @

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

significant variations (e.g.
number of small branches)

5. Branch Douglas I To provide Assessment of any significant
Consumables Craik understanding of any I change of
significant changes to I e Annual volume of consumables
consumables due to due to New Generation
implementation of Equipment (as against
NGH into and inform transaction driven volume
costing of activity for changes)

initial business case I e Cost of individual consumable
items due to New Generation
Equipment e.g.
1. Desk-top printer —Paper
and cartridges
2. Back Office Printer—
Paper and cartridges

6. User Training Douglas I To provide A high level Strategy with key
Craik understanding of options identified.
User Training for Anticipated to cover:

implementation of
NGH into branches
and inform costing of
activity for initial
business case

¢ Assessment of extent of
training or provision of
awareness for users of
Horizon due to changes
caused by the introduction of
Horizon New Generation.
The extent of training is
directly dependant on the
extent of visible
change/change of user
activity.
© Proposed method of delivery
of training including
scheduling and issue
management this might
include any or none of:
© 1 day for all user and
2 day for branch
specialists (2/branch)
o 1 evening (2-3hr)
session for all branch
specialists
As above for all users
Video to all branches
e-learning
Distribution of
printed briefings
e Extent of required support (to
be minimised) by Post Office
Ltd staff
e Keyenablers to be arranged

e000

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 26 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 , PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU @

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

by Post Office Ltd to
facilitate training
¢ Assessment of user volumes
based on forecast of network
shape and size
7. Service Design — Dave To provide an initial I ¢ Components and processes
Support Services Hulbert I view of the support required in providing a
service deliverables proactive service management
required for NG operation. This is likely to
Horizon. include (but not exclusively):
o Timely (real-time)
notification of service
affecting incidents.
Ideally notification will
include key details of
the impact i.e. what
service is impacted and
how much of the estate
does it affect.
o Proactive problem
prevention
o Management
information relating to
services, branches,
transactions,
performance, capacity
etc.
0 Service review and
enhancements
o Incident Management
o Problem Management
o Business Continuity
o Capacity Management
o Change Management
o Configuration
Management
¢ Resilience, Disaster Recovery
& Crisis Management required
to support the NG Horizon
solution & POL’s business
requirements
8. Service Design — Dave To provide an initial I e Assessment of the operational
User Services Hulbert I view of the service requirements and
deliverables required possibilities (if not already
to support the users included above) e.g.:
for NG Horizon. o Quality front-line
support services
o Self-help services
o- Ensuring users are
aware and kept
informed about service
issues/failures
Issued by Issue Date Version Page

M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 27 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 , PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU @

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

o Help facilities e.g.
helpdesk and other
support tools/functions

o Service updates or
enhancements

9. Service Design — Dave To provide an initial I Specific examples include:
specific operational I Hulbert I view of the services Ie OBC
services required to deliver e Reference Data
operational processes Ie Client take-on
for use with NG
Horizon.
10. Data Centre Martin The approach to A document outlining the approach
Relocation Riddell I migrating the to Data Centre Relocation, to
Horizon Data centres _I include:
from Wigan and ¢ Recommendations
Bootle to Fujitsu e Rationale
facilities will be © Risks, issues and
defined to a sufficient mitigations
level of detail to © Dependency on other
permit planning and infrastructure services and
cost assessment. components
e¢ Key Assumptions
¢ Timeline and outline plan
11. Fujitsu Service Martin This deliverable will I The document will cover:
Design Riddell capture any changes
in the operational and « Spares management
support services that ¢ Break-fix service
Fujitsu will provide ¢ Access to Horizon NG
with Horizon NG information
¢ Operations
e Help desk(s)
¢ Support and Maintenance
e Release management
¢ Reference Data
management
¢ Client take-on
¢ Capacity planning service
e — Litigation support
© Operational Business
Change
Solution 12. Release I Delta’s Clive Specify the formal A document, using the standard CD
Read Business template which will capture the
Requirements for following main areas:
release I of Horizon I A structured set of ‘delta’
NG requirements which are assumed to
be delivered in the initial release of
Horizon NG.
Requirements will be sourced from
the Business Strand, and other
source products to provide
functional and non-functional
Issued by Issue Date Version Page

M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 28 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 , PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU @

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

requirements, classified within the
template.

A set of formal design deliverables
which conform to POL IT
standards, namely Process Model,
Data/Information Model,
Application Architecture.

13. Migration Design I Clive This deliverable will I A high level plan for the migration

Read describe the proposed I of all aspects of the solution until
approach to steady state is achieved.
migrating from All planning requirements and
current Horizon to constraints (appropriate to the level
Horizon NG. It will of the plan) to be included and
describe the addressed.
counter/branch Significant risks to be identified and

migration as well as__I quantified.
transition between
data centre solutions.

14. User Interface Clive The initial Description of a limited number of
Read deliverable will options for the ‘to be’ UI model.
outline the principles I Budgetary estimate of development,
of the selected UI; equipment and implementation
this will be later costs for each. Each model to be
developed into a full I assessed against following criteria:
UI Style Guide - Skills transfer
- Training needs
- Usability
- Ergonomics
- Productivity

- Statutory compliance

- Implementation costs

- Representational prototypes
of cach model may also be
required

15. Horizon External Clive To identify all logical I A set of top level context diagram to

Interfaces Read interfaces between identify all logical interfaces
Horizon and external
systems over an
appropriate time-
scale.

Threat 16. Business Threat Mike To provide a The content will be as per the
Analysis Analysis Wells document that Business Risk Template
describes the
business threats and
quantify levels of
service (availability,
security) that the new
architecture needs to
support. For each
threat the likelihood
and impact needs to
be given so that
appropriate

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 29 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study

Ref: PA/PLA/025

countermeasures can
be devised (whether
within the business
design (e.g.
processes) or the
solution design (c.g.
resilience).

Technical 17. Architecture Tony A formal (high level) I The document will describe:
Definition Drahota I architecture
definition document ¢ The application,
written to Fujitsu infrastructure and service
standards. components and how these
This deliverable will relate.
provide an overall e It will incorporate key
summary of the elements from the
Horizon NG solution, Technical Stream in
sufficient detail to enable
top level assessment of the
solution for feasibility of
implementation.
18. High Level Tony This deliverable will I Expected to include:
Infrastructure Drahota I describe the ¢ Security Provision
definition anticipated target © Audit Facilities
infrastructure e System Management
components to e Estate Management
support the Horizon ¢ Platform technologies
NG Application to e Typical counter peripheral
levels of I performance functions
and service specified ¢ Disaster Recovery strategy
® Service Monitoring (what
when who)
19. Counter Tony This will provide a Product will identify all functional
Decomposition Drahota I top level components , captured in the
design/decomposition I modelling tool and to a level where
of the Horizon NG an estimate sufficient for feasibility
counter application. I can be agreed. It will identify the
It will address the matrices against which the estimate
functional and system I has been calculated
requirements
identified by the
deliverables
20. User Interface Tony The initial Impact on the proposed architecture
Design Drahota I deliverable will
outline the principles
of the selected UI;
this will be later
developed into a full
UI Style Guide.
Changes to the UL
could necessitate
costly retraining.
Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 30 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 , PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU @

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

This needs to be
borne in mind when
seeking to justify UI
changes

21. Capacity Model Tony This deliverable will I Product to be completed to the same
Drahota I reflect any changes template as PA/PER/033

identified in Post
Office performance
criteria and volumes;
it will provide an
initial view of
equipment
requirements to meet
the projected

workloads.
22. Technical Tony This deliverable will I . It will describe:
Migration Drahota I describe the proposed
approach to e the counter/branch migration
migrating from transition between data centre
current Horizon to solutions.
Horizon NG
23. Project 9 Tony Although Project 9 Description of the scope and
Description Drahota I (of the Impact migration project to support the
Programme) is not simplification and migration of the
part of the IT central infrastructure.
Roadmap

programme, its
outputs will form part
of the baseline from
which Horizon NG
will be evolved.
Therefore, the
expected deliverables
of Project 9 need to
be documented and
factored into the
Horizon NG plans

24. Network Strategy Tony The anticipated Deliverable to describe the
Drahota I evolution of the development of the network from
Horizon network will I ‘Delivery 1’ over the medium term
be documented. This I (5 years). Key areas to include

will include any > Topology
agreed outcome of > Technology
the Feasibility Study » Performance requirements
into a secondary > Resilience and availability
Horizon network.
This Feasibility
Study is otherwise
outside the scope of
the IT Roadmap
programme.
Issued by Issue Date Version Page

M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 31 of 35
FU[ITSU &

POL00030559

POL00030559

PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

Implementation 25. Testing and Louis To document the ¢ Introduction to include scope
Planning Acceptance Prastitis I agreed approach to and fit within Fujitsu and POL
Migration Planning, testing document maps
Testing and ¢ Principles to include
Acceptance both for collaborative approach and joint
the initial and working wherever possible
subsequent releases Ie Testing involvement in ISL
of Horizon NG stages
¢ Fujitsu Testing approach for
The subsequent initial and subsequent releases
release will be as e POL Testing approach for
normal agreed initial and subsequent releases
practice . There needs I, poy, Acceptance
to be agreement to
the first release
26. Implementation Louis To produce an agreed I e Principles to include
Plan Prastitis I end to end project collaborative approach and joint
plan for the delivery working wherever possible
of the solution from Ie — Structured by Lifecycle stages:
design through to o Requirements
completion of roll- o Design
out both for the initial o Build and test
and subsequent o Acceptance
releases of Horizon o Business/people change
NG. including user training
o Migration and
This can be produced decommissioning
at high level. o Implementation and
Detailed planning for roll-out
the next phase is
commencing but is ¢ Detailed Project Plan for
strictly not a Requirements/Design stage of
Feasibility study initial release
deliverable e End to end project plan for
initial release covering all
lifecycle stages
e Generic end to end plan for
subsequent releases
Commercial 27. IPR Principles Keith To define the Agreed position included in
Baines ownership and rights I Commercial Terms (CT) for Full
of use by Post Office I Feasibility Stage
and Fujitsu of all
deliverables from the
Feasibility Study
Stage
28. Benchmarking Keith To define the Description of the work to be
ToR/Proposal Baines services and carried out by Gartner including
deliverables to be timescales and deliverables together
provided by Gartner I with Gartner’s response including
UK in carrying out price, dependencies and terms and
the technical and conditions
value for money
benchmarks of the
Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 32 of 35

POL00030559

POL00030559
2 &S PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025
proposed Horizon
NG solution.
29. Benchmarking Keith To enable Legal contract setting out the terms
NDA Baines information that is and conditions that apply to the
needed for Gartner to I interchange of confidential
carry out the information to enable the
benchmarking benchmarking.
assignment and PO
and Fujitsu to
understand and use
the outputs to be
shared between
Gartner, PO and
Fujitsu in a way that
is commercially
acceptable to all 3
parties.
30. Benchmarking Keith To provide an Reports as defined in the
Reports Baines independent Benchmarking ToR
assurance of the
technical viability
and value for money
of the proposed
Horizon NG solution
31. Regulatory Keith I Tosetout the legal I Legal advice covering (1) Public
Requirements Baines and regulatory Procurement policy and (2)
framework and Competition law. The impact of this
constraints relevant advice will be shared with Fujitsu,
to a decision to but some of the detail may be
proceed with the confidential to Post Office.

Roadmap programme I The scope of the advice will include
beyond the feasibility I an assessment of the legality of a
stage single source approach under public
procurement policy and European
competition law, and of the risks of
challenge and delay if a decision to
proceed on a single source basis is

made
32. Cost & Price Colin To demonstrate on I To demonstrate on an open-book
Model Lenton- I an open-book basis I basis the build up of costs of the
Smith the build up of Horizon NG proposal including
costs of the development, implementation,
Horizon NG operation and ongoing change;
proposal including I and to derive prices chargeable
development, to Post Office from the costs.
implementation,
operation and
ongoing change;
and to derive prices
chargeable to Post
Office from the
costs.
Issued by Issue Date Version Page

M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 33 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

2 , PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU @
33

. PO Investment Keith To demonstrate the Cashflow showing capital and
Appraisal Model Baines financial viability of I revenue expenditure, cost savings
the business case for I and avoided costs resulting from the

the Roadmap programme
programme
34. Post Office Mike To seek approval to I All relevant sections of the standard
Business Case Wells go ahead with the business case template supported by
development and Financial, Operational, Technical
deployment of and Business concurrences and with
Horizon NG and the I an accompanying file of supporting
associated documents
contractual changes.
35. Fujitsu Business I Colin To seek approval to I All requirements for Fujitsu Group
Case Lenton- I go ahead with the CAR achieved.
Smith development and
deployments of
Horizon NG and the
associated
contractual changes
36. Objective Based I Colin To allow Post Office I Proposal setting out Fujitsu’s
Contracting Lenton- I to decide whether it I standard approach to Objective
Proposal Smith wishes to adopt and __I based contracting and its
Objective-based applicability to the contract for
approach in the Horizon NG.

contract for Horizon
NG or to continue
with the current

approach.
37. Flexible Finance I Colin To set out Fujitsu’s Proposal setting out the interest
Proposal Lenton- I proposal for use of rates, repayment periods and other
Smith their Flexible Finance I terms and conditions under which
arrangement to financing could be arranged

provide development
funding for Horizon

NG
38. Heads of Keith To set out the basis I Agreement between Post Office and
Agreement Baines on which Post Fujitsu setting out the terms and
Office and Fujitsu I conditions for the next stage of the
agree to proceed _I Project (up to signing a revised

with Horizon NG contract) and the parties” intentions
regarding the composition of the
revised contract and the nature of
the new solution and services to be
provided.

The HoA will be an outline of
around 5 pages length at the end of
the Feasibility stage, and will be a
document of 50 to 100 pages when
ready for signature.

The HoA is expected to have the
following sections (to be confirmed
or amended during the Feasibility
Study):

beyond the
Feasibility Stage

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 34 of 35
POL00030559
POL00030559

2 ' PROJECT INITIATION DOCUMENT
FUJITSU @

IT Roadmap — Feasibility Study Ref: PA/PLA/025

e Purpose
¢ Definitions
¢ Post Office Business Drivers

e Fujitsu considerations and
Business Objectives

e Basis of agreement

e Timetable

e Pre signature conditions
* Confidentiality

e Exclusive Period

¢ Costs
¢ Governing Law
and the following annexes:

© Scope of Service
e Costs and Charges
e Plan to achieve agreement

signature

e Changes needed to current
contract

e Service Migration
Approach

e Service Credits
¢ Reference List of
Associated Documents

39. Commercial Keith To set out the terms I Arrangements to be included in
Agreement for Baines on which work on the I agreed Commercial Terms (CT)
work after July Roadmap project
2004 may continue after 31

July 2004

END OF DOCUMENT

Issued by Issue Date Version Page
M Paxton 11-Nov 2004 4.0 35 of 35
