POL00169318

POL00169318

From: Jarnail Singh[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=JARNAIL.A.SINGH6CEADABD-67E9-4ECA-94F2-
005716658847]

Sent: Thur 17/04/2014 1:27:48 PM (UTC)

To:

Ce:

Subject: -F1D20472253]

Andy

In prosecution these documents are not disclosed to the defence as they are not the primary evidence
rather a prosecution working tool. If they contain information that the defence should have prosecution
usually serve it in some other way — either by statement, documentary exhibit etc.

You refer to the issue in M051 Rudkin..You say report should be disclosed in redacted form. As it contain “a
paragraph in the report that is important in disproving the allegation that the Applicant's wife was
inappropriately interviewed” . Here we would not relay on the officers report all the relevant information is
contained in Mrs Rudkin interview which would be part of the prosecution papers served on all parties .
Hope it helps..

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

@® 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
Vw

®

i)

©

© Jarnail.a.singh¢

&® Post Office stories

@

f&) @postofficenews

&

From: Parsons, Andrew
Sent: 17 April 2014 12:
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Rodric Williams

Cc: Parmenter, Claire; Jarnail Singh; Leigh-Doyle, Alva
Subject: Officer's report [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Angela, Rod

CK have raised a concern about disclosing "Officer's Reports" with the POL Investigation Reports. The Officer's
Reports are prepared by the POL Investigation team at a very early stage of a prosecution and are intended to set out
the facts and background of a case in order that a decision to prosecute might be made. This is necessarily at a stage
POL00169318
POL00169318

when the investigation is far from complete and will often contain conjecture and opinion that will subsequently be
proved wrong or inflammatory. I also understand that the reports may also contain information about POL's processes
or improvements to those processes that would otherwise remain confidential.

This document is typically not disclosed through the prosecution process as it is part of the prosecution working papers
and therefore, I understand, it is usually exempt from disclosure (Jarnail — please shout if this is wrong).

I cannot see that this document would attract legal privilege as it is an investigation document and not a document
prepared for the purposes of litigation.

It is therefore a question of commercial sensitivity as to whether to disclose these documents. Do you have a view on
whether as a point of principle this type of document should or should not be disclosed? Alternatively, do you think
this needs to be addressed on case by case basis? My feeling is that we should adopt the latter approach but with a
presumption against disclosure unless absolutely necessary

The case that flagged this issue was M051 Rudkin. The report in question is attached. My view is that this report
should be disclosed in redacted form. There is one paragraph in the report that is important in disproving the
allegation that the Applicant's wife was inappropriately interviewed — see issue 6 in the attached draft version of the
POL Investigation Report. All other parts of the report should be redacted on the grounds that they are subject to
prosecution privilege.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson

www.bonddi

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential only is authorised to

ents, If you are not jamail.a.singh@

copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copyin

Hy F

ileged and protected by k

soon as possibie and delete any
be unlaveful

access this e-mail and any attach

< Gommunication or attachments is fORIDIE:

rus detection software before trans
ks before oper

Any fi
which

‘ached to this e-mail will have been checked by us w on, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage

ry be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus cl

ny attachment,

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C31766 11. Our
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEL 3DX, wh
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to an

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
