POL00312123

POL00312123
From: Mark R Davies[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MARK R DAVIESA80D7269-659B-41D0-9C80-
68D9DE4FA7C5D38]
Sent: Fri 13/02/2015 4:18:49 PM (UTC)

To: David Holdsworth
Cc: David Holdsworth & Assistant}
Subject: Re: Post Office

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL - NOT FOR BROADCAST

Dear David

Thank you very much for your response, which is much appreciated.

T have a few follow up questions and points which I would like to ask you to consider.

You refer to the ‘independent inquiry’. For the sake of completeness, I should set out the position. An
independent firm of forensic accountants was appointed in 2012 to conduct a review.

It reported in 2013, finding no evidence of system wide problems with the Horizon computer system
but identifying a small number of areas where individual subpostmasters may have encountered difficulties,
around training and support.

To address this we set up a Mediation Scheme and invited serving and former subpostmasters to put forward
complaints. 150 did so.

The Scheme works as follows:

- thorough re-investigations of each case are conducted by Post Office

- these investigations are reviewed by the independent forensic accountants

- a Working Group with an independent chair reviews each case and makes a decision as to whether to proceed
to mediation

- several mediations have taken place as a result and others are in the pipeline

These individual cases - and that is what is being dealt with - are confidential. This has been presented as secrecy -
far from it, it is an agreement by all parties that the Working Group's work must be confidential to protect
applicants to the scheme.

This is I am sure you will agree the right way to handle these matters: it does however restrict what we as a
business can say publicly.

It is very important to stress that the work of the last two and a half years has established that there are indeed no
system wide issues with the Horizon system, which transacts six million items every day. Where we have, in a
small number of cases, not done as much as we could have done in relation to training and support, for instance,
we have acknowledged this. For context there were 150 applications - almost 500,000 people have used the
system in the last decade or so.

This background is important, as I am sure you will agree.

I should also stress that I recognise the public interest in this matter. Indeed, we set up the initial inquiry and then
the mediation scheme because the Post Office is a fundamental part of the fabric of the nation and we must have
POL00312123
POL00312123

confidence in our underlying processes and systems.

I do however struggle with some elements of your reporting. You refer to Nick Wallis' blog having threatened
your impartiality. Indeed, Nick's views on this issue are clear and still available on his blog. The following is one
such reference:

"It is not just about computer failure. It's about incompetence, intransigence and indifference. It is a story about
an organisation's misplaced faith in the infallibility of a computer system and its total disregard for any
consequent misery caused. It is a story about ordinary people having their lives ruined through a series of
punitive technical, contractual and legal constraints which stacked the odds against them, and then ran them
through, good and proper."

He is very clear in his opinion of what the outcome of investigations of cases should be: “There are many who
have lost everything through no fault of their own. They deserve redress. They need their convictions quashed
and they need their money and reputations back.”

I appreciate that this is Nick's personal blog and he is not a member of BBC staff. But in broadcasting on the
BBC, he represents the BBC. Given his very clearly expressed opinions, which are inaccurate to say the least,
you will forgive me for approaching requests on this matter with caution.

I do not understand how I can be expected to have faith in receiving a fair hearing when the views of the reporter
leading on this subject are so clear.

Turning to your points about our responses to the questions from BBC South, we were late in responding last
Friday. This was due to the range and complexity of the questions asked of us. I take requests from journalists
very seriously and we seek to answer as fully as possible. We have done so consistently throughout my time
dealing with this issue.

I would welcome the opportunity for an open discussion on these matters, but feel that the publicly declared
comments of the reporter working on this story make it very difficult for us to do so.

J am disappointed that my concerns around regional radio reporting on the issue have not been addressed. in
January, a number of BBC stations carried inaccurate reports, compounded by their failure to approach the Post
Office for comment in advance.

Some of the questions put to interviewees during this round of coverage were deeply concerning. Some
journalists were using questioning such as “you’re paying back money which you did not steal in the first place?”
implying allegations can be assumed to be fact.

Other stations suggested that 150 applicants had faced a legal challenge/ criminal charges when we have
repeatedly said this is not the case — not only are there a minority of people with criminal convictions in the
scheme but also it is a matter of public record that a number of cases have now been resolved.

It was disappointing too that Nick undertook some interviews in which he stated: “Sometimes Horizon will tell a
postmaster that they should have more cash in their safe or till than they actually do. Rather than investigating
the Post Office just demand they hand over the difference.” This is incorrect and we had already made that clear
in our responses to Inside Out.

T also have concerns about the Inside Out programme in January which I have raised with Jane French. A
considerable amount of information was provided in response to allegations being made but this was not fully or
accurately reflected, while serious allegations were made without providing Post Office with any evidence —
despite repeated requests — to substantiate these allegations.
POL00312123
POL00312123

The nature of some of the questioning during the January programme was very subjective. For example, Nick
Wallis asked a solicitor (who is not a party to the Scheme): “Did they strike you as being criminals?”

In the February programme on BBC South West, which I accept was broadly balanced, there was however no
reference to the evidence given to the select committee by the National Federation of Subpostmasters, which
represents 6,000 subpostmasters, or the Communication Workers Union, which represents colleagues in our 300
Crown offices. Both the NFSP and the CWU made clear their belief that the Horizon system works as it should.

Similarly, Stephen Nolan’s show on BBC Ulster carried a piece referencing the Select Committee with no
reference to any submissions apart from an extract, during an interview with Nick Wallis, from the firm of
solicitors representing some of the people in the Scheme. Just one example of the line of ‘questioning’ on the
show was Mr Nolan saying “This is an IT system which has caused at least 150 subpostmasters to be wrongly
accused of false accounting or fraud” to an interviewee with a complaint against the Post Office. This is
incorrect.

There has also been no reference in any BBC coverage to the independent chair of the Working Group which
oversees the Scheme. Sir Anthony Hooper, a former High Court judge, has written to the Select Committee on
progress in the Scheme - this has never been referenced in reports.

There are many other issues which I have raised which have never been addressed, hence my escalating this issue
to James Harding.

I stand ready to discuss this further and would be prepared to consider further the proposal of an informal
meeting should this remain of interest to you or colleagues.

Best wishes

Mark Davies
Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

Mobile” GRO

Sent from my iPhone

On 13 Feb 2015, at 10:27, "David Holdsworth" i GRO iwrote:

Dear Mr Davies

As promised here is a fuller reply. I write as the Controller of the BBC's English Regions, which means I
am responsible for the Inside Out current affairs teams across the country as well as news output for
local and regional audiences.

I have reviewed our coverage of the sub postmasters story and overall I am satisfied that the films we
have broadcast have been linked to significant developments which it was in the public interest to cover.
I also want to assure you that we are approaching this story impartially and await the results of the
independent inquiry.

So if for instance this shows that discrepancies in accounts in a small number of branches were due to
the negligence or criminality of sub postmasters I am sure we would want to pursue and broadcast that,
just as we will if there is a conclusion that some of them should be exonerated.

Nick Wallis has reported on this story for us because he has gained the trust of a significant number of
people involved. However because he is not BBC staff I can assure you that the current affairs editor for
POL00312123
POL00312123

BBC South has continued to view and question all the evidence so far and to listen in detail to the
concerns of MPs and the Post Office. All the output from BBC South has been rigorously tested by her.
The blog Nick wrote was not a BBC publication but we asked for it to be taken down in case it threatened
our impartiality.

Having spoken to the programme teams I believe the Post Office has been provided with full and timely
questions pegged to events outside the control of the BBC, none of which will have taken the Post Office
by surprise. The Post Office responded to some important questions at a very late stage, but the
production team ensured that the cutting room was re-opened in order to accommodate information
from the Post Office on the independent investigator's assertion in Parliament that they had not been
supplied with information they needed. This was a question put to the Post Office for clarification on
February 4th immediately following the hearing. Our willingness to do this demonstrates our
commitment to fully express all sides of this story - as does the offer to meet for an informal meeting to
discuss your concerns which you did not feel able to facilitate last week.

I also take your comments about the amount of coverage seriously and will ask that the team keep that
under review to ensure it is proportionate.

I know James Harding addressed this issue in his previous letter but I would add that some stories
broadcast to regional audiences are judged important enough to be updated for network audiences.
With best wishes.

David

David Holdsworth
Controller, BBC English Regions

From: Mark R Davies. GRO cnnnnnnmmnerned
Sent: 12 February 2015 14:27

To: David Holdsworth

Subject: RE: Post Office

Thank you David. I appreciate it. The item on BBC Inside Out on Monday (SW region) was
to my mind balanced, though there were some inaccuracies which we will draw to the
attention of the programme.

Best wishes,

Mark
<image001.png> Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

1* Floor, Banner Street Wing
148 Old Street

London EC1V 9HQ

Sent: 12 February 2015 10:37
To: Mark R Davies
Subject: Fwd: Post Office

Mark

Just to assure you I am working on a reply which I hope to get to you by the end of today.
David

Begin forwarded message:

From: Eleanor Scharei
Date: 8 February 2015 20:21:50 GMT
To: 'Mark R Davie:
Ce: David Holdsworth & Assistant i
Subject: RE: Post Office a

Dear Mark,

I think the most appropriate thing for me to do is to refer this on to David Holdsworth,
Controller of English Regions, who I have copied in to this email.

Best wishes,
Eleanor

Eleanor Scharer
Business Manager, BBC News & Current Affairs
Bro I indon, W1A 1AA

From: Mark R Daviet...
Sent: 06 February 2015 17:52
To: Eleanor Scharer

Subject: Re: Post Office

Dear Eleanor

Many thanks. This situation is now becoming more serious as the BBC Inside Out
team is not allowing us to answer detailed and complex questions in reasonable time
(we have been told we now have no time left to respond to questions for a
programme due to air next Tuesday).

T have today also seen a blog by the reporter who is leading on this issue for the
BBC. You can read it

here. http://becarefulwhatyouwishfornickwallis.blogspot.co.uk/2015/02/bbe-radio-
ulster-gets-involved.html

This is an extremely partial, biased and inaccurate slant on this issue. It does
not reflect any of the detailed answers the Post Office has provided consistently
to Mr Wallis, or indeed the evidence we have provided to the select committee.

POL00312123
POL00312123
POL00312123
POL00312123

I would appreciate an urgent response on this issue.

Best wishes

Mark

n orate Affairs Director
Mobile:

Sent from my iPad
On 6 Feb 2015, at 15:47, "Eleanor Scharer"

‘Wrote:
Dear Mark,
Thank you, to confirm we've received your letter.

Best,
Eleanor

Eleanor Scharer
Business Manager, BBC News & Current Affairs
Broadcasting House, Portland Place, London, W1A 1AA

Sent: 06 February 2015 1
To: James Harding - Director, News
Cc: Eleanor Scharer
Subject: Post Office

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL - NOT FOR BROADCAST
Dear James

You will recall that I wrote to you in January about BBC coverage of
the Post Office's Mediation Scheme.

I have now been contacted by BBC current affairs (South) about an
Inside Out programme planned for next Tuesday on the Scheme.

lam writing again as I am struggling to understand the new angle which
justifies this further coverage. We have been sent a number of questions
by the programme. We will answer each and every one, but it is difficult
to see how they take the issue forward as a news or feature story. Many
of them cover old ground, previously reported by the BBC (in some
POL00312123
POL00312123

cases as long ago as July 2013), while others are founded on
misunderstandings or inaccuracies which we are happy to clarify.

A particular case is referenced, but again, given the confidentiality we
are bound by under the terms of the Mediation Scheme, which is
independently chaired, we cannot discuss this in the media. Secondly, it
has been well documented in the past, again by the BBC.

The sole new development which can be referenced is a meeting of the
Business, Industry and Skills select committee, held on Tuesday this
week, at which our chief executive and head of partnerships gave
evidence. While this was a welcome opportunity for the Post Office to
put its position, it has not led to coverage in the media [other than one
report in Computer Weekly]. It is difficult, therefore, to see how this
could be used to justify a further full Inside Out feature on this issue a
week after the select committee.

For context, Inside Out also featured this issue in regional TV
programmes on January 19. This prompted a number of inaccurate and
misleading reports on BBC regional radio: none of the regional radio
stations contacted the Post Office for comment which was extremely
regrettable.

BBC Ulster today carried a piece on this subject, again including
inaccuracies (although the programme did contact us in advance on this
occasion).

My over-arching point is that there is a good deal of selective,
misleading and incorrect information being put into the public domain
(predominately by the BBC) about a number of cases. The Post Office
will not breach the privacy of individual applicants by discussing their
cases, even though this means it cannot defend itself against
unsubstantiated allegations. Confidentiality is a key element of the
Scheme and the Mediation process, signed up to by all parties. That is
not an idle undertaking but a very important principle.

We are very concerned about statements and allegations continually
being made without evidence, or certainly none that has been shared

with us.

As I said in my earlier letter, I do recognise the public interest in
reporting on this issue. But I believe this should also be proportionate.

I look forward to hearing from you.
Best wishes
Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

POL00312123
POL00312123

Sent from my iPad

2 A RR RR AC RR CR RA CR RI ACR ACOA RI ACA GRR aa A
ETC OR oR eC kk ok.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no
2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V
9HQ.

2 ORR 9 RR I ORR AOR RRR A CORR I ACR GR ACG GR I AO GRR aA RR
eH Ok i eae kok ke

JER ID ID INOS I DI IOIIEBIIIIIO III IID IO IO II III II III III II III II IIE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you
are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the
contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered
Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Je SUIS OI ISIS ISO II II IIS ISIS II III IIS IO II IIS IIS III
