POL00095364
POL00095364

we

”

To: Tina Davis Copy:
Network Trading

From: Tim Bentley

Government Markets

Network Banking Date: 12% March 2001
Thornton Cleaveleys Sub Post Office - West Lancs Gazette Newspaper
Feature
Tina,

One (potentially) for the Service Review Meeting in April - since Chris Wren's
mum uses the above post office that featured prominently in a West
Lancashire Gazette newspaper article on 21st February. It would be in our
interest to get some background information prior to the meeting just in case
we want to provide our “official” version of events.

I have associated a copy of the article for information.

Government Markets
Network Banking

POL-0094947
POL00095364
POL00095364

é a

S)

POL-0094947
POL00095364

POL00095364
¥

West Lancashire Gazette Sales Aldincham Messenger

Bererr 2001 22 February 2001

Myfearsfor 2:

NEW measures te encourag
new entrants ta the Post ©
fice won't go far enough 1

6 help Trafford's threatened su
offices, campaigners fear,
‘The Government plans is
clude a £2 million fund to hel
i with the costs of relocatin

and refurbishing rural pos
offices.

‘They would alse remove th
introductory payment prev

6 ously required from ne
‘ sabpostmasters.
e@ measures follow las
year’s Messenger-backed cart
Palen, calling for action

nelp sub post offices. A pet
tion containing 15,500 signe
tures was taken to Dewnin

Street

And a Timperley postmas
ter ‘announced. his retiremen
this month, saying he woul
have lost 60 per cent of bi
business within twe to thre

THE former Cleve-
leys sub-postmas>

years.

8 Who claims she ‘There will be a new senio

was sacked for re- i ia Sh Boat Ofte te toa

ee use reek es solutions for avoiding rure
fears ures.

post office may ever Turn to Page 3

re-open.

Julie Wolstenholme
was suspended last

November and finally Plans ‘won’t

sacked last month fol-

lowing a post office in- Save subs’
vestigation which

found she was in From Page 1

breach of contract
when she refused to
use a computer sys-
tem

The Runnymede Ave-
nue post office has now
been closed for three

In addition to this, the Na
tional Federation of Subpost
masters will relaanch
“Counters Club” to help. pr
mote and strengthen the rete
businesses linked to sub pos:
offices.

months and Post Office But Oldfield Post Office sab
Counters is searching

postmaster John Layton, said
“What is £2 million, a mere
drop in the ocean, guing to dy
to rectify a situation which re
stenholme, a mother-cf- > i. % bien fmassive Government
three of Magdalen Road, icy Soni ee
Cleveleys, added: “It's HTMARE: Julie Wolstenholme in the Runnymede Avenue post ‘Here in Trafford. the Post
1

for new premises.

Bat today Mrs Wol-

been a nightmare office in Cleveteys which she fears may never open again Geis, micvcark: ie i, serie
can’t see it re-opening” Picture: DAWN CASTLE With the exception of four ur
Her father Mark Jack

five affices, they are facing » I
son. 60, had run the post. lieve what's happened, _ “At the end of the day Fleetwood Hoad. A doomed future. I
office for 10 years until We had no choice tut to {t's the people of Cleve- spokeswoman for the “At least 12 offices are fu
il health fed to his  stopusingthecomputers leyswhoaresuffering.” Post Oifice said: “This ising bankruptcy ur inselvencs
daughter taking over the because they kept crash- The nontinued closure 28 itternal matter and they are hoping chat a ve
contract in November ing because they Could- ° of Cleveleys’ most cen. which means it is some- to be announce:
1998. He still ives in the mteope with theamount traf post office has thing wecan't discuss. !
fat abowe the post office of work. brought inconvenience “We are new concen
: wife Margaret far beip for aad disruption to fs culs- trating all our efforts on
ai boon assisting hs and the Post toiners who inust widk — getting a mise sub-post
ghter with the wouldn't Listen - more thin a mile ie the master to resume
business, i'm disgusted and my nearest office at Russall commter services iH
He said: “bean't he. daughter isdevastated. Road, North Drive or Cheveleys”

hoe

ay

“THIS §§ Tue POST OFFIC
CHEIS ureen Ss cosTHes

POL-0094947
