POL00045621
POL00045621

PROVISION OF
FINANCIAL INFORMATION

(Section 18 Proceeds of Crime Act 2002)

R v JULIAN WILSON

The defendant shall, within 28 days of the date of the requirement under Section 18 of the Proceeds of Crime
Act 2002, file in this Court and serve on Jarnait Singh of the Royal Mail Group Ltd, Legal Services, Royal Mail
Corporate Security, 6a Eccleston Street, Victoria, LONDON, SW1W 9LT, a signed statement of truth disclosing
the following:

i Details of all income, whether declared or undeclared for tax purpose including details of any

employment and income for the period of six years, preceding the date when these proceedings were

commenced, {the relevant date being the 4" March 2009)

ii Details of all property and land, freehold or leasehold, owned both in the United Kingdom and abroad,
whether held in the defendant's sole name, jointly with others or nominees or in which the defendant
has an_interest, (or in relation to which the defendant has used any alias name) and the extent of that

interest and in particular the foliowing properties:

* The lease on the busine
* The property known as!

<r

iii. Details of all motor vehicles owned or possessed, whether held in the defendants sole name, jointly with
others or in which the defendant has an interest, (or in relation to which the defendant has used any
alias name), in particular the following vehicle:

¢ Vehicle, Volvo V70 Classic Auto.

iv. Details of all bank accounts, or deposits with licensed deposit takers in the UK or abroad, whether held in
the defendant's sole name, jointly with others or in relation to which the defendant is an authorised

signatory, (or in relation to which the defendant has used any alias name).

v. Details of all Credit and Debit card accounts, whether held in the defendants sole name, jointly with
others or in relation to which the defendant is an authorised signatory, (or in relation to which the

defendant has used any alias name)
POL00045621
POL00045621

vi. Details of all UK shares and equities, securities, bonds, unit trusts, or any foreign equivalents held by the
defendant, whether held in the defendants sole name, jointly with others or in any nominees names, (or

in relation to which the defendant has used any alias name).

vil Details of all Insurance policies where there is a financial benefit at the end of the term, whether held on
the defendants life, jointly on another's’ life, or any other persons life, (or in relation to which the

defendant has used any alias name).
viii. Details of any deposits of cash, whether in safety deposit boxes or in any other place.

ix. Details of ali safety deposit boxes held, whether in the UK or abroad, whether held in the defendant's
sole name, jointly with others or in relation to which the defendant has authorised access, (or in relation

to which the defendant has used any alias name).

x Details of any other realisable assets held by the defendant, whether held in the defendant’s sole name,
jointly with others or in relation to which the defendant has an interest, (or in relation to which the

defendant has used any alias name) anywhere in the World.

xi. Details of any Limited Company assets in relation to which the defendant is a director, the majority

shareholder, or has a controlling interest in that Company.
xii, Details of all financial commitments and debts of the defendant.

xiii Details of all transfers by way of gift or for any consideration, which is inadequate, made by the
defendant, his servants or agents for the period of six years, preceding the date when these proceedings
were commenced, to a third party. Such details to include the date of such transfer, the value thereof

and sufficient particulars of the recipient of such transfers, to enable the same to be identified.

The Court may draw an inference from any refusal or failure to comply with this order, or from any
unsatisfactory response, or undue delay in the defendant's response.

By order of the Crown Court sitting at WORCESTER

~ His Honour Judge:

Date:

