Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Ref:

Version:

Date:

POL00400776
POL00400776

RS/POL/003
4.0
16/07/02

Document Title:

Document Type:
Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Originator & Dept:

Contributors:

Internal Distribution:

External Distribution:

Access Control Policy

Policy

S10

This Access Control Policy (ACP) defines the policy for
controlling access to resources in the operational Pathway

solution.

APPROVED

Graham Hooper — CS Security

Belinda Fairthorne, Nigel Taylor, Chris Rayner

Tan Bowen Mik Peach

Gill Jackson — Martin Riddell

Glenn Stephens
Alan D’ Alvarez

Jan Morrison
Peter Dreweatt Mark Ascott

Pathway Document Management

Pathway Management

Pathway Library

Warren Welsh, Andrew Gibson

Approval Authorities: (See PA/PRO/010 for Approval roles)

Graham Hooper

Jan Holmes
Geoffrey Vane

Name Position Signature Date
Martin Riddell Director Customer
Services
Jan Holmes Quality Manager
* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: I of I
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

POL00400776
POL00400776

Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

Date: 16/07/02

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 2 of 1
POL00400776

POL00400776
Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

0.0 Document Control

0.1 Document History
Version No. I Date Reason for Issue Associated

CP/PinICL

0.1, 0.2 28/10/96 Initial drafts for review by security team
0.3 7/11/96 Initial Draft for internal ICL Pathway review
0.5 6/12/96 Response to comments; Addition of new

information including ICL Pathway Corporate
Services domain, Network Management

0.6 4/3/97 Further clarifications in many areas including
network, Sequent access, Post Office outlets

1.0 16/4/97 Terminology changes.

Major updates to the Post Office section have
been made.

Numerous minor changes have been made.

1.1/3 See separate note

2 23/2/98 Draft version of 1.3.

2.1, 2.2 Sep/Oct 98 See separate note Approval responsibility
passed to John Dicks

3.0 18/12/98 Minor updates

3.1 May ‘99 Re-organisation and change to focus on policy,

taking out most descriptive text;

See separate note for changes and issues.

w
te

Jan 2002 Removal of Benefit Encashment Service and so
PAS/CMS, CAPS links, FRM, De La Rue etc
and other changes

34 May. 2002 Various updates/changes to reflect the S10
release state and thus serve as a baseline for
NWB updates

Further changes to incorporate new Fujitsu and
Post Office references

3.5 July 2002 Incorporates comments from internal review

4.0 July 2002 Minor updates

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of I
Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

POL00400776
POL00400776

0.2 Review Details

Review Comments by :

Review Comments to: I Jane Bailey

Mandatory Review Authority Name

Security Manager Graham Hooper
Security TDA Geoffrey Vane
Quality & Audit Manager Jan Holmes *
SSC Manager Mik Peach *
Security Analyst Mark Ascott
System Management Architect Glenn Stephens
Service Manager Denise Miller
Optional Review / Issued for Information

( * ) = Reviewers that returned comments

0.3. Associated Documents

Reference ersion [Date [Title Source
PA/TEM/001 Fujitsu Services Document Template PVCS
CR/FSP/004 Service Architecture Design Document I PVCS
TD/ARC/001 Technical Environment Description PVCS
[TED]

RS/POL/002 ICL Pathway Security Policy PVCS

RS/FSP/001 Security Functional Specification PVCS

[SFS]

CS/FSP/003 PAS/CMS Help Desk Call Enquiry I PVCS
Matrix

CR/FSP/006 Audit Trail Functional Specification PVCS

BS7799 A Code of Practice for Information I PVCS
Security Management

DITSG/ITSS/00 DSS IT Security Policy (Departmental I PVCS

01.04 IT Security Standards)

SRR_ Appendix Post Office Counters Information I PVCS

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 1
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

4-1 System Security Policy

TD/DES/059 High Level Network Design for CSR & I PVCS
CSR+

CS/PRO/090 CSR+ Access Control and User I PVCS

[ACUA PPD] Administration Processes and
Procedures

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current

approved versions of the documents.

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

Abbreviation Definition

ACP. Access Control Policy

BSU Business Support Unit in CS

CAW Certification Authority Workstation
CESG Communications-Electronic Security Group
CLI Calling Line Identification

cs Pathway Customer Services

DBA Database Administrator

DSA Digital Signature Algorithm

DWP Department for Work and Pensions
ECCO Electronic Cash Registers at Counters
EPOSS Electronic Point Of Sale Service
ESNS Electronic Stop Notice System
FTMS File Transfer Management Service
Core Services Fujitsu Services Core Services

HIT Horizon Incident Team

HFSO Horizon Field Support Officer
Core Service Fujitsu Services Core Services

IT Information Technology

KEK Key Encryption Key

KMA Key Management Application
LAN Local Area Network

MIS Management Information Services
NAO National Audit Office

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 5 of 1
POL00400776

POL00400776
Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

NMS Network Management Station
NT New Technology (Microsoft’s operating system)
NWB NetWork Banking
OBC Outlet Business Change
OBCS Order Book Control Service
OCMS Operational Change Management System
Pathway Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Limited
PO Ltd Post Office Ltd (formerly Post Office Counters Ltd. (POCL))
POL Post Office Ltd
POM Post Office Manager
PUN Pick Up Notice
RDMC Reference Data Management Centre
SMC System Management Centre
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol
SQL Structured Query Language
SSC System Support Centre
TACACS+ Terminal Access Controller Access Control System +
TIP Transaction Information Processing
TME Tivoli Management Environment
VME Virtual Machine Environment
VPN Virtual Private Network

0.5 Changes in this Version
Version Changes
3.5 Format errors. Removal of Migration. Change from

Implementation teams to Business Change.

0.6 Changes Expected
Changes
As far as is possible any changes applied to this document seek to avoid changing the Level 4
numbering since this is used to identify the actual Policy Statements. As these are frequently

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

referred to in other documents maintaining the existing numbering avoids problems caused
through documents getting out-of-step.

Further changes may be needed as the design of Pathway develops for new services. Also, in
the following areas, the current document needs further checking.

Some details of support from remote Outlets e.g. EMC
SMC 2™ application support (possible read only access to more systems)

System admin/support at remote Outlets with FTMS links

BS7799 will be updated to IS017799

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Table of Contents

1.0 INTRODUCTION.

1.1 PURPOSE 9
1.2. CONTEXT. 9
1.3. EFFECT ON OTHER PATHWAY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES 10
1.4. SCOPE AND DOCUMENT STRUCTURE cesses LO
1.5 ACCESS CONTROL POLICY REVIEW. 1
2.0 OUTLINE OF SERVICES, ROLES AND OUTLETS .....cccsssssssssssesssessessecssesnsesseeee 12
2.1 OPERATIONAL SERVICES AND THEIR MAIN USERS. 12
2.1.1 Services, Systems and Interactions.
2.1.2 Roles.

2.2 BUSINESS/CORPORATE MANAGEMENT
2.2.1 Services and Systems.
2.2.2 Roles... ,

2.3. OUTLET BUSINESS CHANGE.
2.3.1 Services and Systems.
2.3.2 Roles...

2.4 System & O)

!RATIONAL MANAGEMENT AND SUPPOR

2.4.1 Services and Interactions
24.2
2.5 PATHWAY SITES AND INTERACTIONS............. occ eeeeeeeeeneeee een eevee LT

3.0 OVERALL ACCESS CONTROL POLICIES.

3.1 INTRODUCTION.

3.1.1 Pathway Human Roles.

3.1.2 Types of Information and its
3.2. GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
3.3, HUMAN ACCESS...
Authentication to IT Systems
User Registration and Administration
Authentication of Visitors to Post Office outlets and Pathway Sites...
Telephone Authentication at Help Desks.
3.3.5 Control of Human Access to Resources.
3.4 NON HUMAN USERS.
3.5 INFORMATION AND RESOURCE ACCESS.....

3.5.1 Key Management.
3.6 SYSTEM SET-UP POLICIES.

3.6.1 Workstation Set-up Policies.....

3.6.2 Server Set-Up...sssecccccssssesessnsnesseessnnsecennsnecerssnnnnees

3.6.3. Workstation Environment Related Access Controls.
3.7 NETWORK ACCESS POLICIES.
Information in Transit...
Control of Traffic In and Out of Data Centres.
Controlling Traffic Within Data Centres..
Controlling Traffic at and from Pathway Project Sites........csssscssssescesssnesecesnneeeeseess

4.0 SPECIFIC HUMAN ACCESS CONTROLG..........04

4.1 INTRODUCTION. 34
4.2. POST OFFICE OUTLETS — OPERATIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ROLES 34
4.2.1 Post Office Normal Running...

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

4.2.2. Customer Authentication at Post Office Outlets......
4.2.3. Post Office Exceptional Cases except Installation.
4.2.4 Installation Roles at Post Office Outlets.......
4.3. CORPORATE (INCLUDING SECURITY) MANAGEMENT USERS
4.3.1 Business Management
4.3.2. Key Management. .
4.4 OUTLET BUSINESS CHANGE USER:
4.5 SYSTEM MANAGEMENT AND RELATED US
4.5.1 Engineering Access...
4.5.2 Procedures for getting in Support Staff..
4. Software Distribution and Exceptions for Fixe:
4.5.4 — Application Suppott.....

5.0 SPECIFIC SYSTEM ACCESS CONTROLG.......cccssssssssssesssensensees

5.1 INTRODUCTION.
5.2 POST OFFICE OUTL:
5.2.1 Human User
5.2.2 Factory Set-up Contro
5.2.3. Post Installation Controls.
5.3 SEQUENT SYSTEMS
5.3.1 Introduction.
Human Access.
Application/Oracle Roles at the Operational Sequent Systems
Dynix and Oracle Access Controls.
5.4 WINDOWS NT SYSTEM!
5.4.1 Generic NT Policie:
NT Domain Policies..
Correspondence Server:
5.4.4 — Security Servers on NT.
5.5 AUTHENTICATION SERVICE FOR AUTHENTICATION USING TOKENS.
5.6 CRYPTOGRAPHIC BOXES
5.7 SYMMETRIX DISCS...
5.8 INTERFACE SYSTEMS AT BUSINESS AND IMPLEMENTATION OUTLETS..
5.8.1 Interface Systems with Interface PCs...
5.9 SYSTEM MANAGEMENT SERVERS.
5.10 NETWORK AND FIREWALL MANAGEMENT.
5.10.1 Network Management and Routers.
5.10.2 Firewall Management
5.11 SOFTWARE DISTRIBUTION SERVERS
5.12 OBC SERVERS AT THE DATA CENTRES.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

1.0 Introduction

1.1. Purpose

This Access Control Policy (ACP) defines the policy for controlling access to resources in
the Horizon system.

Effective control depends on:

* Understanding the information in the system and what access to it should be permitted,
and where it is vulnerable;

* Having a clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of all personnel who need some
form of access to the system;

Setting access policies and controls to provide the required access while countering the
threats and vulnerabilities.
1.2 Context

This document fits into the structure of documents for Pathway security as illustrated in
figure 1-1 below.

Contract ———— >I Pathway Security Policy
& related

documents. Y

Access Control Security Functional Technical Environment
Policy Specification Description
I Co so
[ I I
Other security documents] I Operational procedures Detailed specifications
physical,personnel securityI] for people accessing induding
contingency planning etc Pathway services konfiguration information

Figure 1 - 1 Pathway’s Security Documents

The ACP defines the policies for controlling access to the Pathway IT system in compliance
with the Pathway Security Policy.

The Security Functional Specification (SFS) defines the security functionality that is
incorporated into the Horizon system.

The Technical Environment Description (TED) describes the architecture and technical
environment for the Pathway solution.

Controlling access to IT resources requires a combination of physical controls and manual
procedures as well as controls in the IT system. Other documents define related policies,
procedures and processes, for example, for physical security of information (including the
procedures for entering a site and safeguarding manual records) as well as procedures for

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 1
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

using the system and handling security incidents. Other documents define how the various
Pathway components are configured.

1.3. Effect on other Pathway Standards and Procedures

This Access Control Policy defines the policy for controlling access to resources in the
operational Horizon system. As explained in section 1.2, other documents give more details
of the technical solution and the associated policies and procedures. The effect of the Access
Control Policy on these other documents is:

1.3.1.1 Configuration documents should define how systems are configured to conform to
the ACP, for example, how the roles defined in the ACP are set up to restrict
access as required.

1.3.1.2 The roles defined in the ACP should be used in other standards and procedures,
not just information system controls. For example:

where a role requires access to sensitive data, this should be reflected in the level
of vetting required for staff in that role;

users in these roles must be formally registered and authorised to take that role by
the appropriate authority before being added to the IT system. Records of all
persons registered to use the system must be kept, though the way this is done
may be role or service dependent.

1.3.1.3. Where physical security and/or procedures are required to complement the IT
controls to provide the required level of access control, such procedures need
to conform to the ACP.

1.3.1.4 The Pathway Security Manager will satisfy himself that the procedures at the
various Outlets are in compliance with the Pathway security policies and
specifications.

1.4 Scope and Document Structure

This Access Control Policy defines how access to information system resources is controlled
in the Pathway solution. It covers the Pathway Data Centre systems; Pathway managed
systems such as interface systems at PO Ltd. Outlets and closely related Pathway project
systems. Access may be the result of direct user action, or automatically initiated activities.

The ACP contains:

* An outline of the services, the roles of the people and the Outlets used in the Pathway

solution (Chapter 2);

The access control policies for the whole of Pathway, covering policies for authentication,
information access within systems, system set-up and network access ete (Chapter 3);

Specific access controls for human users - where the policies in Chapter 3 are specialised
for particular user roles or there are exceptions to the general policies (Chapter 4);

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

* Specific access controls for particular systems - specialisation and exceptions to the

policies in Chapter 3 (Chapter 5);

A complete list of Pathway human roles and an overview of the IT access permitted to
each of these (Chapter 6).
This document specifies access control policies, not detailed procedures for configuring and
running these systems.

Separate internal Pathway documents also cover system development and test systems and
other activities prior to the handing over of the software for operational use.

1.5 Access Control Policy Review

This document will be formally reviewed at least annually. It will also be reviewed where
relevant after a significant security incident, as part of a more general security policy review,
and updated whenever necessary.

Responsibilities for approval, review and issue of this document will conform to the review
procedure for Pathway policy and standards defined in the Pathway Security Policy.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of I
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Ref:

Version:

Date:

RS/POL/003
4.0
16/07/02

POL00400776
POL00400776

2.0 Outline of Services, Roles and Outlets

The Horizon system can be described from different views as follows:

*

*

*

*

The operational systems and their business users.

System & operational management and support.

The business management users of the system, including security and auditing

Outlet Business Change used during the introduction of new Post Office outlets.

This chapter gives an outline of the people and systems involved as a context for the policies
and roles described later. It is not intended as a complete description of the system - for that,

see [TED].

2.1. Operational Services and their Main Users

The operational systems and their main business users and Outlets are shown in the following

diagram.

POL and POL Client sites

POL.
transaction
& ref, data

POL clients
PWP ESNS! I using Automated
system Payments,

[Data Centre

Related

Host applications e.g. TPMS, ODBC, ROMS:

mainly on Sequent systems
r

Services

[Management

eg. Key I JAgents & Correspondence Servers (Riposte)

on NT

public
network

n

Post Offices,

Post Office I Counter Infrastructure (Riposte) & gq
loncrter PO applications e.g. EPOSS, APS

Post office Clerk & customer

Figure 2-1 Main Operational Systems

2.1.1 Services, Systems and Interactions

Information is sent from PO Ltd. (reference data) and PO Ltd. clients (APS information
from PO Ltd. clients) to the Pathway Data Centres. Most of this data is also forwarded to
relevant Post Office outlets for use by applications there. Transactions at the Post Office
outlets are recorded at the correspondence servers and forwarded to PO Ltd. and/or other PO

Ltd. clients as relevant.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 13 of 1
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

At the Data Centres the main applications are on Sequent/UNIX systems but the agents and
correspondence servers which handle distribution of information to and from the Post Office
outlets are on NT servers, as are most of the supporting systems such as the key management
systems. Post Office Systems are also NT.

Apart from at the Post Office outlets, all activities are automated in normal circumstances, so
there are no business users.

2.1.2 Roles

At the Post Office counters, operational roles are the Post Office Manager, Supervisor and
Counter Clerk. There are equivalent roles in franchises and Sub Post Office outlets i.e. Sub
Postmasters and their staff.

2.2 Business/Corporate Management
Pathway corporate management users and the systems they use are shown in the following
diagram:
POL, ete
(incl. Royal mail data)

GH tame =
and _———_
visa Haut servi _\
data joperational audit w

Key

Sire parehous I] 987° Pop tenet I Paty sont
business dev. & support 2 custodian and auciting
customer servioes etc 1 (& indirect external
auditors)
public
network

TDD rr ssere
Post Offices Al emergency managers

Figure 2.2 Corporate Management

2.2.1 Services and Systems

Corporate management services provide analysis and reporting of management information
on Pathway’s operation of the Horizon system. Systems include:

*

A Data warehouse (Sequent system) which takes input from many Pathway and related
systems (including Royal Mail information about card distribution and BT & Mitel
information about help desk calls).

* Related MIS systems, including a financial system at a separate site.

The Data warehouse/MIS systems at the Data Centre support a number of services including
Contract Management, Accounting and Asset Management.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 14 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

There are also Security Specific Services including an Authentication Service for security
token users and key management services. Keys are installed at the Data Centre and also at
interface PC’s at other sites.

2.2.2 Roles

The main roles are:

* A range of Pathway corporate management roles e.g. financial management, contract

management and associated support roles.

A number of Pathway customer service roles such as Business Support which assist
business operations such as financial reconciliation of payments and Reference Data roles
for maintaining reference data.

Pathway Security Management which manages security tokens for Pathway users. This
includes the Pathway Cryptographic Key Manager who is responsible for generating and
distributing all cryptographic keys used in Pathway to protect communications links,
digitally sign information and encrypt filestores at Post Office Outlets.

The Key Manager will delegate some responsibility for installing and updating keys to
Pathway Cryptographic Key Custodians and Cryptographic Key Handlers.

Pathway Auditors: both a Business Function Auditor responsible for general auditing of
the Horizon system (focusing on business, rather than security, auditing) and a Security
Event Auditor responsible for auditing all use of the Horizon systems. Both types of
auditor access information on the Horizon system.

PO Ltd. Auditors, Investigators and Emergency Managers who can access services at
Post Office outlets.

PO Ltd. and NAO Auditors also have indirect access to audit information at the Data
Centres. This is via Pathway Auditors, rather than direct access to the Horizon system.

2.3 Outlet Business Change

The main people and systems involved in implementation of new Post Office outlets or their
closure/suspension are shown in the following diagram:

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 15 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

24

Customers Data Centre ia
ete Help Desk’
Pathway Mg’t auto-
Centre nfiguration I I Related systems
g HH database [I signing server, auto- configuraton
ocms software depot
Pathway OBC Staff databases boot server, KMS
(including regional
centre based staff) pan

re public
generic software network
osc
sxppliers J t
Post Offices
G Factory PC with software
g installed auto-config &

IkS J migration servicesI 7
Installation engineer

staff setting-up
& verifying terminals and PO Manager

Figure 2.3 Outlet Business Change - Services and People.

2.3.1 Services and Systems

The OCMS database contains information about Post Office outlets where Horizon is to be
implemented or withdrawn, for example, Post Office details, the state of the site etc.

Configuration information comes mainly from the auto-configuration system and is used in
the initial set-up or in respect of decommissioning activities of Post Office outlets, updating
the generic set-up of the counter systems as delivered. The auto-configuration process is very
largely automated.

2.3.2 Roles
The main roles here are:
* The Help Desk;

* Outlet Business Change Team;

* The staff responsible for auto-configuration, who may need to amend information in

certain circumstances.
In addition, there are Outlet Business Change suppliers who are responsible for site surveys,
installation etc (who use bulk transfer, not interactive access to the OCMS database) and the
people who set-up and verify the counter terminals in the factory
2.4 System & Operational Management and Support

The main people and systems are shown in the following diagram:

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 16 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

i — B Daw Genie

nelwork Other sites
Technical Help Desk management Pathway
gq PO key recovery system t Sores 4 I managed systems

management II routers A:

technicians

1 . Gg operational mgt IS fir Pathway project Sites

janagemen' g Configuration M

firewall mgt. ee bal st
Gg operational

& other systemsI : Tes rigs
engineers

systems mgt
(Tivoli + i
ro <ae) B
network

application support
other hardware! i Post Office user
ct rt
system suppo! Post Offices with technical query

Figure 2.4 System Management & Support.

2.4.1 Services and Interactions

System and operational management and support users manage and support Post Office
outlets, systems at the Data Centre (including routers and firewalls) and Pathway managed
systems such as the interface PCs at PO Ltd..

The help desk handles all technical calls from PO Ltd. and other Pathway users including
those from the Post Office requiring key and password recovery services.

Pathway project sites include a Configuration Management system that enables software to
be distributed to the Horizon systems, including Post Office outlets. There are also test rigs
used by application support staff for detecting and fixing bugs

The technical help desk and system/operational management and support staff also use
internal Pathway/Fujitsu Services support tools such as the Powerhelp and Problem
Management systems for recording, progressing and monitoring calls to the help desk.

Note that many of the system and operational management and support staff are remote from
the systems being managed.

2.4.2 Roles

The main roles are as follows:

Operational Management (sometimes called System Administration): keeping the system
running where this is not carried out by system management. Operational management is
normally split into sub-roles, including:

* System set-up and installation: setting up the base and application software on the

system and configuring it for live running, including roles.

* Software update, where this is not automated via system management.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 17 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Security/User administration: administering user security information such as their
authentication information, the roles they can perform and the groups to which they
belong.

Database (e.g. Oracle) or Package (e.g. Riposte) administration.

Computer operator: on most systems, this is a minimal role - switching on machines,
loading media and similar operations.

Other system administration functions.

Note that some package administration is done by people supporting the application
users e.g. Discoverer and Business Objects are administered by corporate
management support staff.

System Management: monitoring events and resources in the operational system and
taking appropriate action to rectify problems. Also, distributing software (complete new
packages or patches), where this is automated, for example, at the Post Office outlets.
Sub-roles for operational management separate specific roles and also separate
administration of users and the Tivoli system itself.

Network Management: managing the network, including routers and firewalls, which
connect machines and Outlets.

Application support; 2nd, 3rd and 4th line.
Other hardware and system support.
Horizon System and other technical help desks and supporting staff.

Engineers.

2.5 Pathway Sites and Interactions

The main Horizon services run at the secure Pathway Data Centres. This includes primary
operational systems, most corporate management systems, some Outlet Business Change and
system & network management systems as outlined in previous sections.

The main operational and management services can be run at either site, if needed, though
there is a prime site for each. Figure 2-5 shows the sites with electronic links to the Pathway
Data Centres.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 18 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Data Centre

Pathway project secure site Sites with Pathway
managed systems e.g.
OL A II I operational, MIS, interface POL
secure LANL pa OBC & mar ane
ro other systems Ree cysts
r-
[ee
Lr

routers, firewalls, crypto boxes, VPN

Pathway corporate mgt,

system management,
support ec other support
ls. implementation
etc sites Pos Offices

Figure 2.5 Pathway Data Centres and linked Outlets

All links to the Data Centres are protected by routers, firewalls, cryptographic boxes or VPN
(or a combination of these) depending on the requirements protecting each type of link and
the data that travels over it. Routers and firewalls are also used to separate Data Centre
systems in some cases.

Where Pathway communicates with other organisation’s sites (such as PO Ltd.), Pathway
manages the interface PC/router at that site to provide a gateway between Pathway and that
organisation’s systems.

The main Pathway project sites that have access to the Data Centre systems have secure
LANs for that access with an encrypted link to the Data Centre. Where people at these sites
access other systems, including other sites, there are separate networks. At some Pathway
project sites there are more complex networks which permit limited traffic to/from other
controlled systems (e.g. for software distribution from the Configuration Management
systems and for downloading of data to test rigs for investigating faults). In these cases,
firewalls are used at the project sites to control this traffic.

There are a number of other support and Outlet Business Change sites with different types of
access, these are subject to different access control policies as appropriate for the site.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 19 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.0 Overall Access Control Policies

This chapter identifies the overall access control policies and associated procedures and
controls, that apply across the Horizon solution. It outlines the general policies that apply
across systems and identifies where variants and exceptions are permitted. In these cases, the
exceptions are defined in the appropriate sub-section of chapters 4 and 5 below. No other
variants are permitted.

3.1 Introduction

The objectives in the Pathway Security Policy give the requirements for confidentiality and
integrity of data, whether in storage or in transit, and integrity of the services and software
components. The ACP defines the policies for controlling access in line with these
objectives.

3.1.1 Pathway Human Roles

Human access to the Pathway information systems is specified in terms of roles. People in
specified roles are permitted to carry out defined functions and access specified data. This is
normally monitored by controls within the information systems, though in some cases,
manual procedures are used to supplement these.

Pathway controls the roles people are allowed to perform, and which functions they are
allowed to carry out. Users are individually identified so that they can be made accountable
for their actions.

Where practical, the same or similar roles are defined for several systems to reduce
complexity and make it easier to check compliance with the overall security policy.

The Access Control Policy includes all roles for users who have direct access to the Horizon
operational systems and the related systems at the Data Centres. In addition, this document
includes a limited number of user roles that enable others to use the system on their behalf
(e.g. in response to a phone call).

Roles are normally associated with major functions. Defining separate roles allows different
functions to be allocated to different individuals. However, the actual allocation of roles to
individuals is done by administrative action. Some users may be permitted to carry out more
than one major function, so are permitted to take more than one “role”. This is not permitted
in cases where security may be undermined

3.1.2 Types of Information and its Use

Information in the Horizon system that requires protection from unauthorised access
includes:

*

The business data exchanged with PO Ltd. and its clients (e.g. reference data to support
EPOSS and transaction data resulting from Post Office counter activities.)

Business data is transferred between PO Ltd., PO Ltd. Clients and the Pathway Data
Centres and between the Data Centres and the Post Office outlets. It is stored at the main

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 20 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

operation systems and also in archives. Some data is also available for management
services at the Data Warehouse.

Pathway business management data - financials, service level agreements etc.
Confidentiality and integrity requirements exist for much of this data. The Manage ment
Information System collects this data from the operational systems. This is then
forwarded as appropriate to Pathway sites, PO Ltd. and their Clients.

Other data supporting the business processes such as training data (special, non-sensitive,
business style data used in training sessions) and on-line documentation (e.g. Post Office
procedures.)

Operational systems data such as the software, configuration information, Tivoli scripts,
system management event logs etc. This information is held mainly at the Data Centre
and accessed remotely from system management and support sites.

* Security information about users, keys, security audit logs etc.

Most processing of the business information, except at the Post Office Outlet, is automated
and therefore not subject to human access. Most processing of system data is also automated.

All information is protected in compliance with the Security Functional Specification and
Pathway Security Policy.

3.2 General Principles

The following general principles should be followed in controlling access to the Horizon
systems.

3.2.1.1 The principle of “least privilege” must apply to restrict the access rights of users.
(This may be applied through a mixture of technical and procedural controls.)

3.2.1.2 Duties of different users should be separated to minimise the damage that any one
user can do to the system or the information it contains.

3.2.1.3 If a role at a particular location is allocated to a single person there should
generally be at least one other person who can deputise for that person. (At
small Post Office outlets where no deputy is available, and the Post Office
Manager is unavailable, the Post Office Outlet will not open until emergency
procedures have been invoked.)

3.2.1.4. Where possible, Pathway operations should be automated to reduce the need for
human intervention and the potential accidental and malicious security
breaches that could result from human activity. E.g. applications should be
designed to reduce the dependence on human interaction and jobs should be
scheduled automatically in response to the receipt of files or at a particular
time.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 21 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.2.1.5 Similarly, where practical, system management tasks should be automated. This
includes taking remedial action where the results of monitoring the system
show this is needed. Only where action cannot be taken automatically, or
human verification of an action is needed, should human intervention be
required.

Note that this document covers access by system entities as well as human users, but does not
define roles for them.

3.3. Human Access

This section contains the policies for how human access to the Horizon systems is controlled.
It is divided into sub-section for policies on:

* Authentication to prove the user’s identity to the IT system, and hence the user’s right to
take on a particular role and access particular resources.

User registration/ administration to establish and maintain the user’s identity and security
attributes (i.e. role, password, etc)

Authentication of visitors.
Authentication by telephone.

Control of human access to resources (see also 3.5).
3.3.1 Authentication to IT Systems

3.3.1.1 All users must be authenticated to IT systems. This authentication must identify
them as individuals. (The few permitted exceptions to this policy are in
Chapter 4).

3.3.1.2. People accessing Horizon systems are required to identify themselves using hand
held tokens if:

They are at sites remote from the Data Centre and can update operational or MIS
systems (for example, to perform systems management actions).

They can access PO Ltd. business data (except at Post Office outlets).

They are authorised to update system data that can affect the running of the
Horizon systems. This includes roles that have UNIX root privilege, NT users
belonging to the administrator’s group and database administrators.

3.3.1.3 Where such tokens are used for authentication, the associated PIN must be at least
6 characters long.

3.3.1.4 Each user must have an individually allocated token except in emergencies, e.g
when a token is lost. In such cases, specific authentication will be agreed.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 22 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.3.1.5

3.3.1.6

3.3.1.7

3.3.1.8

3.3.1.9

3.3.1.10

3.3.1.11

3.3.1.12

3.3.1.13

3.3.2

3.3.2.1

Where a user needs to authenticate to multiple systems/domains in one session,
the first authentication (normally to the local workstation) should be with a
token.

If a user who authenticates with a token to one system/domain needs to perform
an additional authentication to another system, the second authentication
should also be a token based one, using the same token. Agreed exceptions to
this must be documented.

Where passwords are used for authentication, the user should be forced to change
the initial password before any other access to the system is permitted.

Passwords must expire in 30 days unless otherwise stated (in the section on the
appropriate domain).

Re-use of the same password is not permitted for either a specified time or until at
least 3 other passwords have been used.

Passwords must be a minimum of 6 characters long and be alphanumeric(i.e. a
mix of letters and numbers) There cannot be more than two consecutive
identical characters. The password cannot be the same as the username.

After 3 consecutive unsuccessful attempts to log-on, the user should be locked out
unless otherwise stated.

Users are authenticated with their individual usernames on first access to the
system. A change to use another username will only be permitted to certain
authorised operational management roles in exceptional circumstances as
specified in this document (e.g. for Sequent systems in 4.2.2). Any change to
use another username must be controlled and audited in a way that is always
recorded.

In limited circumstances an operational management role may need full system
administrator access. In these cases, where possible, the user should be given
limited privileges on log-on with additional privileges being subject to further
authorisation. In particular, no user will be allowed to log onto UNIX with
root access (though some may be permitted a controlled change to root access
later).

User Registration and Administration

People must be identified to Pathway information system as individuals. Users
with direct access to the system should be registered as follows:

If accessing the system via a package such as Oracle or Tivoli, they are registered
with that package.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 23 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

* Users who require direct access to the operating system are registered with that

operating system (at the local system or NT domain)

Users requiring token authentication are also registered with the appropriate
authentication service.

(The only exceptions allowed to this are the specific cases identified in later sections of this
document. In these limited exceptional cases, the user, (e.g. an engineer) is identified as an
individual using manual means prior to using the system in a way specially set up for this,
and where the use of the system is suitably monitored.)

3.3.3 Authentication of Visitors to Post Office outlets and Pathway Sites

3.3.3.1 All visitors to Pathway sites who need access to operational systems must have a
company identity card which includes their photograph and pass number. For
all such visits, the pass number of the visitor must be notified in advance to
the relevant manager; access will not be permitted if this has not been done.

3.3.3.2. PO Ltd. Auditors may visit Post Office outlets and other Outlets without prior
notice to the Post Office Manager.

3.3.3.3 Pathway visitors to Post Office Outlets must be subject to Pathway vetting
procedures and approval by PO Ltd.

3.3.3.4 Other visitors to Post Office Outlets are also subject to agreed vetting procedures.

3.3.4 Telephone Authentication at Help Desks

The Help Desks receive calls from Customers, PO Ltd. staff at Post Office outlets and other
people such as Pathway staff. The following categories of call have different authentication
requirements:

* Category 1: Calls where the source of call would not affect the action taken. For example,

the call is just a query of generally available information.

Category 2: Where the result of the call is to cause an action which has only limited
consequences e.g. to report a problem in the Post Office Outlet (which could result in an
engineer call).

Category 3: Where the consequences of misidentifying of the caller can be serious and
the telephone authentication is the only authentication of the caller. For example, the
wrong person may be allowed access to sensitive information, and/or be able to disrupt
the service.

Category 4: Where the consequences of the call could potentially be serious, but
authentication of the user on the phone is only part of the process needed to complete an
action. For example, a Post Office Manager has lost the PIN associated with the card used
to boot the system, but will still also require a password to use the system.

3.3.4.1 For category 1 calls, no authentication is needed.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 24 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.3.4.2. For category 2 calls made, for example, by PO Ltd. staff, at least the location of
the caller should be verified, for example, the particular Post Office outlet, or
PO Ltd regional centre. This location must be one already known to the Help
Desk for which suitable verification information is available.

3.3.4.3 For category 3 calls, the caller must be identified individually. (If the person
concerned is not known individually to the Help Desk, the call must be routed
via a known centre for verification. For example, calls from Post Office staff
at the Outlet could be routed via a PO Ltd. regional centre whose staff
authenticate to the Pathway Help Desk.)

3.3.4.4 For category 4 calls, the authentication process should at least verify the location
of the call to one known and acceptable for this type of call.

3.3.4.5 Help Desks must maintain the information required to authenticate the callers and
their Outlets/offices as required for the type of call.

3.3.4.6 If the call needs to be passed onto another internal Pathway help desk, the call
should be forwarded only after the initial authentication has been carried out.

3.3.4.7 There are several different types of calls in each category. The authentication
process for each call type must conform to these policies.

Details of the information used for different types of call must conform to these policies and
be given in the appropriate Help Desk procedures.

3.3.5 Control of Human Access to Resources

Control of access to resources is achieved partly by workstation set-up and partly by
administration of the resource, e.g. in the form of an access control list. Details of the way the
access controls are implemented in information systems depend on the product used. They
are not defined in this policy document.

3.3.1.1 All human users with access to Pathway Data Centre or Pathway managed
systems on other sites must do so using controlled workstations as defined in
3.6.1.

3.3.1.2. Access controls associated with resources should define the “role” of the user, not
the individual user’s identity (unless there is an agreed need for individual
access). The role may be represented by a group identity, for example, in
products such as Riposte, UNIX and Windows NT, which support groups, not
roles directly.

3.3.1.3 Access controls associated with resources should provide access to the resources
as in the role definitions in chapter 6.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 25 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.4 Non Human Users

Much of the operational Horizon system is automated. Some users are therefore system, not
human users, so there are usernames and passwords for both types of users. In general,
system users should be subject to the controls specified above (e.g. for password protection)
This is because these usernames generally cannot be confined only to human users and
therefore they can potentially permit access to usernames intended for system users.
However, some differences are permitted.

3.4.1.1. The username and password used to automate the login may be held in clear if it
is only accessible to authorised operational management staff for that system
and the potential damage from misuse of that username is minimised.

3.4.1.2 The password may expire less frequently than the 30 days for human users where
suitably obscure passwords are used, and the risk of external access to such
accounts is very low.

3.5 Information and Resource Access

This Policy is concerned with protecting information contained in, and transmitted between,
all Horizon systems. This includes the Data Centres, Pathway managed systems (such as
interface systems at PO Ltd. and other Outlets), and the systems used to access Data Centre
and managed systems. Information requiring protection includes that generated during fault
investigations/correction and that retained for auditing and fraud investigation.

3.5.1.1 Human access to sensitive information should be restricted to those whose role
authorises them to see it.

3.5.1.2 Information in transit between systems should be encrypted for confidentiality
and/or integrity according to the needs of the particular link as defined in the
Security Functional Specification [SFS].

3.5.1.3. Digital signatures should be used for integrity of business information between the
Post Office Outlets and other services where required. E.g. for signing
automated payments at the Post Office Outlet prior to transmission via
Pathway to PO Ltd. or PO Ltd. Clients.

3.5.1.4. System data should also be integrity protected when required. E.g., digital
signatures protect software distributed to the Post Office outlets and
elsewhere

3.5.1.5 Business information in filestore at the Post Office PCs should be encrypted.
3.5.1.6 Passwords should be stored in encrypted form separately from application data

and executable code, except for the specific cases listed in Non Human Access
above.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 26 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.5.1.7 Horizon systems should prevent interference between human user roles, between
applications and between human users and automated applications.

3.5.1.8 Information should be appropriately separated in filestore, database tables etc.
Each data set should be accessible only to those with a need for that access.

3.5.1.9 Different applications should run in their own user names or that of the user that
calls them (or at the Post Office Outlet, in the Riposte usemmame impersonating
the user).

3.5.1.10 I Access to shared resources such as filestore should be controlled by:

* Access to that filestore being restricted to a specific product which is available

only to authorised users, or

Access to those resources being restricted to users in specified roles. (Group IDs
may be used to represent roles. Access control lists using these will ensure that
only authorised people can access the resource).

Information in relational databases should be accessible only via authorised client
“applications” (such as Oracle Forms, Discoverer, Business Objects, Tivoli
database interfaces) except where there is a proven need for lower level
access. Lower level access will only be granted for agreed operational
management and support functions.

3.5.1.12 I System Management actions by Tivoli should be activated using pre-defined
Tivoli tasks authorised for use by SMC and the Pathway configuration
management and software distribution process. This includes collection of
diagnostic information from the Post Office Outlet for application support.

3.5.1.13 Packages (such as Oracle and Tivoli) and applications above the operating system
must also conform to the Access Control Policy. For example, Oracle should
restrict users to the authorised tables and views. Also, access to the package’s
resources should use role based access controls.

3.5.1.14 For client-server applications (such as Oracle Forms ones), audit records should
be generated at the server so audit logs do not rely on input from workstations.

3.5.1.15 Security audit logs must be protected from everyone except those permitted to
take specified Security Event Auditor roles. Unless otherwise specified for a
particular domain (such as the Post Office outlets), the security-auditing role is
separate from other roles at that domain.

All systems, except Post Office counter systems, must provide read access to audit
trails by authorised security auditors.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 27 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.5.2 Key Management

Cryptography is used widely in Pathway as described in the Security Functional Specification
[SFS] for:

* Protecting information on links for confidentiality, integrity and origin authentication in

line with the requirements for that link.
End-to-end integrity and data origin authentication, potentially over multiple links using
digital signatures.

*

Filestore encryption at the Post Office Outlet.

The following policies apply for protection of keys.
3.5.1.1 CESG approved keys must be protected in line with CESG requirements.

3.5.1.2. Key material (symmetric keys, DSA private keys and DSA entropy) should be
held in clear only when in physically secure environments.

3.5.1.3 Public keys (except for the CA’s public key) should be held in certificates signed
by the Certification Authority.

3.5.1.4 Symmetric keys should only be stored where necessary, and be held securely.

3.5.1.5 Keys (or part keys) held in filestore must be in a separate filestore accessible only
to authorised key custodians via authorised applications.

3.5.1.6 Keys used for protecting data should not be resident in filestore in clear.

3.5.1.7 Keys should be changed periodically according to CESG policy. Different periods
may apply to Symmetric Keys used for encrypting data, Key Encryption Keys
(KEKs) used to encrypt other keys and Certification Authority keys.

3.5.1.8 New KEKs should not be distributed solely under the protection of existing
KEKs.

3.5.1.9 I Key material in transit electronically must be encrypted (except for CHAP keys
between the routers within the Pathway Data Centre LAN).

3.5.1.10 I Cryptographic keys and Key Encryption Keys are either installed locally at the
machine where they are to be used, or are distributed electronically using an
approved protocol which protects these keys in transit.

3.5.1.11 I Where a key is delivered in two parts (e.g. a red key and a black key), the parts
should be delivered by different routes.

3.5.1.12 The key (or part key) to be handled manually must be held in a locked safe when
not in use. Access to this must be authorised and recorded in conformance
with Pathway procedures.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 28 of I
Fujitsu Services

POL00400776

POL00400776

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.6 System Set-up Policies

3.6.1

3.6.1.1

3.6.1.2

3.6.1.3

3.6.1.4

3.6.1.5

3.6.1.6

3.6.1.7

3.6.2

3.6.2.1

3.6.2.2

Workstation Set-up Policies

Users with interactive access to Horizon systems should use “controlled, NT
workstations” as defined in the following policies in this section. All such
exceptions to the “controlled NT” workstation policy must be authorised and
documented in the ACP.

Workstations from which operational systems can be updated should have floppy
drives disabled or be fitted with physical locking devices. Booting from
CDROM should also be disabled once a system has been configured. In all
cases, exceptions to this rule must be agreed with Pathway Security
Management and Horizon and be documented.

Workstations at the Post Office display sensitive business data (e.g. about
payments) as part of normal operation. All other workstations, which can
display sensitive information, should be in physically secure areas.

All systems should have the required roles, groups and other privileges set up on
installation. It should rarely be necessary to update these. “Guest” users must
not be enabled in the installed systems, and where possible, should not be
included. Other generic users should not be accessible for user logon except in
exceptional circumstances explicitly defined in the appropriate section below.

Operating system set-up and services available at that workstation should be
controlled by Pathway or shown to conform to Pathway standards.

After a workstation is booted up, a login screen should be displayed which cannot
be by-passed.

The selection of tasks available on the desktop (or via secure menu system, where
used) should be constrained to those available to users with that role.

Server Set-up

Servers should have floppy drives disabled at boot time. Booting from CDROM
should also be disabled once a system has been configured. In all cases,
exceptions to this rule must be agreed with Pathway Security Management and
be documented.

Where a server is delivered with pre-defined usernames for human users, these
should be deleted (or if this is not possible, disabled) once the initial
individual usernames for administering the system have been set-up.
Usernames should be disabled by changing to a password, which is extremely
difficult to guess, then storing this password in a safe.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 29 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.6.3 Workstation Environment Related Access Controls

3.6.3.1 Users with interactive access to Horizon systems should access these systems via
controlled, NT workstations in secure environments as defined in the
following policies. All exceptions to these policies must be authorised and
documented in the ACP.

The following diagram shows the main types of workstation environment supported for
access to the Pathway Data Centres and other Pathway managed systems:

Ste type 1 Ste type 2 Ste type 3

By

secure LAN
Pathway Data Centre
Data Centre systems,
ee oe (& viathem to
Pathway managed systems)

Figure 3-1 Workstation Environments Supported by Type

3.6.3.2. I Workstations that have access to sensitive data or can be used to access Horizon
systems (code or data) should be on separate secure LANS linked only into the
Pathway secure network. (Site types 1 and 2 and the Data Centres)

3.6.3.3. The only permitted exceptions are:

For authorised transfers of software and data from the controlled Pathway LAN at
the management site at Feltham to the appropriate Data Centre system.

For application support users linking to test rigs. In agreed circumstances,
authorised application support users may access operational data to investigate a
problem and may download that data to the workstation or test rigs.

In these site type 3 cases, firewalls between the LAN on the project site and the encrypted
link to the Data Centres must constrain traffic to just that authorised from identified project
systems to the identified Data Centre systems.

3.6.3.4 All such users should authenticate using a token.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 30 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.6.3.5. The secure LAN and workstations must be in a physically secure area restricted to
permitted users. This also applies to any routers, encryption boxes and
firewalls connecting them to the Pathway Data Centres.

3.6.3.6 I Where the workstation is remote from the system being accessed, encrypted links
should be used.

There may be exceptions to this policy in the case of FTMS links to PO Ltd. Clients, in any
such cases the client is made fully aware the risks taken in using unencrypted links (see also
3.7.2.7 below).

3.6.3.7 Where a user also needs access to internal Horizon systems (such as the call
recording and management systems and e-mail), the user must use a second
workstation linked to the internal network and system required but not to the
Pathway Data Centre. (Site types 2 and 3)

3.6.3.8 Incident tracking systems using networks outside the Pathway secure controlled
area, for example e.g. the Fujitsu Services corporate network, may include
information relating to a particular record of customer data but must not
include such data, unless adequately protected, for example, by encryption.

3.6.3.9 I Any external users must conform to these policies.

3.6.3.10 I External support users of Horizon systems (such as Sequent and Cisco) should be
permitted access to Pathway Data Centre systems only from approved
Outlets/environments and subject to agreed network and other controls (see
4.6.3).

3.6.3.11 Where, by the nature of the role(s) to be performed, the workstation requires
access to the Diskette or CR-ROM sub-systems, the workstation must be
afforded additional protection through the use of anti-virus software.

3.7 Network Access Policies

Pathway controls should restrict who can access particular services. This covers all traffic in
and out of, as well as within, the Pathway Data Centres and managed systems and also within
parts of the Pathway management systems. In addition to the workstation environment
controls above, network access policies should be enforced where appropriate by the use of a
combination of access lists at routers, controls at firewalls, NT domain controls, platform
controls on use of ports and other application controls.

3.7.1 Information in Transit

3.7.1.1 Business and system data in transit to/from the Pathway Data Centres must be
protected in accordance with [SFS]. This covers, for example:

Transfer of data to/from Pathway managed systems at other Outlets such as PO
Ltd. and PO Ltd. Client systems.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 31 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Business and system management traffic to/from the Post Office outlets (which is
protected using a VPN to provide authentication and encryption as well as digital
signatures in some cases - see above)

Business and system information between the Data Centres and Pathway
management and Outlet Business Change sites

3.7.1.2 The Energis ATM network with its closed user group should be used to restrict
access to the main PO Ltd data (TIP and Reference data) to Pathway only.

3.7.1.3 All Fujitsu Services Core Services links should use VPN protection (for
authentication and encryption) or in cases where that cannot be justified,
CHAP authentication and CLI.

3.7.2 Control of Traffic In and Out of Data Centres

3.7.2.1 All access in and out of the Pathway Data Centres should be restricted to the
required traffic from/to the authorised sources/destinations for business and
system traffic using routers and firewalls. Such traffic should be routed only to
the ports at systems, which require that traffic.

3.7.2.2. All management and support users access the Data Centres (and other managed
systems) from controlled workstation environments as defined in 3.6.3 above.

3.7.2.3 All Pathway Corporate management, system management and support sites with
access to the main operational systems should have fixed links to the Data
Centres.

3.7.2.4 External support users with access to any of the Horizon systems containing
sensitive or protectively marked information must access the systems via
controlled workstations and environments as for Pathway support staff, but
subject to extra controls — see appropriate section below. (Support of routers is
an exception — see below).

3.7.2.5. All such fixed links should be protected by the use of hardware encryption devices
using Rambutan.

3.7.2.6 Apart from links via the Energis closed user group to the main PO Ltd. systems
(and via PO Ltd., to Royal Mail), all access to the Data Centre by external
organisations for support or other purposes should be firewalled from the main
Data Centre systems. Any exception to this must be agreed with the Pathway
Security Manager and documented in the ACP.

3.7.2.7 Traffic to/from Pathway managed interface PCs/routers at other Outlets (PO Ltd.,
PO Ltd. Clients etc) should be restricted (by routers and firewalls) to:

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 32 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

3.7.2.8

3.7.2.9

3.7.2.10

3.7.3

3.7.3.1

3.7.3.2

3.7.3.3

Authorised business traffic between the managed system and the particular
Pathway Data Centre server handling that link (normally just file transfer between
the systems).

Network management traffic between the routers and the NMS.

System management traffic between the PCs and Tivoli Management Centre

A set of routers should handle all traffic to/from operational Post Office outlets
and accept traffic from outside the Data Centres only from Post Office outlets.
No operational Post Office traffic should be accepted via other routes. These
routers should also restrict where traffic can be routed to/from within the Data
Centre i.e. to VPN servers the Correspondence Servers, Tivoli management
servers and KMS.

When implementing a new or significantly changed Post Office Outlet, the initial
connection will be to a dedicated boot server. Access to this from the Post
Office outlets is via a firewall, which also restricts traffic between the boot
server and the main Horizon Data Centre LAN.

Routers should be configured to deny access to external users (e.g. CISCO
support) until this access has been agreed - see 4.6.3. When permitted, the
appropriate router should be configured to restrict access to the Data Centre to
the particular system(s) needing support.

Controlling Traffic Within Data Centres

Controls in the Data Centre should reduce the possibility of interference between
systems by separating independent parts of the system, particularly where
these which have different security requirements. (This may be by a
combination of network set-up, router controls, controls at ports of specific
systems and NT domain structure.) For example,

Systems concerned with Outlet Business Change should be separate from those
used for operational running.

Security services, such as the Key Management one, should be well protected
from unauthorised access from other systems.

Traffic originating within the Pathway Data Centres is generally initiated by
controlled applications. These applications (and the way they are configured
in the system) should restrict traffic between systems to the minimum
necessary.

Additional network controls should be used where specific systems are subject to
higher risks or vulnerabilities in the Data Centre network. All such special
cases should be documented in the ACP.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 33 of I
Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

POL00400776
POL00400776

3.7.4 Controlling Traffic at and from Pathway Project Sites

Pathway project sites include:

*

*

*

3.7.4.1

3.7.4.2

3.7.4.3

Various systems and operational management sites and support sites
The main Pathway management Sites

The OBC Teams main site

Offices used by Pathway Regional Managers

The main Pathway management sites should separate their main networks from

both the Fujitsu Corporate network and from those more secure LANs used to

access the Data Centre.

Most local users should only have access to specific LANs that provide access to

local services and (via controlled connections) to the Fujitsu Corporate

network.

that permitted.
router and firewalls.

software from the Configuration Management system).

3.7.4.4. The only permitted connections from the secure LANs should be:

3.7.4.5

3.7.4.6

3.7.4.7

To the Data Centres via encrypted links.

management sites).

LANs (see also 3.6.3)

The only permitted connections from this management site network should be:

To the Fujitsu Corporate network via a controlled router, which restricts traffic to
To OBC users at regional offices and OBC suppliers at their sites via a controlled

To the secure LANs via a firewall which restricts data to that permitted (e.g.

To other secure LANs via an encrypted link (i.e. between the Pathway

All users with any interactive access to the Data Centres must do so via secure

Separate secure LANs should be used for separate user groups/activities where

sensitive data is being handled at Pathway management sites. For example,
Security Management and Audit users should be on a separate high security

LAN separate from other users.

Servers at the Pathway management sites that handle sensitive/RESTRICTED

data or are used to update the Data Centre require stronger security and they
should be on a secure LAN. This applies, for example, to the CM signing
server, which distributes software to the Data Centre and reconciliation

database.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 34 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

4.0 Specific Human Access Controls

4.1 Introduction
This chapter deals with access control polices, in particular authentication policies for
specialised human user roles and where exceptions to these polices are permitted.

Note that a full list of Pathway roles, outlining the IT access permitted to each of them, is
given in chapter 6.

4.2 Post Office Outlets — Operational and Installation Roles

There are no system management and support roles at the Post Office outlets. These tasks are
run remotely apart from some limited tasks available to Post Office managers.

4.2.1 Post Office Normal Running

For normal functions, Post Office Managers, Clerks and Supervisors authenticate using a
Riposte usemame and password.

On normal counter start up (once installation is complete) the Post Office Manager (or
authorised other user) uses the Post Office Memory card and PIN (which is also used in
protecting the filestore, as defined in the [SFS]).

The following specialisations of the policies in chapter 3 apply in these cases.
4.2.1.1 A password cannot be re-used for 18 months.

4.2.1.2 The password is checked to conform to quality standards as follows:

The password cannot contain spaces;
* The password cannot be one of an agreed “excluded passwords” list.

4.2.1.3 After a period of inactivity at a Post Office counter, the session will time out, but
can be resumed on entry of the password. After a longer period of inactivity,
the user is forcibly logged out.

4.2.1.4 The PIN used for the Post Office Manager’s memory card is a 15 character
alphanumeric value.

4.2.1.5 I The Post Office Manager should secure the Memory card and associated PIN in
separate places.

4.2.1.6 I When anew Post Office user is added to the system, a full name must be supplied
This ensures that the user can be identified from the user name included in the
transaction logged in the Riposte journals.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 35 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

4.2.2 Customer Authentication at Post Office Outlets

For most Post Office operations, customers do not need to authenticate themselves.

4.2.3 Post Office Exceptional Cases except Installation

This subsection includes exceptional cases involving the Post Office Manager and other Post
Office staff and also supports engineers, PO Ltd. auditors and emergency managers.

For some user groups, and some exceptional circumstances, the Post Office Manager (or
other authorised person) authenticates using a one-time password with the assistance of the
Horizon System Help Desk (HSHD). The Post Office system generates a value, then phones
the HSHD authenticating to the HSHD as defined for that user role/circumstances (see
[ACUA PPD]). The HSHD (after authenticating the user) provides a check value that the user
can type in at the Post Office counter to authenticate themselves.

The following policies apply to these exceptions.

4.2.3.1 If there is a failure on booting the counter systems after installation of new
software, the Post Office Manager then reverts to the failsafe version of NT
supported by HSHD and using a one-time password.

4.2.3.2 If the Manager loses his password, he (or an authorised deputy in his absence)
logs into a SUPPORT username using a one-time password provided via the
HSHD.

4.2.3.3 If the Manager loses his card or PIN, he obtains an emergency recovery key via
the HSHD (after authenticate to the HSHD).

4.2.3.4 Support engineers (installing new hardware and running tests to check it) and
Auditors use generic Riposte usernames for the appropriate role and
authenticate via one-time passwords. For both engineers and auditors, the pass
number is also typed in; so individual users can be identified in the log.

4.2.3.5 If a PO Ltd. Emergency Manager takes over a Post office when the manager is
unavailable or unco-operative, he may use the emergency recovery procedure
to boot up the Post Office — see 4.2.3.3.

4.2.4 Installation Roles at Post Office Outlets
On installation of a Post Office Outlet,

* The installation engineer sets up the connection to the data centre

The Post Office Manager (POM) completes the Post Office set-up for normal working
including set up of the memory card and PIN

4.2.4.1 The installation engineer must authenticate to the POM (see Visitor
Authentication) prior to using the Auto-configuration application.
Authentication to NT or Riposte must be impossible at this stage.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 36 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

4.2.4.2 On first installation of the Post Office (after memory card set-up), the Manager
logs in under the Set-up Manager username to create his individual username.
He then logs in using this, and deletes the Set-up Manager usermame. On all
future occasions, the POM must authenticate using his individual user name
except in cases identified in 4.2.3 above.

4.3 Corporate (including Security) Management Users

Unless stated otherwise, all corporate management users are authenticated to their local NT
domain using a security token. They use controlled NT workstations on secure LANs at
Pathway sites linked by encrypted links to the Data Centres (see site type I in 3.6.3).

4.3.1 Business Management

These users may also need to authenticate to the relevant system and/or application for
particular systems. This is required for Oracle applications, and for Business Object universes
used to access data at Data Warehouse systems via Oracle/Business objects.

The only specialisation’s and exceptions to the policies in chapter 3 for these users are:

4.3.1.1 People in the following roles have access to CD writers at their workstations:

- Management support users, who write agreed warehouse data to CD for transfer to
PO Ltd

- The Business Function Auditor, who provides information to external auditors

- Security Management users for generation of key material.
4.3.2 Key Management

4.3.1.1 The Key Manager is responsible for the generation or other acquisition of
cryptographic keys and organising their distribution.

4.3.1.2 The Key Custodian uses the local console at the platform where the key is to be
installed/changed and authenticates using a token to the local system. (For NT,
this is defined as a local role)

4.3.1.3 The Key Handler has the key on the appropriate media (e.g. floppy) for re-
installation of the key during system reboot. He is not a known user of the
system and does not authenticate to it.

4.3.1.4 I The Key Handler role may be performed by identified, authorised (non-Pathway)
staff at remote Pathway managed systems e.g. by PO Ltd etc. at interface PCs
at their sites.

4.3.1.5 The Cryptographic Key Manager and KMA Data Manager roles are SQL Server
users, so log-on to Oracle (after NT workstation, token logon). This gives
access to specific functions only.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 37 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

4.4 Outlet Business Change Users

No specialisation to the policies in chapter 3 have yet been identified for OBC users, except
at the Post Office — see above.

4.5 System Management and Related Users

All system management, operational management and application support users have
controlled NT workstations for management/support activities, and a separate workstation for
access to call monitoring and other systems as in 3.6.3 site type 2 and 3.

4.5.1.1 SMC/HIT technicians, and other Tivoli users (e.g. Auditors, SSC application
support) authenticate to Tivoli as well as the workstation logon to NT.

4.5.1.2 For Post Office key recovery, the SMC Team Leader may also need to log onto
the KMA

4.5.1.3 All network technicians access only the NMS and routers, so access for them is
described in that section.

4.5.1.4 Controlled access to floppy diskette and/or CD devices is permitted in exceptional
circumstances where such access is required in order to achieve the desired
functionality, e.g. on AP client remote platforms where diskette is the
nominated media for onward transmission of AP clients data, on Audit
workstation from which extracts of audited information are delivered on CD-
ROM.

4.5.2 Engineering Access

4.5.2.1. Where possible, engineering access to the machines, for example, for hardware
diagnosis and repair, should be subject to the same controls as other users, as
specified in chapter 3.

4.5.2.2. In agreed, limited circumstances, (e.g. when the operating system cannot be
booted) special access is permitted, by-passing the normal controls. In all such
cases any visiting engineer must be subject to the policies for “authentication
of visitors” (see chapter 3) and two people must be present during such access.

4.5.3 Procedures for getting in Support Staff

A number of problems can lead to staff being required to support the system. This could be
Core Services or SSC staff coming in to support the system from their normal support sites.
However, it could also require support staff from other organisations such as Sequent or
Cisco. Core Services is generally responsible for the call out procedures.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 38 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

4.5.3.1 All requests for technical support should be made to the Horizon System Help
Desk. The identity of the caller requesting support (if by telephone) should be
verified to ensure the call comes from an appropriate source, before being
actioned. The Help Desk will pass on the call to the appropriate unit in line
with Help Desk Procedures using the call handling system.

4.5.3.2 All support calls should be recorded in the call handling system and their progress
reported there, including who was called out and the actions taken.

4.5.3.3. Routers will by default, be configured to prevent access from support
organisations other than the standard Core Services. When support is required
from another authorised site (e.g. Sequent or Cisco), a router should be
configured to allow this access, and then re-configured to disallow it after use.

4.5.4 Software Distribution and Exceptions for Fixes

4.5.4.1 All software (new software and fixes) must be registered in the configuration
management system controlled by configuration librarians. It should be tested
using test rigs and authorised by the CS Release Manager prior to distribution
by Software Distributors.

4.5.4.2 In exceptional circumstances, where this is not fast enough, authorised code fixes
may be done directly by Core Services according to agreed procedures.

4.5.5 Application Support

Application Support calls come via HSHD, from there they are forwarded to the appropriate
unit. Many application support calls are routed to SMC/HIT for filtering known errors, before
being forwarded to System Support Centre (SSC) or Core Services as appropriate for solving.
Calls may sometimes be forwarded to other 3“ and potentially also to 4th line support units,
which may include application suppliers.

Note that no application support users have access to Post Office counter systems except as
allowed for in 4.5.5.2 below. Errors here are diagnosed using logs of events extracted via
Tivoli.

4.5.5.1 All support users with access to the Pathway Data Centre must do so using NT
controlled workstations in a secure workstation environment as defined in 3.3.
(For SSC, the secure environment must include a firewall to restrict traffic
between the test rigs and the secure LAN, though the workstation gives access
to both Data Centres and test rigs.)

4.5.5.2. Limited data may be downloaded from the Data Centres to the SSC test rigs
where this is required to assist in diagnosing application problems and testing
new software to fix the problem

4.5.5.3 Support users should have only read access to the supported systems, except for:

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 39 of 1
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

* SSC support managers (not normal SSC support users) “correcting” data under

controlled conditions. (Data may need to be corrected where it has been corrupted
by faulty code.) Correction of data must be subject to agreed authorisation
procedures.

Core Services operational management staff that will fast fix code, when
authorised, under controlled conditions. Where time permits, correction of errors
should be by re-issue of a new version of the software via the Configuration
management system. When faster fixing is required, agreed Pathway authorisation
procedures must be followed. For applications supported by SSC, this will start
with a request by SSC.

4.5.5.4 In all cases, updates to code or data by application support staff require two staff
to be present when the change is made and all such changes to be audited,
identifying what has been changed (before and after values) and the individual
who made the change.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 40 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.0 Specific System Access Controls

5.1. Introduction

This chapter deals with cases where the access control policies in chapter 3 are specialised
for particular systems and where exceptions to these policies are permitted.

In addition to the policies in chapter 3, all systems should support the roles in chapter 6, with
only the required functions and resources available as defined there with the human access
controls defined in chapter 4.

Note: the ACP does not cover internal systems such as Powerhelp and PinICL.

5.2. Post Office outlets Platforms

A multi-counter Post Office has a local LAN with NT workstations, one of which is the
gateway with a link to the Pathway Data Centres.

5.2.1 Human Users

The roles supported are Post Office staff (Post Office Manager, Counter Clerk and
Supervisor), Customer (indirectly), PO Ltd. Auditors and Emergency Managers, Engineers
(Support and Installation Engineers) (see 4.1, 4.2 and 4.4).

5.2.1.1 At no stage after leaving the factory should it be possible to logon directly to
Windows NT or for a user to access NT functions or data.

5.2.1.2. No operational management roles should be supported at the Post Office systems,
or any other roles apart from than those listed above.

5.2.2 Factory Set-up Controls

Software is installed at the factory (though may be updated on installation) and initial
configuration done.

5.2.2.1 Riposte user groups set-up should be Manager, Supervisor, Clerk, Engineer,
Auditor, AuditorE (used by Emergency Managers), Support (used for
emergency procedures such as the Manager forgetting his password). The
Engineer, Auditor, AuditorE and Support groups should be set up to require
one-time password authentication.

5.2.2.2. Usernames should be set up in Riposte and NT for an Engineer, an Emergency
Manager, a Support user and for a number of Auditors (enough to allow an
auditor at each counter of the largest Post Office) and a set-up manager
associated with the relevant Riposte groups. (The Post Office Manager will
introduce further users later.)

5.2.2.3. I When leaving the factory, it should only be possible to run the Auto-configuration
application, not log-on to NT or Riposte.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 41 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.2.3 Post Installation Controls

5.2.3.1 After installation, special software used for installation only should not be
accessible. Usernames used for installation only should be removed.

5.2.3.2. The encrypted filestore should not be accessible unless the workstation has been
booted using the memory card and PIN (or agreed emergency procedures).

5.2.3.3 After a user has logged on using Riposte, all access to the system should be
controlled by Riposte — the Riposte desktop should allow access to only those
items available to people in the user’s role. The user must not be able to call
any other applications or NT functions or resources. No direct access to
Windows NT should be possible at any time, even for engineers.

5.2.3.4 The Riposte infrastructure should not need NT administrator privilege.
5.3 Sequent Systems

5.3.1 Introduction

Sequent systems with Dynix operating system and Oracle databases are used for the main
operational applications (see 2.1) and the Data Warehouse (see 2.2) at the Data Centres. The
systems also have data in flat files (e.g. before/after transfer to/from other systems).

5.3.2 Human Access

All Sequent systems support the operational management and support roles listed in chapter
6. They also support application roles for the particular applications such as ODBC, RDMC
and Business Objects for access to Data Warehouse data.

5.3.2.1 All business users (such as the Business Support unit) should use Oracle
applications — Oracle Forms, Business Objects or Discover 2000.

5.3.2.2 Where the SQL*Net access to the database could potentially give more access
than that permitted for the business role, the application at the client must
restrict access to that permitted. In addition, a secure controlled workstation
conforming to Pathway policies (see 3.2) must be used and the user identified
there with the correct role so that the application controls cannot be by-passed.

5.3.2.3. Users using only Oracle via applications on their controlled workstations should
be registered to the Oracle application, not the underlying operating system,
and authenticate using a password.

5.3.2.4. Where users need to be both UNIX and Oracle users, they should be registered in
UNIX, and have Oracle use the result of the UNIX (and security token)
authentication.

5.3.2.5 Oracle database administration functions should use:

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 42 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Patrol for monitoring the database

Pre-defined Discover queries to examine the state of the database. (Discoverer
should be configured to restrict access to the tables and views needed for the task
and audit actions.)

Pre-defined, authorised SQL*Plus for database updates (which should include
auditing)

5.3.2.6 Application support users of Oracle should use:
Pre-defined forms for correcting standard types of data problem
Pre-authorised SQL*Plus scripts for correcting other data problems

All pre-defined forms and pre-authorised scripts should audit the correction made.

5.3.2.7 I Users who require any access to operating system facilities must do so via a
secure menu system that restricts the user to functions authorised for users of
that role (and audits all functions performed by that user).

5.3.2.8 Where a function called from the secure menu system requires a change of
username, that change should be done automatically by the menu system and
audited. Changes to username must also cause a Patrol event.

5.3.2.9 I The secure menu system should have specific functions for most system
management activities. However, for emergency use, the menu will include an
item that provides root access and use of UNIX commands.

5.3.2.10 Computer operators access Sequent systems from the console, using the secure
menu system to access a limited number of predefined jobs such as back-ups.

§.3.2.11 Engineering access when the operating system cannot be fully booted, is via
“single user mode” under controlled conditions (see Visitor Authentication and
Engineering Access). Single user mode should only be used when more
controlled methods are not possible.

5.3.2.12 I Operational management staff always authenticate under their own names to
UNIX and perform functions wherever possible without superuser/root
privileges. If root is needed, the appropriate menu item on the secure menu
system will be used to switch users. This will be audited and an alert sent to
BMC Patrol so a record remains available even if the audit log at the UNIX
machine is subsequently corrupted.

5.3.2.13 Where non-Pathway, e.g. Sequent staff provide 3rd line support, this may be from
the 3rd party site. In this case, access must be from a controlled NT
workstation and controlled environment as for Pathway operational
management - see 3.2. Call in procedures are as in 4.5.3.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 43 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.3.2.14 As Sequent requires root access, an independent monitoring system will be used
where all key strokes on the Sequent workstation are captured and echoed on a
Core Services workstation

5.3.2.15 I Application support managers can correct application data subject to authorisation
procedures — see 4.5.5. For Oracle applications, this should, where possible, be
via specific functions available to the Oracle SSC role. In exceptional
circumstances, use of SQL*Plus scripts will be authorised after checking. For
other services, this may involve updates to flat files. In all cases, corrections to
the data are audited.

5.3.3 Application/Oracle Roles at the Operational Sequent Systems

5.3.3.1 Database roles with appropriate database views/tables should be used to separate
what data is available to whom.

5.3.3.2. The following Oracle roles should be defined for all Oracle applications on the
operational Sequent servers. Note that in some cases, people with different
human roles in the list in chapter 6 may have the same access to the same

Oracle role.
Oracle role Functions, and roles
MONITOR Read only access to application data in this database
- used by Auditors, application support etc
AUDITOR As MONITOR plus access to audit information

- used by auditors
CORE_SERVI I Full dba privileges

CES_DBA

SSC As for MONITOR, plus limited updates, implemented by
pre-authorised SQL*Plus scripts.

BSU Specific business support functions on OBCS and some

other applications - see chapter 6.

5.3.3.3. Other application roles should be defined for particular applications to support the
application roles listed in chapter 6, for example, Reference Data roles at
RDMC.

5.3.3.4. Information available to people doing ad-hoc queries should be further
constrained e.g. using Business Object universes.

Note that there are also roles for non-human users.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 44 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.3.4 Dynix and Oracle Access Controls

5.3.4.1 The Dynix operating system should be set-up according to the access control
policy in 3 above.

5.3.4.2. Automated processes should do all loading/unloading of data to/from Oracle
databases. Separate interface tables should be used to restrict the damage
possible due to failures during automated processes.

5.3.4.3 The set-up of the system should be regularly monitored, for example, to check for
dormant accounts and to review any changes made to important system files.

5.4 Windows NT Systems

This section deals with NT workstations and servers at the Data Centres and other Pathway
managed NT systems except the Post Office outlets. NT workstations at secure Pathway
management and support sites should also conform to these policies, and the NT domain
policies.

5.4.1 Generic NT Policies

NT systems support the operational management and support roles listed in chapter 6 unless
otherwise stated.

5.4.1.1 As on other systems, engineers should only have controlled access and must be
accompanied by Core Services staff when using the system.

5.4.1.2 Apart from event logs etc, which are relevant to all NT systems, application
support users should access application databases via relevant tools, rather
than just operating system facilities.

5.4.1.3 All NT servers should be set up with a group and template user for the generic
management and support roles (plus any others defined for the particular NT
system). When a user is assigned to a role these templates should be used to
set up that user with the required user profile providing access only to those
tools needed to carry out the role.

5.4.1.4 While use of NT domains allows a user to log in once to multiple servers, some
roles (such as Engineer and Key Custodian) should always be defined as
requiring the user to be local to the machine.

5.4.2 NT Domain Policies

Windows NT domains are used in Pathway to control which NT servers can share NT
resources and which users have access to those resources. They are also used to simplify user
authentication — a user need only logon once to a domain (or once to a set of domains) which
have an established trust relationship that includes trust in the users of the domains.

NT domains should conform to the following policies:

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 45 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.4.2.1 I NT domains should generally have at least one Backup Domain Controller. This
should be on a separate site from the Primary Domain Controller. Exceptions
to this must be agreed and are expected to be small domains with few users.

5.4.2.2. Where a set of related NT systems is run by a different authority from other NT
systems, this should be set up as a separate domain.

5.4.2.3. Where such a domain does not share users or resources with other domains, it
should be a separate domain with no trust relationship with other domains.

5.4.2.4 Domains may span sites where all NT workstations and servers in the domain are
run by the same authority and are subject to the same physical and network
security. (For example, the SMC system management domain spans the SMC
workstations attached to a secure LAN on the secure SMC Site and the Tivoli
NT servers at the Data Centre).

5.4.2.5 A domain must be confined within an area of the network, which is subject to the
same security policies and controls. For example, it must not include NT
systems on different sides of a firewall.

5.4.2.6 Where sharing of resources, but not users, is required between domains, then the
trust between domains should be restricted to sharing the agreed
resources/files across the domain boundary. The resource sharing must be
restricted to the minimum required for the agreed functions.

5.4.2.7 Where sharing of files is required between domains on different sides of a
firewall, this should be subject to special authorisation procedures as well as
the policy above.

5.4.2.8 A domain should not establish trust in users registered in a domain in a less
trusted part of the network.

5.4.2.9 Users should only have access to the NT systems to which they are permitted
access. The domain set up should prevent them accessing any other NT
systems.

5.4.2.10 Users should not be registered as NT users at domains where their only access is
at the application level, for example, from a remote client via an application
protocol to a particular application that has its own logon

5.4.2.11 I Set up of NT domains should assist separation of systems to reduce interference
between them.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 46 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.4.3 Correspondence Servers

5.4.3.1 Business Support and Auditor access to the operational Correspondence servers
should be restricted to exceptional circumstances for limited amounts of data
(as otherwise, the performance of the system could be impaired). In all cases,
access should be controlled, and limited to use of a specific agreed query tool.

5.4.4 Security Servers on NT

Security services on NT are:

*

The Key Management Application (KMA) which generates and distributes cryptographic
keys to Horizon services and the Post Office outlets. An associated Certification
Authority Workstation (CAW) generates public key certificates and Entropy servers that
generate DSA entropy for digital signatures.

The VPN servers used for protection of the traffic to Post Office outlets.

The audit and key management workstations supporting the Pathway Security Manager
and his staff.

Signing servers to sign software and auto-configuration information sent to the Post
Office Outlet.

(This is in addition to the software security services to protect data in transit on particular
links.)

5.4.1.1 The Certification Authority Workstation (CAW) that includes the CA should be
off-line — not connected to any network.

5.4.1.2. The KMA should store all keys encrypted, and the key used to encrypt these keys
should be subject to the normal KEK policies — see 3.5.

5.4.1.3 Application level access to the KMA should be restricted to the agreed functions
for each of the specified roles, and each role should have the least privilege
needed to do the job. All security significant actions should be audited.

5.4.1.4 On-line interactive access by human users to the NT server on which the KMA
resides should not be generally possible. It should require approval by the
Pathway Security Manager to permit this access (except for key handling on
reboot). The access will only ever be permitted for:

Read only access by application support staff (updates should always be via the
standard Tivoli software distribution)

Limited, authorised, system admin access by local users

Engineers

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 47 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.5 Authentication Service for Authentication using Tokens

Authentication using tokens will be supported by an Authentication Service at each Data
Centre (one the master, generally used for all authentication, with the other acting as a slave
to provide resilience).

5.5.1.1 After installation and configuration of the Authentication Service, the only
application access to the Authentication service should be by the Pathway
Security Manager workstation at the Pathway management site. These must be
controlled NT workstations on the secure LAN (see chapter 3).

5.6 Cryptographic Boxes

Hardware encryption boxes are used to provide link level encryption on a number of links.
These are government approved point-to-point encryption devices using Rambutan.

5.6.1.1 Access controls at these devices should be as specified by the manufacturer.

5.7 Symmetrix discs

EMC require access to the live Central Host systems for support of the Symmetrix Remote
Data Facility used to replicate disk array data between two Campuses. The disk arrays are
monitored by an internal system, which regularly checks the disks against predefined
thresholds such as numbers of failed read or write attempts. When a threshold is exceeded,
the disk monitoring system automatically telephones the EMC support unit in Cork, Eire.

5.7.1.1 Access to EMC disc controller (and to discs) is as specified and restricted to the
use of the special EMC client

5.8 Interface Systems at Business and Outlet Business Change

The Horizon system manages interface PCs at some related Outlets (PO Ltd, PO Ltd. Clients
and Outlet Business Change supplier). It also manages the interfaces to the Pathway
network(e.g. routers.)

In all cases, routers are managed by Pathway Network Management and interface PCs are
managed using Horizon System Management.

5.8.1 Interface Systems with Interface PCs

Pathway has links to a number of Pathway managed interface PCs at Sites remote from the
Pathway Data Centres. These include PO Ltd. and PO Ltd. Client systems. (The PO Ltd. TIP
link is also used for Royal Mail traffic.) There may also be interface systems at Pathway
Outlet Business Change Suppliers.

5.8.1.1 Once configured, the PCs and routers at these sites should not normally have any
human access — file transfers should be automated and the PCs managed
remotely using Tivoli.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 48 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.8.1.2 The operational management role at these sites is limited to local system
administrative functions only.

5.8.1.3. The engineer role is restricted to installing or replacing the PC. The PC will not be
repaired when configured into the operational system.

5.8.1.4 Business data in transit to the Data Centres is protected as defined in 3.7 above.

5.8.1.5 Where the PC is directly connected to other systems (such as the PO Ltd. ones), it
should also be configured to restrict traffic with such systems.

5.8.1.6 Controls at the interface PCs at PO Ltd (and similar) sites must ensure separation
of incoming and out going files so that all files supplied by Pathway are read
only for PO Ltd. access. In addition, files for different systems (e.g. TIP,
Royal Mail and Reference Data) are separated.

5.9 System Management Servers

A set of Tivoli system management servers are used to manage the Post Office systems and
related Data Centre NT systems (mainly using Tivoli products). They also monitor other
Pathway management systems and collect event data from other systems.

5.9.1.1 All users of Tivoli must be registered at the Tivoli server and associated with the
appropriate roles, groups (and regions) to restrict their access to facilities,
which they are permitted to access. (All such users have security tokens, so are
also registered with an Authentication Service)

5.9.1.2 In addition to SMC/HIT roles, Tivoli servers should also support:

Pathway Security Auditors with read access to audit information via the web
interface — platform audit logs, Tivoli notices, and Tivoli events collected for
auditing.

Application support users with access to pre-authorised Tivoli tasks to extract
diagnostic information from the Post Office.

5.9.1.3. Tivoli integrity features should also be used to protect Tiv oli traffic on the link.
5.10 Network and Firewall Management

5.10.1. Network Management and Routers

The Pathway network routers are managed using HP Open View with Cisco Works as
illustrated below.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 49 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02
Datafeedseg. Eventsto Tivoli Data outputs

PO adresses T 4 e.g. audit logs

Network Management Station (Sun, UNIX)

HP Open View Cisco Works
TACACS+
At the Data Centres,
Managed routers Post Offices and
& ISDN adaptors Interfacing sites

Figure 5-1 Network Management

There is a single Network Management Station (NMS) at each Pathway Data Centre. NMS
users use controlled NT workstations with tokens (see section 3) but also need to log onto
UNIX for access to authorised Open View and Cisco Works/View functions.

In addition to NMS roles, there are also Cisco router support roles. Engineers may also
require direct access to routers.

There are no on-line application support roles. Support of Open View, Cisco Works etc is
done off-line. Pathway auditors access audit information from the NMS via audit records sent
through to Tivoli and extracted audit logs.

5.10.1.1 Network Management configuration must be carried out before live running and
the configuration independently validated and authorised by a senior Core
Services network person before use.

§.10.1.2 I Even though network management workstations run 24 hours a day, all users must
still be individually authenticated. (This implies that at the end of the shift, the
existing user must log out and the new user log on.)

§.10.1.3 Network management should normally be done using OpenView. In agreed
exceptional circumstances (for example, for fault resolution requiring use of
the debug facility, in times of excessive network workload or during fault
conditions), the network may be managed using router facilities directly via
telnet, not via Open View, and therefore not subject to its controls. This is
confined to authorised Core Services Network Managers using Telnet access
to routers from a specific dedicated NT system on the Operational Bridge area
of the Network Centres.

5.10.1.4 Telnet access to routers is permitted only to Core Services senior network
management staff and Cisco staff supporting the routers from a remote CISCO
site. All such access must be authorised by a member of the Telnet
authorisation list. Manual records must be kept of this authorisation each time
Telnet access is used.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 50 of 1
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.10.1.5

5.10.1.6

5.10.1.7

5.10.1.8

5.10.1.9

5.10.1.10

5.10.1.11

5.10.2

All users of Telnet access to routers must authenticate using TACACS+ and their
access audited at the NMS.

Cisco staff must access the router needing support via a separate gateway router
dedicated for Cisco use. This gateway router must be configured to permit
Cisco access only when Cisco support is needed. A different TACACS
username and password must be used on each occasion, valid for the particular
session only.

The standard Cisco engineers must have only read access to the routers. Only
named and authorised senior CISCO staff may have the “enable” mode
needed for reviewing configuration files and debugging. CISCO staff should
not make changes to the routers, but advice the Network Manager of any
changes required.

The only direct access permitted to routers is for engineers investigating hardware
problems. In this case, access should always be done locally at the router using
a console.

In normal running, the routers must not have consoles attached, though console
access may be enabled. Any attempt to log-on at a console should be via
TACACS+ and so be flagged at the NMS.

A faulty router must be configured out of the network before a console is attached
and the router engineer logs on to diagnose and repair the fault. When the
router is connected back into the system, its configuration must be checked
and the new configuration authorised before the router is configured for
normal use in the operational system.

Engineers are not individually known to the routers, so manual procedures must
identify the engineer when he visits the site before he is given today’s
password. The password used for direct router console access should be
changed via the NMS every 28 days and also immediately when an engineer
requires access.

Firewall Management

Firewalls are managed using Enterprise Centres on Solaris systems (shared with Security
token management), one at each Data Centre.

Enterprise Centre roles supported are Firewall Manager and Firewall Monitor. There are no
on-line support roles for the Enterprise Centre application or the firewall application.

5.10.2.1

All access to the firewalls must be via the Enterprise Centre, except for hardware
maintenance. For routers, in normal running, firewalls must not have consoles
attached — they should only be attached for hardware maintenance after the
firewalls has been configured out of the system.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 51 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

§.10.2.2 All configuration changes must be made via the Enterprise Centre and logged via
Tivoli. Firewall audit logs should also be sent to the Enterprise Centre.

5.10.2.3 Firewalls should restrict traffic as in the network access policies in 3.7. (This is
different for different firewalls).

5.11 Software Distribution Servers

Software distribution servers include the Configuration Management and associated signing
servers on Pathway project Outlets and the depot/Tivoli servers at the Data Centres to which
software is sent for onward transmission to other Horizon systems at the Data Centres, Post
Office outlets and elsewhere.

5.11.1.1 The Configuration management system should have access controls, which
conform to this policy, even though it is not at the data centre, or on a separate
secure LAN.

5.11.1.2 I The associated signing server should be on the secure LAN, and controls should
be fully conformant with this policy.

5.12 OBC Servers at the Data Centres

The Post Office counters are delivered with a standard configuration, which needs to be
personalised and updated when installed.

The servers involved in this process are shown in the following diagram.

ACDB admini r
Pathway Data Centre

¥ Auto-Configuration
osc [Pathway mgt s atapase

staff & 4 OcMs Signing Server [—~*
suppliers T

(Configuration depot/ Tivoli server her systems

__ mgt via I neluding KMS
Isigning server] Bove A

Genetic
softerey, PC with enol te & KMS exchanges

software installed -—Soware updates

——or

fice y
Factory = Ei Y R R

Auto-configurer

Installation Engineer
Post Office Manager

Figure 5-2 Interactions of Post Office Installations

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 52 of I
POL00400776

POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

5.12.11

5.12.1.2

5.12.13

The terminals should be delivered from the factory conforming to the agreed build
with software, including an Auto-configurer application, installed.

Access to the ACDB should be confined to:

ACDB administrators using controlled NT workstations (Site type 1 in section
3.6.3)

Application support using controlled NT workstations (Site type I in section
3.6.3)

File transfers from the OCMS database at the Pathway Management site via the
firewall

The normal NT admin, audit and engineering access.

Access to the software depot/Tivoli software distribution system from outside the
Data Centre should be confined to the feed of software and associated files
from the signing server at the Pathway Management centre and to the
managed distribution to the Post Office outlets.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 53 of I
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

6.0 Roles and Permitted Access

This chapter specifies all human roles with access to the Pathway Data Centres and the other
Pathway managed systems such as the interface PCs at PO Ltd Sites.

For each role, the following table outlines the job functions performed and also the IT
functions and resources accessed to carry out these roles, including which systems are
accessed. The table is ordered into:

Main operational roles (Post Office outlet staff);

* Corporate management roles (Pathway business management, customer services

including business support, Pathway security roles including cryptographic key ones and
auditor roles including PO Ltd and NAO auditors);

* OBC roles (help desk, ACDB roles);

System and operational management and support roles (operational management on
Sequent, NT etc, SMC system management, software distribution, network and firewall
management, application support and other support roles)

In the following table:
The site type is:
* DC for Data Centre
* PPS for a Pathway project site
* SL/PPS for secure LAN at a Pathway site
* PO for Post Office

* The system is:

* Seq for all Sequent systems

* DW for Data Warehouse
*

HS for the Host Application Sequent system

Unless otherwise stated, users access the system via controlled NT workstations, logging into
the appropriate NT domain.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 54 of I
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Role
(Organisation)

Main job functions

IT functions & data access

Systems
7

Main Operational Roles

Post Office Staffand

Customers at Post Office outlets

Post Office I All the management of the Post Office system I Key (and memory card) custodian - installing, I Post Office only
Manager (The I including setting up workstations, introducing I changing and recovering keys.
person in charge of I users, doing accounts. User management (of local post office staff).
the Post Office, Post Office Managers may allow other staff to ‘ «age
who may be a sub-I deputise for th dso take this rol Specific management applications, for example,
postmaster or eputise For them, and so take this role. balancing Post Office accounts and stock unit
agent.) Workstation set-up, emergency procedures, I management (including allocation to clerks).
(PO Ltd) installation functions. Run diagnostics to check system and peripherals are
functioning correctly.
All counter clerk functions.
Post Office I Run the PO applications e.g. APS, EPOSS and I System boot-up using the memory card. (At some I As above
Counter —_ Clerks I OBCS. Post Office outlets, this may be restricted to more
(PO Ltd) senior staff.)

Do training.

Run applications e.g. EPOSS, APS, OBCS.
Stock unit balancing etc.

In training mode, special training data (counter clerk
also uses special training benefits/APS cards so does
not need a customer present)

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 55 of 1
Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02
Post Office I All Counter Clerk functions plus other I As Counter Clerk plus viewing stock, users. As above
Supervisor (PO I functions.
Ltd.)
Customers Transactions at Post Office outlets e.g. buying I Customers do not access the system directly.

stamps, collecting benefits, paying utility bills.

Corporate Management Roles

Pathway Corporate Management Roles and associated support roles (all Pathway staff on secure LAN at Pathway management site)

Pathway Managing the set-up of the management I Business Object Universes (including supervisor I DW; other MIS
Management information services (e.g. setting up Business I functions);
Support Object Universes and associated controls).

Providing information to other
Management users on request.

Pathway

Also, providing the PO Ltd. interfaces for
management information — including provision
of management data regularly and on request.

Read and update access to agreed MIS data including
CONFIDENTIAL and SLAM;

Data required for download to workstations for
reports (Pathway, PO Ltd.)

Pathway Financial I Use of financial management information in I Access to Common Charging System (CCS) and I DW
Management the Common Charging System and elsewhere _I other financial information

Pathway Contract I Use of contract management information in the I Access to CON service DW
Management Contract Management system (CON)

Pathway Business I Use of selected Data Warehouse information I DW: read only access to Post Office information DW
Development in development of the business

Pathway Customer Services, including Business Support (mainly Pathway staff on secure LAN at Pathway management site)
Pathway Customer I Service Level agreement management Business Objects Universe with predefined Reports I DW

Support Managers

for SLA’s.

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 56 of 1
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

CS User Service Level agreement Monitoring of I SMDB Database access via Corporate LAN SMDB
Outlets
Business Support I Unit function Access to services for cases needing reconciliation. HS: OBCS, APS
Manager Support the business when there is a Pathway I Access to services such as OBCS, APS and TPS (PO I Correspondence
problem, for example a service breakdown. I transaction logs) etc when required server
[T his includes reconciliation of data other All update access is via specific Oracle forms
services ]. «nae
applications.
Role function
Authorising adjustments to business records
subject to agreed procedures.
Business Support I Investigating incidents, and adjusting business I Access to OBCS, TPS etc as above As above
Analyst records, (but not finally authorising them.)
Pathway Reference I Use of reference data in the Data Warehouse Access to DW reference data DW
Data Management
Reference Data I Kick off the transfer of validated reference I (Oracle role: user_change_control) HS:RDMC
Change Manager data of classes 2 to 5 to TMS when all required
dependencies have been met.
RDMC Loader Manually initiated load of reference data files I (Oracle role: user_loader) HS:RDMC
to RDMC
RDMC user Query and report on reference data, so read I (Oracle role: user_reports) HS:RDMC
only access
RDMC access I Sets up users and assigns them their roles (Oracle role: user_administrator) HS:RDMC

administrator

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 57 of 1
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Pathway Security and

Cryptographic key roles

Pathway Security I Maintains the records of security tokens and I Maintenance and audit functions at the ACE server ACE server
Manager their PINs and users.
Cryptographic Key I Generating or obtaining cryptographic keys I Also viewing current situation re keys (KMA) and I KMA, CAW

Manager

and organising their distribution.

generating certificates to certify keys (CAW)

Cryptographic Key
Custodian

Initial installation of cryptographic keys where
this needs to be done manually. Periodic
update of these keys.

Installing keys where needed (interfacing PC (Data
Centre and remote), KMA, (CAW), VPN. Always
local user, not remote.

See IT functions

column

Cryptographic Key
Handler (Note 3)

Handling part of a split cryptographic key
when this needs to be re-installed e.g. when a
system is rebooted.

Loading part key (normally from floppy) during load,
so no logon, no individual authentication.

As key custodian

PO key recoverer Initiating recovery of a Post Office key from I Authorised functions at KMA KMA

(part of SMC team the Help Desk after a Post Office Manager has

leader role) lost his card or .

KMA Data I Maintain validity of data within KMA I Authorised functions at KMA KMA

Manager database e.g. specify new client where keys are

to be sent (but no key management roles)

Auditor Roles

Pathway Business I Overall auditing of the Pathway solution (though not Post Office outlets directly, as there are I Archive server;

Function Auditor records of Post Office activity at the Pathway central I exceptionally,
site.) correspondence
The Business Function Auditor mainly uses Servers, host

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 58 of 1
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

information from the archive server and information
extracted from other systems, though has limited
access to other systems.

applications etc

Pathway Security
Event Auditor

Auditing the security of the Horizon system
including monitoring, investigating incidents,
reporting etc

Operational and management logs of business
transactions including Riposte journal for events at
Post Office outlets and host application logs

System logs of activities at Horizon systems such as
user logon and administration and other security
relevant events including system, network and
firewall management.

Logs at relevant Pathway internal systems.

Archives of these at the archive server retrieved from
the Legato tapes there.

Manual records associated with IT access.

Many events are collected centrally using Tivoli (via
Patrol and Openview where needed). The technician
monitoring the systems management workstation will
alert the Security Event Auditor of specified types of
significant events. However, some event records will
remain in local audit logs.

Most except Post
Office outlets

PO Ltd. Auditor Auditing operation of a Post Office Authorised Riposte functions after authentication I Post Office
using one shot password outlets only

PO Ltd. Emergency I Taking the role of an Emergency Manager I Post Office start up functions Post Office

Manager; who may take over from the manager after outlets only

Authorised Riposte functions after authentication

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 59 of 1
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

PO
Investigator

Ltd.

suspected fraud or when a Post Office is closed
down or transferred to a different manager.

using one shot passwords

Extemal Auditor A PO Ltd or NAO Auditor auditing the I External auditors have (indirect) access via Pathway I None
operation of Pathway Auditors, rather than direct access to the Horizon
systems. There are some differences in data available
to different External Auditors.
OCMS Roles with Data Centre access
OCMS users I Handle calls from Pathway suppliers and Post I Query and update access to OCMS. OCMS
(Pathway) Office outlets - forwarded from Horizon
system help desk. Queries and limited updates
to OCMS depending on call
Auto-configuration I OCMS staff managing the data going through I Query access plus update as permitted by I ACDB
user (Pathway) the auto-configuration database (ACDB). This I ACDB/client
includes some update access.
ACDB data I Administering the central services site I Query access plus update as permitted by I ACDB
administrator information in the ACDB ACDB/client
Installation Start-up Post Office outlets Auto-configuration application only PO links to boot
engineer server

System and Operational Management and support

Operational Management

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 60 of I
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Computer Operator

Local operation of the machine such as media
handling.

On Sequent, the ability to run pre-defined jobs, such
as back-ups.

On NT, media handling only, including legato tapes
used for archiving

Operational Management of the operating system. Access to required operating system functions. All Seq;
management’ On Sequent, any action needed concerned with I On Sequent, this can allow use of ROOT, UNIX all NT (except
System replication between campuses and _ local I commands and Oracle dba functions under controlled PO); .
Administrator we we all Solaris
. archiving. conditions (see 5.3)
(Core Services) Job scheduling (Sequent & NT) using Maestro io) . we .
: perational monitoring/management using Patrol

a aes . . . workstations.

Code updates when required quickly (prior to

update via configuration management) and

authorised
Security Administering UNIX/NT user information, I User administration and related functions All Seq;
Management including group membership for all users; also, NT (not PO);
(Core Services) on Sequent, in secure menu system. Solaris

Administering Oracle database administrator

users and associated roles and privileges.

Security monitoring
Secure menu I Configuration of the secure menu system, I Pre-defined agreed functions Seq

administrator

including addition of new functions

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 61 of 1
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

(Sequent only)

System Monitoring I Monitoring the operational system. Patrol via an appropriate workstation Seq

(Sequent only)

Engineer Hardware diagnostics and repair Access to diagnostics and, if needed, data on suspect I All systems
hardware except PO

Base _ Installation I Initial installation and configuration the base I As job function for Data Centre systems and Pathway

and configuration system - Sequent and Oracle databases. Later I managed systems, except POs where there is a

updates to these. special installation engineer

Dynix 3rd __ line I Operational management of Dynix by Sequent I UNIX, which can include ROOT access under I Seq

support staff when Core Services cannot cure problem. I controlled conditions

Database monitor Monitoring Oracle databases Read only access; on Oracle, use of SQL*Plus, I Seq
svrmgr

Operational Oracle database administrator for database I Dba functions for specified —_ applications I Seq

management/ structure - setting up views, space allocation I (CORE_SERVICES_DBA role)

Database ete.

administrator

Oracle database 3rd I Operational management of Oracle on Sequent I Read only access; Oracle dba and limited UNIX I Seq

line support

when Core Services cannot cure problem.

functions

Legato
Administration

Managing the audit archives

Legato archives via Legato client

Archive server

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 62 of 1
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

System Management — SMC roles

System Unit functions
Management

System management activities are:
Centre 7 e

planned system management actions, for
example, the distribution of software or the
implementation of new Post Office outlets.

monitoring the system and taking action when
this is needed.

resolving technical problems passed on by the
Horizon System Help Desk

They also handle PO key recovery.

SMC technician or I Monitoring the system - software distribution, I Tivoli/Oracle facilities for authorised functions. (No I Tivoli servers
technical specialist I the auto-configuration process and other I NT/UNIX tools) via Tivoli client

system management events. Pre-defined Tivoli tasks can be used for a variety of

For software distribution, select targets for I system management tasks including Riposte
distribution from those authorised and report I administration at the Correspondence servers.
on progress.

Run pre-defined, pre-allocated tasks.

Raise alarms on pre-defined conditions

SMC technical I For software distribution, authorise targets for I Tivoli/Oracle facilities for authorised functions. (No I Tivoli servers
team leader distribution, change priorities or cancel I NT/UNIX tools) via Tivoli client;
distribution and report on progress. (KMA_ for PO

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 63 of 1
Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02
Other system management tasks as SMC I For one-time password authentication, special I recovery)
technician. security system with access to special application
Authenticating users at the Post Office using only
one-shot passwords. For PO key recovery, application at KMS
Assisting in Post Office key recovery.
SMC MSS I Handle receipt of software and auto-I Tivoli/Oracle facilities for authorised functions. Tivoli servers

technical support

configuration information.

Configure Tivoli event management —
configure the view of events by others and task
event relationships and add new Sentry
monitors.

Create Tivoli tasks and allocate to SMC

technicians.

System administration of the SMC
workstations and Tivoli servers (NT and UNIX
systems) including backup/recovery

Authorised NT/UNIX tools

via Tivoli client

SMC
Manager

Security

User administration — adding SMC and other
users to the SMC domain and to Tivoli.
Allocating users’ rights e.g. roles, groups.

Tivoli and OS user and role administration

Tivoli servers
via Tivoli client

Sofiware Distribution

Software
Distributor

Initiates transfer of software to the depot/
Tivoli at the Data Centre for distribution to the

Functions at signing server to initiate transfer

server?
Pathway

signing
at

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 64 of 1
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref:

RS/POL/003

Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

operational system after authorisation by CS
Release Manager.

project site

Network Management

Network Monitoring the network Specified Open View and Cisco Works/CiscoView I NMS
Technician (Core functions and the NMS only. (No direct UNIX
Services) access)
Network Manager I Monitoring the network. Open View and Cisco Works network management I NMS
(Core Services) . se : functions, but no direct UNIX access at the NMS

Updating router configuration information e.g.

Post Office information e.g. Fujitsu Services

Core Services address

Access Lists of permitted addresses, protocols,

ports.

Updating information about routers available

when needed (including confirming bringing a

mended one back on line — see below)
Network Configuring NMS including Open View e.g. Open View configurer functions only (no UNIX I NMS
Management what to display to whom access)
Configurer (Core
Services) actions to be taken on certain events

Configuring Tivoli Event Adapter
Network Security I Maintain _user_information for _those_users I User administration functions NMS

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 65 of 1
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Manager
Services)

(Core

permitted to use this system — both UNIX
users and Open View users.

Local auditing of network management
activities at this system

Cisco support nth line support of routers Telnet access to routers Routers
Firewall Management
Firewall Manager I Maintains the firewall configuration and policy I Defined as NT & Enterprise centre user; I Enterprise

data

Authenticated with token to NT workstation, and
authenticated to the Enterprise Centre application.

Centre on Solaris
system

Firewall Monitor

Read access to alerts, logs and the rule base

as above

as above

Technical Help Desk

and Application and other Support

Horizon
Help Desk

Systems

Receiving technical queries from all IT users
of Pathway (internal and external) and
answering queries on these calls.

Answering some technical queries and

forwarding other calls on to the appropriate
2nd line support unit. Note, this includes
forwarding calls on PO key and password
recovery to SMC.

These users has no access to the main Data Centre
and other operational systems.

They have access to supporting services such as
Powerhelp for call handling and special versions of
Pathway (Post Office) applications (without real data
etc) to assist answering calls from Post Office staff.

Internal systems
only

Application support
user

Supporting applications on Sequent - both

Oracle applications and Access services.

Read only access to event logs and other relevant
files and databases. (This does not include the Post

Most NT;
Seq;

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 66 of 1
Fujitsu Services

Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0
COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Office counters) test rigs
Tivoli server access is restricted to pre-authorised
tasks to extract diagnostic info for POs
(Oracle MONITOR role on Sequent)
Application support I Supporting applications as above, plus I As above, plus controlled write access to application I as above
manager correcting data when required and authorised I data
under controlled conditions. (Oracle SSC role on Sequent)
Other hardware and system support
EMC Handling problems with Symmetrix discs Access to EMC disc controller (and to discs) using I EMC

special EMC client

POL00400776
POL00400776

* 2002 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 67 of 1
POL00400776
POL00400776

Fujitsu Services Access Control Policy Ref: RS/POL/003
Version: 4.0

COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 16/07/02

Notes:

This table does not include the Software distribution related roles at the Configuration
Management system, as the CM is not on the secure LANs covered by the ACP. Roles are:

CS Release Manager (authorising software (new software and fixes), configuration
information etc. for release (after testing at the test rigs).

Configuration librarians (maintaining the library of software at the Configuration
Management system and initiating signing and distribution of software after authorisation).

The Key Handler role needs to be performed on-site whenever systems are rebooted, so is
generally performed by the organisation at that site e.g. PO Ltd. at their Outlets.

There are associated manual processes to authorise some of the actions above and to liase
with other Pathway units involved in software distribution and auto-configuration. For
example:

Team Leaders and SMC Managers can authorise software distribution.
Only SMC Managers can authorise creation of new Tivoli tasks.

All changes distributed via Tivoli first go through the standard Configuration Management
system with its associated processes for change control, testing and authorising release.

* 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN-CONFIDENCE Page: 68 of I
