POL00056003

POL00056003
21 January 2011
Mrs Joan Bailey
Howey Post Office
Llandrindod Wells Post Office Ltd
LD1 SPT Old Swan Crown Office
489 Prescot Road
Liverpool
L13 3BU

Dear Mrs Bailey

Re: Howey Post Office Branch
Telephone conversations of today 21 January 2011 refers.

At the recent audit AT Howey Post office branch on 5 January 2011 a number of irregularities
in the accounts have come to light and these matters need to be explored with you. In order
that you have an opportunity to discuss the circumstances, I am writing to invite you to attend
a voluntary interview with the Post Office Ltd Security Investigation Team.

In order to progress this matter with some urgency would you please give me two dates in the
next two weeks that you would be available. When I have received your reply, I will send you
the necessary details to enable you to attend for interview.

If you would like to telephone me to arrange mutually convenient dates then please do on the
number above.

I must remind you that we are investigating possible criminal offences and as such the
proposed interview will be under caution and taped recorded.

Your legal rights will be explained to you in full at the interview, however so that you are
aware of them I will detail a brief summary of them now.

1. Should you attend the interview - it is on a voluntary basis - you do NOT have to remain
at the interview - you are NOT under arrest.

2. You may wish to seek legal advice from a solicitor before you attend this
interview - Your solicitor may also attend the interview with you.

3. In addition to your right to consult with or have a solicitor present - you may also have a
Post Office friend present. This friend is classed as someone over the age of 18 years of
age and is currently employed by the Post Office, he or she must not be involved in the

enquiry.

Alternatively if you engage the services of a solicitor you may pass this letter onto your
solicitors for them to deal with.
POL00056003
POL00056003

21 January 2011

Yours sincerely

Stephen Bradshaw

Fraud Investigator
Post Office Ltd Security Team
