Pp)

POL00045343
POL00045343

Witness Statement

(CJ Act 1967, 59; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3X(a)
and 5B, MC Rules 1981, r 70)

Statement of Theresa Joan HOLMES

Ageifunder18 Over 18 (If over 18 insert ‘over 18’)

This statement (consisting of two pages each signed by me) is true to the best of my
knowledge and belief and I make it knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence, I shall be liable to

Prosecution if I have wilfully stated in it anything which I know to be false or do not believe
true.

Datedthe 17 dayof July 2006

Signature

I have been employed as a counter clerk at the Post Office for 4 years. I started at Grandale
Post Office where I was trained by Janet Skinner. I moved to Hessel Road and for the last two
and a half years I have worked at North Bransholme Post Office.

My duties were alternate Monday afternoons or Tuesday mornings, Thursday afternoons and
Friday all day, every other Saturday morning. Ona Monday I worked with Wendy, Tuesday
with Janet and Kath, Thursday with Janet, Friday with Colleen, latterly with Wendy and
Saturday with Kath. I used to take the door and safe keys on a Thursday night for opening ona
Friday and also Friday night if it was my Saturday in work.

I used to have an individual stock unit, known as BB. We changed to a shared stock unit AA
about July 2005. I had my own user name THO001 and a Password. My password was known

to Janet and Colleen and I knew Janet's password to allow me to do the daily summaries when
Janet wasn't working.

When we were on a shared stock unit, all the losses would be made good between us all. Janet
would sometimes get a bit annoyed when the balance was short and make comments like be
a bit more careful. The largest loss I was told about was over £100 but we didn’t put any money
in to make it good the loss and Janet never asked for it. This was sometime last year.

Signature Signature witnessed by

C8011 (Side A) Version 3.0 11/02
POL00045343
POL00045343

Witness Statement
(CJ Act 1967, 89; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a) and 5B, MC Rules 1981, r 70)

Continuation of statement of Theresa Joan HOLMES

As I worked with Janet on a Thursday afternoon, I would ask how the balancing had been. Janet
used to tell me a figure but in the last few months she just used to say the balancing had been
rubbish but did not say an amount. Sometime last year, just before we went onto branch
trading, Janet went to a seminar. When she returned she told me that you don’t really have to
bother counting and declaring the cash anymore as it will not give you a true figure till the end
of the month. Janet told me to print a balance snapshot and have a look at the cash figure.
Declare that amount daily taking off about £13,000, which is stock. On occasions I did count

the cash on hand and declared that amount. I don’t remember the system showing a
discrepancy.

Around the beginning of May, on a Monday, the office was closed due to a flood. I was in work
in the afternoon and received a call from the cash depot. They asked why the cash order had
been increased that morning as the office has £72,000. I was asked to count the cash on hand
and said there was approx £3,000 on hand. . I said I would call the Subpostmisstress and asked
that he call back in 10 minutes. I called Janet who said she had been asked to return cash which
she had done. The man from the cash depot never called back.

Around a week before the office was closed as the landlord had put a lock on the secure area
not allowing access. I have been told this was due to non payment of rent.

I have been shown a schedule with transactions on CC stock which I was told was known as
DM7 which shows cash declarations made on CC stock unit under my user code, again on May
25". I have not attached myself to CC stock unit. I did not know the office had a CC stock unit
since we changed to shared balancing last year. I have not undertaken these transactions,

I have not stolen any money from North Bransholme Post Office and I have no knowledge of
how any losses have occurred.

Signature Signature witnessed by

‘csottA Version 3.0 14/02
