POL00117417
POL00117417

From: Rodric Williams} GRO i
Sent: Tue 16/06/2015 2:35:54 PM (UTC)

To: Mark R DaviesI
Jonathan Knox!

I; Paul Swantoi
Alan Taylor1[

Kevin X Cooperf: H
} Patrick

Subject: RE: PANORAMA PLANNING

Thanks very much Mark.

Please also be very careful with what you put in any email — they may need to be disclosed somewhere down the line
(e.g. under Freedom of Information Act or the court rules).

Kind regards, Rodric

POST *
OFFICE

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 16 June 2015 15:15

To: Paul Swanton; Jonathan Knox; Alan Taylor1; Jane Hill; Mike Granville; Richard R Weaver; Melanie Corfield; Kevin
X Cooper; Carmel McCarthy; Patrick Bourke; Darren Jones1; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Nick Beal; Thomas P Moran;
Tom Wechsler; Mark Underwood1; Rodric Williams; Peter Markey; Keith Gulliver

Subject: PANORAMA PLANNING

Dear all

As you are probably aware, Panorama is planning a programme on Horizon on June 29 (though the date could move).
We are engaging with the programme and BBC executives at present but have to work on the basis that it will go
ahead and that it will repeat the unsubstantiated (and in some cases absurd) allegations previously aired in BBC
programmes.

If the programme does go ahead it is critical that we have armed our people with information, reassurance and (in
cases where colleagues are customer or branch facing) answers to the questions which may be posed by customers,
branch colleagues, postmasters and others.

I have therefore with Mel worked up some ideas and tactics designed to support this need for information,
reassurance and answers. It is set out on the attached document, which is split into three sections: tactics by
POL00117417
POL00117417

audience, a timetable and required materials. Note: we have not suggested customer-facing branch collateral: this is
an option which we will consider so omission should not be seen as rejection of the concept.

’m copying you because it is likely you have an action in the document, or you will be asked to support briefings. I will
be discussing with wider colleagues on GE/SLT/relevant teams [and indeed some of the proposed briefings with
agency teams for instance are in the diary for next week].

Three health warnings:

- This is not complete as yet: if you can support by providing me with information to fill any gaps, that would
be welcome [gaps which are either obvious or where audience groups have been overlooked]

-  Notall the tactics in here are set in stone: but I want us to have considered all options: again, if there are any
gaps, please raise them with me.

- Please don’t forward this! If you do have changes please email them to me.

Many thanks in advance for your help. Panorama has the potential to cause serious brand damage and it is critical we
do all we can to minimise that by focussing as much effort as possible on supporting our people (and their businesses)
through what could be a difficult period.

Best wishes,

Mark
. Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

1st Floor
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

