POL00069767
POL00069767

Page 1 of 3

?
)€ shen Dilley

From: Stephen Dilley

Sent: 14 November 2006 15:41
To: 'M.Turnek._
Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Without prejudice

Dear Mr Turner,

Thanks for your email of earlier today with suggested amended wording.

I note that you are seeking formal instructions on the original paragraph 2 and will await your
approval of the draft Tomlin order plus the draft wording of the letter Mr Castleton requires
hopefully later today and then deal with this in the round.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Yours sincerely,

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

To: Stephen Dilley
Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Without prejudice

Dear Mr Dilley

Thank you for your e-mail below with draft order.

Whilst I have not yet been able to discuss it with him, I think it almost certain that the form of wording you

suggest at paragraph 2 will not acceptable to my client. I envisage that he would prepared to provide a letter
in the following terms:

"I, Mr Lee Castleton, the former subpostmaster at Marine Drive Post Office, Bridlington, fully
and unreservedly withdraw the allegations I have made about the operation of the Horizon
system. I undertake not to repeat those allegations and/or make any further allegations about
the Horizon system and/or its functioning."

This provides your client with the formal confirmation that it requires.

I will revert to you later today on the form of wording for the reciprocal letter to be provided by your client.

14/11/2006
POL00069767

POL00069767

Page 2 of 3

Regards,

‘Mark Turner

Solicitor

Commercial Group

Rowe Cohen Solicitors

From: Stephen Dilley _
Sent: 10 November 2006 17:07
To: Mark Turner r
Cc: Tom Beezer; alexander.goold,
Subject: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton”

Without prejudice

Dear Mr Turner,

I refer to our telephone conversation this afternoon.
1. I attach a draft consent order for your approval.

2. The wording of the letter from Mr Castleton to the Post Office referred to in
paragraph 4 of the Tomlin Order shall read:

“I, Mr Lee Castleton, the former subpostmaster at Marine Drive Post Office,
Bridlington, fully and unreservedly withdraw the untrue allegations I have made
about the operation of the Horizon system. Previously I thought that losses that
arose at the Marine Drive Post Office whilst I was subpostmaster arose due to a
malfunction of the Horizon system, but I now accept that I was mistaken and that
the losses were caused by human error. I declare that the Horizon system did not
cause or contribute to the losses in any way and I formally withdraw all statements
I made to the contrary and undertake not to repeat them, and/or make any further
allegations about the Horizon system and/or its functioning."

3. I suggest you provide us with a draft form of wording for us to consider for the
letter Mr Castleton seeks about no dishonesty allegation being made (as per para 3
of the Schedule to the Order)

4. As discussed:

(a) any settlement is not finalised until agreed in writing in the form of a signed
order;

(b) Our Counsel's deemed brief fee will not be incurred on Monday, strictly provided
that a final settlement order is agreed within the next few days. However, we have
previously agreed with Counsel that if settlement occurs before that time, Counsel
will be paid on an hourly basis for preparatory work done so far and any further
work. Therefore, it is preferable from a costs point of view if an order is finalised

14/11/2006
POL00069767
POL00069767

Page 3 of 3

sooner rather than later; and

(c) We are ready, willing and able to exchange witness statements but given the
parties are now focusing on settlement, do not propose to send them to you today.

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP
DDI:; GRO i

Main
Fax
www.bondpearce.com

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally
privileged and protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this
e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the
sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination,
distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection
software before transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before
opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales
number OC311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in
relation to Bond Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is
regulated by the Law Society.

The contents of this email and any attachments are confidential and may contain information that is legally privileged and/or otherwise protected from
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, any unauthorised use, disclosure, copying, distribution or any action taken in reliance on it, or other use is
prohibited and may be unlawful. If you receive this email in error please contact the sender immediately and delete this email from your system. Copyright in
this email and any attachments created by Rowe Cohen belongs to Rowe Cohen. The contents of this email may be intercepted monitored and/or recorded.
Neither Rowe Cohen nor the sender accepts any responsibility for viruses and itis your responsibility to scan the email and any attachments. If this message is

transmitted over the internet be aware that it may be intercepted by a third party for which Rowe Cohen exclude any liability in negligence or otherwise.
pian rasereeeteetTrsetreetieetretess tastes te neiserid Tent l este c ec Littag

Rowe Cohen
Solicitors

Quay House

Quay Street
Manchester M3 3JE
Tels ~

S.E. Cohen - D.J. Horwich - LN. Lewis - M-V. Hymanson - G.P. Small - A. Dennison - B.T. Coghlan - J.V. Dwek
A. Farley - A. Sacks - A. Taylor - M. Woodall - R. Sproston - A. Curwen - S. Room - R. Myer - H. Burns - S. Sutton
‘This firm is regulated by the Law Society

14/11/2006
