POL00145290
POL00145290

From: Rod Ismay}

Sent: Tue 09/07/2013 9:37:54 AM (UTC)

To: POL_FSC_Team_Members[POL_P&BA_Team_Members:

Bec: Peter GoodmanI } Rod Ismayff
Subject: FSC Comms Cells this morning - re: focusonline special: Horizon Report

Dear all —1 am going to do 4 quick comms cells this morning following on from the internal communications and
external media news which you may have seen this morning and last night.

I will do them at the end of each of our main workrooms.

Second Floor — my corner — 10.45am
Second Floor — rest room end — 11.00
First Floor — Alison’s corner — 11.15
First Floor — rest room end — 11.30

Please do read the press release in the link below.

If you receive any calls from subpostmasters asking about this please refer them to this press release which is publicly
available in the News Section on the Post Office website.

If any subpostmasters raise a concern about their use of Horizon please advise them to follow the usual process which
is to call the Helpline and to choose the option for Horizon Helpdesk.

If anyone who is not a subpostmaster rings then again please refer them to the News Section on the Post Office
website.

For further clarity, the media headlines refer to a bug.

e For background. The headlines are misleading and we have challenged the BBC on this. These anomalies
(not bugs) were NOT part of the 47 cases accepted by Second Sight, or part of the 4 which they were
investigating as part of the interim review.

e¢ We voluntarily provided information on two anomalies involving a receipts/ payments mismatch and historic
accounting entries. Both of these were found by the Post Office and voluntarily communicated to the
independent review company

¢ Modifications have already been made to rectify these issues and all subpostmasters involved have been
informed of this. None of the subpostmasters involved have been prosecuted

e The anomalies affected fewer than 100 branches, were all addresses and were in the context of the overall
network processing 6 million transactions a day

e We welcome the conclusion of this interim report that there are no systemic issues with the Horizon system.
This will give confidence to the 60,000 people who use Horizon regularly. This is a system which deals with six
million transactions every day.

A memoview reflecting this is being sent to branches today.
Thanks, Rod

From: Communications Team

Sent: 09 July 2013 08:58

To: Communications Team
Subject: focusonline special: Horizon Report
POL00145290
POL00145290

ie:

focusonline special 9 July 2013

To address the concerns about the Horizon system that have been raised by some
subpostmasters over recent years, the Post Office commissioned an independent review of their
cases. The company that conducted the review issued an interim report yesterday and you may
have noticed this has attracted some interest from the media.

The review makes clear that the Horizon computer system and its supporting processes function
effectively across our network. It does however raise questions about the training and support we
have offered some subpostmasters and we are determined to address these issues.

The statement we have issued following the publication of the report is available here.
