POL00105098
POL00105098

A_MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON JOINT INVESTIGATION

PROTOCOLS POST INDEPENDENCE INVOLVING ROYAL MAIL AND POST
OFFICE LTD SECURITY

1 - Introduction

This memorandum of understanding sets out the principles underpinning the
working relationship between the Royal Mail Group Security Criminal
Investigation Team and Post Office Ltd Security Team in regard to criminal

investigations that affect both businesses.

2 - Purpose of the Memorandum of Understanding

The purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to ensure consistency of
approach in relation to dealing with suspected crime involving Royal Mail
/ Post Office Ltd staff, products and services where reported incident

impacts across both parties. The key areas within the understanding are;

2.1 Communication

2.2 Investigation triggers

2.3 The investigation of suspected crime
2.4 The prosecution decision making process

2.5 Preventing reoccurrence of offence

2.1 Communication

Both parties will establish a single point of case reporting contact and
through that channel ensure that information relating to suspected crime
involving Royal Mail / Post Office Ltd staff, products and services is
shared with the other party at the earliest opportunity and normally
within seven working days following confirmation of the cross business

impact.

For RMG the point of contact will be the Royal Mail Security Helpdesk

¢ ny

GRO }-  securityhelpdes

and for Post Office Ltd

it will be the Casework Team i

post.office.security

2.2 Investigation Triggers

Both parties will initiate enquiries in line with their respective trigger

points; where the reported incident impacts across the other party then

1
POL00105098
POL00105098

that affected party will be advised, within seven days, of the details of

enquiries made irrespective of the triggers applied by that parent unit.

2.3 Investigation

Following notification of the suspected crime to either point of contact,
a meeting will take place at the earliest opportunity and normally within
seven working days between both parties (Security Operations / Royal Mail
Criminal Investigation Team Leader level) to agree operational planning;
plans will include operational roles, responsibilities and the frequency

and method of progress updates.

In the event that operational plans can not be agreed at an operational
level then the matter will be raised direct to the relevant Royal Mail
Head of Investigations and Post Office Ltd Senior Security Manager
Security Operations. Continued disputes will be referred to the next

appropriate level of authority.

Both parties recognise that approaches to their respective agents,
employees and clients subject to any enquiry must not be made without the
express authority and request for attendance of security personnel proper
to the parent organisation; likewise, any suspect engagement process must
be led by the parent organisation and must be managed in accordance with
the HR policies relevant to the parent organisation of the suspect and the

appropriate legislation (e.g. Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984.

2.4 Prosecution Decision

Cases leading to an interview under caution will ordinarily be reported to
the Criminal Law Team acting on behalf of the organisation which has
suffered the loss and against which the offence(s) have been committed,
for advice on the sufficiency of evidence and the usual public and
business interest considerations. There may be exceptions to this where
the lead business is the more appropriate choice and this will be normally
be at the discretion of the appropriate legal team and Royal Mail Head of
Investigations and Post Office Ltd Senior Security Manager Security

Operations.
POL00105098
POL00105098

Any dispute in regards to prosecution decision will be escalated to the
relevant Royal Mail Head of Investigations or Post Office Ltd Senior

Security Manager Security Operations.

2.5 Preventing Reoccurrence of Offence

Every investigation undertaken, irrespective of outcome, will be
critically examined, by parent unit, following an interview under caution
or at investigation closure (where an interview is not undertaken) to
establish any procedural or product failings leading to or facilitating
the suspected offence. Any failings will be notified to the other party
and reciprocated by evidence being provided as to the remedial action

taken.

3. Commencement Date

This Memorandum came into effect onlst April 2012.

4. AGREEMENT

In addition to formalising arrangements for co-operation between Post
Office Ltd and Royal Mail Group Security, this memorandum of understanding
provides important guidance regarding relevant operational procedures that
apply to both parties. Recognising that these may be subject to change,
this document will be regularly reviewed on a yearly basis, or at the

request of either of the parties to the agreement.

Signatories to this agreement:

John M Scott - Post Office Ltd

Phil Gerrish-Royal Mail Group Ltd
