POL00299899
POL00299899

Ce: 3
idbetter Katrina

Subject: RE: POST OFFICE READ THIS

Thanks all - obviously a horrible situation, I hope he makes a full recovery. Please share what information you can get on this with
us (including Peter and Katrina) as soon as possible.

Will Gibson I Executive Director I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I ¢

PA: Karen Smith I 0;

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and higher skills
across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: Susan Crichton [i
Sent: 23 September 2013
To: Gibson Will (ShEx)
Cc: Mark R Davies; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: Fw: POST OFFICE READ THIS

Hi Will this came through from Alan Bates today we are investigating the case and will get back to you
tomorrow.

Susan

From: Alan Bates i...
Sent: Monday, September 23, 2013 04:02 PM

To: Paula Vennells; Susan Crichton; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Andy Holt
Cc: swinsonmpstcorrespondence!
james.arbuthnot.

Subject: POST OFFICE READ THIS

This afternoon I received the following email, it is a prime example of the thuggery being exerted on
defenceless subpostmasters (as POL deny legal representation) by arrogant and uncontrolled Post Office
personnel. Despite assurances from on high that this type of thing is in the past, it is clear from POL's actions, it
is still alive and active through the ranks.

Hello Alan
!am writing on behalf of my son-in-law Martin Griffiths who has recently been in touch with you about the
treatment doled out to him by the hierarchy at the crown office in Chester. He had an armed raid in May, and
POL00299899
POL00299899

the faceless wonders at the crown office have intimated he was culpable. Had him at the Kangaroo court
where he was not allowed any representation of his own, he was a broken man then.

However, he was sent for last Friday to attend a meeting with the crown post office personnel again, and all
week-end he has clearly not been himself.

This morning he drove off to work, got out of his car and walked in front of a bus.
He is dangerously ill in Hospital at Liverpool, the post office had driven him to suicide.

All the family are at the hospital, I am alone waiting by the phone for further news of him.
! would urge you to publicise this, another incident that has been caused by the Bully Boys at the crown office.

May God forgive them.

lam aware of Martin's case, and I know he was terrified to raise his shortages with POL because of just this
type of thing happening to him, but POL got him in the end. Regardless of what may or may not have occurred
with him, why did POL have to hound him to the point of trying to take his own life? Why?

Despite numerous warnings of never to attend any discussion with POL without legal representation, Martin,
trying to be helpful, didn't take anyone with him as per the conditions POL demand. If POL cannot control their
personnel, then the very least they can do is authorise and insist on a subpostmaster taking legal
representation with them to any meeting with POL.

lam very, very angry about this, and as per the wishes of the family I will be contacting many of the media
contacts we have built up over the years.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
