POLO0097705
POL00097705

Message

From: Alice Perking a GRO eal
on behalf of — Alice Perkins}

Sent: 19/03/2013 17:

To: Alwen Lyong

cc: Paula Vennells,

Subject: Re: James Arbuthnot an

Thanks Alwen. It is very helpful to know what is in hand.

What you have heard leaves me mystified as to why JA was saying what he said to me today but on ther hand, adjectives
like "plausible" are easily misinterpreted.

As I said to you, JA intends to talk to SS before Monday's meeting and they will therefore have an opportunity to say
what they are doing/thinking very clearly to him before the meeting which should be helpful if they use that opportunity
well.

The only point you didn't cover was the one about giving the MPs a date by which we could meet them which is, of
course, tied up with how the enquiry is concluded, What is happening about that please?

See you tomorrow.

Alice

From: Alwen Lyons}.
Sent: Tuesday, March 19, 2013 05:07 PM
To: Alice Perkins

Cc: Paula Vennells.
Subject: James Arbuthnot and 2nd Sight

Alice
An update on what has happened today.

Susan and I had a meeting with Ron and lan from 2" Sight this afternoon and they are coming in to meet Paula
tomorrow at 15.00(I have offered to Paula that I could attend with her, but that will mean someone else
minuting the ARC — I can sort that tomorrow)

e At the meeting this afternoon 2" Sight were surprised that James now felt there was harder evidence against
the system. They used the phrases; no evidence of widespread systemic failure; the number of cases we are
seeing is small; the pattern aligns with the themes which are already in the public domain.

They assured Susan and I that they intend to make it very clear on Monday that they have been ‘consolidating
and distilling allegations and that the Post Office have not had the opportunity to respond’

e Some of the evidence is plausible but is as yet untested.

They are nervous about Monday, especially as it now emerges that Shoosmiths are attending the meeting. They
know that loose language will be very unhelpful, and realise that they may end up in the press, which will not
help the investigation.

e Simon is pulling together the facts for your letter to James and I have discussed with Mark , Paula also suggests
that Martin Edwards would be a good person to input. So we will pull this together tomorrow.

Hope that is helpful.
Paula or I will update you after out meeting with 2"¢ Sight tomorrow

Thanks
Alwen

POL-0097288
POLO0097705
POL00097705

Alwen Lyons [ Company S

©
cS
©

@® — @postofficenews

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH EIU ISOS IO ISO IIIA IOI IIIS OO IIIS ISAT I DDO DISA II OTANI

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0097288
