POL00066838

POL00066838

POST OFFICE LTD — CASE REVIEW

R. v. KHAYYAM ISHAQ

Bradford Crown Court

Offence

1.

On the 22" April 2013 this defendant was sentenced to a term of 54 weeks
immediate imprisonment for an offence of theft. The single charge alleged that
between 14" September 2010 and 9"" February 2011 he had stolen the sum of stole
£21,168.64 from Post office Ltd. On the 7 March the defendant stopped his
(second) trial and entered a guilty plea to the theft of £17,863.00.

Case history

2. The defendant appeared before the Bradford Magistrates Court on 30" May 2012.

He gave no indication of his plea and the Magistrates deemed the case unsuitable
for summary trial. The case was adjourned for the preparation of committal papers
and the committal hearing took place on 25" July 2012. Prior to the Committal
hearing of the 25" July 2012 the defendant’s solicitor indicated that the case would
be contested, on the basis that there must have been an error in the Horizon

accounting system.

. The solicitor also suggested that he intended to instruct a forensic expert.

The matter next came before the court for a Pleas and Case Management Hearing at
Bradford Crown Court on the 4" September 2012, when the defendant entered a not
guilty plea. He indicated to the court that he intended to instruct a forensic
accountant and sought disclosure of Horizon data covering the operational period of
the indictment. The matter was listed for trial to commence on the 25" February
2013.

4433
POL00066838

POL00066838

Trial commenced on the 26'" February 2013 but was aborted on the 27" February by
reason of defence counsel’s illness. The trial was re-listed to start again on the 6"
March and re-started on that date. On the 7" March the defendant stopped his trial
and entered a guilty plea to the theft of £17,863.00. The matter was adjourned to the
224 April 2013 when he was sentenced to a term of 54 weeks immediate

imprisonment for an offence of theft.

. The defendant subsequently sought the leave of the Court of Appeal to appeal

against sentence only; leave was refused by the Single Judge on the 20" June 2012.

Prosecution case

7.

The defendant Khayyam ISHAQ was during the relevant period the sub-postmaster
at the Birkenshaw Post Office, Branch Code 163 306.

On 8" February 2011 a member of the Network Support Field Team attended the
Birkenshaw Post Office branch in Bradford to undertake a check of the cash. A
count of the cash took place and revealed a shortage of £536. The balance snapshot
revealed a shortage of £2569.19. A full audit was carried out; this revealed a total

shortage in the branch of £21,168.64.

Horizon data for the period of 2nd November 2010 to 31% January 2011 indicated
that during the relevant period a large number of stock reversal transactions relating
to stamp sales had been conducted on Horizon, both under this defendant’s own

Log-in IDs and that of his clerk Mr. Umair LIAQUAT.

. It is to be noted that Mr. Umair Liaquat has said in a statement dated 24" June 2011

that:
— He was trained by the defendant. His was trained only on transactions and
had no other responsibilities other than serving customers.
— He changed his password whenever he was prompted (by Horizon) to do so;
he informed the defendant of his new password because he thought that was

what he thought he had to do.

4434
POL00066838

POL00066838

He was never told the defendant’s password and never asked for it.

The defendant completed the daily reports and declared the cash every day.
He helped the defendant with the balance only on 2 or 3 occasions. He was
never present when the defendant reached the balance figure.

He helped to count the coin and stamp book.

The defendant counted the safe content.

He was never made aware of any discrepancy.

He had asked the following day if everything was OK and had been told it
was fine.

The defendant never said he had forgotten to count cash.

He knows nothing of any discrepancy.

11. In response to the auditors questions the defendant said that he had no knowledge of

12.

any sale (of stamps) being reversed. He suggested that a relief sub-postmaster may

have conducted the reversal transactions: the relief had been using the defendant’s

Horizon Log-in ID

The allegation against the defendant was therefore that he had deliberately and

dishonestly inflated stock levels so as to enable him to remove cash to the value of

his transactions. By acting as he did he would ensure that less cash on hand would

be required to achieve a balance, thus resulting in discrepancies in the cash on hand

being hidden.

. In his interviews, conducted under the provisions of the Police and Criminal

Evidence Act 1984 and the relevant Codes of Practice, the defendant said:

He took the post office on in 2008.

He worked at the branch on Mondays to Fridays from 9.00am to 10.00am
and 4.00pm to 5.30pm and on Saturdays between 9.00am to 12.30pm. His
clerk Umair Liaquat worked from 10.00am to 4.00pm on Mondays to
Fridays.

He was “...never shown the back office at all [and] had to learn that from

somebody else...”

4435
POL00066838
POL00066838

— The balances always showed a loss of perhaps £20 to £30. In October 2010
there was a loss of £1400 and in January on of about £400.

— He had looked at the transactions to try to find the shortages but was unable
to do so.

— He did not telephone the Helpline regarding the losses.

— Every loss he had he contacted Chesterfield.

— He never inflated cash.

— He had never stolen money.

— He sometimes left his clerk to do the balance and he may have made
mistakes. On occasion he had found and corrected such mistakes.

— He was unable to explain the shortages: he just went on the figures; they
could have been incorrectly done: the stamps were present although they
could have been knocked off the sheet. Alternatively others could have
stolen from the post office whilst he had been away for a month.

— Sometimes you get an unexplained loss.

— Umair Liaquat never told him his passwords.

— He was teaching Umair Liaquat how to do the balance. Umair Liaquat had
on occasions forgotten to count cash. He was present on occasions when a
shortage had been identified.

— Initially he would replenish the cash form the safe but as Umair Liaquat’s
training progressed he would do so himself.

— He was unable to explain the losses.

Defence case
14. In interview the defendant indicated that he did not know how the losses arose and

offered a number of speculative explanations.

15. Ina Defence Statement dated the 29" August 2012 raised the following assertions:
i. The Post Office “Horizon” software/hardware system had in the past
on numerous occasions malfunctioned causing difficulties in
reconciling sales, receipt and stock figures. The defendant had

reported the same to the Post Office helpline seeking assistance but

4436
POL00066838

POL00066838

little or no successful assistance was afforded to him despite the said

requests.

The defendant had of necessity to make certain adjustments by way
of “reversals” on the Horizon system so as to ensure the sales, receipt
and stock figures reconciled. This was done on the basis of clear
malfunctioning of the system (and in accordance with the limited
training given to the Defendant by the Post Office in the past and

with very little support thereafter)...

16. In his request for disclosure contained within his Defence Statement the defendant

sought disclosure of:

i.

All material to the knowledge of the prosecution in existence ...that
reasonably supports ....the contention that the Post Office Horizon
software/hardware system has proved to be unreliable and/or
inaccurate and/or susceptible to malfunction and/or otherwise prone

to the production of erroneous results.

The full results ....of all internal and/or external investigations
and/or enquiries and/or reviews ...into the correct functioning of the

Post Office Horizon hardware/software system.

17. In an Addendum Defence Statement dated the 20" February 2013 disclosure of

material relating to telephone calls to the helpline. He indicated that Horizon would

“freeze” and would give inaccurate total figures at the end of trading/balance

periods. He had called the helpline some 10 or more times per month. He sought

disclosure of details of his calls.

. A few days prior to the commencement of the first trial (see para.5 above), the

defendant served an expert report written by Beverley IBBOTSON of PKF

Accountants and Business Advisers. Ms. Ibbotson identified a number of minor

audit and stock discrepancies but did not seek to suggest that the underlying

4437
POL00066838

POL00066838

Horizon transactions were not conducted by the defendant, under either his own

Log-in ID’s or that of Umair Liaquat.

Prosecution response to defence

19.

20.

21

22.

Gareth JENKINS describes himself as a Business Architect employed by Fujitsu
Services Ltd. He has worked for Fujitsu Services Ltd. on the Horizon project since
1996 and is regarded as an expert on Horizon. Mr. Jenkins provided two statements
in response to the Defence Statements served by the defendant. On the 15" January
2013 he provided an expert report detailing what he described as “...further
background information” on the Horizon system. The statement dealt with the
operations capability and function of Horizon; operating architecture; and the
checks and balances built into and conducted by the system. He concluded that it
was his belief that Horizon “...will accurately record all data that is submitted to it

and correctly account for it.”

In his second expert report, dated the 6" March 2013 Mr, Jenkins sought to respond
the matters raised in the defendant’s Addendum Defence Statement. This report

adds little to the case for the prosecution and does not undermine the defence case.

. Ms. Ibbotson and Mr. Jenkins conducted joint expert talks on the 25" and 26%

February and on the 26 produced a joint expert report. That report largely
confirmed that both experts agreed that there had been a number of otherwise
unexplained reversals on Horizon. Ms. Ibbotson added her concern that, despite
requests for disclosure, she had not seen any evidence as to how much physical cash

was held at the post office on the date of audit.

Notwithstanding the defendant’s continued assertions of innocence and_ his
criticisms of Horizon, he pleaded guilty on the 7 March to the theft of £17,863.00,

being a lesser amount than that charged.

4438
Discussion

POL00066838

POL00066838

23. Throughout this case the defendant sought to rely for his defence on what he

asserted to be failings on the part of Horizon, coupled with a lack of training

provided by Post Office Ltd. and a lack of customer support. I deal with each in

turn:

i.

iii.

Horizon

I am as concerned by the defendant’s repeated assertions as to his
perceived failings of Horizon as I am about his very last-minute change of
plea. I cannot escape the proposition that, had the Second Sight Interim
report been available to us during the currency of this prosecution it would
undoubtedly have met the test for disclosure to the defence; indeed the

Defence Statement appears remarkably prescient on the topic.

Of equal concern is the report compiled by Helen ROSE, dated the 12"
June 2013 and dealing with her correspondence with Gareth Jenkins in the
Lepton SPSO 191 320 case (see also Spot Report #1). Given what is said
by Mr. Jenkins in dealing with Ms. Rose’s questions concerning the
ascribing of reversals in ARQ logs and their use in court proceedings, this

document too would have been disclosable to the defence.

Training
Similarly, that part of the Second Sight Interim report which deals with

this topic refers and I arrive at the same conclusion.

Customer support

As i. and ii. above.

Safety of Conviction

24. It is not the purpose of this review, nor of the review process overall, to determine

whether or not any particular conviction is unsafe: that decision is reserved to the

Court of Appeal only. The purpose of this process is to identify those cases where

the material contained within the Second Sight Interim report would have met the

4439
25.

26.

27.

POL00066838

POL00066838

test for disclosure as provided in the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act
1996, the Code of Practice enacted thereunder and the Attorney-General’s
Guidelines on Disclosure, had that material been known to Post Office Ltd. during
the currency of the prosecution and accordingly would or ought to have been

disclosed to the defence.

In this case I have no doubt that, had we known of those matters identified in the
Second Sight Interim report, that material should and would have been disclosed to
the defence in accordance with our disclosure duties as prosecutors. For that reason
alone we must inform those who represented the defendant and disclose to him both

the Second Sight Interim report and the Helen Rose 6" June 2013 report.

I consider it quite likely that, upon receipt of this material, the defendant will seek
the leave of the Court of Appeal to appeal his conviction. Where a defendant seeks
leave the Court of Appeal will, often before the grant of any leave, invite the

prosecution to comment upon the application.

I advise that, should we be so invited and/or should the defendant be granted the
requisite leave, we oppose his the grant of leave and any substantive appeal, on the
basis that the conviction may properly be regarded as safe for, amongst other
reasons, the following matters:
1. By his guilty plea he admits having committed the offence of theft. I
have no doubt that he would have been advised that:

1. By pleading guilty he was admitting guilt;

2. he should only enter a guilty plea if he were truly guilty;

3. he should not plead guilty if he was in fact not guilty;

4. he should not plead guilty solely or mainly in order to achieve a

lesser sentence in circumstances where he was not guilty.

4440
POL00066838
POL00066838

2. The evidence of Umair LIAQUAT gives the lie to the defendant’s
assertions in numerous respects. In particular:

1. the use by the defendant of Mr. Liaquat’s Log-in ID and the lies

told by the defendant as to whether or not he knew Mr. Liaquat’s

password is compelling.

2. In his interviews the defendant is at pains to explain that he does
not know how the shortages arose. His Defence Statement
however admits his use of transaction reversals, having been

forced to do so on the prosecution evidence.

3. Notwithstanding his assertions as to lack of appropriate training,
he still managed to run his post office for perhaps two years

without incident.

Conclusion
28. This is a case in which, had we been possessed of the material at the relevant time,
we should and would have disclosed to the defence the matters identified in the

Second Sight Interim report and the Helen Rose’s 6'" June report.

29. Accordingly our duty is now to place the defence on notice of this fact and to serve

on them those documents. I advise that we comply with that duty in this case.

30. Should the defendant be granted leave to appeal against his conviction, we should

oppose the appeal.

31. Subject to specific instructions to the contrary, I will draft a letter to the defence for
Post Office Ltd’s approval and, in accordance with your instructions to us, serve

that letter and the reports on defence solicitors.

Simon Clarke 9% July 2013
Barrister
Cartwright King Solicitors

4441
