POL00117511
POL00117511

Tom Wechsler
Sent: Fri 09/10/2015 7:52:31 AM (UTC)
To: Paula VennellsI
Ce: Avene O'Farrell
Subject: Re: Telephone call with BNR

Paula - I've been through Jane's note and the two are consistent.

Avene - I'll amend Jane's text and send to you so we can send the message to Tim. Should have something in 5
mins

There are signal problems outside London Bridge (again). I'll be there for the call but should have arrived by
now. Apologies for that.

Tom

Sent from my iPad

On 9 Oct 2015, at 07:45, Paula Vennells £ wrote:

Great thx.

Just double check any nuances with Jane's note.

And I think I send the note to Tim before the BNR conversation. (Jane has drafted)

Can you do this. BUT pls double check it and make sure you amend to say that I'll get back to
him after the meeting with her view/ if I think it needs his further attention before Monday.

Thanks P

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

> wrote:

On 8 Oct 2015, at 17:47, Tom Wechsler {

Paula

Attached is a one page aide memoire for your call with BNR tomorrow. Patrick drafted
most of it but I have toned down some of the more legal language.

l’ve also had quite a candid conversation with Laura. She assured me including by reading
out elements of their advice that they put our case as strongly as we felt it. I also set out

why the Tony Hooper suggestion was a bad one and they should have checked with us first.

Laura’s steer is that BNR is difficult to predict but may be responsive to a slightly different
approach that does not seek to box her in. Laura will be on the call.

Key handling points for me are:
e Whilst we do not believe there is a case for BNR to meet SS / SAH (at all), we need
to respect her decision in principle
® So we should not ask her to change her decision and tell JA etc that she won’t
meet them
e What we are asking for is time ie leave the decision open for now. Two reasons:
© Having asked Tim Parker to review our approach, he has appointed a QC to
assist him and is very likely to meet SS / SAH. He is aiming to have
completed this by Christmas. For BNR to meet them at the same time risks
undermining Tim’s work before it has begun.
© To roughly the same timescale we will have completed the majority of the
mediations.
© We believe that an earlier meeting would be used by JFSA as evidence of an
impending Government intervention and a catalyst for applicants to withdraw
from mediation — entirely to their detriment.
e — If BNR still wishes to meet them at a later date then so be it, but she would be
better off having had the benefit of Tim’s review, and applicants would be better
off for having gone to mediation.

I have shared my view with Mark who agrees.
Hope that this is helpful. Very happy to discuss.

Tom

<CEO and BNR - TELCO - 091015 (2).docx>

<CEO and BNR - TELCO - 091015 (2).pdf>

POL00117511
POL00117511
