(Document Information

POL00447939
POL00447939

Process Ref: IRT-WBR-001

Process Owner: Mat Thorley

Document Classification: Internal

Process Name: Whistleblowing of complaint cases

Process Owner Role: Issue Resolution Team Manager

IA sample of cases for each advisor are reviewed for quality on a monthly basis. As part of this check, feedback will be provided where the

advisor has failed to identify whistleblowing cases that have not been directed down the correct process.
logged whistleblowing cases to make sure they have been correctly identified and processed.

Document Status: Draft/ Peer Reviewed / SME Reviewed / Approved

The IRT manager also reviews

——

Version Number Date Issued Author

0.1 16/08/2022 Duncan Hughes First draft

10 24/08/2022 Duncan Hughes Approved by process owner
fda
Reviewer Role Last Date Reviewed Version(s) Reviewed
Mat Thorley IRT Manager 24/08/2022 o1

POL00447939
oL00447939

POL00447939
POL00447939

(Glossary
(Include abbreviations / terms / acronyms used in process flow, along with a description to aid understanding)

ITerms Definition

POL00447939
POL00447939

Start Description
of the trigger

Name of message /
‘communication/ alert

‘Schedule Details

©

Name and type of
communication or tigger

Intermediate Event
(customer cancels,
‘An error occurs,

A response is received)

Process Ref:
Process Name

Process Template Symbols

‘The reference number ofthe

(ea
Change approach ana inert
Stonbowt

Process Start:
a teh sysemgenrster repr and

Message trigger
viet role merge rotveaonoany sts te tiger
Torco scouctcan net ries anal tm tone
‘Scheduled ever

ferenamole sche dl sample chch ra canto cers aed s
‘ow moringatoum arhing ye

Time lag or delay:

Trigger mid process os

An intermediate event:
istrnlotent tigger ama son "wnch hat animgacronthe

Notes against a process or any other element on a map

‘An activity in a proces:
Dring by ancunercty
Seiviy bt enna o wrth eating k Samia sma

Referred Process.
‘Salowerieve bo erexomple yas ae mapang stale! 2d ware

flow of activity and the orderin which the activites

into or from an activity and into or froma system.

Dotted fine with arrow end shows link between an
‘activity and an outcome. the won ie ater

‘wr bute oceans te ach eee cutomehas
evneeeteeceeeeee igrstes

Parallel processes gateway:
tea py th hes an ae ran stn hth acs ae

Exclusive Gateway.
recs oshow thatthe fow wlan gp down ONE othe posse path

Inclusive Gateway.

esc war rang ow you oma athe

‘A.document or data set:
Information that this used as input to an activity orcreated or
Updated as an output of an activity

Forexample a report might be generated by a system and sent by
‘email toa contact centre agent to review. So you can show the
‘name of the document reviewed by using this shape anda dotted
‘arrow into the activity where the contact agent reviews the item.

‘System being “read from” or being updated as a
result of the associated activity

Business Rule:

Operational Risk~ Inadequate, none or unknown

Ref forrisk/control

(Sresampe tasedanrols tasedaceum conde oruere ther may be

Refforrisk /control Operational Risk (control is known and is adequate)

End of alternate path of a processEnd of Process

Activity Flow: This ine and arrow is used to show the

cquence tow Peseta heres conusonaste wha

deszone “or "Opton “opton "Optonn tar mare complete ectane angsty "musly

Customer Outcomes

Generic Customer Outcome
ectoton et what oacpe's su) "conor meted

Information or Data Flow. Dotted line with arow end
‘shows the direction of flow on INFORMATION either

Customer Experience Score

Customer Insight

mee malyintherocse re ta
‘Tre nssnts new anything at ecstoneis
‘Customer Communication:
‘Communication of any kind is sent tothe
customer.

Name orreference for itm mane te tteceotthe communication
communication received wal oss conbe hel or eaitemerts Wacebity

Channels
‘Show channel cons on the activity box where the
‘channelis used or the activity flow that join itto the
‘next activity
‘They can also be used to link to customer outcomes,
‘or communications to show the method by which
the communication was sent.

POL00447939
POL00447939

