POL00021845
POL00021845

Message

From: Patrick Bourke
Sent: 07/04/2015 11
To: Parsons, Andre\ i
cc: Rodric Williams
Subject: FW: Future Arrang

Attachments: Section 14 Extract.pdf; Receipts-Payments Mismatch Issue Notes.pdf; Correcting Accounts for Lost Discrepancies.pdf

Importance: High
Andy
To see. Is there anything in here which we were not aware of ?

Patrick

From: Ian Henderson :
Sent: 07 April 2015 12:30

To: Patrick Bourke; Jane MacLeod

Cc: Rodric Williams; Tom Wechsler; ‘Chris Holyoak'; ‘Ron Warmington’
Subject: RE: Future Arrangements and Part IT

Importance: High

Patrick
We have a proposed final version of our Part 2 Report ready for release.

However, before we do so, we believe that in the interests of transparency and natural justice, we should give Post
Office a short opportunity to comment on a revised section of our Report together with the relevant supporting
evidence. This is material change from the draft of the Report previously provided to you for comment.

I therefore attach an extract from the Report (Section 14) together with two documents that we mention and quote
from in that Section.

In view of the need to finalise this Report as soon as possible, I would be grateful to receive any comments that you wish
to make on this Section of the Report by close of business on Wednesday 8 April. I would also be grateful if you would
let me know if you do not wish to make any comment.

We would then plan to finalise our Report and make it available to you on 9 April.
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Website http [/advancedforensics .com
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

POL-0018324
POL00021845
POL00021845

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at}
delete the email and any attachments.

From: Ian Henderso:
Sent: 02 April 2015 1
To: ‘Patrick Bourke’
Cc: 'Rodric Williams’; ‘Tom Wechsler’; ‘Chris Holyoak'; 'Ron Warmington’
Subject: RE: Future Arrangements and Part IT

9

Thank you Patrick

All very positive and helpful
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

i .com
http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confiden i
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at }
delete the email and any attachments. -

From: Patrick Bourke:
Sent: 02 April 2015 15:46

Ron Warmington’; Chris Holyoak
Cc: Rodric Williams; Tom Wechsler
Subject: Future Arrangements and Part II

Dear lan, Ron and Chris

Jane has asked me to forward you the text of her reply to lan’s email of 30 March to you on her behalf since she is
currently travelling and will be away until 13 April. I reproduce it below.

lam, of course, available to you for any queries and, with that in mind, I confirm that I am not planning to be away (save
for the bank holidays tomorrow and Monday).

Best wishes

Patrick

{- GRO

Sent on behalf of Jane MacLeod in her absence — 02 April 2015

POL-0018324
POL00021845
POL00021845

Dear lan

Many thanks for your email of 30 March and I am pleased that we have a broadly shared view about the future
arrangements for the work which remains to be done for Applicants.

As you correctly point out, the slightly tricky bit we will need to bottom out is what remains to be done post 10 April. I
acknowledge your suggestions in this regard and it doesn’t seem to me that we will find it difficult to come to a final
decision.

I know that Patrick is working closely with Chris on case scheduling, picking up from where Tom left off before he went
on leave. I am now myself on leave, returning to the office on 13 April, but Patrick is able to reach me. Can I suggest that
he and Chris continue to work together on the scheduling (and I know he is working hard to get outstanding prosecution
files to you), with a view to having agreed pretty precise numbers in the second half of next week ? We will then be able
to see exactly where things stand and be able to agree the Engagement Letter and its Annex, and record the appropriate
payment arrangements.

On the other points in your email, Patrick is chasing down progress on M118 and will let you have an update shortly.
Thank you for agreeing to treat it as an exceptional case. On your Final Part Il Report, thank you for the work you are

doing on this and I confirm that we are looking forward to receiving it on 7 April.

Yours sincerely

Jane MacLeod
General Counsel

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

POL-0018324
