POL00118221
POL00118221

Case Number: 2402124/01

RESERVED DECISION

DC
EMPLOYMENT TRIBUNALS
BETWEEN
Applicant Respondent
Mrs J Wolstenholme Consignia Plc
DECISION OF THE EMPLOYMENT TRIBUNAL
HELD AT: Manchester ON: 23 July 2001
20 August 2001
CHAIRMAN: Mr M E Coles MEMBERS: Mr J Clarke
Mr W Haydock

DECISION OF THE TRIBUNAL ON PRELIMINARY HEARING

The unanimous decision of the Tribunal is that:-
The applicant was not at any material time an employee of the respondent within the
meaning of the provisions of Section 230(1) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 and

therefore the Tribunal does -not have jurisdiction to hear her complaint of unfair
dismissal.

on

SE
POL00118221
POL00118221

Case Number: 2402124/01

EXTENDED REASONS

These reasons are given in extended form because the Tribunal reserved its
decision to Chambers on the afternoon of 20 August 2001 following lengthy
submissions by the parties’ representatives.

The case commenced on 23 July 2001. The applicant was throughout
represented by Mr E Owen of Counsel and she gave evidence, as did her
partner Mr R J Harrison. The respondent was represented by Mr A Wright of
Counsel and evidence was given on its behalf by Mr P Williams, Agency
Contract Analyst.

The Tribunal also had regard to a large number of documents contained in a
bundle provided by the respondent and to a number of authorities referred to
by Counsel for the parties. The Tribunal was also greatly assisted by written
and oral submissions made by both Counsel.

The respondent company, Consignia Plc, was formerly, and is no doubt still
popularly known as, the Post Office. The respondent is the successor in title
to Post Office Counters Limited which was formerly the legal entity which
administered the operation of sub-post offices throughout the country.

The applicant was appointed as Subpostmistress of the sub-post office
situated in Runnymede Avenue, Cleveleys, Blackpool in November 1999.
Those premises comprise a small shop operation in addition to the post office.
Both businesses had previously been run by the applicant's parents who had
agreed to sell the business and the premises themselves to the applicant and
her partner, which they purchased with the assistance of a substantial loan
from Yorkshire Bank as well as a loan from the applicant's parents
themselves, who in fact still remain living in the flat above the shop and post
office premises.

The applicant would normally have been expected to make an introductory
payment to Post Office Counters Limited for the privilege of being appointed
Subpostmistress, but in this particular case that was waived because of the
fact that this was a family transfer.

The contractual arrangement entered into between the applicant and Post
Office Counters Limited is set out in a document described as the Modified
Subpostmaster’s Contract, which, the parties agreed, was entered into on or
about 20 November 1999. Included in the bundle of documents was an
example of this contract which ran to some 60 pages.

In fact, for some reason, the contract was never signed by the applicant.
However, she told the Tribunal that she had fully read and understood the

S&4

2
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

POL00118221

POL00118221

Case Number: 2402124/01

contents of the contract which was sent to her and fully acknowledged that
she accepted the position of subpostmistress on the basis of that contractual
document. The Tribunal was entirely satisfied that the terms of the agreement
entered into between the applicant and Post Office Counters Limited were
contained in that contractual document.

Furthermore, the Tribunal was satisfied on the evidence of the applicant
herself that she believed, when entering into that contractual arrangement,
that she, with her partner Mr Harrison, was embarking upon a business
venture in which she would be a self-employed person running the post office
operation under a “franchise” type of operation whereby she would be
carrying out duties for and on behalf of Post Office Counters Limited under a
contract for services.

When entering into the arrangement, the applicant did not believe that she
would become an “employee” of Post Office Counters Limited.

By letter dated 19 January 2001, the applicant was given 3 months’ notice
terminating the contract between her and the respondent.

The applicant on 27 March 2001 presented to the Tribunal an Originating
Application complaining that she had been unfairly dismissed by the
respondent within the meaning of the provisions of Part X of the Employment
Rights Act 1996.

The respondent contends that the Tribunal does not have jurisdiction to hear
the applicant's complaint of unfair dismissal because the applicant was at no
time an “employee” within the meaning of the provisions of Section 230(1) of
the Act, which provides as follows:-

“In this Act “employee” means an individual who has entered into or works
under (or, where the employment has ceased, worked under) a contract of
employment.”

Section 230(2) of the Act provides as follows:-

“In this Act “contract of employment” means a contract of service or
apprenticeship, whether express or implied, and (if it is express) whether oral
or in writing.”

Mr Owen on behalf of the applicant does not dispute the fact that the intention
of the parties was not to enter into a contract of employment and the Tribunal
is satisfied that that was the case. What he argues, however, is that the label
attached to the arrangement between them is not conclusive, which of course
is right as a matter of law, and that the reality of the relationship, including in
particular the control exercised in practice by the respondent over the manner

S%

3
my

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

POL00118221
POL00118221

Case Number: 2402124/01

in which the applicant conducted the business of the sub-post office, was
such that, as a matter of law and fact, the relationship of employer/employee

was created or evolved such as to fall within the definition in Section 230(1) of
the Act.

Mr Owen refers also specifically to the factor, which he and the applicant
maintain brought about the problems which ultimately resulted in the
termination of the arrangement, namely the insistence by the respondent that
the applicant should, in operating the sub-post office, use the “Horizon”
computer system which, she maintains, caused so many problems that she
was eventually forced to abandon its use.

There is no doubt in the Tribunal’s mind that the respondent did, in fact, insist
on the applicant utilising the Horizon computer system, which all other
subpostmasters and mistresses throughout the country had also been
instructed to do. The Tribunal was also satisfied that there may well have
been technical “teething problems” which caused the applicant difficulties,
although it is not satisfied that the financial problems which arose between the
applicant and the respondent could be solely attributed to computer
difficulties.

Mr Owen pointed in the contract to a number of other areas in which the
respondent did or purported to “dictate” the way in which the applicant
conducted her day-to-day activities in the running of the post office.

It was argued by Mr Wright on behalf of the respondent that, in any
commercial arrangement such as the one in this case, the “franchisor” is
perfectly entitled to insist that the “franchisee” operates the franchise in a
particular manner so as to achieve consistency of operations and (particularly
in a case such as this where important public functions are being
administered) to ensure that efficiency, reliability, security and probity are
maintained.

It is not proposed in these reasons to go into detail regarding the matters
which the applicant maintains amounts to “control” of the degree asserted but
the Tribunal accepts that the contract provides for a very comprehensive and
firm regime under which the subpostmaster or mistress is expected to operate
the business.

It is, however, in the Tribunal’s view of particular significance that the wording
in the contract essentially provided for the applicant to be responsible for
ensuring that the requirements of the respondent were carried out rather than
insisting that she personally should perform those tasks. The applicant did, in
fact, employ a number of assistants to run the business and the Tribunal was
satisfied that the contract did not provide for the applicant to be personally
present at all times when the post office was open.

sv!
22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27:

28.

POL00118221
POL00118221

Case Number: 2402124/01

Having considered all the evidence, the Tribunal was unanimously satisfied
that the applicant was not required personally to perform the services for
which she was responsible under the contract. Provided the persons she
employed were suitable, she was entitled to delegate her duties under the
contract to her employees and to provide them as “substitutes” for herself
when she was not performing those functions herself.

The Court of Appeal emphasised in the case of Express and Echo
Publications Limited _v_ Taunton [1994] IRLR 367 that, where a person
who works for another is not required to perform his or her services
personally, as a matter of law, the relationship between the two parties is not
that of employer and employee. A right to provide a substitute is inherently
inconsistent with the existence of a contract of employment.

The legal status of subpostmasters and subpostmistresses has, in fact, been
specifically the subject of judicial authority. In particular, it was held by the
Employment Appeal Tribunal in the case of Hitchcock v_ Post Office [1980]
IRLR 100 that a subpostmaster was not an employee of the Post Office. It
was concluded that, although there was a substantial measure of control
relating to the conduct of a post office business, the other circumstances,
including the fact that the applicant provided the premises and part of the
equipment at his own expense, that he had the right to delegate his duties to
others and that by incurring the chance of profit or loss established that he
was in reality carrying on business on his own account.

Other authorities, including at Employment Appeal Tribunal level and
Employment Tribunal level, were also cited by Mr Wright, all of which
confirmed that subpostmasters or mistresses were not employees of the Post
Office.

Mr Owen, however, referred the Tribunal to a decision of the London Tribunal
Centre in the case of H & V Patel v (1) The Commissioners of Custom &
Excise and (2) Post Office Counters Limited heard in March 1997 and
recorded at number 14956 in June 1997.

That case concerned the position of Mr Patel, a subpostmaster, and his
entitlement to credit against output tax for VAT, input tax suffered on supplies.
In order to do so, it would have to be established that Mr Patel was “carrying
on a business” and was not an “employee”.

The Chairman of the Tribunal, Mr R K Miller CB, after hearing lengthy
argument (including argument from leading Counsel) formed the conclusion
that Mr Patel was, as a matter of fact and law, an employee of Post Office
Counters Limited and therefore not entitled to set off input tax on supplies.

S92

5
POL00118221
POL00118221

Case Number: 2402124/01

29. This Tribunal obviously considered very carefully the decision of the Chairman
and the reasons for it and the submissions made by Mr Owen that the factors
leading to that decision were identical in this case and therefore the Tribunal
should reach a similar decision.

30. However, notwithstanding that the Chairman did, in fact, consider the case
within the context of, inter alia, the Employment Rights Act 1996, the fact of
the matter is that that decision related to a dispute of interpretation in a
different jurisdiction from that dealing with unfair dismissal claims.

31. Furthermore, although the Chairman was referred to the same authorities that
Mr Wright has referred this Tribunal to, the Tribunal found it difficult fully to
understand the basis upon which the Chairman was able to distinguish the
case before him from those in which courts of a superior status had reached a
different conclusion.

32. Whilst, therefore, having the greatest of respect for the decision of the learned
Chairman in the Patel case, this Tribunal is more convinced by the reasoning
in the authorities referred to by Mr Wright and in any event feels judicially
bound by them, in particular the case of Hitchcock v Post Office.

33. Having considered all the facts and law in relation to the matter, the Tribunal
is satisfied that the dominant purpose of the contract between the applicant
and the respondent was not the provision of personal services by her but the
regular and efficient carrying on of the Post Office services for which she was
responsible. 7

34. Therefore the contract was not a contract of employment, the applicant was
not an employee within the meaning of Section 230(1) of the Act and the
Tribunal does not have jurisdiction to hear her complaint of unfair dismissal.

Chairman Z
Reserved Decision

4 * September 2001
Manchester

DECISION SENT TO THE PARTIES ON

Se.

RERIN.THE

AND ENTE REGISTER.

FOR SECRETARY OF THE TRIBUNALS

S93

6
288.273

POL00118221

POL00118221
” Douglas Alexander MP & .
Minister for E-Commerce and Competitiveness pak -
Department of
Trade and Industry
Joan Humble MP
House of Commons ! Victoria Street
London London
SW1HOET
SWIA 0AA
Direct Line I
Direct Fax
URL
24 April 2002 ee
Minicom
eamail

mpst.alexander{

‘Your ref: SR/CC

Nes Tea,

Thank you for your further letter of 25 February conceming the closure of Cleveleys Post
Office and the position of the former Subpostmistress, Mrs J Wolstenholme, 2 Runnymede
Avenue, Cleveleys, Lancashire FY5 3EG. I am replying in view of my responsibility for Post
Office matters.

I looked carefully at the copy correspondence you sent me and asked my officials to get in
touch again with Post Office Limited (POL) on this matter. It is clear that in the time period
in question, telephone calls were indeed logged from staff at Cleveleys Post Office reporting
difficulties in using the Horizon computer equipment at that office. This, as you say, is not in
line with Alan Johnson’s letter to you of 1 May 2001 and therefore, following further
consultation with POL, we can only conclude that on this occasion Alan was misinformed by
the company. I therefore apologise to you and to your constituent, Mrs Wolstenholme, for
passing on incorrect information in answer to correspondence last year.

As you know, it has been the policy of successive Governments that decisions relating to the
day to day running of ihe posial businesses are the responsibility of the management
Moreover, from 26 March 2001, the Government’s role is that of a shareholder in a public
limited company.. Under the Government’s Post Office reforms, we have given Consignia
greater commercial freedom and have established an arms length relationship so that the

Board can-run the company as it sees fit.

As the matter of Cleveleys Post Office is one for management, I am passing on the
correspondence to Louise Alexander who will arrange for a full reply to you direct from Post
Office Limited.’ Miss Alexander is the Personal Assistant to the Group Managing Director,
Post Office Limited, 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ.

say

Departinect of Trade and tadusiry
GAC: WZiCUAZD YAO

AGREEMENT

An Agreement made this the RSs. LOA RAGA

Agreed terms of Rental for the Shop premises situate :-
2,Runnymede Avenue, Thornton Cleveleys. Lancashire.FYS IDF

Between on the one part :- Mr.R.Harrison And Ms.J Wolstenholme.

of 2,Runnymede Ayvenue,Thornton Cleveleys Lancashire. FY5 1DF
(Hereinafter refered to as the Landlord.)

and on the other part :- C.A.R.E. Trust Ltd. whose registered Office is

at Runnymede House Runnymede Avenue Thornton Cleveleys Lancs.
FYS5 IDF (Hereinafter refered to as the Tenant.)

The Landlords agree to rent the afore mentioned Premises :-

I. At an agreed rental of Ten Thousand Four Hundred Pounds per
Annum excluding Rates. Payable on the 20th of each Calender
Month by Direct Debit in the sum of £866.67 (Eight hundred &
Sixty Six Pounds Sixty Seven Pence.

The first payment will be due on the 20th June 2002

2s This Agreement to be initially for a Five Years and thereafter
for a further Five years. Rental will be reviewed after the first
Rental period and be subject to both parties approval. Should a
dispute ensue both parties are agreeable to go to arbitration and
abide by their decision. If during the intial rental period either
Party wishes to end this Agreement each party agrees to give to
the other a minimum of Six Months Notice.

3. The Landlords agree to be responsible for the Insurance and
repairs of the Buildings. To include all Drains,soil,other
pipes,sewers,cables and wires. Electrical and Gas equipment
installations of all heating,sanitary,waterapparatus,Glass,Paving,
Walls,Lights.To maintain in good and substancial repair

exempting damage caused by a risk covered by the Landlords
Insurance.

4. The Tenant to insure the Fixtures Fittings & Contents.

The Tenant to insure for Public Liability and Employer Liability.

s4S

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

6. The Tenant to return to the Landlords said property in similar
standard as at the begining of the tenancy.

7. The Tenant agrees to allow the Landlords entry at reasonable
times to inspect the condition of the Shop Property.

8 The Tenant agrees not to assign or under let or part with
possession of the premises without the consent of the Landlords.

9. The Tenant agrees not to make any alterations to the Property
without the Landlords permission and approval.

IN WITNESS
The Parties have executed this Agreement as a Deed with
effect of the Day and Year before written.

Signed for ayd on behalf of the Landlords.

CA.R.E. Trust Ltd.

Witness Signatut

Hb
POL00118221
POL00118221

paTeo 20th Seve m\e4/ — s02

LANCASTER ROMAN CATHOLIC DIOCESAN
TRUSTEES

and

JULIE WOLSTENHOLME

AGREEMENT

for letting unfurnished dwellinghouse at

on an assured shorthold tenancy

Rent £500.00

Roland Robinsons and Fentons
85-89 Adelaide Street
Blackpool

Lancashire FY1 4LX

DX 17039 Blackpool 1

S91 Over STE eae
(Al cighte reserved.) Agreement 19 AGREE 19/4
POL00118221

POL00118221
If you get in touch
with us, tell us thi
reference number
Our address Blackpool! North DO
Mexford House e
Mexford Avenue
Blackpool
Lancs
FY2 OXN

Our phone number }

If you have a
textphone

Date 22 October 2002

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

About your claim for Income Support

I am writing to tell you that you are entitled to Income Support.
You will receive £112.35 a week payable weekly on a Tuesday from 14 August 2002.

The way this has been calculated is shown on the page called How your Income Support
was worked out.

Although you claimed Income Support from 2 August 2002 you are not entitled until
14 August 2002. This is because you have more money than the law says you need to live on.

From 14 August 2002 your Income Support will change to £112.35 a week. This is because
there has been a change to the Working Families’ Tax Credit you have coming in.

From 16 October 2002 your Income Support will change again to £122.85 a week. This is
because of a change to do with your family.

How to get your money

You may have already had a giro for Income Support from 14 August 2002 to 22 October 2002
. If you have not had the giro, it will be sent out in a separate letter. We have also sent an
Income Support order book to the Post Office at North Drive Po. Make sure you take the page

How to get your order book with you when you go to the Post Office or you will not be able
to get the book.

If you want a further explanation of this decision, please see the final page of this letter. It
explains what to do if you disagree with this decision.

What should I do if my circumstances change?

If your circumstances change, it may affect the amount of benefit you get. You must tell us
about any changes in your circumstances.

Yours sincerely

S°&

Manager
How your Income Support was worked out

1 How much the law says you need to live on

For you £ 53.95
For children aged under 16 £ 100.50
Because you have children £ 14.75
Total amount £ 169.20

POL00118221
POL00118221

irs ¥ worstennoime

Part 2 shows the money you already have coming in. This is deducted from How

much the law says you need to live on

2 Income you told us about
Child Benefit for Julie Wolstenholme £ 36.85
Savings of £8000.00 £ 20.00
Working Families’ Tax Credit for Julie Wolstenholme

£ 148.45
Total amount £ 205.30

Part 3 shows how your weekly benefit is worked out

3 The weekly amount you will receive

The amount the law says you need to live on £ 169.20
" Less the income you told us about £ 205.30

Total amount £ -36.10

Note: £1 deducted for each
£250.00 over £3000.00

This means you have more money coming in than the law says you need to live on.

S49
POL00118221
POL00118221

(1) COMMISSIONERS OF INLAND REVENUE : APPELLANTS
(2) MRK JHAYWARD - .
() MRSJ TOOBY

(4) MRS J WOLSTENHOLME

eps

POST OFFICE LTD » RESPONDENT

Transcript of Proceedings

» JUDGMENT-

Revised oo I JUDGMENT SE vi 70 PARTIES ON

eo Li FOR REGISTRAR

© Copyright 2002 :

APPEARANCES

For the Appellants ~

(1) Commissioners of Inland Revenue

Q)MrK J Hayward

(3) Mrs J Tooby

(4) Mrs J Wolstenholme

For the Respondent

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

POL00118221
POL00118221

nny

20 JAN 2003

(1) Mr Timothy Brennan QC
Instructed By:

Inland Revenue

Solicitors Office

Somerset House

East Wing

Strand

London WC2A 1LB

(2) Gave written submissions and represented
by Mr Mark Baker

(3) Mr John Falkenstein

(of Counsel)

Instructed By:

Messrs McKeags

Solicitors

1-3 Lansdowne Terrace
Gosforth

Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 1HN

(4) Ms Helen Mulholland

(of Counsel)

Instructed By:

Messrs Lawsons Samuels Capaldi
Solicitors

22 Whitegate Drive

Blackpool FY3 9AQ

Mr David Griffith-Jones QC

and

Mr Andrew Burns

(of Counsel)

Instructed By:

Post Office Legal Services

Impact House

2 Edridge Road =
Croydon

Surrey CR9 IPJ

bol
POL00118221
POL00118221

MR JUSTICE BURTON (PRESIDENT):

1. There are before us appeals in four cases, all brought by or in respect of sub-
postmasters or sub-postmistresses, by way of claim against the company now called
Post Office Ltd which, notwithstanding its various changes of names during the course
of these proceedings, we shall call “the Post Office”: They are as follows:

i) The appeal by Mrs Wolstenholme (“Wolstenholme”), for whom Ms Helen
Mulholland has appeared, against the dismissal by the Manchester Employment
Tribunal of her claim for unfair dismissal, on the ground that she was not an

employee.

ii) The appeal by Mrs Tooby (“Tooby”), for whom Mr John Falkenstein appeared,
against the dismissal by the Newcastle on Tyne Employment Tribunal of her claim
for unfair dismissal, on the ground that she was not an employee, and of her claim
for wrongful deduction of wages under s13 of the Employment Rights Act 1996
(“the 1996 Act”), on the ground that she was not a worker within the meaning of
s230(3) of the 1996 Act (“s230(3)”).

iii) The appeal by Mr Hayward (“Hayward”), who was represented by a friend,
Mr Baker, against the dismissal by the Manchester Employment Tribunal of his
claims under the Working Time Regulations 1998 (“WTR”) on the ground that he
was not a worker, within the meaning of Regulation 2 of the WTR (the wording of
which is identical to that in s230(3)), and under the National Minimum Wage Act
1998 (“the NMWA”), on the ground that he was not a worker within the meaning
of s54(3) of the NUWA (which again is in identical wording, with the proviso to
which we shall shortly refer).

iv) The appeal by the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, which is represented by
Mr Timothy Brennan QC, against the rejection by the Manchester Employment
Tribunal of their case, on a successful appeal by the Post Office against an
Enforcement Notice pursuant to.s19 of the NMWA in respect of a Mrs-Collins.
Although Mrs Collins was not a party to this Decision we shall call this appeal
“Collins”. The Inland Revenue’s case, rejected by the Employment Tribunal, was

that Mrs Collins was a worker within the meaning of s54(3) (a case, subject to

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 602.
POL00118221
POL00118221

reservation of ‘the position on any further appeal, not pursued. before us),
alternatively a homeworker within the meaning of.s35(2) of the NMWA. The
proviso to which we referred above is that the definition of a worker under the
NMWA is widened by virtue of the inclusion of a homeworker as.defined, and as
to Mr Hayward, although he did not run the homeworker case before the
Employment Tribunal, he has béen permitted on appeal to run this case (on the
“Inland Revenue’s coattails).

In each of the appeals the Post Office has been. represented before us by Mr David
Griffith-Jones QC and Mr Andrew Burns.

2. It can be seen therefore that these were the questions for us, in general terms:

i) Is the sub-postmaster an employee? (Wolstenholme and, in respect of one of her

claims, Tooby.)

ii) Is the sub-postmaster a worker within s230(3) and/or the WTR? (Tooby and, as a
subsidiary point, Hayward.)

iii) Is the sub-postmaster a worker or a homeworker within the NMWA? (Collins

[Inland Revenue], Hayward.)

3. The issues lying behind these questions become clearer if the statutory provisions are

set out:

i) Employee

The question falls to be decided by reference to s230(1) of the 1986 Act, which, as

is well established, leaves matters to be decided by the common law:

“In this Act ‘employee' means an individual who has entered into or worked
under (or, where the employment has ceased, worked under) a contract of
employment.”

ii) Worker (other than by reference to the NMWA)
The definitions are, as set out above, identical in s230(3) for the purpose of the

1996 and Regulation 2(1) of the WTR. In each, the definition is (ignoring the

question of a contract of employment) that a:

60%

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others
&

w

iii)

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

POL00118221

POL00118221

“ ‘worker’ means an individual. who has entered into or works under . - ()
any ... contract, whether-express or implied and (if it is expressed) whether
oral or in writing, whereby the individual undertakes to do or perform
personally any work or services for another person to the contract whose
status is not by virtue of the contract that of a client or customer of any
profession or business undertaking carried on by the individual.”

The definition of employment for-the purposes of the operation of: the Sex
Discrimination Act 1975 (s82(1)), the Race Relations Act 1976 (s78(1)) and the
Disability Discrimination Act 1995 (s68(1)) is materially identical. so far as
concerns the wider definition of employment for such :purpose by including a

contract personally to do or execute any work, but does: not include the additional

client or customer limitation.

Worker for the purpose of the NMWA is identically defined by s54(3)(b), but the
NMWA also applies to a homeworker, which is defined by s35(2) as meaning:

“an individual who contracts with the person, for the purposes of that
person’s business, for the execution of work to be done in a place not under
the control or management of that person.”

§35(1) then provides as follows:

“In determining for the purposes of this Act whether a homeworker is or is
not a worker, s54(3)(b) ... shall have effect as if for the word ‘personally’
there were substituted ‘(whether personally or otherwise)’.”

Thus if a sub-postmaster is found to be a homeworker as defined, then, in order for
him to amount to a worker under the NMWA, the requirement of undertaking of
personal service is not necessary. There are two other provisions of the NYWA

which have not in the event been determinative. Both relate to the onus of proof:

$19(6): “on an appeal {against an Enforcement Notice requiring an employer to
remunerate a worker at a rate equal to the national minimum wage] the
Employment Tribunal shall dismiss the appeal unless it is established ... (a) that,
in the case of the worker ... to whom the Enforcement Notice relates, the facts are
such that an officer who was aware of them would have had no reason ‘to serve

any Enforcement Notice on the appellant’.

S28(1): “where in any civil proceedings any question arises as to whether an

individual qualifies or qualified at any time for the national minimum wage, it

bot
POL00118221
POL00118221

shall be presumed that the individual qualifies or, as the case may be, qualified at

that time for the national minimum wage, unless the contrary is established.”

4. It can be seen from the above, leaving aside the straightforward issue of ‘employee or

not’ [Issize A], which was argued before us by Ms Mulholland in the Wolstenholme
case.(adopted so far.as necessary by Mr Falkenstein for Tooby), that:

i) in the Tooby and Hayward cases, the first issue [Issue B] was whether the contract
between the Post Office and the sub-postmaster/postmistress was one whereby the
latter undertook to do or perform personally any work or services for the Post.
Office: and it was common ground.that the test was whether the undertaking of

_ such personal service was the ‘dominant purpose’ of the contract (as expounded in
Mirror Group Newspapers v Gunning [1986] ICR 145 C.A., particularly at 151

and 156, and in Kelly and Loughran v Northern Ireland Housing Executive [1988]
ICR 828 HLL., esp at 835-6, 840, 842, 844 and 845-6. This was argued before us
by Mr Falkenstein for Tooby (supported by Mr Baker for Hayward). The Inland
Revenue in the Collins case did not pursue this argument, subject to preserving its

position for the purposes of any appeal.

(ii) In the Collins case, and in the Hayward case in the alternative, the first issue was
whether a sub-postmaster is a homeworker [Issue C], namely whether he contracts
with the Post Office, for the purposes of the Post Office’s business, for the
execution of work to be done in a place not under the control or management of
the Post Office: if so, as discussed above, by virtue of s35(1) and s54(3), the

question of personal service does not arise.

(iii) In the Tooby, Hayward and Collins cases, if they succeed on the respective first

issues, they have also then to succeed on the second issue, namely whether the
status of the Post Office is by virtue of the contract, that of a client or customer of
any profession or business undertaking carried on by the sub-postmaster (“the

client or customer limitation”) [Issue D].

5. The relevant background was found by the Tribunal in Hayward in paragraph 10(b) of
its Decision:

60S
4

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others
(?)

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

POL00118221

POL00118221

“The network of post offices in the country comprises Crown Offices, Sub-Post
Offices and franchise Post Offices. These are manned in different ways. Crown
Offices are staffed by employees of the Respondents, while franchise offices are
operated under agreement with larger retailers, for example, supermarkets, who
provide the facility within their larger stores. Sub-Post Offices, however, are
operated by Sub-Postmasters and Sub-Postmistresses, who perform their services
under a contract with the Post Office. Of the 18,000 Post Office outlets
nationwide, 97%, or.17,800 are run-by private business people who run their Post
Office business alongside their other retail concern. A thousand of these Sub-Post
Offices are run by large multiples, such as Spar, who may have a number of Sub-
Post Offices. in different branches. The remainder, the vast majority, are run by
individuals, who employ in total-around 40,000 assistants. The contract between
the Respondents and Spar [is]. exactly the same as those given to persons in the.
position of the Applicant. These contracts are of substantial size and run to
114 pages.”

There are in fact three different kinds of contracts: the Subpostmasters’ Contract
(‘SPMC”) (entered into by Tooby and, I think, Hayward), the Modified
Subpostmasters’ Contract (“MSC”) -(entered into by Wolstenholme) and the
Community Subpostmasters’ Contract (“CSC”) (entered into by Collins). The terms of
these contracts differ slightly, both as between themselves, and as modifications are
made from time to time, but in all material respects they are identical and/or have not
changed, and insofar as there are any slight differences which may be of possible

materiality, we shall refer to them below.

The circumstances in which the Appellants entered into their contracts obviously
slightly differed, both as between themselves, and no doubt as between themselves and
other people who have entered into such contracts with the Post Office, but in general
terms they follow a simple pattern. They would see advertisements for, or learn from
friends or family of the availability of, freehold or leasehold premises and a business —
usually of a newsagent or general store — from which their predecessor would have
been acting as sub-postmaster or sub-postmistress. Although there was no entitlement
to assign or have assigned the office of sub-postmaster, during the negotiations for
acquisition of the premises and business, appropriate enquiries would be made of the
Post Office to ensure that, on acquisition, there would be an appointment as sub-
postmaster: and the particulars of sale of the premises and business would be likely to
be advertised on the basis of including reference to past revenue and/or estimated future
revenue from a continuation of the sub-post office at the premises, on the basis of

which the acquisition would then be completed.

bob
Xe

10.

11.

POL00118221
POL00118221

Thus there are the following relevant findings of fact in relation to the four cases before

us, into which we will interpose some reference to documents to which our particular

attention has been drawn in the course of the hearing before us, insofar as those

documents fill out the picture.

: Hayward. The facts.are briefly set out in paragraphs 10(a) and (b) of the Decision:

“The Applicant was a Sub-Postmaster at 8 Holden Street, Belthorn, Blackburn.
The premises are the applicant's home and the Post Office business is in the
downstairs front room: As well as a Post Office he also carries on the business of
a general store and off-licence. He bought the premises in October 1986 from the:
previous sub-postmaster, was appointed by the Post Office-to conduct their
business their and he has conducted it ever since ... He also conducted in his
premises the village stores. He had paid £40,000 for the building and £7,000 for
the goodwill, fixtures and fittings of the shop.” 7

Tooby. We refer to paragraph 5(a) of the Decision:

“The applicant was postmistress of the sub-post office situated at 3 Mill Street,
Shildon. She took up this position on 11 May 1984. The business operated from
premises she purchased and in which she also lived. She ran the business. She also
sold stationery and cards from the same premises.”

Wolstenholme. We refer to paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Decision:

“The applicant was appointed as Subpostmistress of the sub-post office situated in
Runnymede Avenue, Cleveleys, Blackpool, in November 1999. Those premises
comprise a small shop operation in addition to the post office. Both business have
previously been run by the applicant's parents, who had agreed to self the
business and the premises themselves to the applicant and her partner, which they
purchased with the assistance of a substantial loan from Yorkshire Bank, as well
as a loan from the applicant's parents themselves, who in fact still remain living in
the flat above the shop and post office premises .... The applicant would normally
have been expected to make an introductory payment to [the] Post Office ... for the
privilege of being appointed Subpostmistress, but in this particular case that was
waived because of the fact that this was a family transfer.”

The findings in Collins are somewhat longer, and we have more of the documents in

our bundle. We refer to paragraph 7(2) of the Decision:

“(i) Mrs Collins responded to an advertisement holding out for sale a Sub Post Office
and General Provisions Store;

(ii) Mrs Collins obtained sales particulars that showed a turnover of approximately
£400 per week together with a Post Office salary [we interpose that those
particulars were headed up “SUB-POST OFFICE/GROCERS Trading as: “The
Meadowbank Post Office”).

667

BAT/0442/01/RN & Others 6
we

.?]

POL00118221
POL00118221

Be) A purchase price of £11,900 was sought for the goodwill and lease on local
authority-owned premises comprising a 3-bedroomed dwelling and annexed retail

shop premises (described during the hearing as being similar to a garage attached
to the side of a house);

(iv) The-vendor was a.Mrs Gleave who was then the SPM [sub-postmaster/mistress]

and proprietor of the General. Provisions Store operated in those retail shop
premises; ° . -

(vy) Mrs Collins approached the Post Office to establish that she would be appointed
SPM if she completed the purchase.from Mrs Gleave, apparently completing a
signed application form in her own hand;"

(vi) Given the nature of the work: of a SPM, the Post Office satisfies itself of the’
suitability of those seeking appointment as SPM before making such an
appointment; .

(vii) * Mrs ‘Collins was interviewed by an official of the Post Office and it was during
that interview that she first learned that the opening hours of Meadowbank SPO
[Sub-Post Office] were to be reduced to 20 hours per week and that the Post
Office salary would be less than that stated in the sales particulars;

(viii) The Post Office official conducting the interview made a contemporaneous note on
a standard form to the effect that Mrs Collins would continue to employ a part-
time assistant previously employed by Mrs Gleave [he also there recorded that “Jf
successful, Mrs Collins has plans to alter the shop/po layout.to offer a wider range
of goods and better service and thus hopefully increase business”). ... In her
application form ... Mrs Collins answered the question “Can you provide a
suitable assistant or assistants over school leaving age? If so state, if possible, the
names and ages of all such persons” with the words “As existing”.

(ix) Mrs Collins was offered an appointment as SPM ...

(xvii) The lease of the shop and dwelling was assigned to Mrs Collins, pursuant to which
she covenanted [by clause 3(14)(a) of the lease] to use the shop premises for a
SPO and General Provisions Store.

(xviii) The Post Office gave Mrs Collins some off-the-job training and two-weeks’ on-
the-job training when she first was appointed; thereafter she received periodic
visits from officials of the Post Office.

(xix) Mrs Collins operated the General Provisions Store from November 1993 until
1997; :

(xx) Mrs Collins saw the SPO as likely to draw into the shop customers who would
purchase non-post office items from Mrs Collins and, conversely, the goods on

sale were seen as likely to attract customers to the SPO.

(xxi) Mrs Collins chose, as she was free to do under the contract made with the Post
Office, to keep the SPO counter open throughout the General Provisions Store

trading hours.

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 7
4

A

POL00118221

POL00118221

(xxii) In 1997, when she no longer considered the General Provisions Store viable,

Mrs Collins ceased to engage in that trade.” 5

13. Given the near identical nature of the three contracts referred to above, we set out in the

main only the relevant clauses of the SPMC. We shall, for easier identification later,
give each relevant clause a letter:

1.

“SECTION 1: SUB POSTMASTERS’ CONTRACT AND STATUS.

J. The contract is a contract for services and consequently the Subpostmaster is an
agent and not an employee of [the] Post Office ...

3. The Subpostmaster must provide and maintain, at his own expense, reasonable
office accommodation required by [the] Post Office ..., and pay also at his own

. expense, any assistants he may need to carry on Post Office ... business.

4. The hours of attendance (liable to variation). are [we have Mrs Collins’ contract
filled out] ...

5. The Subpostmaster is not obliged to attend the sub-office personally, but he is
required, whether he is there or not, to accept full responsibility for the proper
running of his sub-office, and the efficient provision of those Post Office services
which are required to be provided there. Retention of the appointment of
Subpostmaster is dependent on the sub-office being well managed and the work
performed properly to the satisfaction of [the] Post Office.

8. The terms of the appointment of Subpostmaster do not entitle the holder to be
paid sick or annual leave, pension or to compensation for loss of office.

9. If on resignation of his appointment the Subpostmaster disposes of his private
business and/or premises.in which the sub-office is situated, the person acquiring
the private business and/or the premises exchanging contracts in connection with
the purchase of the private business and/or premises will not be entitled to
preferential consideration for appointment as Subpostmaster.

15. Operational rules are intended for the instruction and guidance of both the
Subpostmaster and the staff which he employs at his sub-office. The Subpostmaster
must ensure that his sub-office Assistants carry out their duties in accordance with
the rules and instructions affecting their respective duties.

19. All instructions received from the Regional General Manager should be
carried out as promptly as possible.

SECTION 2: REMUNERATION ; .

1. A Subpostmaster is paid according to the amount of work which is transacted at
his sub-office [the CSC is somewhat fuller in this regard:

604%

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 8
w

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

POL00118221

POL00118221

“Upon his appointment, the Community Subpostniaster will be assigned to a
particular rate of remuneration rélative to the amotint of business transacted
or expected to be transacted at his Sub-Office. Subject to paragraph 4 hereof,
this rate of remuneration will remain unchanged throughout the period of the
contract, subject only to periodic uplifting of the Conimunity Scale. In the
event of a change of the number of standard: hours on which service is
required to be provided, the Retail Network Manager -will have the
opportunity to reassess the rate-of remuneration accordingly” .]

SECTION 3: SUBPOSTMASTERS’ ABSENCE FROM OFFICE

A Subpostmaster, under the terms of his contract, is not obliged to render personal
service and is therefore free to absent himself from the office, provided he makes.
suitable arrangements for the conduct of the office during his absence. He should
notify the Regional General Manager on Form P2593 when he will be away for a
period of more than three days, and give the name of the person substituting for
hiin. A Subpostmaster's responsibility for the proper conduct of the office, or for
any losses occurring during his absence, is in no. way diminished by his absence
from the Sub-Office. He must make proper provision, at his own expense, for the
conduct of the office while he is away ...

SECTION 4: _ABSENCE . ON HOLIDAY: _HOLIDAY _ SUBSTITUTION
ALLOWANCE (“HSA”)

J. A subpostmaster is not entitled to annual leave as such, but subject to the
following conditions he may claim for reimbursement of the necessary cost of his
substitution when taking a holiday. To qualify for reimbursement, the

subpostmaster must be able to certify that he renders on average not less than
18 hours personal service each week.

2. The reimbursement of the costs of substitution is paid as HSA and the maxima
payable are published annually in Counter News. The sum reimbursable is the net
additional cost necessarily incurred by the subpostmaster in providing during his
absence for the Post Office duties which he normally performs.

3. To assist Subpostmasters to overcome the difficulties sometimes experienced in
obtaining suitable substitutes in a particularly year, the HSA extends over a
period of two years ...

9. The Subpostmaster must submit a formal claim for reimbursement of the HSA
.. within three months of the end of the period of substitution to which the claim
relates ... He must certify:

9.1 that-he has taken a holiday both from the Sub Post Office and from his
private business during the whole period covered by the claim; and

9.2 that in respect of the services he provided as subpostmaster, he has actually

and necessarily incurred additional expenditure equating to the amount
claimed, in respect of a paid substitute or substitutes ..

bIO
9
POL00118221
POL00118221

SECTION 7: SUBPOSTMASTER'S SICK ABSENCE SCHEME — SUBSTITUTION _

ALLOWANCE ~

O.. J. A Subpostmaster is not required to give personal service and is not entitled to
sick leave as such. However, subject to certain conditions and limitations
described below, he is entitled to claim sick absence substitution allowance
[“SASA”], in-respect of costs of substitution necessarily incurred, when he is
absent from his sub-office through illness.

2. ... all Subpostmasters who give 18 hours or more personal service a.week, who
are absent from the sub-office through illness, are eligible to claim [SASA] .

SECTION 13: PREMISES

P. 1. The Subpostmaster must, at his own expense, provide premises in which such
reasonable office-accommodation and fittings as [the] Post Office ... may require
are made available for carrying on the Post Office ... business:

Q. = 3. The Subpostmaster must also at his own expense:

«clean, decorate and maintain the sub-office premises to a good standard;.

© light and heat the sub-office premises;

© exhibit the sub-office title (i.e. ‘... POST OFFICE’) in large painted letters
in a prominent position outside the building ...”

[The CSC is fuller in this regard (in Section 9):

RJ. The Community Subpostmaster must, at his own expense, provide
premises in which such reasonable office accommodation and fittings as
[the] Post Office . may require are made available for carrying on [the]
Post Office ... business. Normally, these premises will be owned by the
Community Subpostmaster or his spouse, or will be leased to him or his
spouse on a tenancy. However, in certain instances, the Regional General
Manager may authorise the establishment of a Community Sub-Office in
premises which would normally not be acceptable in the case of a full-time
Sub-Office, such as domestic premises, church hall, Community centre, etc.,
in which case the Regional General Manager may agree, on request, to bear
the reasonable one-off cost of adapting such premises to make them suitable
for the running of a Community Sub-office.

S. 2. The Community Subpostmaster must, at his own expense, ensure.that the
Sub-Office part of the premises is kept clean and maintained to a good
standard, and provided with adequate lighting and heating. He may also be
required to provide space for posting facilities.

T. 3. The Regional General Manager will decide on the security precautions to
be taken at each Community Sub-Office, taking into account likely levels of

Gf!

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others
POL00118221
POL00118221

cash holdings’ and. possible risks in view. of local circumstances. The
Cornmunity Subpostmaster. may therefore be xequired to provide facilities

for the installation of:such security equipment as the Regional General
Manager considers necessary.”

U. 4. “The Subpostmaster .must not, without the prior-agreement of the Regional
General Manager:

© move the sub-office to premises other than those in which it was situated at
the time of his appointment;

«alter the accommodation for carrying on the work of the sub-office from that
agreed at the time of his appointment.

SECTION 14: HOURS OF BUSINESS

V. I 1.-The actual hours of opening of any individual sub-office are set by the Regional
General Manager in accordance with the following rules. The Subpostmaster must
not without permission vary the hours of public business set t by the Regional
General Manager.

W. 2. The standard hours during which the Subpostmaster may be required to open
his office in order to transact all kinds of counter business appropriate to his

office are Monday — Friday 0900 — 1730, Saturday 0900 — 1230 or 1300
(depending on local circumstances).

SECTION 15: ASSISTANTS

X. 1. A Subpostmaster must provide, at his own expense, any assistance which he
may need to carry out the work in his sub-office.

Y. 2. Assistants are employees of the sub-postmaster. A Subpostmaster will be, held
wholly responsible for any failure, on the part of his Assistants, to apply Post
Office rules, or to provide a proper standard of service to the public. He will also
be required to make good any deficiency, of cash or stock, which may result from
his assistants’ actions.

Z. 3. Wages, hours, holidays etc., are a matter to be settled between Subpostmaster
and the assistants concerned. However they should be no less favourable than
those enjoyed by shop assistants generally in the same district. [The] Post Office
... reserves the right to intervene if such conditions are considered inequitable.

AA. 4. The Subpostmaster is responsible, as employer of his assistants, for complying
with the provisions of any legislation which imposes obligations on employers.

BB. 6. In the light of the Subpostmaster’s responsibilities ... he is strongly
recommended to satisfy himself of the character and suitability of an applicant for
employment as Assistant before a firm offer of employment is made ...

CC. 12. In order to help prevent the employment of unsuitable or dishonest persons on
Post Office work, a Subpostmaster must notify the Regional General Manager if

oe

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others
POL00118221

POL00118221

he dismisses an employee on these grounds, or if his enquiries about an applicant
Sor employment give him reason to believe that the applicant is an unsuitable
person ..

DD. 13. Where [the] Post Office. ... has good reason to believe that it would not be in
its best interests for a particular person to have access to [the] Post Office ... cash
and stock as a Sub-Office Assistant it may call upon the Subpostmaster to:

(a) refrain from offering that person a post if not already employed

(b) ensure that the person is not further employed on Post Office business if
employed. .~

SECTION 17: SUBPOSTMASTERS’ PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

EE. J. The. appointment of a Subpostmaster confers on the individual concerned the
* right to transact, and to receive payment for, certain items of business on behalf of
[the] Post Office ... at the premises specified. The conditions of the appointment
also involve such restrictions on the private activities of the Subpostmaster as are
necessary to ensure the continued viability of {the] Post Office ... nationwide
network. (Restrictions relating to directly competitive operations are then set out.]

FF. 12. A Subpostmaster must not use the name ‘Post Office’ in connection with any of
his private business activities or in such a way as to imply that the Post Office is in
any way connected with these activities.

SECTION 22: QUALITY STANDARDS

GG. [The relevant obligation is more fully set out in the equivalent clause (s11(M)(2)
in the MSC, namely:

“The Subpostmaster must make every endeavour to ensure that all
customers start to be served ... within five minutes of the time that they join
a queue to be served or within such other time which shall, from time to
time, be prescribed. The normal standard is that the customer should expect
to be served [within] this maximum time limit. The Subpostmaster will, in
accordance with procedures advised by [the Post Office], regularly monitor
the waiting time that customers experience in his office and will make all
necessary adjustments to his staffing patterns. Persistent failure to meet the
standards of service will be regarded as a breach of contract. Any failure by
[the] Post Office ... to exercise this power should not be regarded as a
waiving of its rights under the terms of this contract.”

14. Before we turn to the resolution of Issues A to D, we should set out what might be
called the judicial history’ at the EAT, which intimately relates to the outcome of
Issues A and B. There have been six relevant previous decisions of the EAT, all relating

to the status of sub-postmasters/mistresses:

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 618
POL00118221
POLO00118221

i) Hitchcock v Post Office [1980] ICR 100 (per Slynn P). Issue A was before the
EAT, i.e. whether a sub-postmaster was an employée or not (for the purpose of
unfair dismissal). The relevant contracts, which were similar if not identical to. the

B . present, were considered. Slynn P; giving the judgment of the EAT, concluded as
follows (at 108-110): :

“We accept ... that there is here a substantial measure of control which
relates to the conduct of the Post Office's business. It might be, if there were
no other factors present, that that-control would-be sufficient to make the
contract one of service rather than for services, But there are other factors
present. The question in this case,.it seems to us, is really whether the
control that does exist is such that it prevents the contract being one for
services rather than one of service. Accordingly we must look at the matter
as a whole. We consider here that great importance has to be attached to
the fact that the applicant provided the premises and a certain amount of the
equipment at his own expense. The sub-post office came into what was his
general store. It was a part of his own business. Moreover it is clear that
even though, apparently, he chose to spend a great deal of his working week
doing the sub-post office work at this particular premises himself, he had the
right to delegate, and did in fact delegate. At the other two offices, we have
been told, he delegated on virtually a full time basis; but even at Springfield
Road there was some delegation. In addition it seems to us that on the terms
set out in the rules he was obliged to be no more than responsible for the
- conduct of the office. He may have chosen either to do it himself or to
supervise it;-if he did not, then at most he was responsible for the
performance of the duties. It was for him to decide whether to do it himself
or whether to employ someone else to do it, as long as he retained the
responsibility. We do not feel that the provision as to his giving notice if he
is to be absent for more than three days is in any way inconsistent with his
right to appoint other people to carry out the duties of the sub-post dffice.
y Moreover it seems to us that even though there may be less chance of
making profit, or risk of loss, than in many businesses, there was still here
the chance of profit and the risk of loss ... In our view, the essential position
was that the applicant, although under control as to the way in which much
of the work was done, was carrying on business on his own account. The
economic reality of it was that this was his shop, his premises, and it was he
who was conducting this sub-post office business even if on behalf of the
Post Office. We do not consider that it can be said that he, although doing
‘ work for them, was so integrated into their business that he became a
servant. The position of a head postmaster who is a full time employee of the
Post Office, and who provides no premises, no employees of his own, seems
to us.to be entirely different. The very fact here that the applicant was
carrying on this business with employees of his own seems to us to indicate
very strongly thal he was not employed under a contract of service. We do
H not consider that the element of control here — which, as the Industrial
Tribunal found, is not so much of a managerial nature but is connected with
the protection of the Post Office's own property and public interest — is such
as to prevent this being a contract for services in the generally understood
614
13

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

Gi)

(iii)

POL00118221

POL00118221

sense. Nor do we think that the fact that the applicant did carry on long
hours here and signed a certificate to say.that he was working for more than
18 hours per week in.the sub-post office —- which had for him consequences
in relation to National Insurance — means that he is to be treated as a
servant.”

Goraya_v Post Office (EAT/409/89 unreported) per Wood P, after further

consideration, resolved Issue A the same way.

Tanna v Post Office [1981] ICR 374, per Slynn P. Here the EAT considered Issue
B - contract “personally to execute” — for the purposes of the Race Relations Act
1976 s78(1), whose wording is, as, we have set out in paragraph 3(ii) above,

materially identical to the sections in consideration before us, and resolved it in

* favour of the Post Office.

(iv)

wv)

(vi)

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

Soni v Post Office Counters Ltd (EAT 425/96 unreported) per HH Judge Pugsley.
Issue-B was again considered by the EAT (again by reference to the materially
identical wording of the Race Relations Act 1976). Specific reference was made to
Gunning, the seminal Court of Appeal decision to which we referred in paragraph
4(i) above, in which, by reference to 's82(1) of the Sex Discrimination Act 1995

(again materially identical), the Court of Appeal had concluded that whether a
contract fell within that section depended on:

“(a) whether, looking at the contract as a whole, it contained, on the part of
the person who was contracting to provide services, any obligations
that he or she.would personally execute any work or labour; and

(b) whether that obligation was a dominant purpose of the contract.”

Again the EAT resolved Issue B in favour of the Post Office.

Sheehan _v Post Office Counters Ltd [1999] ICR 73 per Morison P. Again the EAT
resolved Issue B in favour of the Post Office, this time by reference to the (also

materially identical) provisions of the Disability Discrimination Act 1995.

Chohan and Bains v Post Office Ltd (EAT 284/02) per Lord Johnston. Orfce again

the EAT resolved Issue B in favour of the Post Office, in relation to the materially

identical provisions in the Race Relations Act 1976.

6IS
ew

15.

POL00118221
POL00118221

For completeness, two other decisions were referred to before the Employment
Tribunal in the cases of Hayward and Tooby. The first was a decision of another
Employment Tribunal, that sitting at Inverness (ET $/200/521/99), where, in
relation to Issue B, by reference to the NMWA, that Tribunal decided the matter
against the Post Office, notwithstanding the EAT decisions we ‘have referred to:
No submissions were addressed during the hearing before us as to ‘this first
instance decision. The other decision was one of a Chairman of a VAT Tribunal in

Patel_v Commissioners of Customs and Excise and Post Office Counters Ltd

(11/6/97), in which the Post Office had argued that a sub-postmaster, while not an.
employee for the purposes of other legislation, should be so’ treated for VAT
_ purposes ‘and thus not liable to VAT. The Chairman rejected that argument,
concluding (at page 4) that he did not “consider that what is a contract of service
in the industrial relations (context, any more than where the question arises for
income tax or National Insurance, is something different from” what he was called
upon to consider in that case. He concluded that the contract of the sub-postmaster
was one of service, thus not following the EAT decisions. Although this was thus
a decision, albeit in the VAT context; which did not support the argument being
put forward by the Post Office on Issue A, Ms Mulholland did not base any

argument upon it, and it is of course again not binding upon us.

Against this background we can now turn to deal more shortly with the issues

themselves.

Issue A: Employee or not?

16.

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

Ms Mulholland was faced with the following problems:
i) Findings of fact by the Employment Tribunal.

ii) An apparent correct application of the correct tests by reference to the appropriate

authorities by the Employment Tribunal.

iii) The previous decisions of the EAT to which we have referred which, though not
strictly binding upon us, are plainly extremely persuasive, not simply by virtue of

the number of them (although four out of the six were strictly on Issue B) but in

6/6
17.

POL00118221

POL00118221

particular by virtue of the very lucid and convincing analysis by Slynn P in
Hitchcock. .

- The Employment Tribunal in Wolstenholme carefully considered the evidence and the
contract. The following paragraphs of its decision are relevant:

9. ... The Tribunal was satisfied on n the evidence of the applicant herself that she
believed, when entering into that contractual arrangement, that she ... was
embarking upon a business venture in which she would be a self-employed person
running the post office operation under a franchise’ type of operation, whereby

she would be carrying out duties for and on behalf of [the] Post Office ... under a
contract for services.

10. When entering into the arrangement, the applicant did not believe that she

- would become an ‘employee’ of {the] Post Office ...

15. Mr Owen on behalf of the applicant does not dispute the fact that the intention
of the parties was not to enter into a contract of employment and the Tribunal is
satisfied that that was the case. What he argues, however,. is that the label
attached to the arrangement between them is not conclusive, which of course is
right as a matter of law, and that the-reality of the relationship, including in
particular. the control exercised in practice by the respondent over the manner in
which the applicant conducted the business of the sub-post office is such that, as a
matter of law and fact, the relation of employer/employee was created or evolved

17. There is no doubt in the Tribunal’s mind that the respondent did, in fact, insist
on the applicant utilising the Horizon computer system, which all other sub-
postmasters and mistresses throughout the country had also been instructed to do

i

18. Mr Owen pointed in the contract to a number of other areas in which the
respondent did or purported to ‘dictate’ the way in which the applicant conducted
her day-to-day activities in the running of the post office.

19. It was argued by Mr Wright on behalf of the respondent that, in any
commercial arrangement such as the one in this case, the ‘franchisor’ is perfectly
entitled to insist that the ‘franchisee’ operates the franchise in a particular
manner so as to achieve consistencies of operations and (particularly in a case
such as this where important public functions are being administered) to ensure
that efficiency, reliability, security and probity are maintained.

20. It-is no{ proposed in these reasons to go into detail regarding the matters
which the applicant maintains amounts to ‘control’ to the degree asserted, but
{our underlining] the Tribunal accepts that the contract provides for_a very
comprehensive and firm regime under which _the_sub-postmasters or mistresses
expected to operate.

617

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 16
POL00118221
POL00118221

21. It is, however, in the Tribunal’s view of particular significance that the
wording in the contract essentially provided for the applicant to be re: ible
ensuring that the requirements of the respondent were carried out, rather than
insisting that she personally should perform those tasks. The applicant did, in fact,
employ a number of assistants to run the business and the Tribunal was satisfied
that the contract did not provide for the applicant to be personally present at. all
times when the post.office was open.

22. Having considered all the eviderice, the Tribunal was unanimously satisfied
that the applicant was not required personally to perform the services for which
she -was responsible under the contract. Provided the person she employed was
suitable, ‘she was entitled to delegate her duties under the contract to her
employees and to provide them as ‘substitutes’ for herself when she was not
performing those functions herself.

33. Having considered all the facts and law in relation to the matter, the Tribunal

- is satisfied that the dominant purpose of the contract between the applicant and
the respondent was not the provision of personal services by-her, but the regular
and efficient carrying on of -the Post Office services jor which she. was
responsible.”

The Tribunal makes reference to Express and Echo Publications Ltd v Tanton [1999]

ICR 693, and the importance placed in that case on the presence or absence of an

obligation to perform personally, and-to Hitchcock, and expressly disagrees with Patel.

18. As for Tooby, the Employment Tribunal in its decision again gave careful consideration
to the facts and to the terms of the relevant contract, and made express reference to the
same authorities but also to a number of others, including Ready Mixed Concrete
(South-East) Ltd v Minister of Pensions and National Insurance [1968] 2 QB 497. The

relevant paragraphs of its decision are as follows:

“S(h) There is no doubt upon considering the contractual provisions that the Post
Office exercises a considerable degree of control over the applicant's Post Office
business [our underlining]. However the applicant provided the capital for the
business, she owned the premises, she decided whether to employ assistance
although such assistance, had to be approved by the Post Office, and she decided
the extent to which she would give personal service, although there was no
requirement that she should give any.

9. We are satisfied that Mrs Tooby well understood that she was applying to use
premises which she was purchasing for use as a post office and could“use that
business for her own other business, namely that of selling stationery and cards.
She was acquiring the oulgoing private business of the previous sub-postmaster.
She indicated that she wished to acquire the position in order to set up her own
business. She acknowledged the post office rules. Whilst the label that the parties
put on the relationship is not decisive, it can be relevant [see Massey v Crown Life
Assurance Company [1978] IRLR 31 CA].

bre

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others
0

&°

19.

20.

21.

POL00118221

POL00118221

10. It is quite clear from the contractual documents that the sub-postmaster was
not required to attend the sub-post office personally and could employ assistance.

14. In approaching the question asked in Lane v Shire Roofing [1995] IRLR 493
CA as to whose business it was, it can only be answered in one way in this case.
This was Mrs Tooby's business. She was the one who ‘stood to stand loss or profit,
there was no day-to-day control in supervision of her, and this. sub-post office
business was in reality her own business, and.part of the totality of the business
carried on from those premises.”

Ms Mulholland put her case in her skeleton argument as follows:

“(a) the degree of control on the Appellant was such that the only sensible
conclusion is that she was an employee;

(b) whatever test is applied to the facts of the case, the conclusion must be that the
* Appellant was employed by the Respondent;

(c) the self-employed contract was and is merely a sham to hide the real status of
the Appellant.” . --

She made clear in oral argument that so far as concerned her submission (c) she was not
in fact making a case of ‘sham’, but simply that the label placed by the parties on the
relationship was not conclusive. That of course is not only common ground but was
accepted by the two Employment Tribunals. Of course, as she also had to accept, and as
was also set out by the Employment Tribunal in Tooby, it is clear from Massey that the
label is nonetheless of significance. As for her submission (b), this puts her case very

high indeed, particularly in the light of the findings of the Tribunals and the nature of
the contract. ‘

As for submission (a) she refers to a number of terms of the contract, including those
which enable control by the Regional General Manager to which we: have referred
above. Amongst the additional clauses to which she took us were to the equivalent, in
the MSC, of Clause 8.7 in the SPMC, which provides that the sub-postmaster or his
representative must inform his Regional General Manager that he is sick, but this is
followed immediately afterwards by a clause (8:8) which appears entirely inconsistent
with employment, providing as it does that “subpostmasters, including those nominated
by limited companies, who hold more than one appointment, must” give various other
notifications to the same Regional General Manager. The fact, as Ms Mulholland
showed us, that there are obligations on the sub-postmaster to keep accounts in various

specified ways, and, as set out in the clauses we have lettered as BB, CC and DD in

&IF

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 18
o &

22.

POL00118221
POLO00118221

paragraph 13- above, to involve the Post Office in the selection and verification of the
sub-postmaster’s own employees, and above all (because Ms Mulholland emphasised
this clause lettered GG in particular) to “make every endeavour to ensure” a minimum
waiting time for customers, with a contractual sanction for “persistent failure” is
entirely consistent, if not more consistent, with'a contract for services. In any event, as
is clear from the passages we have underlined in our quotations from the relevant
decisions of the Employment Tribunal, the Employment Tribunal recognised and took
into account the fact that there was a substantial element of control by the Post Office.
Insofar as she suggests that the degree of control is, or ought to have been found by the.
Employment Tribunal to be so overwhelming as to point only to a contract of service,

this submission is plainly unarguable.

In order to seek to establish her submission (b) she addressed what she called the
“organisational” test, by reference to Stephenson Jordan and Harrison Ltd v McDonald
and Evans [1952] TLR 101, and asserted that Mrs Wolstenholme, and all sub-

postmasters and mistresses, were integral to the running of the Respondent’s business.

She referred to what she called the “economic reality” test, to suggest that “the
Appellant’s. business is part of a larger economic entity”. She asserted that “there
clearly exists some mutuality of obligation between the parties”, and she referred,

properly, to MacFarlane v Glasgow City Council [2001] IRLR 7, in which the EAT per

Lindsay P emphasised that some ability to delegate did not inescapably lead to a
conclusion that the contract was not a contract of service. All these submissions were in
effect simply the repeat of submissions which no doubt were made, or could have been
made, before the Employment Tribunal. However, given the correct way in which the
Employment Tribunal approached their task, no error of law begins to be shown. In any
event, particularly in the light of the previous EAT decisions, with which we entirely
agree, the arguments against these contracts being contracts of employment appears
overwhelming. There are not just the relatively limited ambit of control and the
substantial absence of undertaking of personal service, but also the factors which were
so influential with Slynn P in Hitchcock, including the fact that the sub-postmaster is
providing his own premises and his own equipment and at least has the right to provide
his own staff and to run his own business, subject to keeping separate accounts. Rather

than adopting Ms Mulholland’s submission (b), we would rather have suggested that

620

EAT/0442/01/RN &-Others 19
ie}

ay

POL00118221

POL00118221

the reverse applied, namely that whatever test is applied to the facts’ of the case, the
conclusion must be that the Appellants were not employed by the Respondent.

Issue B: Undertaking of Personal Service
23. Mr’Falkenstein for Tooby rested his'case on this issue on only one point (the ‘Tooby

24.

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

point’), to which. we shall turn, but he made it clear that, ‘but for that point, he did not
pursue this argument. This meant that (subject to the preservation of position pending
any higher appeal) only Mr Baker on behalf of Mr Hayward pursued the casé
simpliciter, and even he made no oral submissions. In the Employment Tribunal’s
decision in Hayward. their conclusion (after disagreeing with the decision of the

Inverness Tribunal in Bain) was contained in paragraphs 14 and 15 of their Decision:

“14. It seems to us that ... while in practice a Sub-Postmaster may well be wise to

keep a close personal eye on many of the operations of his Post.Office, we have to
look at the contract. The words in the Act we are required to construe are

_ “undertakes to do or perform personally any work”. It is clear from the contract

that the applicant is not required to render personal service. This is particularly
set out in paragraph I of the contract and also under paragraph 5 and elsewhere,
notably under Absence from office, a Sick Absence Scheme, where specifically it is
stated that he is not required to render personal service. These are the legal
realities of the contract and it is those that this Tribunal is required to construe,
not how Sub-Postmasters, even the vast majority of Sub-Postmasters choose to
perform the contract. They are not required to undertake the work personally and

it would seem to us quite inappropriate for this Tribunal to decide that. the
situation is otherwise.

15. This is quite apart from the decision in the case of Sheehan, which in our' view
construes identical words, although in a different Act ... ina manner which in our
view is binding on this Tribunal. We accept the interpretation of Morison P in that
case that the word ‘any’ in the definition referred to cannot relate purely to
minimal work, in that the Tribunal is required to look at the dominant purpose of
the contract, and in this case, as we have stated, this was the efficient carrying out
of Post Office services, and these clearly can be delegated, and in many cases are
delegated, completely to another authorised person by the Sub-Postmaster. The
fact that some other functions, not the dominant purpose, are required to be
carried out by the Sub-Postmaster personally does not, it seems to us, created a
foundation for deciding that the dominant purpose of the contract is personally to
do any work.”

The Employment Tribunal in Collins at paragraph 28 of the Decision concluded as
follows:

“28. The Tribunal concluded that the contract made between Mrs Collins and
the Post Office is not a contract whereby she undertakes to do or perform work

62!
20
25.

26.

27.

POL00118221
POL00118221

personally. She has a choice whether she does the work herself or not. The
dominant purpose of the contract is the provision of retail facilities. Mrs Collins
undoubtedly provides .the premises at which the Post Office business is
transacted. She may choose to do.all of the work herself but she is free to
choose not to do so and was required, before she was appointed to the office of

SPM, to satisfy the Post Office that she was-able to call upon adequate
assistance to ensure the work was done.”

With both thesé Decisions we agree. We are satisfied that but for the ‘Tooby point’,
which neither Ms Mulholland for Mrs Wolstenholme, nor Mr Baker. on behalf of
Mr Hayward have been able, because they did not run it below, nor have sought before
us, to adopt, there is no ground for challenge tothe ET decisions on Issue B-

The ‘Tooby point’ arises in this way. We have. referred in paragraph 13 above to the
clauises lettered K, L, M and N relating to HSA, and although there was tio specific
reference to it in argument, we note that there is a similar allowance:(SASA) for all
sub-postmasters who give 18 hours or more personal service a week and are absent
from their sub-office through illness, provided for in the clauses lettered O, which do
not appear to refer to the need for a ‘certificate’. As is set out in clause K, to qualify for
feimbursement of the cost of being substituted when taking a holiday, the sub-
postmaster must be able to certify that he renders on average not less than 18 hours
personal services each week. As can be seen, he must also provide a further certificate
in order to submit his formal claim for HSA in accordance with clause N. We do not
appear to have in our documentation an example of the latter certificate, but we have a
document which is presumably the certificate such as is provided for in clause K! The
document, signed by Mrs Tooby on 14 May 1984 (the same day as she acknowledged
receipt of her appointment as sub-postmaster), was signed in response to a request that
she should “please opt for one of the statements below. This option is required for
record purposes”. She was asked to delete the one of the two options which did not
apply, and she deleted the one relating to “LESS than 18 hours” and she did not delete,
but signed, the other: “J certify that I perform MORE than 18 hours personal service to
the Post Office”. The same document appears to be for use in subsequent years because
there is the opportunity to sign in relation to subsequent years, the words “I certify that

the above statement is still correct”

Mr Falkenstein’s case is as follows:

622

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 21
i)

ii)

POL00118221

POL00118221

The signature of this document, simultaneous with receipt and acknowledgment of
her contract, changed or fixed the nature of the contract between the Post Office
and Mrs Tooby. She had not been obliged to give the certificate; its effect was
only to qualify for HSA (and no doubt also for SASA), and the effect of non-
compliance with it would only be disqualification to receive HSA and/or SASA,
so that it could be ‘unconditionally withdrawn. But-while it was in place the
contract was one by which Ms Tooby was undertaking to perform personal service
of at least 18 hours: and thus the dominant purpose of the contract was of personal
service, at least 18 hours being substantial, or at any rate as compared with the.

total hours, set out in her acknowledgment of appointment, of 36.5, there was

sufficient to justify an argument of dominant purpose, which could be remifted to

the Tribunal for further consideration if necessary. Whatever may be the nature of

the contract without the certificate — and, as has been said, Mr Falkenstein did not

pursue any other argument against the conclusion of the Employment Tribunals —

the contract of Ms Tooby and those like her. became one of ‘personal service’.

Alternatively even if the undertaking did not change the contract, nevertheless its
existence meant that Ms Tooby worked under a contract whereby she undertook to

do or perform certain services personally.

28. The relevant paragraphs of the Decision of the Employment Tribunal in Tooby were as

follows:

“5(b) On page RI/I1 of the bundle is a statement that the applicant was required
to complete to certify whether she performed more or less than 18 hours personal
service to the Post Office. She stated she performed more than 18 hours personal
service. She now claims that she understood that this meant that she had to work
on Post Office duties for 18 hours per week at least and in consideration of that
commitment she would receive certain benefits to assist with the payment of a
substitute.

15. We are satisfied ... [that] the applicant chose to carry out 18 hours personal
service rather than being obliged to carry oul work personally. She did so as part
and parcel of her own business and is therefore not a worker within the terms of
the definition.”

29. Mr Griffith-Jones QC, in his skeleton argument, submits that the Employment Tribunal

was right to find that:

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

623
5e&

w

POL00118221
POL00118221

“Although a sub-postmaster is entitled to a [HSA] if she elects to work personally,
she is not contractually required to work personally.’

30. . He submitted that the document signed on 14 May. 1984 was not an undertaking but a
statement, ‘and that it was of no contractual effect, ‘save that it fulfilled a condition
precedent for payment.of allowances, that it could be changed at will, and that the only
consequence of withdrawal or indeed non-continuation ‘of the statement wouid be that
HSA would not be payable. :

ah. Having heard Mr Griffith-Jones QC’s submissions we are persuaded as follows:

i) The certification is not and does not amount to an undertaking, but is a statement
_ of intention. In our judgment, it was similar to what I suggested in the course of
argument to Mr Falkenstein, namely a statement of what was necessary to qualify

for an extra payment, such as if, for example; as a result of some local initiative an
additional payment were provided to be made to someone who could prove or
certify birth or habitation in that locality. Particularly as the statement can be
withdrawn at any time, the only consequence being disqualification for HSA, it is
much better described as an election than as some kind: of revocable and

unenforceable undertaking.

ii) In any event the making of the statement does not ‘change’ or even ‘fix’ the nature
of the contract. It would be strange if this‘could be done at the option of the sub-
postmaster, but in our judgment it plainly does not change the nature of the
contract, because the provision of the certificate is an act pursuant to the contract.
The taking up of one of the provisions of or options under the contract (‘receive
HSA if you do 18 hours’) cannot change the substantive nature of the contract

which always had the option within it, and thus:

a. The signing of a certificate as evidence of intention to perform 18 hours is no
different from someone actually performing 18 hours when not otherwise
obliged by the contract to do so. To that extent therefore the ‘Tooby point’ is

not a séparate point at all, but arises out of the very nature of the contract.

b. The fact that the contract contains such an ‘option’ within it did not (as the
Employment Tribunals found, and as Slynn P concluded in the passage in
Hitchcock at 110 which we have cited at paragraph 14(i) above) make the

624

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 23
i a

&-

32.

POL00118221

POL00118221

contract one for, or indeed for the dominant purpose Of, the personal .

execution of services by the sub-postmaster.

_ We are satisfied that the “Tooby point’ adds nothing to the argument, and that the

Appellants fail on Issue B on'this basis also.

Issue C: Are Mr Hayward and Mrs Collins homeworkers?

33.

34.

35.

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

The issue to be answered by the Employment. Tribunal, as can be seen from $35(2) of
the NMWA set out in paragraph 3(iii) above, was whether such sub-postmaster has
contracted with the Post Office, for the purposes of the Post Office’s business, for the
execution of work to be done’in a place not under the control or management of the
Post Office. If so, then by a combination of s35(1) and $54(3) of the NMWA, the issue
of personal performance does not arise. It is thus an alternative way in which, subject to
the client or customer limitation, individuals may be workers for the purposes of the
NMWA (it does not apply to the 1996 Act or the WTR or the discrimination

legislation).

The issue was, as explained in paragraph I(iv) above, not before the Employment
Tribunal in Hayward, though he has been permitted to run the point before us. It was
dealt with by the Employment Tribunal in Collins as follows, at paragraph 26:

“The Tribunal concluded that Mrs Collins is not a homeworker, as defined in 535
of the Act. That part of Mrs Collins’ premises assigned to the SPO is under the
control of the Post Office since, by paragraph 4 under s9 of the contract made
between Mrs Collins and the Post Office, Mrs Collins may not alter the
accommodation for carrying out the work of the SPO without the agreement of the
Post Office. By reason of that contractual position, Mrs Collins surrendered
control, or at least, sufficient control of that part of her premises occupied by the
Post Office counter at which Mrs Collins and/or any assistant works to provide
Post Office services.”
Mr Brennan QC accepts that a sub-postmaster would not be the ordinary kind of
homeworker who would, for example, pursuant to a contract with a clothing
manufacturer, make up, together with family members or neighbours, garments-at his or
her own house from cloth supplied by the manufacturer, under their own domestic
conditions, and provide the made-up garments back to the manufacturer. But he
submits that the NMWA does not require the place of work to be the home of the

worker or indeed home at all (although of course some sub-postmasters will live in or

62s
24
ie]

36.

37.

38.

39.

POL00118221

POLO00118221

over the shop) but the Act applies simply if the work is to be done in place not under

the control or management of the Post Office, and he submits that the Employment

Tribunal erred in its conclusion.

It does not seem to us that tle finding’ of the Employment Tribunal was simply one of
fact, so as to fall into that area which is difficult to.reconsider on an appeal before the
Employment Appeal Tribunal where only errors of law can be addressed. The
Tribunal’s conclusion was one by reference to the construction of the contract, and that

has been the nature of the argument before us.

Before we can approach that exercise, it is necessary to see what is looked for. Is it
enough if theré was some control —e.g. that a sign is required to be placed outside, or in
some part of, the premises, which the homeworker would not otherwise have wanted

but is now under instructions to erect and retain?

It seems to us clear that this would not of itself be enough, but that what is intended is
that the place of work is not materially under the control of the Post Office. Given that
the onus is on the Post Office, as a result of Sections 19(6) and 28 of the NMWA, set
out in paragraph 3(iii) above, the question before the Employment Tribunal was
whether the Post Office had shown that it had some material control over. or

management of the place of work.
Mr Brennan QC’s case for the Inland Revenue was as follows:

i) Within the structure of the NMWA, a homeworker is one who controls access to
the workplace, what can be done within the workplace and who has responsibility

for dealing with the workplace (such as safety, repairs etc).

ii) The Employment Tribunal erred by looking at the personal contractual restrictions
on Mrs Collins, and in particular concentrating on one of them, namely that which
we have lettered as U in paragraph 13 above, relating to the restriction on
Mrs Collins from altering the “accommodation for carrying on the work of the

sub-office”

iii) The Employment Tribunal erred in concluding that Mrs Collins “surrendered

control or, at least, sufficient control of that part of her premises occupied by the

626

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 25
40.

Al.

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

POL00118221

POL00118221

Post Office counter at which Mrs Collins and/or any assistant worked to provide
Post Office services”. It was, Mr Brennan Qc submitted, not the counter, but the
Meadowbank Sub Post Office as a whole, which was the place where work was to
be executed.

iv) It was common ground that the premises were Mrs Collins? premises, in which she
had a leasehold interest, and the Post Office had-no proprietary interest, of which
she had exclusive legal possession and to which the Post Office did not even have
a right of access. The limited right to require Mrs Collins personally to refrain
without the Post Office’s consent from making a particular sort of alteration to part
of the workplace did not amount to control, or sufficient control over the place,
but was simply a personal contractual right in respect of Mrs Collins. Mrs Collins
carried on the business in her workplace, over which she had control and

management, and responsibility for health and safety.

While supporting the Employment Tribunal’s finding in Collins, Mr Griffith-Jones QC
referred to other clauses of the contract, and also asserted, if necessary, that the Post
Office had management and control over the place through its agent Mrs Collins.

Specifically he further submitted:

i) that it is a false dichotomy to suggest that there is no control because there is
‘only’ a contractual obligation placed upon Mrs Collins. If that contractual
obligation is in respect of control and management of the place, and cdn be
enforced, then there is control and management over the place, even if there is no

proprietary interest.

ii) that such control and management does not need to be constituted and enforced by
direct access or the entitlement to access, but can be effected by ‘remote control’ —

if necessary and appropriate then by injunction.

It appears to us clear beyond doubt that the following clauses of the contract, set out in
paragraph 13 above and identified by our lettering, establish that the Post Office had
material control over the place of work: C, G, H, Q, R, S, T, U, V and W. We agree
with Mr Griffith-Jones QC that the absence of a right of access is irrelevant. It is
entirely clear that work being carried out, at the Meadowbank sub-post office, on the

terms imposed by the Post Office, is materially different from the case of work being

or?
POL00118221
POL00118221

carried out by a homeworker and members of his family in his or her‘own house. The
Employment Tribunal was particularly. concerned with ‘one of these clauses which
exemplified sufficient control over the premises, namely by reference to U. But in
assessing the legal challenge by the Inland Revenue by reference to the contract as a
whole, it is plain that. the other clauses too are relevant. In our judgment, the
Employment Tribunal was right in concluding that the Post Office satisfied the onus of
showing that it had material control over the place of work; and that Mrs Collins, and
indeed Mr Hayward insofar as he adopts the same case, was not an individual who
contracted with the Post Office for the execution of work to be done in a place not
under the control or management of the Post Office.

Issue D: The Client or Customer Limitation

42. Our decision on this issue is of course academic, given the failure of the cases of
Tooby, Hayward and the Inland Revenue on Issues B and C. However, although the
Employment Tribunals in Tooby and Hayward did not go on to deal with Issue D, the
Employment Tribunal in Collins did and, in any event, having heard detailed
submissions from Mr Brennan QC and Mr Griffith-Jones QC, we shall resolve this

issue also.

43. The Tribunal in Collins concluded as follows:

“20. The Tribunal considered that, when the contract was made between
Mrs Collins and the Post Office, Mrs Collins sought to run a SPO and géneral
Provisions Store. That was what was required by the lease of the premises that she
acquired from Mrs Gleave, on payment of a substantial capital sum. Mrs Collins
offered the Post Office not only labour but also retail premises within which Post
Office business could be transacted.

21. It would be entirely artificial to seek to sever the operation of the SPO from the
private retail business operated by Mrs Collins, since they both made use of
Mrs Collins’ shop premises, and Mrs Collins and any assistant were both free to
provide any Post Office services and general provisions to such customers as
came along. That is plainly the way the arrangement was seen by the EAT in
Hitchcock v Post Office [1980] ICR 100, 108, 109.

22. The Post Office is properly to be regarded as Mrs Collins’ client, as it
purchased retail facilities (premises and labour) from Mrs Collins in order to
enable the Post Office to meet the needs of its customers having recourse to
Meadowbank Post Office.”

629

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 27
44,

POL00118221

POL00118221

Mr Brennan QC asserted that this was a conclusion of law.and not of fact, or at any rate

a conclusion of mixed law arid fact, with which the EAT is entitled to interfere. He

submitted that the Employment Tribunal erred:in the following respects:

i)

. ii)

iii)

It misunderstood the riature of Mrs Collins’ business undertaking, which was

retailing to customers, not the provision of labour and retail premises,

She was an agent of the Post Office, and the Post Office was her principal and not
her client. The clients or customers were the purchasing public.

There were two distinct arrangements, both upon acquisition, i.e. her purchase of
the premises, and the goodwill and stock of the general store andthe separate
assignment to her of the sub-postmastership, and afterwards in relation to her

management, with separate accounts required to be kept.

The proper construction of s54(3)(b) is that the business undertaking must have an

existence independent of (and thus prior to) the relevant contract.

If the Post Office be right, then any non-employee can be excluded from s54(3)(b)
by characterising him as carrying on a business undertaking of providing whatever
the service is. By reference to words of Mr Recorder Underhill QC in Byrne
Brothers (Formwork) Ltd v Baird [2002] IRLR 101 at para 17(4), Mr Brennan QC

submitted that the policy behind the formula used in the subsection was to extend

the-benefits of the protection of the NMWA to workers who are in the same’ need
of that type of protection as employees, to cover those who are substantively and
economically in a subordinate and dependent position vis-a-vis those who employ
or engage them. Mr Brennan QC submitted that Mrs Collins was in such a
position, with a long term relationship with the Post Office and no economic
bargaining power at all, and her provision of retail premises to which members of
the public had recourse did not turn the essential character of her relationship with

the Post Office into that of businesswoman and client.

In sum Mr Brennan QC submitted that to describe the Post Office as being the client of

the-business of its sub-postmasters is a ‘misuse of language’.

629

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others 28
9

POL00118221
POL00118221

45. — While asserting that the Employment Tribunal’s finding, in relation to the particular
sub-postmistress Mrs Collins, that she was a client of the Post Office, was a finding of
fact, with which this Appeal Tribunal could only interfere on limited and ‘well-
established principles, Mr Griffith-Jones QC wished to avoid any argument that this
case was decided‘on its own facts; and he took up the challenge of arguing the issue a
the basis that it was-at the very least a question of mnixed fact and law, and contending
that there was no error of law in the Employment Tribunal’s conclusion, and that it

would be applicable to any other such sub-postmaster. He submitted:

i) The words client and customer. in s54(3)(b) are not used as terms of art. The
important question is whether the contracting party is carrying on a profession or
business undertaking. He submits that the sub-postmaster is doing the latter, and
that the Post Office, in then contracting for the work or services of such a person,
is entitled to be called a client. He refers to the recent decision of the EAT in
Smith _v Hewitson (EAT489/01 unreported), where self-employed stewards on
coaches were providing to passengers (the customers) the catering services and
stewarding services on the coaches which Executive Coach Catering Services
(“ECCS”) had contracted to supply to Durham Transport Services, and which
Durham Transport Services was contracted to supply to National Express. The
conclusion of the EAT (per HH Judge Serota QC) was that the stewards were: not
workers within the NMWA. At paragraph 19 of the Decision, Judge Serota QC

concluded as follows:

“Prima facie, when someone purchases services from another, in common
parlance, he can. be regarded as a customer of the other. The terms
‘customer’ and ‘client’ in s54 of the Act are not used as terms of art. In our
opinion ECCS is a customer or client of the stewards, as it receives the
benefit of the service provided by the stewards’ business ... They provided, as
we have said, the stewarding and catering services to ECCS, which ECCS
was itself bound to supply to Durham Transport Services. On that analysis,
as it seems to us, having regard to the fact that a major part of the contract,
both in terms of time and in terms of remuneration, related to the catering,
and having regard to the fact that the stewards were performing, personally,
catering services for ECCS pursuant to a business undertaking carried on by
the stewards, ECCS was a client or customer of that business undertaking. As
such, it seems to us, on the material findings, the Tribunal should have held
that the stewards were not workers within the meaning of s54(3)(b) ... , by
reason of the fact that they weré outside s54(3)(b). They were carrying on, as
we have said, a business undertaking for reward for ECCS, and were clients

or customers of ECCS.”
630
29

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others
ii)

iii)

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

POL00118221

POL00118221

This, Mr Griffith-Jones QC submits, is closely analogous to the present case,
where the general public is the customer, and the stewards, similarly to the sub-
postmaster, are providing ECCS services to the customer, in a situation in which (a
fortiori to the sub-postmaster) the stewards are carrying on that business, if
business it is, as their only business, and when it is also a business which had no
existence independent of or prior to the contract,

The sub-postmaster- is in business on his own account, and thus conducting his
own business undertaking. Part of his business is his retail business of selling his
own (or perhaps others’ franchised) goods or services, and part is his acting as the
Post Office’s agent in providing Post Office goods and services to the public. The
fact that the accounts have to be kept separately (for good security reasons no
doubt) does not affect that fact. Mrs Collins traded as a general store, though that
was not in the event successful, but Mr Hayward, Mrs Tooby and
Mrs Wolstenholme each offered and continued to offer other goods and services.
Insofar as the dictum of Mr Recorder Underhill QC is concerned, and his
“distinction ... between ... workers whose degree of dependence is essentially the
same as that of employees and ... contractors who have a sufficiently arms-length
and independent position to be treated as being able to look after themselves in
the relevant respects”, the sub-postmaster, with his own premises, equipment and
staff and his own business undertaking falls firmly, submits Mr Griffith-Jones QC,
on the non-employee side of the line. Mr Griffith-Jones QC sought to draw some
further analogy from the definition of employee in Article 3(b) of Council
Directive 89/391/EEC, as imported into the preamble to Council Directive
93/104/EEC, but this was hardly a central plank of his argument.

The NMWA does not fit naturally with the concept of an individual who runs his
own business from his own premises and simultaneously holds a position of sub-
postmaster supplying Post Office goods and services from the same premises;
certainly if the Act and the Regulations are to apply to his earnings as sub-
postmaster irrespective of the quantum of his receipts from the rest of his business,
and in circumstances in which he may apportion expenses of the business in such a
way as to increase the amount payable to him pursuant to the Regulations. This he

submits to be of itself a justification for construing the client or customer

eg
uv

POL00118221
POL00118221

limitation so as to exclude someone running a business of his own in such

circumstances. : N

iv) Because the NMWA carries criminal sanctions (by s31) any ambiguity should be
resolved against the imposition of liability. : :

46. We are persuaded by the arguments of Mr Griffith-Jones QC that the Employment
Tribunal was right to find that the Post Office was a client of the business undertaking
carried on by Mrs Collins. As to the submissions of Mr Brennan Qe:

i) The existence of the relationship. of principal and agent does not in any way
prevent the principal from being a client. Obvious examples are a solicitor or
estate agent where the principal is the client. Equally, the same can be said ofa
franchisor and a franchisee, a manufacturer and a sales agent or a supplier and a

dealer.

ii) This is the more so where, as here, the agent can contract with more than one
principal: provided (see, among others, the clauses lettered in paragraph 13 above
as EE and FF) the services to be offered or goods to be sold are not directly

competitive.

iii) It does not seem to us to be the case at all that the business of Mrs Collins should
be seen as only her general store, in some way ‘severed’ (as the Employment
Tribunal put it) from her position of sub-postmistress, particularly as she, like her
predecessor, was in effect trading as “The Meadowbank Post Office” in running
her shop as General Store and Post Office. The findings of fact and relevant
documents, in the case of Mrs Collins, appear from paragraph 12 above,

particularly at (i), (ii), (iv), (v), (viii), (xvii), (xx) and (xxi).

iv) Itis not, in our judgment, necessary that the business undertaking must antedate or

be independent of the contract which falls to be construed.

It appears to us to involve no “misuse of language” to construe the Post Office, for the
purpose of this section, as Mrs Collins’ client, and we agree with and certainly find no

error in, the conclusion of the Employment Tribunal, to that effect.

6p

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others
POL00118221
POL00118221

47... For these reasons the appeals.are dismissed. .

oss

EAT/0442/01/RN & Others

a
Mr J Coyne Contact Susanne Helliwell
Best Practice Group plc
8 Victoria Quay Our Ref SJHrb
Riversway 14845-1
Preston
PR2 2YW Your Ref

Date 3 September 2003
Dear Sir

Post Office Limited v Mrs Julie Wolstenholme

We refer to previous communications between this firm and Judith Bohren and confirm
that we are acting on behalf of the Claimant, Post Office Limited (“the Post Office”) in
connection with its claim against Julie Wolstenholme (“Mrs Wolstenholme”) claiming the
delivery up of safes and equipment which were lent by the Post Office to Mrs
Wolstenholme to assist her in the performance of her duties as Sub Postmaster or, in the
alternative, the value of the items in damages together with the recovery of losses on her
Sub Postmaster’s account. Further, Mrs Wolstenholme is defending the proceedings and
has brought a counterclaim seeking damages for wrongful dismissal, damages for breach
of the implied term to provide a computer system fit for its purpose, damages under
Section 8-of the Human Rights Act 1998 and compensation or damages under the
Commercial Agents (Council Directive) Regulations 1993. Mrs Wolstenholme is acting in
person.

By way of background, Mrs Wolstenholme was engaged by the Post Office as Sub
Postmistress at Cleveleys modified Sub Post Office under a written contract for services.
The contract for services was subsequently terminated and following the termination of
the contract on 28 February 2001, the Post Office wrote to Mrs Wolstenholme on 12
March 2001 requesting delivery of the safes and equipment belonging to the Post Office
which were at the premises. Mrs Wolstenholme refused to deliver the safes and
equipment and accordingly proceedings were commenced against her in April 2001.

Various matters are raised by Mrs Wolstenholme in the proceedings regarding the
inadequacy of the Horizon computer system and in this regard, on 10 February 2003, it

was ordered that evidence should be given in the form of a written report of a single
expert instructed jointly by the parties in the field of Computer Technology.

bY

TALMC\PRIVATEWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSICOYNE-030903,D0C

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

rn. Page 2
- Our Ref: SJH jw
14845-1
Your Ref

In or about June 2003, this firm contacted yourself and Judith Bohren with a view to a
joint instruction being given by this firm and Mrs Wolstenholme to inspect the computer
system and prepare a report in accordance with the Order made by the Court. In this
regard, we would refer you to our correspondence with Judith Bohren in June 2003 and
confirm that whilst we have received Engagement Terms and Engagement Instruction,
the same have not been signed and returned to her due to subsequent developments
which are outlined below.

In particular, following extensive enquiries on the part of the Post Office, it transpired that
all data would have been held on the computer system for 30 days and would then have

gone into archive. Further, up until 1 April 2003, archived material was only held for 18
months and was then destroyed.

The matter came before the Court at a Case Management Conference on 7 July 2003 at
which the Court was advised of the position with regard to the Horizon equipment and the
Court directed that this firm do make further enquiries regarding the archived material and
whether such material had been destroyed and if so, that the parties then make enquiries
of the expert to ascertain whether an opinion can be given using only computer logs.

We enclose a copy of a letter from the Post Office to this firm dated 24 July 2003 which
sets out the position with regard to the Horizon computer and as a consequence of the
contents of that letter, we are writing to you for the purposes of ascertaining whether you
would be able to provide an expert report having had sight of only the computer logs and
having not had an opportunity to inspect the computer system.

We accordingly enclose copies of the computer call logs between January 2000 and
November 2000 and we should be grateful if you would confirm whether you are able to
provide a report using only the computer call logs. We would of course point out that
whilst we have not enclosed copies of the pleadings and the parties’ documents, in the
event that you were to confirm that you could prepare a report in these circumstances,
copies of such documents will be forwarded to you.

We await hearing from you.

Yours faithfully

WEIGHTMAN VIZARDS

b3S
POL00118221
POL00118221

. Best Practice Group PLC ¢

~

London & South East
Prestige House, 106 Baker Street, London WIU 6TW.

South West & Wales
Acthandune House, Tower Hil, Stawell, Bridgwater TAT 9A]

Midlands & North West (Accounts & Administration)
Oakcroft House, 70 Albert Road West, Bolton BL! SHW-
Your Reference : SJH rb 14845-1 North & Scotland
Date : Friday 19 September 2003 8 Victoria Quay, Riversway, Preston PR2 2YW-

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL
Susanne Helliwell .
Solicitor

Weightman Vizards

41 Spring Gardens
Manchester

M2 2BG

Dear Ms Helliwell
Post Office Limited -v- Julie Wolstenholme
Thank you for your letter dated 3 September 2003.

It is not clear from the document bundle provided what I am to be instructed to report on. The logs appear to
show an exchange of numerous telephone calls between site 153405 and the systems help desk provided by the
Post Office.

From our subsequent telephone conversation I understand that Ms Wolstenholme’s case is that the systems that
she was provided with to undertake her duties were continually found to be faulty and therefore disabled her
abilities to discharge her duties. The Post Office on the other hand believe that the systems were functioning
‘normally’ and that Ms Wolstenholme (and/or her staff) was perhaps not suitably skilled to operate them.

Unfortunately the bundle currently provided would not provide me the information that would be required to
give my opinion. I believe a further set of support logs would be required in order to benchmark the calls raised
by Ms Wolstenholme. The following criteria would need to be observed in selecting the benchmark:-

Similar number of staff.

Similar customer frequency and range of services

Similar length of service of Postmaster

Same technology equipment and software/hardware versions.

If this information could be provided, along with a precise set of instructions, I should be in a position to review
and provide a report of my opinion.

Yours faithfully

Uo

Registered in England No, 3903926
POL00118221
POL00118221

~
Mr J Coyne Contact Susanne Helliwell
Best Practice Group plc
8 Victoria Quay Our Ref SJHkh
Riversway 14845-1
Preston
PR2 2YW Your Ref

Date 17 November 2003
Dear Sir

Post Office Limited v Mrs Julie Wolstenholme

We refer to your recent telephone conversation with our Miss Helliwell and in that regard,
we enclose copies of the following:-

de Claim form dated 19 April 2001 and amended Particulars of Claim dated 17
February 2003.

Amended Defence and Counterclaim dated 14 April 2003

Reply and Defence to Counterclaim

Order dated 6 October 2003

Claimant's List of Documents

Defendant's List of Documents

Claimant's witness statement

Defendant's witness statement

Additional set of call logs disclosed by the Claimant to the Defendant.

CONAARWN

You are aware of the background and history of this matter which was set out in our letter
dated 3 September 2003 and in which we asked whether you would be able to provide a
report using only the computer call logs. In your letter dated 19 September 2003, you
indicated that whilst you would not be able to provide an opinion based only on the call
logs, you did consider that a further set of comparable call logs may enable you to
provide a suitable report on your opinion.

As you are aware, our client has unfortunately been unable to obtain a set of comparable
call logs and it has therefore been agreed between the parties that copies of the
pleadings, witness statements and relevant documents in the proceedings would be
provided to you for you to assess with a view to confirming whether you would be able to
provide a report which would be of value to the Court and if so, detailing the matters upon
which you would be able to report.

bY)

TALMCIPRIVATEWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845,1\LETTS\COYNE-030903.D0C
POL00118221
POL00118221

Page 2

Our Ref: SJH jw
~ 14845-1

Your Ref

We accordingly look forward to hearing from you once you have considered the enclosed
documents and we understand that prior to commencing your consideration of the
enclosed documents, you will submit a revised Engagement Instruction and Engagement
Terms and that you will require payment of your fee. We would confirm that the
instruction is a joint instruction and accordingly, our client and Mrs Wolstenholme will
each be responsible for 50% of your fees.

Yours faithfully

WEIGHTMAN VIZARDS

by
4

POL00118221

POL00118221

FUJITSU SERVICES.

Forest Road, Feltham, Middlesex. TW13.7Es
Tel: 4 iF GR

Appendix

Response to Expert’s Opinion

Re: Post Office Counters Ltd v Mrs Julie Wolstenholme: Claim number CR101947

Basis Of Response

Before addressing individual points from the Expert’s report there are two key areas of
understanding to be established; the first is the function and objectives of the Fujitsu
Services Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH), the second is the way that the Horizon system
handles transactions should a reboot be required part way through a customer session.

Horizon System Helpdesk

The HSH represents the 1“ line of support to Post Masters. It operates under strict
contractual Service Level Agreements (SLA) covering aspects such as pick-up time, first
time fix, and time to close. These measures designed to ensure that Post Masters receive a
quick response to their call and, to the extent possible over the ‘phone, a timely return to
normal business operations.

Depending on the nature of the call the HSH operator would work with the Post Master to
solve the problem and return the Outlet to normal operation as soon as possible, in line with
the prevailing SLAs. If this could not be achieved the call would be escalated up the
support channel to 2", 3" or 4" line depending on the severity of problem. Whilst the
primary objective of the HSH is to return the Outlet to normal operation as soon as
possible, and rebooting the Counter often meets that objective, this does not mean that a
problem is closed at that point in time, as a detailed scrutiny of overall problem
management process would reveal.

Transaction Handling on Reboot

The primary interface between the Post Office Clerk and the external customer is the
Customer Session. Any transactions that are undertaken within a Customer Session are
stored on a Session Stack pending a Settlement transaction whereby goods and services
provided by Post Office to the customer are paid for. Only after the Settlement has been
confirmed and a receipt printed, will the totality of transactions on the stack be transferred
from the Session Stack to the transaction log (TMS Journal) and a record maintained of the
Stock Unit movements. Once the Stock Unit is ‘rolled over’ (balanced) the various pending
movements will be finalised and reflected in new Stock Unit balances.

It is at this point that any discrepancies and imbalances between Stock Units are identified
and handled through reconciliation and Post Master manual intervention. It this context a
discrepancy is in fact a balancing entry to ensure the Cash Accounts receipts and payments
tables agree. A discrepancy could occur, for example, if the Post Master incorrectly
declared the cash or stock position to the system against which the system compares its
own record.

If a Session is interrupted pre-Settlement, perhaps through a fault that requires a reboot, the
Session — and consequently the Session Stack - is not maintained and has to be re-started

once the system has been returned to the Post Master. In 2000 the only exception to this

GA!
POL00118221
POL00118221

FUJITSU SERVICES

Forest Road, Feltham, Middlesex
Tel:

were Automated Payment (AP) transactions where a smart device may have already been
charged before the payment was made. In this instance the system will, on reboot, prompt
the Post Master to complete the transaction through to Settlement. All other transactions
that may have been on the Session Stack will be lost.

Simply put, the design of the system precludes the possibility of a Session Stack being
partially, or doubly committed and thus accounting errors cannot be introduced through a
system crash or forced reboot.

The Expert’s Opinion

‘Reasonableness' of calls to HSH

The Expert was unable to make direct comparisons between similar Outlets due to the
absence of records. While this was true of audit data formally available to Post Office Ltd,
Fujitsu Services (Post Office Account) are able to review an unregulated archive of records
of the other installed 6 Counter Outlets over a comparable period. The table below shows
the output from that analysis:

FAD PO Name Install Total A F Y Z = %Non

Date Calls AaG
005323 I Headingly os/1099 I 74 I 20 5 7 3Ia7{4}6 2I 73% I 36%
005715 I Dungannon I 1g/to9I 25 I 8 2 1} 4 I 10 3 68% I 40%
009116 I Halstead 2egs9 I 16 I 3 1 a{af7 jaf2 81% I 44%
013613 I Haverfordwest I 04/11/99 I 48 I 7 8I4 2I2I22 3 85% I 46%
153405 I Cleveleys [1] I 09/02/00] 101 I 15/1] 6 5 {1/5 I1I35}2I 14] 16 85% I 35%
153405 I Cleveleys (2) I ovoz0]es I 15] 1] 6 5 {1/5 {1 35}2I 14 82% I 41%
176323 I Armley 13/10/99 I 87 I 23 8{2}4 7 I 29) 4 I 12 TA% I 33%

ye 185611 I Penarth 8/10/99 I 58 I 15 5 1 3] 15}2I 14 74% I 26%
250704 I Yorkgate 240999 I 32 I 5 4 3I16}1}3 B4% I 50%
292323 I Otley o7/ois9 I 34 I 40 1]215 afafot2 71% I 32%
333427 I Darwen 21noisa I 55 I 43 8}6}2 1/5] 43/3]}3 76% I 24%
345432 I Wilmslow 25/1099 I 29 I 4 2 6 47 6 86% I 24%
431614 I Colwyn Bay I 05/11/99 I 89 I 19 2/7}3 2 I 38I 5 I 13 79% I 43%
Call Legend
Type
A Advice and Guidance
F Reference Data
H Hardware
1 Implementation
K Cash Account
M Customer Complaint
N Network
° Operational
s Software
T Training

2

C4o
POL00118221
POL00118221

x Other
Y Rollout Helpdesk
Zz Security

[1] Cleveleys complete HSH call count including Rollout calls
[2] Cleveleys HSH call count without Rollout calls and the basis for comparison.

Analysis of the comparable Outlets shows that in terms of total calls made (3" from highest
out of 12), the %ge that were non Advice & Guidance (4" from highest) and the %ge that
were Software based (5" from highest), Cleveleys numbers are broadly comparable with
the group of Outlets.

It is worth noting that Fujitsu Services is not aware of similar complaints or claims being
made from the other Outlets in the above list, some of which have higher call profiles than
i Cleveleys.

Operator advice to ‘Reboot’

In this context the opinion of the Expert, that “this instruction treats the effect and not the
cause” is correct.

However, it would be incorrect to assume that no further work is carried out by Fujitsu
Services to address the various blue screen/system freeze/screen lock problems. Regular

maintenance updates are made to address these problems within the normal Release
programme.

Summary: Defective Equipment

The criticism that the technology installed at Cleveleys was ‘clearly defective’ is subjective
and based on the raising of 70 HSH calls over a 10-month period. There is no attempt to
substantiate the claim nor to draw any comparisons with external benchmarks.

Summary: Closing Calls

As already stated the HSH is targeted at returning Outlets to normal working as fast as
possible and is not in a position to analyse system error messages displayed on screens.
This is governed by contractual SLAs which are monitored by Post Office Ltd. So while
the Expert’s statement is fact it does not take into account the objectives of the HSH or the
manner in which it operates.

Summary: Worrying Discrepancies

It is difficult to comment on the statement made by the Expert in this part of the Summary
although he is alluding to the fact that system errors may be responsible for this. I have
explained why this cannot happen earlier in this report. The argument has been put forward
by a number of Post Masters in the past when challenged by Post Office Limited for
unacceptable losses and each time it has fallen when confronted by transaction data that
demonstrates that the system was operating normally during the disputed time period.

Unfortunately Fujitsu Services is unable to provide archived transaction data in respect of
Cleveleys for the disputed period as, under the terms of the contract in force with Post
Office Ltd at that time, it would have been deleted from the archive 18 months after it was

b4l >?
POL00118221
POL00118221

originally stored. Thus transactions written up to 20 November 2000 would have been
. deleted on or just after 20" May 2002.

Conclusion

The report presented by the Expert is based on a simple analysis of HSH records and not a
detailed understanding of how the Horizon system works, or even the prime objectives of
the Horizon System Helpdesk. Consequently the opinions expressed in the report, while not
always incorrect, do not present the whole story and are presented from a single
perspective.

We have identified where we could not argue against an opinion or where the opinion is
correct as a statement of fact but lacking in context. We have also identified where we
disagree with the opinion expressed.

20 February 2004

bQt
POL00118221
POL00118221

Statement of Account Yorkshire Ban I

HARRISON & WOLSTENHOLME LOAN A/C

IBAN GB47 YO!
Account No I

Sheet No Telephone
Page 1 of 1 Date 25 FEB 200¢

(Date ‘(Description -)(Debits __)(Credits ")(Balance
} ‘I

27 OCT II 2003 BALANCE FORWARD

84453 [54x

24 NOV LOAN PAYMENT 120000

UNPAID281103 1200I00

LOAN PAYMENT 1033/50 83420 lo: «
1DEC LOAN PAYMENT 166I50 83253 I54x"
24 DEC LOAN PAYMENT 1200/00 82053 I54%
31 DEC DEBIT INTEREST 1251)28 83304 I8: &
23 JAN LOAN PAYMENT 1200/00 82104 I8: ¢
24 FEB LOAN PAYMENT 1200/00 80904 IB.

= Indicales an overdrawn balance

ADVICE OF CHARGES - shows the amount of chaiges and debit interest thal you have incurred for the month stated. These charges will be debited lo your specihied account

on the date advised. For details of charges and inletest rales applicable on current accounts, please contact your branch for a copy of the Per sonal Banking Tatitt.

$ - SWITCH Transaction BD - Direct Dabit Transaction SO - Standing Ordor Transaction —_TB/EB - Electronic Banking Transaction CD - Issue Number of the Card us
Yorkshire Bank PLC Registered No.117413 England Registered Ottice 20 Merrion Way Leeds LS2 8NZ.

4%
POL00118221
POL00118221

Susanne Helliwell (Weightmans Solicitors)

Fromz ed
Ser
Subject: re: Post Office Limited -v- Mrs J Wolstenholme

Best Practi PLC

TO: Weightman Vizards .
India Buildings Water Street Liverpool, L2 OGA

27/02/04

Dear Ms Helliwell,

to briefly summarise our discussion regard the letter from Fujitsu services:-

Horizon System Helpdesk.

I think this is a matter for the Post Office and Fujitsu rather than requiring any comment from me, for the avoidance of
doubt nothing contained within this section of the letter alters my current opinion.

‘Transaction Handling on Reboot.

Whilst this section is helpful and assists my understanding of the process of transaction handling it would not be
proper of me to alter my opinion based on this explanation, the supporting evidence of which has been destroyed.
Should further supporting evidence come to light, I am more that happy to consider it, if it is material to either of the
parties case.

Reasonableness of calls.

It has always been my expressed position that direct comparisons of calls to HSH are required and your clients
position that they have been destroyed, barring direct comparison, and that I should give opinion on the surviving
material that is available to me.

~ Now it seems that your client has located data that they believe enables comparison. Although the raw data has not
seen made available to me they say that it displays that Cleveleys is 'broadly comparable’. As I do not have the raw
data I am unable to say if my opinion is effected or not.

From the sample presented the mean for software issues is 20 although Cleveleys had 35, for Network a mean of 1
against 5 from Cleveleys, Software 20 against 35 and hardware 4 against 6. So all of these issue factors are
significantly higher for Cleveleys than the respective mean which is inconsistent with the statement broadly
comparable when considering these measurements.

Although I must stress that no raw data has been presented so I am disadvantaged, is it your clients intention to relied
upon this data sample referred to in this letter?

Operator advice to Reboot’

The issue of further work being conducted behind the scenes has not yet been a matter for expert determination, If
you would like me to comment on this, again I would be more that happy and would require the findings from the
“crashdumps" as referenced in the blue screen error messages which the second line support at the HSH will have.

Defective Equipment

Iam confident in my statement considering that this technology is a business tool and the level of acceptance of flaws
in operation is considerably lower than for mainstream computing.

bit
POL00118221
POL00118221

oa Worrying Discrepancies.

I'm unsure how this can be resolved as the documentation suggests the PM reported discrepancies that seem to fall
after a.ceporte--upgrade, without further information this seems to be only resolvable by witnesses of fact.

In short to answer the question posed in your letter, No my opinion, currently, remains as stated in my original note.

Best Regards,

Jason Coyne

> Please find attached letters.

>

> Kathy Hopkins

> Secretary to Susanne Helliwell

> Commercial Litigation Department
> Weightman Vizards

+ Tel:
> Faxi.
> Address: 41 Spring Gardens Manchester M2 2BG
> Email: I<. . .
> > Website www.weightmanvizards.com <http://www.weightmanvizards.com>
>>
> > The content of this message and attached file are confidential and/or
> > privileged and are for the intended recipient only. If you are not the
> > intended recipient, any unauthorised review, use, re-transmission,
> > dissemination, copying, disclosure or other use of, or taking of any
> > action in reliance upon this information is strictly prohibited. If you
> > receive this message in error, please contact the sender immediately and
> > then delete the e-mail from your system. Copyright in this e-mail and
> > attachments created by us belongs to Weightman Vizards. Any attachment
> > with this message should be checked for viruses before it is opened.
> > Weightman Vizards cannot be held responsible for any failure by the
> > recipient to test for viruses before opening any attachments. Should you
> > communicate with anyone at Weightman Vizards by e-mail, you consent to us
>> monitoring and reading any such correspondence.
>>
» > Weightman Vizards does not accept service of documents by e-mail unless
> > express prior approval has been given in writing. If an attempt at
> > service meets with a standard Out of Office Assistance reply, consent to
> > e-mail service is revoked because the intended recipient will see your
> > message not earlier than the time set in the Out of Office reply.”
>>
> > A list of partners is available for inspection from the above office.
>>
>>
>>

> -- NextPart --
> Attached File: \\bestpractice\goldmine\MailBox\Attach\Coyne - 270204.doc

> -- NextPart --
> Attached File: \\bestpractice\goldmine\MailBox\Attach\Cleveleys letter1 doc

Confidentiality Notice: b&S

The information in this document may be confidential. It is intended only for the use of the named recipient. Intermet communications are not
secure and therefore Best Practice Group does not accept legal responsibility for the contents of this message. If you are not the intended

2
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0002090182 Page Loti
ESEBEAM pathway NR2 Archivet.da on pwayweb01 PHaPatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 KOE
Call E-0002090182 @n999 ICL

et Opened:IWed 09 February 2000 10:29 Site:] 153405
Chesed: I Wed 09 February 2000 13:01 Custorner. 1039
CSArTeam:I uk056391 / PATHI

[Patsy at exel Site:] 153405
Login: Department}
Caller 1D Location:

Sail Problem Detaiis
Product Type] I Caitype]Y I Probtypa:] M07 iI
Problem Text:I 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090 182. Gateway is now stuck at 3%.

Call Closure Details
Closed:I 09/02/00 13:01 I Causelcs1 _I Repair]Roo I Resolution: RSOB

Text:I Call Close by David Craggs: Call closed

Call Asset Detaiis _—__
r Asset ID: Descripticn:I = Le
r) Product:] unknown product Descripticn:I Unknown Product N yric 16):]
Call Activity Log
OPEN Wed 09 February 2000 10:27 by EXLOOG / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:29
! New call taken by Patsy Wing: 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090182. Gateway is now stuck at 3%.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 10:31 by EXLOOG / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:31
Call # €-0002090182 was Reassigned from Patsy Wing, Group EXEL to Group PATH! Voiced Leanne at ROHD.
Information Wed 09 February 2000 10:27 by uk056681 / PATH1 ‘Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:27
have voiced DB @ the Ip2 team & also Geol Caxon @ the TVC. Geott will lok into this issue 7 will return my call. (G-
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 10:28 by ukOS6681 / PATH1 ‘Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:28 otc
Call # E-0002090182 was Reassigned from Grup PATH! to Group TVG Awaiting response from Geoff @ the TVC. LG.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 11:07 by EXLOO1 / EXEL ‘Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 11:11 install
Call # E-0002090182 was Reassigned from Grup TVG to Group PATH! Installer confirms problem now resolved, instal
roceeding.
Information Wed 09 February 2000 11:27 by uk0S668 1 / PATHI Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 11:27
Have voiced Anne @ Exel :- Please confirm that the install is continuing
ICLOSE —_ Wed 09 February 2000 13:01 by uk0S639 1 / PATH1 ‘Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:01

Call Close by David Craggs: Call closed

bUtp
wy

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/Ca. & IDetails.asp?Call=E-0002090182 21/06/00
Call List

POL00118221
POLO00118221

-~Page 2 of 2

4101494 Closed 99 4A 10/04/00 16:46 19/04/00 12:48 153405 N NDO2 HSH1
-0004110310 Closed 0 4A — 11/04/0009:32 25/05/00 15:24 153405 S sp02 EDsc1
€-0004110915 Closed 0 38 11/04/00 13:26 17/04/00 12:25 153405 N NDO3 SMc1
£-0004122249 Closed 0 38  — 12/04/00 19:54 22/04/00 22:09 153405 N NDo2 SMC1
£-0004130533 Closed 0 38  — 13/04/00 10:36 19/04/00 10:40 153405 S sp02 HSH1
E-0004141583 Closed 99 4A 14/04/00 17:01 17/04/00 10:20 153405 S sp02 HSH1
/E-9909230259 Closed 0 1D — 23/09/9911:04 01/10/99 16:06 153405 I 107 IPM2
/E-991 Closed 0 1D 04/10/99 11:08 04/10/9945:29 153405 I M07 POCLIP:
£-9910060134 Closed 0 4A 06/10/99 09:46 06/10/99 10:58 153405 I 1MO7 POCLIP:
£-9910270398 Closed 0 1D 27/10/99 14:04 30/11/99 14:40 153405 I IMo7 IPM2,
(63 calls)

bY

i)

http://pwayweb0] /PatEnqWebNR2/CallList.asp

21/06/00 12:57:10

21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0002090089 - Page i of 1
ESEREAM pathway NR2 Archived.Oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqwed 21/06/00 {OL
Call E-0002090089 ©1999 101.
Status:[ Closed ‘Opened:] Wed 09 February 2000 09:32 Site:] 153405
Severity:]4A Closed:I Wed 09 February 2000 16:32 Custorner:]1039
Priority:] 90 CSR/Tearn:] uk056391 / patht
Caller Details
[Patsy at exet Site:] 153405
Department:
Location’

Cail Problem Detaiis

Product] Provlype:]IMO7
Type!

Problem] 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090089. ISDN fault. When actioned the tests the installer get the engaged tone which is ok but
Text:I getting a message which reads “clear cause 88".

Call Closure Details
Closed:[09/02/00 16:32 L Cause:Ica1__I Repair[roa I
Text:ICall Close by David Craggs: Exel confirm HWA. Calll closed

Cail Asset Detaiis

Resolution ]RS08

Asset ID: Description: ‘Serial No:I
Product: unknown product Description:I Unknown Product Netwark 1D:
Cali Activity Log

JOPEN Wed 09 February 2000 09:30 by EXLO06 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:32

New call taken by Patsy Wing: 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090089. ISDN fault. When actioned the tests the installer get
the engaged tone which is ok but getting a message which reads “clear cause 88".

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 09:35 by EXLO06/ EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:35
Call # E-0002090089 was Reassigned from Patsy Wing, Group EXEL to Group PATH1 Voiced Leanne at ROHD.
Information Wed 09 February 2000 09:31 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:31
have voiced DB @ the Ip2 team of this issue & also Satish Mistry. Ig.
REASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 09:34 by uk056681/ PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:34
Call # E-0002090089 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Group TVC awaiting response fromSatish. LG
Information Wed 09 February 2000 09:51 by uk056681 / PATHt Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:51
have spoken to Geotf @ The TVC - he will look inot this isue& advise further. LG.
Information Wed 09 February 2000 10:24 by EXLOO6/ EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:24

‘Spoke to the installer he informed me that the ISDN is wired up to a telephone point which is also used for a credit card
reader.

information Wed 09 February 2000 10:43 by uk0S6681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:43
Have advised Geoff Coxon @ the TVC of exel's last update. He will pass this over to Satish. LG.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 11:12 by EXLO01/ EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 11:13

Call # E-0002090089 was Reassigned from Group TVC to Group PATH! Installer confirms that problem now resolved,
install continuing.

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 11:26 by uk056681/ PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 11:27

Call # E-0002090089 was Reassigned from Group PATH! to Group EXEL have voiced this call to Anne @ exel - please
confirm the install is continuing-—

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 16:38 by EXLO06 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 16:38
Cail # E-0002090089 was Reassigned from Group EXEL to Group path! Install now complete

CLOSE —_ Wed 09 February 2000 16:32 by uk056391 / path1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 16:32
Call Close by David Craggs: Exel confirm HWA. Call closed

bug
mw

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0002090089 21/06/00
wy.

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0602090461 Lofl

EEESZAG pathway NR2 Archivet.da on pwayweb01 PHaPatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 KL
Call E-0002090461 ©1999 1CL
Staius:]Olosed Opened:I Wed 09 February 2000 13:26 Ser] 153405
Severity:I4A Closed:I Fri 11 February 2000 16:01 Customer: 1099
Priority: [90 GSAVTeamn: I uk056500// patht
Caller Detail
Calter:IPatsy at exel Phone: iF Site:] 153405,
Login: Department
Caller ID: Location:

Call Problem Details
Product Type:I Cat Type]Y I ProbType:] M07 [
Problem Text:I 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090461. Counter 3 stuck at 20%, 1113 error.

Cali Closure Details

Closed:] 11/02/00 16:01 I Cause]cat I Repair:]Roo I Resoiution:I RS0B
Text:I Call Close by Stuart Woodhouse: Call closed by SW

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset iD: Description:
Product: unknown product Description:I Unknown Product
Cali Activity Log

IOPEN Wed 09 February 2000 13:24 by EXLO06 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:26
New call taken by Patsy Wing: 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090461.. Counter 3 stuck at 20%, 1113 error.
REASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 13:31 by EXLOO6 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:32
Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Patsy Wing, Group EXEL to Group PATH! Voiced Andrew at ROHD.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 13:38 by uk056140/ PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:38
Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group PATH to Group TVC routing for investigation
Information Wed 09 February 2000 13:39 by uk056140/ PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:39
have voiced GC@TVC to this call.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 13:43 by uk506480/ TVC Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:44
Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group TVC to Group PATH! Please swop out counter 3.
information Wed 09 February 2000 13:45 by uk0S6682 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:45
Passing over to Excel Swap authorised, Please pass call back for progression. lan
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 13:46 by uk056682/ PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:46
Gall # €-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Group EXEL
Information Wed 09 February 2000 13:53 by EXLO01 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:53
Installer informed of swap out counter 3 - will send DOA no. when I get it.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 14:08 by EXLOO1 / EXEL. Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 14:09
Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group EXEL to Group PATH1 DOA serial no: 000206404.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 14:44 by EXLO06 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 14:45

Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Group PATH Sorry wrong serial number of DOA was
given. The correct one is 000206754.

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 16:34 by uk056391 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 16:34
Call # E-0002090461-was-Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Group TVC Routing to TVC for diagnosis
information Fri 11 February 2000 15:06 by uk079510/ TVC Saved: Fri 11 February 2000 15:06
Download error. To be recycled, Please cliose call.
IREASSIGN Fri 11 February 2000 15:07 by uk079510/ TVC. Saved: Fri 11 February 2000 15:07

Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group TVC to Group patht Download error. To be recycled, Please close
call.

CLOSE Fri 11 February 2000 16:01 by uk056500/ path1
Call Close by Stuart Woodhouse: Call closed by SW

‘closure.

Saved: Fri 11 February 2000 16:01

by
ao

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0002090461 21/06/00
ee

POL00118221

POL00118221
Cull Details E-00U2090708 ” we iot i

(ESET pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PalNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 4
Call E-0002090708 ‘©1999 ICL

Status:]Closed ‘Opened:I Wed 09 February 2000 15:09 Site:]153405

Severity:I4A Closed: I Wed 09 February 2000 15:26 Customer: 1039)
Pricrity:] 88 CSAVTeam:] uk056681/ path
Caller Details
Caller:] anne at exel Site:] 153405
Title: Department:
Local
Product Type:] Cail Typa]Y I L Probie

Problem Text:I e-0002090708 153405 cleveleys. exel confirm that they have hardware acceptance at this site at 14.45
Calt Closure Cetails

Closed:] 09/02/00 15:26 —[___ causefcar I Repair[Roo [I
Text:I Call Close by Leanne Gordon: Call closed by LG.
Call Asset Det:
Asset ID: Description: Serial No!
Product: [unknown product Beseription:I Unknown Product Network ID:
Call Activity Log
JOPEN —_ Wed 09 February 2000 15:02 by EXLO09 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 15:09

New call taken by Jeanette Pritchard: e-0002090708 153405 cleveleys. exel confirm that they have hardware acceptance
at this site at 14.45

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 15:16 by EXLO09/ EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 15:19

Call # E-0002090708 was Reassigned from Jeanette Pritchard, Group EXEL to Group path! voice prompt to leanne
information Wed 09 February 2000 15:25 by uk0S6681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 15:25

RODB has been updated.
ICLOSE — Wed 09 February 2000 15:26 by uk056681 / patht Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 15:26

Call Close by Leanne Gordon: Call closed by LG.

6SoO
Be

http://pwayweb01 /PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0002090708 21/06/00
POL00118221
POLO00118221

tort

Call Details E-0002091

PH4PaiNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 EL

SSESEEZAS pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01
Call E-0002091220 ©1999 ICL,
Status:] Olosed ‘Opened:I Wed 09 February 2000 21:57 Sae:] 153405
Severity:I4 A Closed: I Wed 09 February 2000 21:59 ‘Customer: [1039
Priority:I7 GERM ear:I ukcon001 / PATHT
Galler Datals
Caller, ]HSFO Phone! Site:] 153405
Title: Login! Department
Caller iD:} Location:
Call Predlem Detaiis
Produ Call Type] ProbTyps'] IMO? Problem:
Type:
Problem] 153405 - CLEVELEYS - £0002091220 - HFSO has advised that she can't find the Postal order section, hiso on site is
Text:} Davelin tel

Calt Closure Details

Ciosed:]09/02/00 21:59 I Cause:[cs1__I
Fext:I Call Close by ben ramduny: closure criteria: the te advised issue resolved straight away
Cail Asset Detaiis

) Asset 1D: Sescription:
Product: unknown product Description: [Unknown Product Network 1D:

, Cali Activity Log
JOPEN Wed 09 February 2000 21:54 by ukcon001 / PATH! Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 21:57
New call taken by ben ramduny: 153405 - - £0002091220 - HFSO has advised that she can't find the Postal
order section, htso on site is Davelin tel
ICLOSE Wed 09 February 2000 21:59 by ukcon001/ PATH1
Call Close by ben ramduny: closure criteria: the te advised issue resolved straight away

Repair [Roo I Resolution: [RSOB

Serial No:

fed 09 February 2000 21:59

Save

6s\
@

http://pwayweb0 I/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-000209 1220 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0002100075 ge Loft
EEEEERAM pathway NR2 Archivet.oa on pwayweb0! PH4PaINR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 {CL
Call E-0002100075 ©1999 ICL
Status:I Closed Opened:} Thu 10 February 2000 09:01 1153405
Severity:]2 C Closed:] Thu 10 February 2000 11:20 241039

Priority:I77,

uk056501 / PATH1

Calier:I POCL fax ref:- Ip2/18119AN
Title:I

Site:] 153405

Cailer iD:

Cail Problem Cetaii
Product Type] I Cat Typely I ProbType:]IMO7 I Problem]
Problem Text] 153405 CLEVELEYS. POCL fax ref:- IP2/18119 AN. Migration was completed successfully @ 22.40 on 09/02/00.
Call Closure Cat
Closed] 10/02/00 11:20 I CauseIcst I RepairRoo I Resoltstion:] RSO8.
Text:{Call Close by Jane Underwood: Call closed.
Call Asset Det

Asset 1D: Description’ Serial No’
- ] Product: Iunknown product Descripticn:I Unknown Product Network ID:
Call Activity Log
OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 09:00 by uk056681 / PATHt Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:01
? New call taken by Leanne Gordon: 153405 CLEVELEYS. POCL fax ref:- 1P2/18119 AN. Migration was completed
successfully @ 22.40 on 09/02/00.
Information Thu 10 February 2000 09:03 by uk0S6681 / PATH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:03
RODB has been updated.
IREASSIGN Thu 10 February 2000 09:03 by uk056681 / PATHt Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:04

Call # £-0002100075 was Reassigned from Leanne Gordon, Group PATH1 to Group SMC3 Routing call for information.
This site is now operational.

information Thu 10 February 2000 10:39 by uk061353 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:39
‘SMC accept this PO as live, all counters unsuspended.

IREASSIGN Thu 10 February 2000 10:39 by uk061353/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:39
Cail # E-0002100075 was Reassigned from Group SMC3 to Group PATH

IREASSIGN Thu 10 February 2000 11:20 by uk056501 / PATH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 11:20
Call # E-0002100075 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Jane Underwood, Group PATH1

CLOSE — Thu 10 February 2000 11:20 by uk056501 / PATH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 11:20

Call Close by Jane Underwood: Call closed.

6§2

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CalfDetails.asp?Call=E-00021 00075 2.06 06
od

POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-O002100i36 eye tot
(REXEEEAM pathway NR2 Archived.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PaINR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #1.
Call E-0002100138 1999 ICL
Status: oiosed Opened:I Thu 10 February 2000 09:26 -]153405
Severity:I26 Closed:I Thu 10 February 2000 09:30 1039
Priori :[uk079701/ HSH1
Caller: Mrs Daviyn Phone Site] 153405
Title: [HFSO Login:
Caller 1D:
Call Problem Details
Product Gall Typa]O ProbType:]OD02 Probie:
Type

Problem I (PM is called Julie Woolstonhulme) - Only gone live this morning. One of the clerks has tried to sell Orange £5.00 phone
Yext:I card worried because icon says coming soon.

Cali Closure Details

Crosed:I 10/02/00 09:30 I Cause:]oat I Repair]Roo I Res
Text:I Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot: HFSO happy with advise - now has a second query to be logged seperately.
Cail Asset Det

Asset 10: Description:

Product:[eposs Description:

-ort:I RSOB

Caf Activity Log
JOPEN Thu 10 February 2000 09:24 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:26

New call taken by Lyndsey Elliot: (PM is called Julie Woolstonhulme) - Only gone live this morning. One of the clerks has
tried to sell Orange £5.00 phone card worried because icon says coming soon.

Advice Thu 10 February 2000 09:29 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:29
Advised her that this is finre that the icon design is coming soon - the actual icon works fine. HFSO completed transaction.
ICLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 09:30 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:30

Gall Close by Lyndsey Elliot: HFSO happy with advise - now has a second query to be logged seperately.

6s8,

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp? Call=E-0002 100138 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-O002i0Ui43 .. i t

i tore
ERTEEAM pathway nz Archives.ca on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 CL
Call E-0002100143 S199 ICL
Status] Closed Opened] Thu 10 February 2000 09:31 Site] 153405
SeverityI]26 Closed: Thu 10 February 2000 09:37 Customer: 1039
Proriy:I0 SRiTeain:I ukO797017 HSHT
Catler]]Mrs Deviyn Site] 153405
Titte:] HFSO ; Departme
Caller 15; Location:

Call Problem Detaits
Product Type] [ Call Type[A I ProbType:[AD12 I
Probiem Text:Ilogged at same time as 138 of today. One of the clerks tried to log on this morning - now locked out - user error.
Call Closure Details
Closed] 10/02/00 09:37 I Cause]ces I Repair[ras I Resolution: [RSO8.

Text:I Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot: Once I had navigated PM to the correct icon - she informed me that it would not work then I
asked how long ago he was locked out and she said 50mins - Informed her it will have automatically unlocked after about 15

in
Call Asset Details
3 Asset iD: Description: Serlai No]
Product: [ADMIN Description: [ADMIN Network iD:
} ‘Cali Activity Log I
OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 09:29 by ukO79701 / HSHt ‘Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:31

New call taken by Lyndsey Elliot: logged at same time as 138 of today. One of the clerks tried to log on this morning - now
locked out - user error.
Advice Thu 10 February 2000 09:32 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:32

Navigated PM Julie Woolstonhulme through unlocking user. He has been serving on her id while they have been awaitning
him being unlocked. Had to wait while he finished serving before I could relay advice. Once I had navigated PM to the
correct icon - she informed me that it would not work then I asked how long ago he was locked out and she said 50mins -
Informed her it will have automatically unlocked after about 15 mins. PM happy with this. Asked her to make sure he is slow
and careful when logging back on.
ICLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 09:37 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:37

Call Close by Lyndsey Etliot: Once I had navigated PM to the correct icon - she informed me that it would not work then I
asked how long ago he was locked out and she said 50mins - Informed her it will have automatically unlocked after about 15
mins. PM happy with this. Asked her to make sure he is slow and careful when logging back on. PMHTC.
MODIFY Thu 10 February 2000 10:30 by uk059697 / HSHi Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:30

Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Product ID: from ‘eposs’ to ‘ADMIN’ Prod. Descr.: from “ to ‘ADMIN’

bsuy
Ay

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0002190143 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0002100198 “Page i of I
(ESA pathway NA2 Archived.0a on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 {E.
Call E-0002100198 ©1999 ICL
Status:] Closed ‘Opened:] Thu 10 February 2000 10:09 Sites] 153405
SeverityI]1 Closed: I Thu 10 February 2000 10:12 Customer 1039
Priority:{0 CSRiTeam: I uk056389/ HSH

Cater] julie Phone: Site:] 153405
PostMaster Login Deparimer
Calter 1D Locat

Call Problem Details
ProvType:]xI05

Cail Typa:

gateway - blue screen - restart and set recovery optiuons - crash debug - stop 0x0000000a (0x000000086 0x000000H -
the line to caller then went dead

Call Closure Details

Clesed:] 10/02/00 10:12 [__Cause:foar__ I Repair [Ros I v. [RSO8
Text:I Call Close by Nicola Piatt: whilst taking details - line to caller went dead - call ok to close
Call Asset Detais
Asset Seriai No’
Produci:I Unknown Product Unknown Product Net D:]
= —

Cali Ac!
OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 10:07 by uk056389/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:09 :

New call taken by Nicola Platt: gateway - blie screen - restart and set recovery optiuons - crash debug - stop 0x0000000:
(0x000000086 0x0000001! - the line to caller then went dead

information Thu 10 February 2000 10:12 by uk056389 / HSH1

whilst taking details - line to caller went dead

ICLOSE ——Thu 10 February 2000 10:12 by uk056389/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:12
Call Close by Nicola Platt: whilst taking details - line to caller went dead - call ok to close

Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:12

bSS
an

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call

-0002 100198 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0002100219 Page I of 1
IESSTMEAM pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 ~ PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 CL
Call E-0002100219 ©1999 ICL
Status:[Closed ‘Opened: I Thu 10 February 2000 10:16 Sites] 153405
Severity:[2C Closed: Thu 10 February 2000 10:25 Customer: }1039
Priority:]0 : : CSRTeary: I uk064675/ HSH1
: Callex Details
Caiter: [Julie Walstonhotm ._Phone:[[ GRO! Site:[ 153405
Title:] PostMaster Login: Departrient:I
Caller 1D: Location’
Cail Problem Detaiis,
Product Type] I Cali Type:[S_I ProbType:ISD02 I Problem]
Probiem Text:]On the gateway the screen has gone blue with a message that starts Stop 0x0000000a.
Calf Closure Details
Closed:] 10/02/00 10:25 I Cause:[c22 I Repair: [Roo I Resolution: ]RS08
Text:I Call Close by Stuart Bygrave: Blue screen and stop error message. Advised to reboot.
Call Asset Detaits
Asset ID! Description; Serial No:
ie) Product:IEPOSS, Desoription; Network 10:
Cal Activity Log
OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 10:13 by uk064675/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:16
New call taken by Stuart Bygrave: On the gateway the screen has gone blue with a message that starts Stop 0x0000000a.
IAdvice Thu 10 February 2000 10:20 by uk064675 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:20
‘Advised pm how to reboot the system.
CLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 10:25 by Uk064675/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:25
Call Close by Stuart Bygrave: Blue screen and stop error message. Advised to reboot.

bSb
@%

http://pwayweb0 1 /PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0002 100219 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0002100289 Fage I of i
ESTER pathway NR2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb01 - PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 SE
Call E-0002100289 - @1999.1CL
Status:[Closed ‘Opened: IThu't0 February 2000 10:48 Site:I 153405
Severity:I3 B Closed:} Thu 10 February 2000 10:57 Customer: I1039
Priority:I0 : CSR/Teami:Iuk066936 / HSH1
Calle Details
Cailer:IMrs Davlyn Site:I 153405
Title:I HFSO- Department,
Caller 10: Location:
Call Problem Detaiis
Product} Cail Type:]S ProbType:[SD02
Type:

ProblemIPm reports that the barcode scanner and the swipe card reader are not operational. Pm reports that aa clerk was,
‘Text:I entering a barcoded bt bill and she entered the amount and then she accidentally pressed the reciept key and it printed a
reciept for a previous customer.

Call Closure Details
(Closed: ] 10/02/00 10:57 a Cee Repair[Ro4 I Resolution: I RS08

Text:I Call Close by Matthew Taylor: Advised pm to print a ap report to see it the ttansaction has gone thru. it had not gone thru,
they have the transaction details. advised pm Hard reboot counter 3. navigated pm thru rebooting.

Call Asset Detaiis
Asset ID: Description Serial No}
Product: I PATWAL3400BCR Description:I Network iD:
Call Activity Log
OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 10:42 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:48

New call taken by Matthew Taylor: Pm reports that the barcode scanner and the swipe card reader are not operational. Pm
reports that a a clerk was entering a barcoded bt bill and she entered the amount and then she accidentally pressed the
reciept key and it printed a reciept for a previous customer.

Advice Thu 10 February 2000 10:54 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:54

‘Advised pm to print a ap report to see it the transaction has gone thru. it had not gone thru. they have the transaction details.
advised pm Hard reboot counter 3. navigated pm thru rebooting.

ICLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 10:57 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:57

Gall Close by Matthew Taylor: Advised pm to print a ap report to see it the transaction has gone thru. it had not gone thru,
they have the transaction details. advised pm Hard reboot counter 3. navigated pm thru rebooting.

bs7
%

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp? Call=E-0002 100289 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0002100508 = Page-lof I
FEESEEZAS pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb0i PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 #4
Call E-0002100508 ©1999,1CL
: [Closed ‘Opened:I Thu 10 February 2000 13:00 Site:]153405
38 Closed: ] Thu 10 February 2000 13:03 Customer: [1039
lo ° CSR/Team: [uk079782 / HSH1
. ler Details
:]Mr Harrison Phones} 3 Site:] 153405
:] PostMaster Login; Department:
Cater 1D:
Cail Problem Details
Product Type:I_[ CaiType]s I ProbType:[S002 I Probiem:]

Problem Text:IPM was ringing to say that the system keeps on crashing and has STOP 0X0000000A message.
Call Closure Details
Closed: I 10/02/00 13:03 [ CauseIcor I Repair[Roo I Resolution: [RS08
Text:I Call Close by Anthony Leddra: PM cut off due to bad line.

Call Asset Detaiis

Asset {D: Description: Sezial No:
i) Product:I WINNT Description: I Windows NT Network [D:
Call Acti
OPEN = Thu 10 February 2000 12:57 by uk079782/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:00
New call taken by Anthony Leddra: PM was ringing to say that the system keeps on crashing and has STOP 0X0000000A
message.
CLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 13:03 by uk079782/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:03
Call Close by Anthony Leddra: PM cut off due to bad line.
iMODIFY Thu 10 February 2000 13:15 by uk059697 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:16

Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Call Type: from 'H’ to ‘S’ Product ID: from ‘PATICLX365/400C' to ‘WINNT’
Prod. Descr.: from ‘Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites’ to ‘Windows NT’ Problem Type: from "HD01' to ‘SD02"

bse

http://pwayweb0 l/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0002 100508 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0002100514 Page I of 1

EGRESS pathway NR2 Archivet.0a on pwayweb0i - PH4PaiNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 #3
Call E-0002100514 ©1999,1CL
Status:]Closed ‘Opened:I Thu 10 February 2000 13:04 Site:]153405
Severity:]2 C Ciosect:[ Thu 10 February 2000 13:11 Customer: }1039
ity] 0 : CSRiTeam:]uk079964 / HSH1
. -Caller Detaiis
Caller:I[Mr Harrison Phone: Site:I 153405
Title: I PostMaster Login: Department,
Calter ID; Location:
Cail Problem Details
Product Typ2:] [I Cali TypeIx I ProbType:]x105 I Problem]

Problem Text:I PM called regarding the gateway crashing, he started telling me what was on the screen but the line cut off.
Calf Closure Datails
Closed: ] 10/02/00 13:11 I Cause:joa1 I Repair[R10 I Resotution:[RSO8
Text:ICalll Close by Sangita Patel: PM got cut off. .
Cail Asset Detaiis

( > Asset ID:
Product:I Unknown Product Bescription:
Call Activity Log
OPEN. Thu 10 February 2000 12:57 by uk079964/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:04
New call taken by Sangita Patel: PM called regarding the gateway crashing, he started telling me what was on the screen but
the line cut off.
JAdvice Thu 10 February 2000 13:11 by uk079964 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:11
Line cut off.
CLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 13:11 by uk079964/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:11

Call Close by Sangita Patel: PM got cut off.

bs4
M%

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0002 100514 21/06/06
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0002100523 Page tof I

(CERESRAB pathway NR2 Archivet.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2on STEOSHSHOS —patenqwed 21/06/00 #CL
Call E-0002100523 e19991CL

Status: [Closed Cpened] Thu 10 February 2000 13:09 153405

Seventy, ClosedkI Thu 10 February 2000 15:07 1039 ;
Priority:{0 uk061356/ SMG1
Caller Qelails
Caller] Mr Harrison Phone: Site:] 153405
Title:I PostMaster Login’

Call Problem Detaiis
ProbType!] FEOS

Cail Ty}

Probiam:

‘amI reporting gateway counter has blue screen message &quot;stop..0x0000000a)
I 0«0000029b,0x000000t,0x00000000,0x80846dc68 quot; has already happened twice this morning and have rebooted
system - happy to reboot again but would like the cause explaining/investigating.

Call Closure Details
Ciosed:] 10/02/00 15:07 I Cause:[c21 I Repairs[Ro4 I Resolution:I RSOB
Text:I Call Close by Anthony Obi: NT blue screen - counter re-booted problem resolved closure agreed.

Call Asset Det
Asset iD: Description:
Product:I EPOSS Description: [EPOSS Network
Call Activity Log
OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 13:04 by uk066744 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:09

New call taken by Matthew Titcombe: reporting gateway counter has blue screen message “stop..0x0000000a)
0x0000029b,0x000000f,0x00000000,0x80846dc6" has already happened twice this morning and have rebooted
system - happy to reboot again but would like the cause explaining/investigating.
lOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 10 February 2000 13:10 by uk066744 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:10

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IREASSIGN ‘Thu 10 February 2000 13:15 by uk066744 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:15
Call # E-0002100523 was Reassigned from Matthew Titcombe, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 reassigning call for
progression

IREASSIGN Thu 10 February 2000 15:00 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 15:00
‘Call # E-0002100523 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Anthony Obi, Group SMC1

Information Thu 10 February 2000 15:01 by UKO61356 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 15:01

Counter has been re-booted twice - it is now working fine. PM stated it has gone down 3 times since but as it is
working now he agreed closure of call.

CLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 15:07 by uk061356 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 15:07
Call Close by Anthony Obi: NT blue screen - counter re-booted problem resolved closure agreed.

bbo

Oh,

http://pwayweb0 1 /PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cali=E-0002 100523 7106706
Wwe

Call Details E-0002190086

POL00118221
POL00118221

Vage Loft l

Pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 #4.
Call E-0002190086 ©1999 ICL
:]Closed ‘Opened: ISat 19 February 2000 09:57 [153405
[2c ‘Giosed:I Sat 19 February 2000 10:00 1039
0 : [uk079783 / HSH1
Caller-Details
Caller:I Mr Harrison 153405,

Title: I PostMaster

Cater 10;
Sail Problem Details
Product Type:[PTO1 I Call Typefa_I I

Problem Text:I A clerk has locked himself out of the system.

Calt Closure Details

New call taken by Andrew Titman: A clerk has locked himself out of the system.

Advised the PM to go into admin, user, modify user and to unlock the account.

Call Close by Andrew Titman: PM happy with the advice and HTCC.

Ciosed:] 19/02/00 10:00 [ Cause:[cs2 I Repair]Roo I n:]RSO8
Text:I Call Close by Andrew Titman: PM happy with the advice and HTCC.
Cail Asset Details
Asset ID: Description: Serial No
Product: I ADMIN Description: ADMIN Network 1D:
Call Activity Log
OPEN —_Sat 19 February 2000 09:56 by uk079783 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 19 February 2000 09:57

Advice Sat 19 February 2000 09:59 by uk079783 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 19 February 2000 09:53

ICLOSE Sat 19 February 2000 10:00 by uk079783/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 19 February 2000 10:00

66!
ray

htto://nwavweb0 1/PatRnaWebNR?/CallNetaile acn?Ca

F000? LoNNgE
POL00118221
POL00118221

all Details 6-000Z220.

Vaye Lott

(EERERAM pathway NR2 Archives.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 7B
Call E-0002220353 ©1999 ICL
‘Status:[Closed ‘Opened Tue 22 February 2000 11:52 Site:]153405
Severity:]1 D Closed:I Tue 22 February 2000 11:56 Customer: 1039
Priority:{0 CSBYTeart:] uk079702 / HSH1
Caller Det
[Margaret Phone:t Site:] 153405
Titie:IPostMaster Logi Department
Caller 1D: Location:
Cail Problem Details
Product Type:IPTO1 Cal Type] x I ProbType:] X05 I Proviem
Problem Txt:] PM is calling rprt that she has entered an incorrect amt onto the quantum machine

Call Closure Detaits
Closed:] 22/02/00 11:56 it Causefcar I Repair[R09 I
:ICall Close by Jamie Lee: pmhic.

Cail Asset Det:
Asset iD: Description: Serial No:
Product: I EPOSS Description: [EPOSS Network 10;

Call Activity Log I

OPEN Tue 22 February 2000 11:47 by uk079702/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 22 February 2000 11:52
New call taken by Jamie Lee: PM is calling rprt that she has entered an incorrect amt onto the quantum machine

ICLOSE Tue 22 February 2000 11:56 by uk079702/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 22 February 2000 11:56
Call Close by Jamie Lee: pmhic.

httn://nwavnwehO1 (Dothan WabNiD 9/1.
POL00118221
POL00118221

EXESESRa@ pathway NR2 Archivet.0a on pwayweb01 PHaPatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/08/00 HL
Call E-0002240009 ©1999 ICL
;] Closed Opened:] Thu 24 February 2000 08:05 ‘Site:] 153405
[38 Glosed:I[Wed 01 March 2000 18:17 Customer:I1039
ity:}0 CSRTeam:}uk059303 / SMC1
Galler Details
Caller] Mrs Tagg Phone:[ -] 153405
Titio:] RNM Login:
Caller 1D:
Call Problem Details
Cali Type:]S ProbType:]SD02 Problem:
(Couldn't print due to a session being suspended last night, has rolled su & the office into the next week. Rebooted to
Year the problem.

Call Closure Details
[Closed:[01/03/00 18:17 l Cause[c22 I

Repair]Ros [I Resolution: I RSO8
:[Call Close by Dave Smith: Engineer is going to site to swap out the counter anyway and PM has agreed closure of this call.

F) Cail Asset Details

Description,

:[EPOsS Description,
Call Activity Log

lOPEN Thu 24 February 2000 08:02 by uk066862/ HSHt ‘Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 08:05

New call taken by Andrew Abernethy: Couldn't print due to a session being suspended last night, has rolled su &
the office into the next week. Rebooted to clear the problem.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 24 February 2000 08:06 by uk066862/ HSH1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Advice Thu 24 February 2000 08:08 by uk066862/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 08:08

She would like this investigated as the gateway needs rebooting about 3 or 4 times a week as it keeps
freezing....can't touch anything on the screen (no hour glass spinning).

Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 08:06

IREASSIGN Thu 24 February 2000 08:10 by uk066862/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 08:11
Call # £-0002240009 was Reassigned trom Andrew Abernethy, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reassigned for
investigation.

Information Thu 24 February 2000 16:12 by UK061824/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 16:12
forwarding for investiagtion - Event Logs obtained (26801), counter has current prod list.

IREASSIGN Thu 24 February 2000 16:15 by UK061824 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 16:16
Cali # E-0002240009 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1 for investigation

Repeat Call —_Fri 25 February 2000 17:11 by uk080011/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 25 February 2000 17:11

PM is still having problems with the gateway. PM called to advise that the magnetic card reader and the barcode
stopped working today. Pm solved the problem by logging out then logging back into the system. Pm cannot
remember what the magnetic card was but the barcoded bill was a BT bill. PM also informed me that the gateway
was rebooted yesterday, and twice on wednesday (screen froze - no egg timer movement - during a balancing)

Advice Fri 25 February 2000 17:16 by uk080011 / HSH1 ____. Saved: Fri 25 February 2000 17:16
— Advised PM this matter was with third line support now and someone will get back in touch with him
UPDATE Fri 25 February 2000 17:16 by PINICL /

Saved: Fri 25 February 2000 17:16

By Catherine Obeng at 25-feb-2000 17:17:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation The PM contirmed to me
that the system turns to hang they the are trying to print a Giro Report. Further analysis will be carried out next
week.

UPDATE Wed 01 March 2000 14:08 by PINICL / Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 14:08

By Catherine Obeng at 01-mar-2000 14:06:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation I spoke to Julie and told

her that I will be ringing her back at 5:30 when they are doing their CA so that I can collect PSTAT info from counter
1 for analysis.

JOTI_CLOSE ‘Wed 01 March 2000 17:53 by PINICL / Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 17:53

NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Catherine Obeng at 01-mar-2000 17:53:00 Category 96 - Insutficient evidence I called the office to advise that I
was about to run a PSTAT at counter 1 to collect more evidence about the slowness of counter 1. But the PM told
me that she has had an Engineer on site to swap counter 1 base unit, that swap did not work and so the Engineer
is gone away to get a second box. To that effect, I advised her that ! would close this call to which she agreed.
IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 17:53 by PINICL/ Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 17:53

OT! monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to UK06 1824 (SMC1)
JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 01 March 2000 18:16 by uk059303 / SMC1

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

bb
ar

hitp://pwayweb0 [/PatEnaWebNR2/Call etaite sen Haney eens

Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 18:16

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details b-0002240009 o Faye < of 2

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 18:16 by uk059303 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 18:17
Call # E-0002240009 was Reassigned from Mark Foster, Group SMC1 to Dave Smith, Group SMC1 Re-Assigning
for closure.

cLose Wed 01 March 2000 18:17 by uk059303 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 18:17
Call Close by Dave Smith: Engineer is going to site to swap out the counter anyway and PM has agreed closure of
this call. f

This call has remarks

bby
Cay

http://pwayweb0 1 /PatEnqWebNR2/CaliDetails.asp?Call=F 0002740000 aLinsine
POL00118221

POL00118221
——-Call Details E-0002241008 Page I of 1
ERB pathway NR2 Archives.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PalNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 XL
Call E-0002241008 ©1999 1CL
Status:[ Closed Opened: [Thu 24 February 2000 15:59 =] 153405
Severity.f2C Closed: I Thu 24 February 2000 16:01 Customer: 1039
Priority:[0 (CSAiTeam: I uk079868/ HSHi

Caller Det

Cailer:} mr harrison

~ i Site:] 153405
Titte:I PostMaster Login: Deparment:
Caller 1D; Location’

Cail Problem Details
Product Type] [ Ca Type JA I ProbType:]AD14 I
Problem Text:[ pm has a problem

Calt Closure Details
Closed: ] 24/02/00 16:01 I Cause]C41 I __RepairIRoo__I
Text:I Call Close by Nicola Harrison: pm happy to close the call,

Call Asset Details

fi Asset ID: Description;
3 Product: [PATICLX365/400B Description: I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites
Call Activity Log
OPEN Thu 24 February 2000 15:57 by uk079868 / HSH! Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 15:59
i

New call taken by Nicola Harrison: pm has a problem
JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 24 February 2000 15:59 by uk079868 / HSH1

Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 15:59
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Advice Thu 24 February 2000 16:00 by uk079868 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 16:00
pm is advising us that he has re...booted the system and that il is working ok now.

CLOSE Thu 24 February 2000 16:01 by uk079868 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 16:01
Call Close by Nicola Harrison: pm happy to close the call,

MODIFY ‘Thu 24 February 2000 18:55 by uk0S9697 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 18:55

Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Call Type: from ‘O" to ‘A’ Product ID: from ‘EPOSS' to
*PATICLX365/400B' Prod. Descr.: from 'EPOSS' Problem Type: from ‘FE0S' to ‘AD 14" Product Type: from ‘PTO1" to

bes
aay

http://pwayweb0 1 /PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=F-0007241 008 Raines
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0002290031 — Page I of I
IEXIERAY pathway NR2 Archived.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #31
Call E-0002290031 ©1999 ICL

Closed Opened: I Tue 29 February 2000 08:49 153405
2c Closed:I Tue 29 February 2000 08:53 241039
2f0 juk079939 / HSH1

Caller De!

Caller:] Mr Harrison Phone:f “I “]isaa05
Title:] PostMaster Login:
Calier 1D:
Call Provlem Detaiis
Product Type] _[ Cat Type[s I ProbType:I SD02 T

Problem Text:I Gateway has on screen 00000000A

Call Closure Details

Closed:I 29/02/00 08:53 I Cause:Ic22 Repair[Ros I

Text:I Call Close by Paul Fitzpatrick: PMHTCC

Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Call Type: from
to ‘EPOSS' Severity: trom ‘I’ to'2 Prod. Descr.: from " to EPOSS '...etc.

Call Asset Detai
Asset iD: Description: Serial No}
Product:I EPOSS Description: I EPOSS. ;
Call Activity Log
OPEN Tue 29 February 2000 08:45 by uk079939/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 29 February 2000 08:49
New call taken by Paul Fitzpatrick: Gateway has on screen 00000000A
Advice Tue 29 February 2000 08:52 by uk079939 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 29 February 2000 08:52
Advised a re-boot of the gateway
ICLOSE Tue 29 February 2000 08:53 by uk079939 / HSHt Saved: Tue 29 February 2000 08:53
Calll Close by Paul Fitzpatrick: PMHTCC
MODIFY Tue 29 February 2000 09:32 by uk059697 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 29 February 2000 09:33

\ to 'S' Cause: from "C62" to 'C22" Product !D: from ‘Eposs’

bob
er

http://pwayweb0 I/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cal

=E-000229003 1

D1nK00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0003010031 a age iof2 -
FEEDER pathway NR2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PalNRZ on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #31
Call E-0003010031 ©1999 104
Status: [Closed ‘Opened:IWed 01 March 2000 08:37 Site:]153405
erity:I3B Closed: I Thu 02 March 2000 16:17 Customer [1039
Pronity:[0 ‘CSP/Team:[uk061815/ SMC1
Caller Details
Caller. Mr Harrison Phone Site:] 153405
Title: I PostMaster Login:} ariment:I
Cater 1D: Location:
Call Problem Det
Producy JHOOt Problem
Type:

Problem] PM is having problems with gateway - PM has come in this morning, and it has bluescreen with a Stop code ending with
‘Text:} 0x00..0A. PM has now reboot.

Call Closure Det

Siosed: [02/03/00 16:17 it Causerfiaiture I —Repair:Jez1 I

‘ext:I Call Close by Daniel Sales: ** [No Remark entered. Call closure code of failure and repair code 821
Call Asset Detaits

Asset 1D:] 1534051 Description: Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Serial No:I79503CY
Product: I PATICLX365/400B Descziption:] Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Network 1D;
Call Activity Log
JOPEN — Wed 01 March 2000 08:35 by uk080012/ HSH1 ‘Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 08:37

New call taken by Simon Gavin: PM is having problems with gateway - PM has come in this morning, and it has
bluescreen with a Stop code ending with 0x00..0A. PM has now reboot.

Information Wed 01 March 2000 08:40 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 08:40
This is not the find time it has happened, the last time being yesterday.
IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 08:41 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 08:41

Call # E-0003010031 was Reassigned trom Simon Gavin, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re-assigning to SMC as this is a
re-occuring problem for this counter.

IMODIFY Wed 01 March 2000 09:02 by uk059697 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 09:02
Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Problem Type: from ‘SCOS' to ‘SDO1"
Advice Wed 01 March 2000 10:55 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 10:55

pm reporting that the gateway has crashed again whilst taking a pension. message ***stop 0x00000000a. as pm has
already rebooted advised pm that I would contact smc. before advising a reboot. pm has already turned gateway off. tried}
twice to get through to smc but no answer therefore advised pm off reference no. and that ! would re assign the call

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 11:00 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 11:01
Call # E-0003010031 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group SMC1 re assigning for further investigation
Repeat Call Wed 01 March 2000 13:36 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:36

PM is ringing back re: the same the problem. Hasn't happened again, but PM is still waiting for some kind of answer.
Voiced SMC for make them aware of the problem.

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 13:42 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:42
Call # E-0003010031 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Seema Shah, Group SMC1
information-Wed-01 March 2000 13:42 by uk059133 / SMC1 “Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:42

Searched the KEL under RColeman2040M.him- software last sent was 15th Feb. Contacted Richard and he advised a
Base unit swap as this has happened a few times today

Information Wed 01 March 2000 13:43 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:43
Tried to contact PM but the line is engaged.
Information Wed 01 March 2000 13:52 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:52
Wednesday 9-5.30pm. Thursday 9-5.30pm. Clerk advised that they would like an engineer this afternoon it possible.
MODIFY Wed 01 March 2000 13:44 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:54

Call information modified by Seema Shah Call Type: from 'S' to 'H’ Product ID: from "EPOSS' to 'PATICLX365/400B"
Revision: Serial #: to "79503CY' Tag: to 1534051" Item Descr.: Prod. Descr.: from 'EPOSS' ...etc.

Information Wed 01 March 2000 13:55 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:55
Recommend engineer to swap base unit

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 13:55 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:55
Call # E-0003010031 was Reassigned from Seema Shah, Group SMC! to Group UKSS1

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 14:00 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:59

The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 01-03-2000 15:00:00 Engineer 051286 allocated
UPDATE Wed 01 March 2000 14:06 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 14:05
Engineer 051286 despatched to site at 01-03-2000 14:04:00 ** [No Remark entered.]

Mh

http://pwayweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/Call Details asn?Call=F-00030 10031 anaes

Nea

Cail Details E-0003010031 =

UPDATE — Wed 01 March 2000 15:32 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 15:32
Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 01-03-2000 15:27:00 ** (Engineer 051286 Logged On.)

UPDATE — Wed 01 March 2000 16:38 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 16:38
Engineer 053315 allocated

ISUSPEND Wed 01 March 2000 17:50 by UK052525 / UKSS2 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 17:50
Call suspended by Jayne Drew SUSPENDING PENDING UPDATE ENG STILL ON SITE

IREASSIGN Thu 02 March 2000 08:30 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 08:29
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 02-09-2000 11:30:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

JUPOATE — Thu 02 March 2000 08:40 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 08:38
Engineer 064008 allocated

IRELEASE Thu 02 March 2000 08:35 by uk053128 / UKSS2 Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 08:36

we go back in 11.30am today.

REASSIGN Thu 02 March 2000 10:01 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 10:01
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 02-03-2000 11:25:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

UPDATE Thu 02 March 2000 10:15 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 10:13
Engineer 051286 despatched to site at 02-03-2000 10:05:00 ** [No Remark entered]

UPDATE — Thu 02 March 2000 11:40 by Dispatch 1 / ‘Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 11:40
Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 02-03-2000 11:35:00 ** [Engineer 051286 Logged On.)

ENG VISIT Thu 02 March 2000 11:30 by 051286 / ENGINEERS Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 12:30
** [No Remark entered.] Call closure code of failure and repair code 821

IREASSIGN Thu 02 March 2000 13:39 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 13:39
OTI monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to uk059133 (SMC1)

[CLOSE Thu 02 March 2000 16:17 by uk061815/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 16:17

Call Close by Daniel Sales: ** [No Remark entered.] Call closure code of failure and repair code 821

Call released by S. Bothick: releasing for engineer visit. engineer attended 01/03 and had a fof base. PM has requested

POL00118221
POLO00118221

Page? of 2

as.r

bot
Wn

http://owavweb01/PatEnaWehNR/CallNataile aen9Call=E ANAINIANTY
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0003030294 - gel of I
REDEEM pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PalNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 FOL
Call E-0003030294 ©1999 ICL
[Closed ‘Opened!] Fri 03 March 2000 10:58 153405
2c Closed:I Fri 03 March 2000 12:17 Cui 1039
“Jo CSATeam: [uk079674/ HSHt
Caller Details
Calier:] Shelley Hatch Phone:[I GRO} 53405
Titie:[TSA Login: Cepartinant
Caller 1D; Location:
Call Problem Details
Product Type:] I Call TypeJH I ProbType:I HOOT I
Problem Text:I Call being raised off E-0001310595, as requested, gateway workstation needs to be swapped out.

Call Closure Details

Closed:]03/03/00 12:17 I Cause:[cos I Repair]Ro4 [I Resolution:] RS10

Text:I Call Close by Shelley Hatch: pm rebooted following engineer visit.call can be closed-gateway is now operational.

Cail Asset Detai's

be swapped out.

Advice Fri 03 March 2000 11:02 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:02
gateway has been swapped out previously and has crashed again since.

Recommend —_Fri 03 March 2000 11:03 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:03
Please swap base unit out-

IREASSIGN Fri 03 March 2000 11:04 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:04

visit.

IREASSIGN ——_Fri 03 March 2000 11:13 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fti 03 March 2000 11:10
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 03-03-2000 11:15:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

UPDATE Fri 03 March 2000 11:22 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:19
Engineer 064008 despatched to site at 03-03-2000 11:19:00 ** [No Remark entered.]

\UPDATE Fri 03 March 2000 11:35 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:32
Engineer 064008 arrived on site at 03-03-2000 11:32:00 ** [Engineer 064008 Logged On.]

IOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 03 March 2000 11:48 by UK061824/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:52
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

UPDATE Fri 03 March 2000 12:08 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:07
counter working fine after reboot spoke to mark at smc , health check completed.

UPDATE Fri 03 March 2000 12:09 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:07
Work completed

ENG visit Fri 03 March 2000 11:32-by 064008 / ENGINEERS Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:02—

and repair code 827

IREASSIGN Fri 03 March 2000 12:07 by Dispatch 1/

OTI monitor reassigned this call trom Dispatch 1 to uk079674 (HSH1)
CLOSE Fri 03 March 2000 12:17 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:17

Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:07

‘Asset 10:]1534054 Description: I Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites Seri 7949975
Product: I PATICLX365/400C Description: [Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites “ork I
Call Activity Log
lOPEN Fri 03 March 2000 10:56 by uk079674 / HSHt Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 10:58

New calll taken by Shelley Hatch: Call being raised off E-0001310595, as requested, gateway workstation needs to

Call # E-0003030294 was Reassigned from Shelley Hatch, Group HSHI to Group UKSS1 reassigning for engineer

counter working fine after reboot spoke to mark at smc , health check completed. Call closure code of completed

Call Close by Shelley Hatch: pm rebooted following engineer visit.call can be closed-gateway is now operational.

b64
ta)

http://owavweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/CallDetails.asn?Call=F-0003030794 Dine inn
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0603030407 —— clot
HEESERBAR patnway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #OL
Call E-0003030407 ©1999 ICL
Staus:IClosed Opened] Fri 03 March 2000 11:35 153405
Soveriy:I38 Closedk I Fri 03 March 2000 11:40 c 039
Priovity:}0 CSATear:uk095390/ HSH
Caller Det
Caller] Roger Harrison Phone] Site:] 153405
Tite:IPostMaster Logi Departm
Caller 1D: Location:
Call Problem Details
Product Gall Typa]s Prob¥ypa:[Sb02 ProblenrI

Type!
Problem] Through the transaction and the screen has frozen . and the screen went dead he was entering the OBS foils received in
“Text:I when this screen . The right hand bank had now frozen and the PMis not able to clear the screen.
Call Closure Details
:4:]03/03/00 11:40 I Cause:[c22 I Repair[Roo I Resoh:tion:I RSO8
[Call Close by Pamela Coe: PM will reboot as advised and call back if the problem persists call can now be closed

Call Asset D
Asset 10: Description:
Product: I EPOSS

Call Activity Log

lOPEN Fri 03 March 2000 11:31 by uk035390/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:35
New call taken by Pamela Goe: Through the transaction and the screen has frozen . and the screen went dead he was
entering the OBS foils received in when this screen . The right hand bank had now frozen and the PM is not able to clear the
screen.

Advice Fri 03 March 2000 11:39 by uk035390/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:39
advised the PM that he would need to reboot as this has been like this for at least 1/2 hour , He was happy top do this on
his own, Will call back if nessasary

CLOSE Fri 03 March 2000 11:40 by uk035390/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:40
Call Close by Pamela Coe: PM will reboot as advised and call back if the problem persists call can now be closed

670
(Xa

http://>wavweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003030407 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

> loft

Call Details E-0003040085 . —

IRERRAW pathway NR2 Archivet.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #2.
Call E-0003040085 ©1999 ICL

Status:[Closed ‘Opened:] Sat 04 March 2000 09:43 153405.

Severity:]2C Closed:I Sat 04 March 2000 09:45 :fi039
Priority:10 CSA/Team:] uk059368 / HSH1
CallenDetails
[Mc M A Jackson’ Phone! 26 Site:] 153405
Login; Department
Caiter 1D:
Call Problem Detalis
Product Type:IPTO1 ] Call Type]A_ I abType:]AD12 ]

Problem Text:IPM cannot see anything on the screen.
Call Closure Details
Closed:]04/02/00 09:45 [__Cause:[ce2 roo I
Text:I Call Close by David John Flood: This call can now be closed as the problem has been resolved.

I Repair: Resolution: I RSO8

ee

Call Asset Details
Asset iD: Description
Product: I EPOSS Description: [EPOSS Network 10:
Call Activity Log

OPEN. Sat 04 March 2000 09:41 by uk059368 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 04 March 2000 09:43
New call taken by David John Flood: PM cannot see anything on the screen.
Advice Sat 04 March 2000 09:44 by uk059368 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 04 March 2000 09:44
Advised the PM to press the spacebar in case of system in powersave mode. This didnt work. Asked the colour of all lights
on kit. Monitor=orange, keyboard=no light, Base=no light.
Advice Sat 04 March 2000 09:45 by uk059368 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 04 March 2000 09:45
‘Advised the PM to switch the base on, and get her PMM card and PIN. System now booting up, and all seems OK.
ICLOSE Sat 04 March 2000 09:45 by uk059368 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 04 March 2000 09:45
Call Close by David John Flood: This call can now be closed as the problem has been resolved.

b7\
on

htto://owavweb01/PatRnaWebhNR7/CallNetails acn?Call=F-NANANNNR S

INE IA
Call Detaiis E-0003070610.

ESEEEAM pathway NR2 Archivet.da on pwayweb01

POL00118221
POL00118221

~~~ Page Lof I

PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 {TL

Call E-0003070610 ©1999, ICL
Status:I Closed Gpened:I Tue 07 March 2000 13:00 [153405
Severity:I3B 3sed:I Tue 07 March 2000 13:05 Customer [1039
Priorty:[0 CSRTear: I uk080011/ HSH1
Caller Detalis
Caller: Julie Wolstenholme :] 153405
Title: [PostMaster Department,
Caller D: Location:
Call Problem Getais
Product} PTO1 Call Type:IS- ProbType:ISD02 Proi
Type:

Text;

ProviemI Screen has frozen twice ( prior to that Clerk was just serving a customer) - Clerk had items in the stack but nothing
happened. Keyboard was unresponsive too. Clerk logged back in and was instantly in the engineer screen.

Call Closure Details

Closed:] 07/03/00 13:05

Cause:]c22 I Repair [ROI

I Resolution [RSOB

Text:} Call Close by Sayeed Master: PMHTC

Cail Asset Detaiis

engineer screen.

Asset iD: Description:I
Product:IEPOSS Description:] EPOSS.

Cal Activity Log

OPEN Tue 07 March 2000 12:56 by uk080011 / HSH1
New call taken by Sayeed Master: Screen has frozen twice ( prior to that Clerk was just serving a customer) - Clerk had
items in the stack but nothing happened. Keyboard was unresponsive too. Clerk logged back in and was instantly in the

Information Tue 07 March 2000 13:04 by uk080011/ HSH1
previous to this the screen has been ok. sytem is working fine now. Hasn't crashed at all.

ICLOSE — Tue 07 March 2000 13:05 by uk080011 / HSH1
Call Close by Sayeed Master: PMHTC

Saved: Tue 07 March 2000 13:00

Saved: Tue 07 March 2000 13:04

Saved: Tue 07 March 2000 13:05

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003070610

672.
Re

21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0003080446___ a-- Page loft
EXER pathway NR2 Archives.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #3
Call E-0003080446 199910
Status:IClosed ‘Cpened:I Wed 08 March 2000 11:54 Site:[ 153405
Severity:I2C Closed: ] Wed 08 March 2000 11:56 Customer:I 1039
Priovity:]0 CSF/Team:[UK061916 / HSH1
Caller Details
Caier:[Mr M A Jackson Phone} GRO; Site: 153405
Ti Login’
Caller 1D: Location:
Call Problem Details
Product] Call Typa:]x ProbType:] x105 Proviem:
Type:
Problem] Avril Kirkby Clerk rang to say customer applying for british passport because she's Polish but born on USSR. Wants to
Text:I know about procedural issue with this.
Call Closure Details
Closed: [08/03/00 11:56 I CauseJcar I Repairc[A58 I
Text:ICall Close by Russell King: Caller ADVISED to contact NBSC - call closed
Cail Asset Detaiis
Asset iD: Description: Seriai No:}
Produci:I Unknown Product Cescriptio: Network ID:
Call Activity Log “I
OPEN ‘Wed 08 March 2000 11:52 by UK061916/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 11:54
New call taken by Russell King: Avril Kirkby Clerk rang to say customer applying for british passport because she's
Polish but born on USSR. Wants fo know about procedural issue with this.
JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 08 March 2000 11:54 by UK061916/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 11:54
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Information - Wed 08 March 2000 11:55 by UK061916 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 11:55
Referred her to NBSC as is purely PO procedural issue.
CLose Wed 08 March 2000 11:56 by UKO61916 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 11:56

Call Close by Russell King: Caller ADVISED to contact NBSC - call closed

673
wr

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003080446 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Cali Details E-000308069! Page I of I
CE pathway NR2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 #1
Call E-0003080691 ©1999 ICL
Status:[Closed ‘Opened:[Wed 08 March 2000 13:40 153405)
Severity:[2 C Ciosedi:I Wed 08 March 2000 13:47 Customer:]1039
Priotity:]0 CSR/Team:I uk080098 / HSH1
Caller: mrs wolstenholme Site:[153405
Title:] manager Department:
Catier 1D:
Call Problem Detaiis
Product Type:] I Call Type]X I Probl ype:] X105 I Problem:

Problem Text:I home care £3.00 blackpool home help stamps,ni icon to put them into system
Cait Closure Details

:]08/03/00 13:47 I Causafcar I Repaic[Roo I

:] Call Close by Gaynor Smith: pmhtce

n:] RSOB

Cail Asset Detaii:
Descriptio Serial No:
: [Unknown Product Description: I Unknown Product Network 11.
Call Activity Log
lOPEN Wed 08 March 2000 13:36 by uk080098 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:40
New call taken by Gaynor Smith: home care £3.00 blackpool home help stamps,ni icon to put them into system
lOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 08 March 2000 13:45 by uk080098 / HSHt Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:45
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Advice Wed 08 March 2000 13:46 by uk080098 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:46
advsd to ring nbsc as icon never there before and new items cannot be remmed in
MODIFY Wed 08 March 2000 13:46 by uk080098 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:47

Call information modified by Gaynor Smith Call Type: from ‘A’ to "X' Product ID: from 'EPOSS' to ‘Unknown Product’
Prod. Descr.: from 'EPOSS' to "Unknown Product’ Problem Type: from ‘ADO3° to "X105' ...etc.

CLOSE Wed 08 March 2000 13:47 by uk080098 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:47
Gall Close by Gaynor Smith: pmhtec

674
a

http://pwayweb0] /PatEnqgWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=

-0003080691 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Detaiis E-0003082022 —~ Paze i of I
(EERE pathway NR2 Archives.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 {E
Call E-0003082022 ©1999 ICL
Status: [Closed Opened: I Wed 08 March 2000 21:02 >:] 153405
2c Closed:IWed 08 March 2000 21:49 omer] 1039
Jo CSRTeam: I uk058804/ SMC1
Caller Detaiis
Caller:] Mr Harrison Phone: GRO! Site:] 153405
Title:I PostMaster Department,
Call Problem Details
Product Cal Type:]S ProbType:I FEOS Probien:
Type:
Probiem]Pm has had the system busy icon on for approx 10minutes. Pm was trying to preview the balance report, so pm can
‘Text:I rollover. Pm complains that on every screen he has tried working on has had the system busy icon on, for approx 15
minutes at a time.
Cali Closure Details
Glosed:]08/03/00 21:49 I Gausec21 I Repair[R21 I
¢ Text:I Call Close by Santokh Chahal: PM is happy for incident closure.
y) Call Asset Detail
Asset ID: Description: Serial No!
Product:I PATICLX365/400B Description: jetwork {:
! Call Activity Log
JOPEN Wed 08 March 2000 20:58 by uk080013 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:02

New call taken by Jiten Jagatia: Pm has had the system busy icon on for approx 10minutes. Pm was trying to
preview the balance report, so pm can rollover. Pm complains that on every screen he has tried working on has hadI
the system busy icon on, for approx 15 minutes at a time.

IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 08 March 2000 21:02 by uk080013/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:02
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
information Wed 08 March 2000 21:05 by uk080013 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:05

Pm has had the system busy icon on for approx 10minutes. Pm was trying to preview the balance report, so pm
can rollover. Pm complains that on every screen he has tried working on has had the system busy icon on, for
approx 15 minutes at a time.

IREASSIGN ——_ Wed 08 March 2000 21:06 by uk080013 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:06

Call # £-0003082022 was Reassigned from Jiten Jagatia, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Pm has had the system
busy icon on for approx 10minutes. Pm was trying to preview the balance report, so pm can rollover. Pm complains
that on every screen he has tried working on has had the system busy icon on, for approx 15 minutes at a time.
Please investigate this further.

IREASSIGN Wed 08 March 2000 21:46 by uk058804 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:46
Call # E-0003082022 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Santokh Chahal, Group SMC1
MODIFY Wed 08 March 2000 21:46 by uk058804 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:47

Call information modified by Santokh Chahal Call Type: from ‘A’ to ‘S' Product !D: from ‘EPOSS' to
“PATICLX365/400B' Counter Aff.: to '1' Problem Type: from ‘AD03' to ‘FEOS"

Information Wed 08 March 2000 21:48 by uk058804 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:48
Deleted the NTlog.cache file on the gateway counter. —————
CLOSE Wed 08 March 2000 21:49 by uk058804 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:49

Call Close by Santokh Chahal: PM is happy for incident closure.

67S
7

httn:/Inwavweb! /PatEnaWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003082022 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003090170

EEEIESEAS pathway NA2 Archived.oa on pwayweb01

Page I of I

Severity: Thu 09 March 2000 09:14 Cusioiner-[1039
Priority:[0 CSRiTearr[uk079680/ HSH1
Caller: [Mr Harrison Phone: Site:] 153405
Title: IPostMaster Login: Depaninent:
Calter 1D: Location:
Call Problem Detaiis
Produc! Call Type:IS ProbType:] SD02
Typ

Caller has turned on the gateway and the scren is frozen on the riposte screen the arrow is frozen as well . he was just
trying to fog on

Call Closure Details

Closed:]09/03/00 09:14 [_ cause[o22 J Rep: I Resolution [RS08
. Text: Call Close by Tina Brown: pm ahppy to reboot
} Call Asset Detaits
Asset ID: Description, Seriai No:
Product:}eposs Description; Network iO:
Call Activity Log
OPEN Thu 09 March 2000 09:11 by uk079680/ HSH1

Call Close by Tina Brown: pm ahppy to reboot

Now call taken by Tina Brown: Caller has tumed on the gateway and the scren is frozen on the riposte screen the arrow is
frozen as well . he was just trying to log on

IAdvice Thu 09 March 2000 09:14 by uk079680/ HSH1
Advised the caller to reboot to clear the problem
ICLOSE Thu 09 March 2000 09:14 by uk079680 / HSH1

Saved: Thu 09 March 2000 09:13

Saved: Thu 09 March 2000 09:14

Saved: Thu 09 March 2000 09:14

http://pwayweb0 l/PatEnaWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-9003090170

676

FLIN6:00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003130143 Page I of 1

patenqweb 21/06/00 #L

1039
uk080066 / HSH1

.j Mon 13 March 2000 09:10

Priority:]0
Caller Details ;
Catiar-] Roger harrison Pho: GRO i 153405
:]PostMaster Login Department:
Caller 1D: rr
Call Problem De

Call Type] S ProbT ype:[SD02

Pm rang to say that the main gateway has crashed this morning. He has rebooted and this solved the problem. He ws
told to ring in to report this.

Cal! Closure Details

Closed: ] 13/03/00 09:10 I Cause:[c22 I Repair[Ass I Resok
Text:I Call Close by Matthew Saunders: PMHTCC...
"y Call Asset Detai's
Asset ID: Description:
Product: IEPOSS Description:

Call Activity Log
OPEN —-Mon 13 March 2000 09:04 by uk080066 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 13 March 2000 09:07
New call taken by Matthew Saunders: Pm rang to say that the main gateway has crashed this morning. He has rebooted

and this solved the problem. He ws told to ring in to report this.
Information Mon 13 March 2000 09:09 by uk080086 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 13 March 2000 09:09
Pm has contacted us just to report in that he rebooted a counter and that it is fine

ICLOSE —_ Mon 13 March 2000 09:10 by uk080066 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 13 March 2000 09:10
Call Close by Matthew Saunders: PMHTCC....

677

htto://nwavweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Ca' 21/06/00

-0003 130143

F.

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003200387 Page I of 1

PH4Pai on STEOSHSHOS:

‘Mon-20-March-2000-10:48 —-—-—=———~~
Severity: Mon 20 March 2000 10:51 Custor
Pricrity:]0 CSRiTearn:]uk079674/ HSH1
Caller:I Mr Harrison Site:] 153405,
Title:I PostMaster : Department:
Calfar ID: Location:

Call Problem Detaiis

Product Type] [_ Calltype[s I ProbType:[$SD02 al

Problem Text:I The gateway has crashed, it has Stop0x0000000a on the screen with a blue background.

Call Closure Cetails

Closed] 20/03/00 10:51 [__cause:[c2e I Repaic[Ro4 I Resolition: I RSO2
Text:ICall Close by Shelley Hatch: pm happy to reboot unassisted
Call Asset Detaiis
Asset ID: Description: E ar
Product:] WINNT Descriptio: Network 10:
OPEN Mon 20 March 2000 10:46 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:48
New call taken by Shelley Hatch: The gateway has crashed, it has Stop0x0000000a on the screen with a blue
background.
JOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 20 March 2000 10:48 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:48
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405) -
Advice Mon 20 March 2000 10:50 by uk079674 / HSH1 “Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:50
advised the pm to reboot following advice form the Kel Ret: SParker346J.htm pm is happy to reboot unassisted
IOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 20 March 2000 10:50 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:51
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
CLOSE Mon 20 March 2000 10:51 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:51

Call Close by Shelley Hatch: pm happy to reboot unassisted

67F

tty Hearne (DotinaWehN 7 /Galietaile senIOnlil AANIINAIOT A euneinn
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003210083 Page I of I

SESE pathway NR2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/08/00 {OL

Closed:I Wed 22 March 2000 15:18 1039

uk059133 / SMC1

Cal
Calter:I roger harrison Phone:}{ Sita: 153405
Titte:I PostMaster Login: Departmen

Catter ID: « Locatien:I

Call Problem Details
PrabType] S002 Pra

Product Call Typ:
Type:

Problem] gateway has blue nt screen with stop message, this has happened very regularly and pm is re-booting almost
“Text:I daily,ref:0002240009,000301 0031 000307061 0,0003080691 ,01 132372993,01 132372903,01 132373714. he had already
begun re-boot this morning on his own

Call Closure Details
:] 22/03/00 15:18 I Cause]c22 I Repair [Ros I Resolution: RSO8
i :I Call Close by Seema Shah: PM happy to close call as system is working ok.
> Call Asset Detaiis
Asset 1D! Seral No:
Product:[EPOSS Network 19:
Call A
OPEN Tue 21 March 2000 08:49 by uk080053 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 08:54

New call taken by Suzanne Armstrong: gateway has blue nt screen with stop message, this has happened very
regularly and pm is re-booting almost ;

daily ref:0002240009,000301 0031 000307061 0,0003080691 ,01 132372993,01 132372903,01 132373714. he had
already begun re-boot this morning on his own

IOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 21 March 2000 08:54 by uk080053 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 08:54
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Escalate Tue 21 March 2000 08:59 by uk080053 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 08:59

re-assigning to smct for information and possible investigation. this mornings problem resolved but pm concerned
that this is a recurring problem

JREASSIGN Tue 21 March 2000 09:07 by uk080053 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 09:01

Call # E-0003210083 was Reassigned from Suzanne Armstrong, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re-assigning for
information and investigation

IOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 21 March 2000 09:19 by UK065182/ SMC1 Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 09:20
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
. REASSIGN — Wed 22 March 2000 15:17 by uk059133/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 22 March 2000 15:17
Call # £-0003210083 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Seema Shah, Group SMC1
IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 22 March 2000 15:17 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 22 March 2000 15:17
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Information Wed 22 March 2000 15:17 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 22 March 2000 15:17
Contacted PM and he advised that the system is working normal today and is happy for this call to be closed
CLOSE Wed 22 March 2000 15:18 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 22 March 2000 15:18

Call Close by Seema Shah: PM happy to close call as system is working ok.

e771

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CaliDetails.asp?Cal

B-0003210083 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003280779

arc
[38 :I Tue 28 March 2000 12:57 ios
Jo
Caller Detalis

Julie Walstonhow Phones} jite:I 153405
PostMaster Login:

Caller 1D:

Call Problem Det

Product Type:I I Cali types I ProbType:]SD02 I

Problem Text:I Pm says the gateway counter has crashed again.

Calt Closure Details
Closed:[28/03/00 12:57 [___ cause:[c22 Repaic[Roa I Resolution: [RSO7
Text:I Call Close by Nick Winger: Close this call as there is another one on the stack for the same problem, PMHTCC.
Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset 10; Desc: Seriat No!
? Product: I Unknown Product Beser Network iD:]
Call Activity Log
OPEN Tue 28 March 2000 12:50 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:53
New calll taken by Nick Winger: Pm says the gateway counter has crashed again.
JOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 28 March 2000 12:54 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:55
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
information Tue 28 March 2000 12:56 by uk079786 / HSH1 - Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:56
The pm has another call on the open stack about the same issue that SMC1 are looking at already. Will close this
one down.
IOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 28 March 2000 12:57 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:57
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
close Tue 28 March 2000 12:57 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:57

Call Close by Nick Winger: Close this call as there is another one on the stack for the same problem. PMHTCC.

ke

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003280779 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003281454 vage I of 1

21/06/00 #L

Wed 29 March 2000 09:18

I UK061825 / SMC1

Caller Details

Calier:I Mr Harrison Phor Site:] 153405
Title:I PostMaster Login: Department:
Cater ID:
Call Provlem Details

Product] PT04 Call Type:]S- sD02

Type:

[Counter printer not working - green ready light on steady - trying to print giro report at first but then tried cheques listing
:I that did not work either - not run out of paper - problem first noticed approx 16.45 printing giro report - PM went live
07.02.00 he thinks - very unhappy with horizon has had loads of problems - major problems this week alone.

Call Closure Details,
Closed:[29/09/00 09:18 1 Cause:fc22 I Repair ]Roo I Resolution:] RS08
Text:ICall Close by Kyrstin Stuart: Has crash debug error on counter.

Asset ID:
Product:IPATITH94PTR

rial No:
Network iD:

ity
JOPEN Tue 28 March 2000 17:55 by uk079701 / HSHi Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 17:58
New call taken by Lyndsey Elliot: Counter printer not working - green ready light on steady - trying to print giro report at
first but then tried cheques listing that did not work either - not run out af paper - problem first noticed approx 16.45
printing giro report - PM went live 07.02.00 he thinks - very unhappy with horizon has had loads of problems - major
problems this week alone.

information Tue 28 March 2000 18:02 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 18:02
Userid RHAOO! - SU AA shared - BP 01 - CAPO1
IREASSIGN Tue 28 March 2000 18:02 by uk079701 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 18:04

Call # E-0003281454 was Reassigned from Lyndsey Elliot, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 PM worried about the fact that
he has “crashed” so many times. Reassigned for investigation.

IREASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:16 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:16
Call # E-0003281454 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Kyrstin Stuart, Group SMC1
Contacted Wed 29 March 2000 09:17 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:17

Called PM and he is having his base unit swopped out today due to the crash debug error, call E-0003280186. This
should also resolve this call so can now be closed,

ICLOSE —_ Wed 29 March 2000 09:18 by uk061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:18
:. Call Close by Kyrstin Stuart: Has crash debug error on counter.

bel.

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-000328 1454 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003100662 Page I of 2

38 Closed:[ Thu 30 March 2000 08:54 Customer: [1039
CSATeam:Iuk059129/ SMC1
Caller Detaiis
Cailer-] Elaine Cragg - 0402 572 600 Phone: 183405
Title: [NM Logi Cepartmer
Calier 1D: Location
Call Problem Details
Product Cail Type:]H Prob? ype] HDO1 Problem:
Type
roblem I RNM states that the gateway crashes at least 3 or 4 times a week now, but in the beginning it was at least 2 times a day -
t:] An Engineer has been out to swap the base unit in the past and advised that they should have a Pentium 3 not a Pentium
2 processor 2
Call Closure Cetails
Slosed:] 30/09/00 08:54 i CauseIcra I Rep: I Resotution: I RSO8
> Text:ICall Close by Shaun Jowett: Duplicate Call E-0003280186 open for an engineer visit. Closing this call.
Cail Asset Detaiis
Asset (0:] 1534051 Description: Serial No:]792852T
Product: I PATICLX365/400B Description: Natwork ID:

Call Activity Log
IOPEN Fri 10 March 2000 13:12 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:20

New call taken by Joanne Fitzpatrick: RNM states that the gateway crashes at least 3 or 4 times a week now, but in
‘the beginning it was at least 2 times a day - An Engineer has been out to swap the base unit in the past and
advised that they should have a Pentium 3 not a Pentium 2 processor

Information Fri 10 March 2000 13:28 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:28
<<<- PO has spoken to BT about this (advised by someone to do so) BT have advised that the ISDN is ok but
maybe is getting overloaded.

Information Fri 10 March 2000 13:29 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:29
<<< RNM states that the office is having an extra counter installed 07.04.00 and the office will be closed at that
time - could we look at the gateway at the same time to try to resolve the problem -

Information _—_—Fri 10 March 2000 13:29 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:29
<<<she also states that all the counters are very very slow. On Wednesday 08.03.00 office balance is much slower

than any other office she has supported - not just a bit, a lot slower - eg. office was waiting approx 20 mins tor
adjust stock to load

REASSIGN —_—Fri 10 March 2000 13:31 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:31
( Call # E-0003100662 was Reassigned from Joanne Fitzpatrick, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 passing for
& inestigation? progression ?
al IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 15 March 2000 18:08 by UK052512/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:08
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 15 March 2000 18:08 by UK052512/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:08
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Information Wed 15 March 2000 18:11 by UK052512/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:11

Have spoken to PM. states that the system still is slow. He is doing his balancing at the moment and it is slow. Just
done stock adjusting and taken 10 minutes - he thinks this is a long time. Also Giro deposits/cutoff slow. Have
explained that the Giro has a number of issues and may be slow. He opens Mon-Fri 9 til 5.30 - does not close for

lunch,

Information Wed 15 March 2000 18:12 by UK052512/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:12
Reassigning call for check on the gateway system. PM still insisting that the Gateway is slow

Information Wed 15 March 2000 18:13 by UK052512/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:13
Open 9 til 5.30pm Mon to Fri

REASSIGN — Wed 15 March 2000 18:13 by UK052512/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:14
Call # €-0003100662 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1

UPDATE Fri 17 March 2000 14:43 by PINICL / Saved: Fri 17 March 2000 14:43

By Steve Squires at 17-mar-2000 14:43:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation The gateway Event log
shows that it has crashed once in the last seven days and twice in the preceeding seven days. There is nothing in
the message store to indicate a common cause

information Mon 20 March 2000 10:53 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:53
Call E-0003200387 (closed), shows another NT crash at the office. pm states it happens when all the counters are

652

httn://nwavweb0 1/PatEna WebNR2/CallNetails.aso?Call=F-0003 100662 21/06/00

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003 100662 Page 2 of 2

REASSIGN Mon 27 March 2000 10:21 by uk0801 10/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 27 March 2000 10:23
Call # E-0003100662 was Reassigned from Group EDSC1 to Group HSH1 base unit on gateway has been
replaced but it has crashed 3 more times in the last week

IREASSIGN Mon 27 March 2000 11:39 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 27 March 2000 11:40
Call # €-0003100662 was Reassigned from Group HSH1 to Group EDSC1 Reassigning back to EDSC as
reassigned to HSH1 in error.

Repeat Call Mon 27 March 2000 11:39 by uk080108 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 27 March 2000 11:39
Gateway creashed tried rebbot - got message ‘service control manager at least one service or driver failed during
system start up. Use event viewer to examine event log for details’ System busy. - got Pm to ok message - got
‘normal ripost screen.

UPDATE ‘Thu 30 March 2000 08:28 by PINICL / Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:28
By Pat Carroll at 30-mar-2000 08:27:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation 44 CMD processes each killed
‘on counters 2-4

JOTLCLOSE —- Thu 30 March 2000 08:28 by PINICL / Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:28
NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Pat Carrol at 30-mar-2000 08:30:00 Category 92 - Suspected hardware fault please arrange for swap of

jateway,
REASSIGN Thu 30 March 2000 08:28 by PINICL / Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:28
> OTI monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to uk066701 (HSH1)

Contacted Fri 31 March 2000 08:36 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:36
contacted Po to try to obtain access times for PO but no answer

MODIFY Fri 31 March 2000 08:36 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:38
Call information modified by Joanne Fitzpatrick Call Type: from 'S' to 'H' Product ID: from ‘WINNT to
"PATICLX365/400B' Serial #: to '792852T' Tag: to 1534051’ Problem Type: from "SD02' to 'HD01'

IREASSIGN —_—~Fri 31 March 2000 08:38 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:38
Gall # E-0003100662 was Reassigned from Joanne Fitzpatrick, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 voiced sme that this
call is going back to their stack - sme will look at the call

IREASSIGN —-Thu 30 March 2000 08:47 by uk059129 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:47
Call # E-0003100662 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Shaun Jowett, Group SMC1

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 30 March 2000 08:48 by uk059129 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:49
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 30 March 2000 08:50 by uk059129 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:52
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Information Thu 30 March 2000 08:53 by uk059129 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:53
I have spoken to UKSS regarding this call and call E-0003280186 is open with them for an engineer visit to swap
the base unit. For this reason I am now closing this call

IcLose Thu 30 March 2000 08:54 by uk059129 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:54
Call Close by Shaun Jowett: Duplicate Call E-0003280186 open for an engineer visit. Closing this call.

Mon 20 March 2000 10:54 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 11

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CalIDetails.asp?Cal

This call has remarks

bRS

E

0003 160662 21/06/00

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003310117 . Page I of J

Severity:]3 8 Fri 31 March 2000 08:57 1039
Priority:[0 SRT ear: uk066934/ HSH1
Caller Details
Caller-I Mr Harrison Phone} GRO I :] 153405
Title:I PostMaster Logins ~ Depa
Cater ID: ‘Loc
Call Problem Details
Product Type:IPTO1 I Call Type:[S I ProbType:]S001 I

Problem Text:I gate way turned on and has blue screen with STOPXO000000XA.
Call Closure Details
Closedt:]31/09/00 08:57 I Cause:]o22 I Repair]Roa I Resciation:] RS08

Text:I Call Close by Simon Davies: gate way tumed on and has blue screen with STOPX0000000XA., advised pm to reboot
counter. pmhtc

Fe Gall Asset Details
> Asset iD: Descripti Serial No:
Produci:IEPOSS Description: [EPOSS Network 1D:
Call Activity Log
JOPEN Fri 31 March 2000 08:53 by uk066934/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:55
New call taken by Simon Davies: gate way tured on and has blue screen with STOPXO000000XA.
IAdvice Fri 31 March 2000 08:57 by uk066934 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:57
gate way turned on and has blue screen with STOPX0000000XA., advised pm to reboot counter.
CLOSE Fri 31 March 2000 08:57 by uk066934/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:57

Call Close by Simon Davies: gate way turned on and has blue screen with STOPX0000000XA., advised pm to reboot
Counter. pmhtc

6&4

http://pwavweb01/PatEna WebNR2/Call Details asn?Cal

R-NNNAAALAT Diener
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0003311246 Page I of I
EIENEEI pathway NR? Archives.oa on pwayweb0t____—~PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS _patenqweb 21/08/00 ACL

Giosed:I Sat 01 April 2000 09:20 1039
‘CSA/Team:I uk0613547/ SMCt
Caller Details
Caller:] Elaine Tagg Phoni 153405
Title: [RNM Log Depart
Caller 1D: Location:
Call Problem Details
Product] PT17 Cail Type]S ProbType:] SD02

Type;

ProblemI The system keeps crashing and IS DOING 3 or 4 times a day and is getting worse. They have had several base units
Text:I installed but the problem persists

Calf Closure Details
Closed: [01/04/00 09:20 il Cause]c22 I Repair[Ra2 I
Text:I Call Close by Stephen Corney: Duplicate call.
Call Asset Detai's

2 Asset ID: Description:
Product:I CENFUJERGOPRO Description: [Fujitsu ErgoPro
Cali Activity Log
JOPEN —_—Fri 34 March 2000 17:30 by uk080111/ HSHt Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 17:35

New call taken by Bev Brown: The system keeps crashing and IS DOING 3 or 4 times a day and is getting worse. They
have had several base units installed but the problem persists,
Advice Fri 31 March 2000 17:39 by uk080111 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 17:39
Reassigning to SMC for further investigation. The system crashed 3 or 4 times a day. New base units have been installedI
but the problem persists
JREASSIGN Fri 31 March 2000 17:40 by uk080111 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 17:41
Call # E-000331 1246 was Reassigned from Bev Brown, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reassigning to SMC for further
investigation. The system crashed 3 or 4 times a day. New base units have been installed but the problem persists

IREASSIGN Sat 01 April 2000 09:14 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 09:14
Call # E-0003311246 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Stephen Corney, Group SMC1

information Sat 01 April 2000 09:18 by UKO61354 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 09:18
Call being dealt with on call E-0003280186, closing as duplicate.

CLOSE —Sat 01 April 2000 09:20 by uk061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 09:20

Call Close by Stephen Corney: Duplicate call.

6sS

http://pwayweb0} /PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Ca I=E-90033 11246 21/06/00
Call Details E-0004060966

POL00118221
POL00118221

bage I of I

atenqweb 21/06/00

aL

Seventy;

41039

Priority:[0

: ] uKO79746 / HSH1

Catier:IMr M A Jackson

153405

Title: I PostMaster Login:

Caifer ID:

Cail Problem Detaiis

Product Type: IPTO1 I Call Types I ProbType:[ S02

J

Problem Text:I Roger Harrison - this morning 06/03/00 scre

Call Closure Cetails

Closed: ]06/04/00 13:01 I Cause:[c22 I Repaic[RO4 I

Resokution: [RSOB

Text: Call Close by Ashley Molyneaux:-Pm htcc

Call Asset Detaiis

E Asset iD: Description: Senal No:
2 Product: EPOSS Description: [EPOSS Network 19;
rf Call Activity Lag I
OPEN Thu 06 Apri 2000 12:53 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:56

New call taken by Ashley Molyneaux: Roger Harrison - this morning 06/03/00 scre
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Screen freeze this morning now gone. Pm advises me that it me has virtual memory.
clear.

Call Close by Ashley Molyneaux: Pm hice

IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 12:56 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:57
JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 12:57 by uk079746 / HSH1 . Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:58
IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 12:58 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:58

IAdvice Thu 06 April 2000 12:59 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:59

ICLOSE ‘Thu G6 April 2000 13:01 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:01

Advised pm hard reboot to

b&b

http://pwayweb01 /PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0004060966

21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004060258

Page I of Z

Closed: I Thu 06 April 2000 13:37

1039
SRT aam:} uk066237 / HSH1

Caller Detaits

Calter:Iroger harrison Phone! _I Site:] 153405,
itie: I PostMaster Login: Department:
Catier 10; Location:

Call Problem Detaiis
Product Type:IPT04 I Call Type[H_I ProbT ype: HD08 ]
Problem Text:I pm reports that BOP OK laser printer not working
Call Closure Details
Ciosed:]06/04/00 13:37 [__- cause:[completed [__Repair[e2t I
Text:I Call Close by Joseph Fitzgerald: pmhtc

n:]RS10

Call Asset Detai's
> Ascot 1D:] 1534051 Description: ] OKI Printer Seriai No-]02WS3033101K
Product: [PATOKI8P-PTR Description:I OKI Printer Network iD}
Call Activity Log
OPEN ‘Thu 06 April 2000 09:15 by uk080014 / HSHt Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:19
New call taken by Mahesh Patel: pm reports that BOP OKI laser printer not working
JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 09:22 by uk080014 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:23
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IAdvice Thu 06 April 2000 09:24 by uk080014 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:24

advise pm to swich off/ on cancel messages on screen this wass unsuccessful advised pm to print test page not
printing nothing red light makes a whirring noise unhealthy noise

Access Times Thu 06 April 2000 09:28 by uk080014 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 Apri! 2000 09:28
mon - fri 09.00 - 17.30 sat 09.00 - 12.30

IREASSIGN —_—Thu 06 April 2000 09:29 by uk080014/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:29
Cail # £-0004060258 was Reassigned from Mahesh Patel, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 reassigning for
progression

Recommend Thu 06 April 2000 09:58 by UKO61148/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:58
Recommend OKI printer is replaced, assigning to UKSS for on site engineer.

IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 09:59 by UKO61148/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:59
Call # €-0004060258 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group UKSS for on site engineer.

MODIFY Thu 06 April 2000 09:55 by UK061148/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:59

Cail information modified by Martin Cherry Action Group: from ‘SMC1' to 'UKSS' CSR ID: Serial #: to
“02WS3033101K' Tag: to 1534051"

REASSIGN ‘Thu 06 April 2000 11:19 by UK035161 / UKSS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 11:19
Call # E-0004060258 was Reassigned from Group UKSS to Shirley Hunton, Group UKSS

REASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 11:20 by UK035161 / UKSS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 11:20
Call # £-0004060258 was Reassigned from Shirley Hunton, Group UKSS to Group UKSS1

IREASSIGN ——-Thu 06 April 2000 11:41 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 11:39
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 08-04-2000 14:30:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

REASSIGN —Thu 06 April 2000 12:25 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:23
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 06-04-2000 14:26:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

UPDATE Thu 06 April 2000 12:55 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:54
Engineer 064008 despatched to site at 06-04-2000 12:48:00 ** [No Remark entered]

UPDATE Thu 06 April 2000 13:05 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:03
Engineer 064008 arrived on site at 06-04-2000 12:59:00 ** [Engineer 064008 Logged On}

UPDATE Thu 06 April 2000 13:25 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:23
swaped printer due to not printing,

UPDATE Thu 06 Apri! 2000 13:25 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:23
Work completed

ENG VISIT Thu 06 April 2000 12:59 by 064008 / ENGINEERS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:17
swaped printer due to not printing. Call closure code of completed and repair code 821

IREASSIGN ——Thu 06 April 2000 13:23 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:23

OTI monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to UK035161 (UKSS)

6&7

ttn: //nwrarnehO) DathnaahNiP /AaliDataile senIOnNan GANANZOS =O ae

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004060258 : Page 2 of 2

Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:29

kU6623 pat i
Call iiformation ‘modiied by Joseph Fitzgerald Severity: trom’2'to'S) ieee
Thu 06 April 2000 13:37 by uk066237 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:37
Call # €-0004060258 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Joseph Fitzgerald, Group HSH1 for closure
close ‘Thu 06 April 2000 13:37 by uk066237 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:37
Call Close by Joseph Fitzgerald: pmhtc :

This call has remarks

bse

ttn /Inwarnvehll /PathnaWehNid 2/CallNataile aen2Oal-B ANAANENISO Ancien
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004061124

Page 1 of 2

PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS-

anee:I Thu O6 April 2000°14:02—

Cicsed:I Sat 08 April 2000 13:58 Customer: [1039
Priogity:}0 CSRTeam:Iuk079832 / HSH1
Caller Detaiis
Caller: I Mike crowshaw SSC Phone; 153405
Title: 01344 472290 Login’ Cepart
Calter 1D: Location:

Call Problem Details
Product Type: PT03 I Cal Type]x Probtype:I C24 I
Problem Text [please swap Gateway tomorrow in addition to adding an extra counter.

Call Closure Details

‘Closed:] 08/04/00 13:58 _[_. Causesftaiure Repac]e21 I Resolution: [RSO3
Text:I Call Close by Anthony Marsh: as per log gateway replaced call closed

Cail Asset Detaiis

‘3 ‘Asset 1D:] 1534051 Description: Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites ‘Senal No:[792852T
Product: patichx365/400c Description: Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites 11D
= Cal Activity Log

JOPEN —-Thu 06 April 2000 14:00 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 14:02

New calll taken by Shelley Hatch: please swap Gateway tomorrow in addition to adding an extra counter.
MODIFY — Thu 06 April 2000 14:04 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 14:04

Call information modified by Shelley Hatch Counter Aff.: to ‘1’
IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 14:04 by uk079674 / HSH1 ~ _ Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 14:04

Call # £-0004061124 was Reassigned from Shelley Hatch, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 for attention of UKSS
IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 16:03 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:04

Call # €-0004061124 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group UKSS for action
IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 16:28 by G.Simpson / UKSS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:29

Call # €-0004061124 was Reassigned from Group UKSS to Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS Reassigned for progression
IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 16:34 by G.Simpson / UKSS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:34

Call # E-0004061 124 was Reassigned from Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS to Group UKSS1 Reassigned for engineers
visit
Information Thu 06 April 2000 16:34 by G.Simpson / UKSS
This call is for the attention of Imraan Rawat
MODIFY — Thu 06 April 2000 16:33 by G.Simpson / UKSS. Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:35

Call information modified by Glynis Simpson Action Group: from "UKSS' to ‘UKSS1' CSR ID: from 'G.Simpson' Prod.
Descr.: from " Product Type: from " to ‘PTO3"

IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 16:50 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:47
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 11:30:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

REASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 09:50 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 09:48
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 07-04-2000 13:04:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

REASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 14:31 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 Apsi! 2000 14:30

The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 15:06:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 14:40 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 14:37

The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 15:26:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

UPDATE — Sat 08 April 2000 09:00 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 08:59
Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 08-04-2000 08:57:00 ** [No Remark entered]

UPDATE — Sat 08 April 2000 09:00 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 08:59
* (Engineer 051286 Logged On,]

ENG VISIT Sat 08 April 2000 15:00 by 051286 / ENGINEERS

** [No Remark entered] Call closure code of failure and repair code 821

IREASSIGN Sat 08 April 2000 09:27 by Dispatch 1/

OTI monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to G.Simpson (UKSS)

REASSIGN Sat 08 April 2000 09:31 by GBS06518/ UKSS2 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 09:32

Call # £-0004061 124 was Reassigned from Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS to Shelley Hatch, Group HSH! passing back
to close - calltype amended to OBC to add additional counter

IMODIFY — Sat 08 April 2000 09:31 by GB506518 / UKSS2 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 09:34

Call information modified by Bill Burrows Action Group: trom ‘KSS' to ‘HSH1" Call Type: from 'H' to "X' CSR 1D: trom
*G.Simpson’ to 'uk079674' Product ID: trom ‘PATICLX365/4008' to ‘paticlx365:400c' ... etc.

6 -

hittn://nwavweb01/PatFnaWebNR?/CallNetails asn?Cail=F -AN0AN4 i194 eanata

Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:34

Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 16:30

Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 09:27

an
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004061124 Pays 2 of 2

IREASSIGN Sat 08 April 2000 13:58 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 13:58

re

This call has remarks

~ 690

http://pwayweb01 /PatEngWebNR2/CaliDetails.asp?Call=£-0004 061124 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0004080446 Page I of I
9 ea pathway NA2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —_patenqweb 21/06/00 OE

Closed: I Sat 08 April 2000 13:02 Customer: 1039

CSAVTeam:]uk079832 / HSH1

Caller Details
Julie Wolstenhoine Phone:
ostMaster Login:

Caller 1D:
Cail Problem Details

Product Type:IPTO1 [ Call Type[A_T ProbType:[AD03 [
Problem Text: PM reports that she is

3] 153405

Call Closure Details
Closed: 08/04/00 13:02 [ Cause[ce2 I I
Text:I Call Close by Anthony Marsh: Awaiting reboot...she is ok now the system is back up.
Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset ID: Deseription:
F) Product: [ADMIN Deseription: [ADMIN
Call Activity Log
OPEN Sat 08 April 2000 12:44 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:46
New call taken by Anthony Marsh: PM reports that she is
IOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 08 April 2000 12:47 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:47

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 08 April 2000 12:47 by uk079832/ HSH1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IAdvice Sat 08 April 2000 12:49 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:49

PM reports that on NODE id 5 which was only installed yesterday she gets message that node 2,3 and 4 and then

1,23, 4 are disconnected from the network she ok this message and now she has a message that this counter isn't
connected to the network...

IAdvice Sat 08 April 2000 12:50 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:50

Advising to ok the message, and the sytem is now as normal...passing to SMC for investigation since all the other
counters have problems too, and this is ongoing problem at this site

- , Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:49

IOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 08 April 2000 12:51 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:52
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
MODIFY Sat 08 April 2000 12:52 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:53,

Call information modified by Anthony Marsh Cail Type: from ‘A’ to 'H' Product ID: from 'EPOSS' to ‘Unknown
Product’ Severity: from '2' to '3' Prod. Descr.: from 'EPOSS' to ‘Unknown Product’ Problem Type: from ‘ADO3' to

HOOT" ete.

Advice Sat 08 April 2000 12:53 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:53
There are no entry signs on everything so advising to log out and reboot the counter position...

IOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 08 April 2000 12:58 by ukO79832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:54
Open Calls Troubieshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Advice Sat 08 April 2000 12:55 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:55
Awaiting reboot...she is ok now the system is back up.

MODIFY Sat 08 April 2000 13:01 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 13:02

Call information modified by Anthony Marsh Call Type: from 'H’ to ‘A’ Product ID: from ‘Unknown Product’ to

*ADMIN' Severity: from ‘3’ to '2' Prod. Descr.: from "Unknown Product’ to ‘ADMIN’ Problem Type: from ‘HD01' to
"ADO '...etc.

CLOSE Sat 08 April 2000 13:02 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 13:02
Call Close by Anthony Marsh: Awaiting reboot...she is ok now the system is back up.

64

http://pwayweb0 1 /PatEnqWebNR2/CaliDetails.asp?Call=E-0004080446 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0003280186 Page 1 of 4
EERE pathway NR2 Archivet.da on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patengweb 21/06/00 HCL

— Status: = iperied: I Tue : Speer ssey skews [1534
Severity:[4 A Closed:IMon 10 Aprit 2000 14:31 ner. I1039
Priority:[99 CSA/Team:Iuk059129/ SMC1
Caller Details
Calter:[ Roger Harrison Phone} GRO! Site:]153405,
Title: I PostMaster Login:I Deparment:
Catler ID: Location:
Call Problem Details,
Product] PTOS Call Type:]S ProbType:]SD01 Problem:
‘Type:]

Problem I PM states that system has already crashed this moring. System was rebooted and has crashed again. This has occured
Text:] within 10mins of each other. ***STOP 0x0000000A.

Call Closure Details
Closed] 10/04/00 14:31 I Cause[c22 I Repair]Roo I Resolution: I RS0B
Text:I Call Close by Shaun Jowett: Ihave spoken to the PM and everything now seems to be functioning correctly.
Call Asset Details
or] Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites
=] Mutti Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites
Call Activity Log
lOPEN Tue 28 March 2000 09:04 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:08

New call taken by Simon Gavin: PM states that system has already crashed this moring. System was rebooted and
has crashed again. This has occured within 10mins of each other. ***STOP 0x0000000A.

Nir

Asset !0:] 1534051
Product: I PATICLX365/400B

}792852T

IOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 28 March 2000 09:08 by uk080012/ HSH1 . Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:08
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Advice Tue 28 March 2000 09:11 by uk080012 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:11
advised PM to reboot counter as an 0x0..A stop code.

IREASSIGN Tue 28 March 2000 09:11 by uk080012 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:12

Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Simon Gavin, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re-assigning for informationI
and investigation

Information Tue 28 March 2000 09:12 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:12
conuter affected is the gateway

Information Tue 28 March 2000 13:04 by uk079788 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 13:04
Pm called again to say she rebooted the counter and it has crashed again. She is still waiting for a call back from
second line.

information Tue 28 March 2000 17:24 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 17:24

pm reporting that system gateway counter has crashed. blue debug screen. tried to voice throught to sme for
advise as to whether to re boot.

Information Tue 28 March 2000 17:26 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 17:26
spoke to sme advised that probably memeory problem.

Information Tue 28 March 2000 17:27 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 17:27
pm advised that he has rebooted four times today. advised pm that sme will contact him.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 29 March 2000 07:10 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 07:10
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

REASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:04 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 23 March 2000 09:04
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Kyrstin Stuart, Group SMC1

JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 29 March 2000 09:10 by UK061825/SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:11
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IContacted Wed 29 March 2000 09:13 by UK061825 /SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:13

Called PM per kel ref. rcoleman2040m.htm and advised that we need to change the base unit as reboots haven't
cured the problem.

Recommend Wed 29 March 2000 09:14 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 28 March 2000 09:14
Engineer required to swop out the base unit, build 2_2. Access times today are till 2pm, tomorrow 9 - 5.30pm
IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 29 March 2000 09:15 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:15
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
REASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:16 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:16
Call # €-0003280186 was Reassigned from Kyrstin Stuart, Group SMC1 to Group UKSS passing for engineer visit
MODIFY Wed 29 March 2000 09:09 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:16

Calll information modified by Kyrstin Stuart Action Group: from 'SMC1" to 'UKSS' CSR ID: from 'uk061825' Product
1D: from ‘EPOSS' to 'PATICLX365/400B' Prod. Descr.: from ‘EPOSS' Counter Aff.: to '1" ...etc.

692.

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003280186 21/06/00

POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0003280186 Page 2 of +
IREASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:13 by G.Simpson / UKSS Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:14
p O1S3405T

REASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:18 by G.Simpson / UKSS Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 0918
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS to Group UKSSt Reassigned for
engineers visit

IREASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:40 by Dispatch 1 / . Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:38
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 29-03-2000 10:25:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

UPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 14:10 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 14:08
Engineer 064008 despatched to site at 29-03-2000 14:00:00 ** [No Remark entered]

UPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 15:10 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 15:09
Engineer 064008 arrived on site at 29-03-2000 15:01:00 ** (Engineer 064008 Logged On}

UPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 16:10 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 16:07
Base unit failed on fit

UPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 16:10 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 16:07
base unit 4008 failed on fit. serial number of bas e unit given to Becky

UPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 17:30 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 17:28
Engineer 064008 allocated

SUSPEND Wed 29 March 2000 18:03 by UK052525 / UKSS2 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 18:03

( Call suspended by Jayne Drew SUSPENDING PENDING RETURN VISIT BY ENG TOMORROW
} RELEASE Thu 30 March 2000 07:56 by UK052525 / UKSS2 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 07:56

Call released by Jayne Drew: releasing for eng visit

ENG VISIT Thu 30 March 2000 09:00 by 064008 / ENGINEERS Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 12:00

ENG REPLACED BASE UNIT STILL NO CHANGE IN THE SPEED OF THE SYSTEM REINSTALLED OLD BASE
UNIT ENG ADVISED PM TO RELOG IF PROBLEM GETS ANY SLOWER. Call closure code of unnecessar and

repair code 819
IREASSIGN —Thu 30 March 2000 13:14 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 13:14
OT! monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to G.Simpson (UKSS)
IREASSIGN Thu 30 March 2000 13:20 by G.Simpson / UKSS ~ Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 13:21

Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS to Group SMC1 Engineer visit complete,
call returned for action

Repeat Call ‘Thu 30 March 2000 16:07 by uk080108 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 16:07

Base unit was installed at 10.30 and crashed immmeadiatly. Engineer rebooted but has just crashed again. - Pm is
sure that problem could not with base unit as this has been changed many times and problem is still occuring

Advice Fri 31 March 2000 13:47 by uk079782/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 13:47
caller wants this escalated.
Advice Fri 31 March 2000 16:49 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:49
Call e-0003311246 was raised on the back of this and is related to the same problem - voiced SMC who advised to
merge the calls.
JOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 31 March 2000 16:51 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:52
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
c 5 Information Fri 31 March 2000 16:52 by uk080011/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:52

New call taken by Bev Brown: The system keeps crashing and IS DOING 3 or 4 times a day and is getting worse
They have had several base units installed but the problem persists

JOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 31 March 2000 16:52 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:52
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IAdvice Fri 31 March 2000 16:52 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:52

Reassigning to SMC for further investigation. The system crashed 3 or 4 times a day. New base units have been
installed but the problem persists

JOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 31 March 2000 16:53 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:53
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IAdvice Fri 31 March 2000 16:53 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:53
Advised PM to reboot the counter - PM happy to carry this out as long as this is investigated.

JOPEN_GALL_TS Fri 31 March 2000 16:54 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:54
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Repeat Call Sat 01 Apri! 2000 08:49 by uk080054/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 08:49

PM reports that the gateway has crashed yet again(blue stop screen 0x0000000A.) Pm not happy as no amount of
reboots or swapping of base units seems to work. There is no pattern to the system crashing. PM states they have
had about 5 base units only went live 7/2/2000. System is crashing at least once a day up to 4 times a day

IOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 01 April 2000 08:51 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 08:52
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Information Sat 01 Apri! 2000 08:54 by uk080054/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 08:54

PM states that they had a call yesterday after the system crashed. E-0003311246. VOiced SMC who said they will

have a look into it

htto://pwayweb0 1/PatEnaWebNR2/CalIDetails.asp?Ca!

5-0093280186 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0003280186 : Page 3 of 4

IREASSIGN Sat 01 April 2000 08:58 by uk080054/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 08:58

REASSIGN Sat 01 April 2000 10:45 by UK061354 / SMC1 i
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Stephen Comey, Group SMC1
Information Sat 01 April 2000 12:38 by UK061354 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 12:38

Gateway counter has been swapped out before and stillthere is continual problems with the gateway counter blue
screens, can this site be investigated to see if there ig any reasons for this.

Information ‘Sat 01 April 2000 14:42 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 14:42
Event logs down loaded ref:32019

Information ‘Sat 01 April 2000 14:43 by UKO61354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 14:43
For investigation -

ReOpen OT! —_ Sat 01 April 2000 14:43 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 14:43
For investigation

IREASSIGN —_—_Sat 01 April 2000 14:43 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 14:43
Calll # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Stephen Corney, Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1

UPDATE Mon 03 April 2000 09:42 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 03 April 2000 09:42

By Paul Steed at 03-apr-2000 09:40:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation PRESCAN: Routing to Mike in
the absence of Pat

; IOTLCLOSE —Tue 04 April 2000 10:22 by PINICL/ Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:22
NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
3 By Mike Croshaw at 04-apr-2000 10:23:00 Category 92 - Suspected hardware fault SSC cannot ping gateway -

please pass to CFM ASAP to check comms to this site.

IREASSIGN —Tue 04 April 2000 10:22 by PINICL/ Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:22
OTI monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to UK061354 (SMC1)

Information Tue 04 April 2000 10:57 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:57
Raising call to an ‘A’ priority - on aithorisation of Alison Peacock.

Information Tue 04 April 2000 10:58 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:58
Passing call to CFM3 - please check comms 7

IREASSIGN Tue 04 April 2000 10:58 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:58
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned trom Stephen Corney, Group SMC1 to Group CFM3

MODIFY Tue 04 April 2000 10:58 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:59
Call information modified by Anthony Obi CSR ID: Priority: from ‘0' to '99' Severity: from '3' to's"

Information Tue 04 April 2000 11:15 by uk058547 / CFM3. Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 11:15

We are establishing Normal call clearing to this counter but are not passing packets, this suggests problems with
counter, KEL points towards the eicon driver. There is not a fault on this ISDN line. PH

IREASSIGN Tue 04 April 2000 11:17 by uk058547 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 11:17
Cail # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group SMC1
Information Tue 04 April 2000 23:39 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 23:39

Passing back to EDSG per update from CFM, counter has already been swopped out previously and still
experiencing the same problem.

IReOpen OT! —Tue 04 April 2000 23:40 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 23:40

Passing back to EDSC per update from CFM, counter has already been swopped out previously and still
experiencing the same problem

REASSIGN —Tue 04 April 2000 23:41 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 23:41

Call # £-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1 Passing for investigation
Information Wed 05 April 2000 04:24 by UK061826 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 04:24

Noted on shift handover for am shift to voice prompt.
Repeat Call Wed 05 April 2000 09:04 by uk079785/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 09:04

pm reporting yet another crash, advised that 3rd line software support are investigating and he will be updated asapI
IAdvice Wed 05 April 2000 14:52 by uk079746/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 14:52

Pm called in to advise us that again it has windows crash, spoke to Mike Croshaw he advised reboot to clear.
UPDATE Wed 05 April 2000 16:47 by PINICL / Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 16:47

By Mike Croshaw at 05-apr-2000 16:49:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation This looks like a problem with
the Eicon driver ( together with some very intermittent comms ). Continuing to gather further evidence.

UPDATE Wed 05 April 2000 17:22 by PINICL / Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:22
By Mike Croshaw at 05-apr-2000 17:23:00 Category 40 - Incident Under investigation POStatus messages indicate
a history of comms failures ( at least 3 major comms failures within the last month )

Repeat Call Thu 06 April 2000 11:35 by uk079674/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 11:35
pm states that his gateway counter has crashed again.... i advised him that as it was a re-occuring problem i would
Send it to smc for investigation-he then advised me that the call was with EDSC and was under investigation and
gave the ref number of this call-the pm will reboot the counter, and continue.

UPDATE Thu 06 April 2000 11:38 by PINICL / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 11:38

By Barbara Longley at 06-apr-2000 11:38:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation Shelley from HSH rang for
an urgent update on this call saying it was an’A’ priority. It is a ‘8’ and has always been a‘B"

bay

htt: mrarnteh 1 /(PathnaWehNr2/CallMetaile an?

-ANNAIROATRA DINKINO
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details B-0003280186 Page 4 of 4

UPDATE

. ‘Open 15)

IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 18:17 by UK061809/ SMC1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Information ‘Thu 06 April 2000 18:24 by ukO80066 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 18:24

Pm called to say that gateway crashed again but this time the stop error is 1E instead of A. On Kel, this states that
they the counter may need an increase of RAM SMC advised to reboot the counter and to stop use of it if possible.

Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 18:23

Information Fri 07 April 2000 08:56 by uk066871 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 08:56
System has crashed again. STOP 0x0000000a(0x00004000,0x000000#,0x00000001,0x808511d6) PM to reboot
again

IAdvice ‘Sat 08 April 2000 12:54 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:54

PM calling to advise that the gateway counter has crashed. The system has gone to the blue setup screen, stop
message 0x0000000a, advising hard reboot.

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:41 by uk079782/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:41
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group EDSC1 to Group CFM$ re assigned for action
IOTLCLOSE —-Mon 10 April 2000 11:38 by PINICL/ Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:38

NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Mike Croshaw at 10-apr-2000 11:34:00 Category 100 - Route call to CFM SSC unable to ping this site. Please
pass to CFM3 again to check comms - counter has been swapped 3 times and crashes are still occurring, this

f ‘suggests consistent ISDN failure. Please perform an end to end check of the line. HARDWARE FAULT

> IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:38 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:38
OTI monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to uk080012 (HSH1)

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:44 by uk059368 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:44

Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned trom Simon Gavin, Group HSH1 to David John Flood, Group HSH1
Reassigning for action.
IREASSIGN —_-Mon 10 April 2000 11:45 by uk059368 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:45

Call # £-0003280186 was Reassigned from David John Flood, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reassigning for further
progression. Please route to CFM as requested.

information Mon 10 April 2000 11:45 by uk059368 / HSH1 7. Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:45
Printed off and handed call to SMC.

information Mon 10 April 2000 11:39 by uk061353// SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:39
passing this call to CFM3 as per SSC update.

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:40 by uk061353/ SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:40
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group CFM3

IREASSIGN: Mon 10 April 2000 11:46 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:46
Call # €-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM3 WIGAN

Information Mon 10 April 2000 11:52 by contin3 / CFM3. Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:52

Re-tested comms to site, we are seeing normal call clearing on the ISON line and counter is also accepting small
and large packets, comms to site working okay

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 12:04 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 12:04
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 WIGAN to Group SMC1

REASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 14:29 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 14:29
Call # €-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Shaun Jowett, Group SMC1

ICLOSE Mon 10 April 2000 14:31 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 14:31

Call Close by Shaun Jowett: I have spoken to the PM and everything now seems to be functioning correctly

This call has remarks

67S

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDeiails.asp?Cali=

rvs)

E-00032801 86 21/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0004100575 Page I of I
HONE NR2 Archive4.0a on 01 ___-PHaPatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —_patenqweb. 21/06/00 4h

{Mon 10 April 2000 11:41

Status: ‘frssa0s—--—
3 Severity:]3 B Mon 10 April 2000 15:39 Custorner:]1039
Priority:]0 CSAVTeam:Iuk061825 / SMC1
Calles:} Mr M A Jackson Site:]153405
Title: [Mrs Wolstem Homes - PM Deparment:
Caller ': Location:
Gall Proplem Details
Product! Call Type:]N ProbFype:INDO2 Problem:
Type")
Problem IOn Node 5 - 2,3 & 4 are disconnected - this was also happening on Saturday and they had a message on Saturday
Text:

saying disconnected from the network - the base units are all switched on seem to functioning fine. Please investigate...

Calt Ciesure Details

Closed] 10/04/00 15:39 I Cause:]c31_—_I Rep. I Resolution [RS08
Text:ICall Close by Kyrstin Stuart: to reboot all counters.
} Call Asset Detaiis
Asset iD: Description:
Product:I Post Office ISDN Line Description:
Call Activity
OPEN Mon 10 April 2000 11:36 by uk063495 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:41

New call taken by Stefanie Collins: On Node 5 - 2,3 & 4 are disconnected - this was also happening on Saturday
and they had a message on Saturday saying disconnected from the network - the base units are all switched on
‘seem to functioning fine. Please investigate...

JOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 10 April 2000 11:41 by uk063495 / HSH1 ~ Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:41
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

JOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 10 April 2000 11:41 by uk063495 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:41
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Advice Mon 10 April 2000 11:45 by uk063495 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:45

Advised the PM to go through all the APS and make sure that they are showing on the report - they have done
quite a few this morning so that is going to take some time - she states that the OBCS seem to going through ok
without any error messages - all the base units are logged in - Node 5 was only installed last week and is in the
back office.

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:47 by uk063495 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:47

Call # £-0004100575 was Reassigned from Stefanie Collins, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Re-assigning for
vas investigation
Advice Mon 10 April 2000 13:24 by uk079964/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 13:24

PM is experiencing problems with reports. Giro dis, the report is showing saturdays giros with todays, although they
have been cut off. n/s dis, 3 of them are not showing on todays report. Some cheques trom sat, are included with
today, although they have been cut off. Every time a report is carried out, mesge comes up, the following nodes are
disconnected, 2,3 and 4. Carried out on counter 5, JWO001, CAP-3, SU-AA( Shared)

Repeat Call Mon 10 Aprit 2000 15:00 by uk080067 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 15:00
The PM has called in they are doing checks for all the transactions they have done & decided to do a translog, they
have put in the user, and they then did a trans log for this only & no dates. Spoke to Step, she advised not to reboot

at this stage, the call is being escalated to SMC and advised the PM that someone will call. They have had system
busy for over 1 hour, advised this is searching all the dates.

wy

Information ‘Mon 10 April 2000 15:03 by uk080067 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 15:03
Call escalated by S.Collins to Mick on SMC - passed to Kirsty.

IREASSIGN: Mon 10 April 2000 15:17 by UKO61825 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 15:17
Call # E-0004100575 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Kyrstin Stuart, Group SMC1

Contacted Mon 10 April 2000 15:37 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 Aprit 2000 15:37

Health checked all counters and all were fine except counter 3's od was down, restarted it and that then health
checked ok too. Called the PM and advised to reboot all counters tonight, then if still getting disconnected
messages in the morning to log a new call for us as will need an engineer.
ICLOSE Mon 10 April 2000 15:39 by uk061825 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 15:39

Call Close by Kyrstin Stuart: to reboot all counters.

696
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004 130533

Page I of I

eb 21/06/00

aL

ea

hu +3-April 2000-41
Clasedt:} Thu 13 April 2000 10:40

405
1039

Priotity:]0 : ]uk066936 / HSH1
Caller Details

Cailer:[ Julie Wotfdenholme Phone} GRO. Site:]153405

Title: I PostMaster Login’ Depart:
Calter 1D: Location:
Call Problem Detaiis

Product] Call Type:]S ProbType:]SD02 Problem

Type!

ProblemIPm reports that node 5 is getting an error message when trying to log on “cannot perform sesion transfer while
“Text:I processing report’.

Call Closure Details

Closed] 13/04/00 10:40 il Cause:[c22 I Repaic]R21 I :[RS08
¢ Text:] Call Close by Matthew Taylor: Asked pm to log on to the gateway. he could log in and he had the ap recovery screen
> navigated pm thru that. then advised pm to log off and then log in on node 5. he could log in ok.
Cail Asset D
Asset ID:
[ Product: [EPOSS
Call Activity Log
OPEN ‘Thu 13 April 2000 10:33 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:36

New call taken by Matthew Taylor: Pm reports that node 5 is getting an error message when trying to log on
“cannot perform sesion transfer while processing report". ”

IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 13 April 2000 10:37 by uk066936 / HSH1 ” Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:37
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Advice Thu 13 April 2000 10:38 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:38

Asked pm to log on to the gateway. he could log in and he had the ap recovery screen navigated pm thru that. then
advised pm to log off and then log ih on node 5. he could log in ok.

MODIFY Thu 13 April 2000 10:40 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:40
Call information modified by Matthew Taylor Severity: from ‘2' to ‘3!
CLOSE Thu 13 April 2000 10:40 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:40

Call Close by Matthew Taylor: Asked pm to log on to the gateway. he could log in and he had the ap recovery
screen navigated pm thru that. then advised pm to log off and then log in on node 5. he could log in ok.

69%)

sa Bm RRA eR ar AAR Ata neds Arian
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004052195 Page 1 of j

Status:]Closed ipened:]Wed 05 April 2000 17:53
Severity:I1 0 Closed] Thu 13 April 2000 17:21

Priority:0

Caller Details
Catior:[Mr M A Jackson) Phone: 153405
Tite, Login:
Gatler 1D: Location:
Call Problem Details
Product] PTO1 Cail Type:]x ProbType:ICC24

Type:

Problem} OBC work schedule. Engineer to site 7/4/00 at 13:00 to increase the number of counters from 4 to 5. Additional counter
Text:] equipment shipped to PREO2 FAO Imraan Rawat 5/4/00.

Call Closure Details
‘Ciosed:] 13/04/00 17:21 [_ Cause:[compteted al
Text:I Call Close by L. Betts: OBC work complete
Call Asset Details

[ Resoiution:] RSO3

Asset ID: Deser :}OBCS Seriai No:
Product:IOBCS Description:I OBCS:
Call Activity Log’
JOPEN — Wed 05 April 2000 17:49 by uk052436 / UKSS2 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:53

New call taken by L. Betts: OBC work schedule. Engineer to site 7/4/00 at 13:00 to increase the number of counters from
4 to 5. Additional counter equipment shipped to PRE02 FAO Imraan Rawat 5/4/00.

IREASSIGN Wed 08 April 2000 17:58 by uk052436 / UKSS2 ~ Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:58
Call # E-0004052195 was Reassigned from L. Betts, Group UKSS2 to Group UKSS2 Reassigned for engineer allocation,
IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 08:59 by uk052436 / UKSS2 Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 08:59

Call # E-0004052195 was Reassigned from Group UKSS2 to Group UKSS1 Reassigning for allocation to engineer
(Imraan Rawat).

IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 09:50 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 09:48
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 07-04-2000 12:30:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 14:31 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 14:30
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 15:46:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 14:40 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 14:37
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 16:02:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

UPDATE Fri 07 April 2000 15:20 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 15:19
Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 07-04-2000 15:14:00 ** [No Remark entered.}

UPDATE — Fri 07 April 2000 15:20 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 15:19
* [Engineer 051286 Logged On.

UPDATE Fri 07 April 2000 17:40 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 Apri! 2000 17:38
obe counter increase completed

UPDATE Fri 07 April 2000 17:40 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 17:38
counter config change completed

UPDATE Fri 07 April 2000 17:40 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 17:38
Work completed

ENG VISIT Fri 07 April 2000 15:14 by 051286 / ENGINEERS Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 17:29
counter config change completed Call closure code of completed and repair code 827

IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 17:38 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 17:38
OT! monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to uk052436 (UKSS2)

CLOSE Thu 13 April 2000 17:21 by uk052436 / UKSS2 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 17:21
Call Close by L. Betts: OBC work complete

This.call has remarks

65%

soar]

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-00041 10915

Page I of 2

Status:] Closed

‘Opened:[Tue 11 April 2000 13:26 2. [153405 °
Saverity:}3 B Closed:IMon 17 April 2000 12:25 1039
Priority:[0 UK061916/ SMC1
Caller Details
:]Mr M A Jackson Phone:f} GRO! Site:] 153405
PostMaster Login Departmer
Caller 1D: Location’
Call Problem De’
Product Type: Call Type:IN__ I ProbTyps:]ND03 I Proole:
Problem Text:I please allocate engineer to site to check cables and land connections to counters
Call Closure Details
Closed: [17/04/00 12:25 I Cause:]o32__I Repair]Roo I Resolution:I RSO8
Text:I Call Close by Russell King: Call can be closed.
¢ > Call Asset Detalis
Asset iB: Description: I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Seriai No:]7933797
Product:I PATICLX365/400B Descrigtion:I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Network 10;
Call Activity Log
OPEN Tue 11 April 2000 13:23 by uk080014 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 13:26
New call taken by Mahesh Patel: please allocate engineer to site to check cables and land connections to counters
Information Tue 11 April 2000 13:28 by uk080014/ HSHt Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 13:28
aston from smc requested this to be passed to UKSS1
IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 13:28 by uk080014 / HSH1 ~ Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 13:29
Call # E-0004110915 was Reassigned from Mahesh Patel, Group HSH1 to Group UKSS1 reassigning per instruction
Information Tue 11 April 2000 14:57 by uk053128 / UKSS2 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 14:57
wa04111053
IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 14:57 by uk053128 / UKSS2 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 14:58
Call # E-0004110915 was Reassigned from Group UKSS1 to Imran Rawat, Group UKSS1
IREASSIGN Weed 12 April 2000 08:30 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 08:35
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 12-04-2000 10:02:00 Engineer 064008 allocated
Information Wed 12 April 2000 11:10 by uk058728 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 11:10

This site has had an increase in counters(from 4 to 5) on the 07.04.00 and problem has occured since then. I have
spoken to engineer onsite, who has checked hub ports and cable connections to counters. In addition, counters have
also been rebooted. When performing reports on gateway this works ok, but when attempting on any other counter an

error message is displayed’ The following nodes are disconnected on counter? and 4’ when using counter 5. Health
y
F check performed and appear to ping ok on counters.
ENG VISIT Wed 12 April 2000 09:00 by 064008 / ENGINEERS Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 10:00
pls pass to SMc att Aston. engineer has confirmed this is a software fault. Call closure code of configurat and repair
code 919
IREASSIGN Wed 12 April 2000 16:42 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Wed 12 Apri! 2000 16:42
OT! monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to uk080014 (HSH1)
REASSIGN Wed 12 April 2000 21:58 by 062457 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 21:59

Call # £-0004110915 was Reassigned from Mahesh Patel, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reasigning for attention of
Aston as requested by engineer.

Information Mon 17 April 2000 04:05 by UK061916 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 04:05
Problem is that Gateway not recognising the existence of Counter 5. Will send to SSC for them to investigate registry to
see if itis correct, i.e. this was originally a 4 counter site so Gateway was configured to recognise itself and the 3 other
counters, registry should've been updated so Gateway recognises a fifth counter. SSC: if this is not the case, could the
registry be updated, please.

ReOpen OT! Mon 17 April 2000 04:08 by UKO61916 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 04:08

Problem is that Gateway not recognising the existence of Counter 5. Will send to SSC for them to investigate registry to
see if itis correct, i. this was originally a 4 counter site so Gateway was configured to recognise itself and the 3 other

counters, registry should've been updated so Gateway recognises a fifth counter. SSC: if this is not the case, could the

registry be updated, please.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 Apri! 2000 04:09 by UK061916 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 04:09
Call # E-0004110915 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1 reassigning for investigation and action
information Mon 17 April 2000 04:09 by UK061916 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 04:09

PLease check registry to see if gateway configured to recognise 5 counters not 4 as number of counters has been

increased by one

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004110915

Saved: Mon 17.

eo

— Mon 17 April 2000 11:36 by-PINICL /

IREASSIGN. Mon 17 April 2000 11:36 by PINICL/

= OT! monitor reassigned this cail from PINICL to UK061916 (SMC1)

ICLOSE —_Mon 17 April 2000 12:25 by UKO61916 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 12:25
Call Close by Russell King: Call can be closed.

This.call has remarks

~
uae

10d.
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004141583 Page I of 2

CERES pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PalNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 404

Closed:IMon 17 April 2000 10:20

1039
Priority:[99 [uk079832/ HSH1
Caller Details
Caller:] Pat Cart Phone} 7 ‘Site:] 153405
Title: SSC Logins
Caller 1D;

Call Problem Details
Product Type: Call Type[S I PeabType:[S002
Problem Text:I Repeated blue screen on Gateway. PLease replace gateway UNit.
Call Closure Details
Ciosec:] 17/04/00 10:20 I Cause: [failure I Repar[e21 I Resolution: [RSO3
‘Text:I Call Close by Anthony Marsh: Calling PM who advised that the call can be closed off.
Call Asset Detai's

( 3 Asset iD:] 1534051 Description:I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Seriai Nox] 7933797
Prod PATICLX365/400B Description:I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Network 1D:]
oo
Call Activity Log
OPEN Fri 14 April 2000 16:59 by uk080069 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:01
New call taken by Alex Common: Repeated blue screen on Gateway. PLease replace gateway UNit.
IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 17:03 by uk080069 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:

Call # E-0004141583 was Reassigned from Alex Common, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reassigning to UKSS via
SMC. This call is a A priority call at request of caller from SSC. The caller reports this needs to be done tomorrow.

IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 17:20 by UK061815 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:20
Call # E-0004141583 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Daniel Sales, Group SMC1

IContacted Fri 14 April 2000 17:21 by UK061815/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:21
contacted po - hours tomorow are 9-12:30. monday 's are - 9-5:30pm with no lunches.

Recommend Fri 14 April 2000 17:26 by UK061815/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:26
build is 2.2, recommend engineer to site to swap out gateway counter at this site as recommended by 3rd lin pat carroll.

Information Fri 14 April 2000 17:28 by UKO61815 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:28
voiced Shirley @ ukss of this call.

IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 17:31 by UKO61815 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:31
Call # £-0004141583 was Reassigned from Daniel Sales, Group SMC1 to Group UKSS

MODIFY Fri 14 April 2000 17:24 by UKO61815 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:31

Call information modified by Daniel Sales Action Group: from ‘SMC1" to UKSS' CSR ID: from 'uk061815" Product ID:
from 'PATICLX365/400C’ to 'PATICLX365/4008' Prod. Descr.. from ‘Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites’ to "
Information Fri 14 April 2000 17:38 by UKO35161 / UKSS. Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:38

Have spoken to Pat Carroll as to why this call is an A priority and he has said that the gateway is crashing several times
a day and he would like a working base unit in before Energis go in on Monday.
MODIFY Fri 14 April 2000 17:40 by UKO35161 / UKSS Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:41

Call information modified by Shirley Hunton Call Type: from 'H' to 'S’ Serial #: to '7933797' Tag: to 1534051" Problem
Type: from 'HDO1" to 'SD02' Product Type: from ‘PTO3' to”

IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 17:41 by UK035161 / UKSS Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:41
Call # E-0004141583 was Reassigned from Group UKSS to Group UKSS1

IREASSIGN. Fri 14 April 2000 18:02 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 18:04
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 15-04-2000 09:00:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

UPDATE — Sat 15 April 2000 09:27 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 09:31
Engineer 051286 despatched to site at 15-04-2000 09:25:00 ** (No Remark entered.]

UPDATE — Sat 15 April 2000 10:30 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 10:33
Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 15-04-2000 10:28:00 ** (Engineer 051286 Logged On.}

ENG VISIT Sat 15 April 2000 10:30 by 051286 / ENGINEERS Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 11:40
** [No Remark entered.] Call closure code of failure and repair code 821

IREASSIGN Sat 15 April 2000 11:53 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 11:53
OTI monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to UKO35161 (UKSS)

IREASSIGN Sat 15 April 2000 12:07 by GB506518 / UKSS2 Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 12:07

Call # €-0004141583 was Reassigned from Shirley Hunton, Group UKSS to Alex Common, Group HSH1 passing back
to close - please check engineer times

ISUSPEND Sat 15 Apri! 2000 18:59 by uk080010/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 18:59
Call suspended by Saeed Musa suspending untill further pm contact

7°\ -

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEng WebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-000414 1583 2110600

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004141583 Page 2 of

Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 10:18

RELEASE Mon 17 April 2000 10:18 by uk079832 / HSH1

Mon 17 April 2000 10:19 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 10:19
Calling PM who advised that the call can be closed off.

CLOSE Mon 17 April 2000 10:20 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 10:20
Call Close by Anthony Marsh: Calling PM who advised that the call can be closed off.

This call has remarks

~ 7oU

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0004 141583 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004101494

Page 1 of 3

: Berek: pai :
Severity:I4A Closed: I Wed 19 April 2000. 12:48 Customer: [1039

Prictity:{99 CSA/Team:]uk079701 / HSHt

Caller Details
Catier:]MrM A Jackson Phone} 153405
Titts: Login: Departmen:
Cailer ID: Location:
Call Problem Details
Cal! Type:[N ProbType: IND02 Problem:

mm] Mike Croshaw at SSC rang on behalf of this FAD to say wants this call routed to CFM3 so that they can liaise with
:IEnergis re the quality of teh ISDN line as the line seems to be losing Packets on standard Ping tests.

Cail Closure Cetails
‘Closed:] 19/04/00 12:48 I Gause:[NoCode I —_—Repair-[NoCode I
Text:I Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot: Call closed as per instruction in call log.
Call Asset Detai

Description:
Post Office ISDN Line Description:
Call Activity Log
OPEN Mon 10 April 2000 16:43 by UK061916 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:46

New call taken by Russell King: Mike Croshaw at SSC rang on behalf of this FAD to say wants this call routed to
CFM3 so that they can liaise with Energis re the quality of teh ISDN line as the line seems to be losing Packets on

standard Ping tests. ~
Information Mon 10 April 2000 16:49 by UK061916 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:49
Wants call routed to CFM3 for urgent investigation and escalation to Energis.
IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 16:50 by UK061916 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:51
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Russell King, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1
IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 16:51 by UKO61916/ HSHt Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:52
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group CFM reassigning for urgent investigation
Information Mon 10 April 2000 16:53 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:53

Can BT please perform testing on this ISDN line as we suspect that there seems to be a line quality problem, due
to packets being lost during ping tests. The line is up and we are seeing normal call clearing, but there are reguiar
losses when we send large packet transmissions to the counter. BF

information Mon 10 April 2000 16:56 by UK061916 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:56
Voiced CFM to ‘A’ priority. Also paged Duty Manager. informed Jovan of ‘A’ priority.
Information Mon 10 April 2000 16:53 by uk038350 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:53

We are unable to ping this site can Energis please investigate. ISDN no :-01253852484 ,FAD code:-153405, Call
clearing code:- Ox8495 -'Call Rejected’ Can BT check CLI is enabled & in CUG. Thanks, cl@cfm3.

Information Mon 10 April 2000 16:57 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:57
ISDN number for this counter is 01253 852 484. BF

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 16:55 by uk038350/ CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:55
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM4 See previous text for details. Thanks :-
).cim3.

IREASSIGN ——-Mon 10 April 2000 16:58 by contin3 / CEM Saved: Mon 10 Apri! 2000 16:58
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM to Group CFM4 Reassigning tor progression. BF

Information Mon 10 April 2000 17:10 by uk079868 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 17:10
please page duty manger again at 09.00 11/4/00 if not resolved,

Information Mon 10 April 2000 17:27 by engd04 / CFM4 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 17:27
Energis Update: Energis Ref REQ82116, BT Ref PL95334, BT are testing line and checking CLIP etc.

Information Tue 11 April 2000 10:53 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 10:53

Energis Update, BT have run tests on line this morning and confirm there is no problem with the quality of this line.
The CLIP has always been enabled.

IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 10:55 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 10:56
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFMS Cali reassigned to CFM3 as per below
update from BT.

IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 10:41 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 10:41
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM3 WIGAN

Information Tue 11 April 2000 11:24 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 11:24
Mike Growshaw currently having counter re-booled. BF

703

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?C:

-0004101494 21/06,90
POL00118221
POL00118221
Call Details E-0004101494 Page 2 of 3

Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 11:29

Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 WIGAN to Group SMC1
Information Wed 12 April 2000 03:20 by UKO61148/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 03:20
Preformed health check returned large and small packets sucessfully, Object dispatcher is alive. Comms now ok
after counter reboot. Call needs to be assigned to EDSC1.
Information Wed 12 April 2000 16:37 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 16:37
Energis have called regarding this fault. Although the current comms problem now appears to have been resolved,
energis would like to send out a nortel engineer to this site to investigate further. The reason being this site is
suspected to have intermittent comms problems, please state access times in call and reassign back to clm3 so
that we can arrange site access with energis. I believe Martin Southern (energis) and Mike Crowshaw are currently
arranging access.
Information ‘Thu 13 April 2000 03:01 by uk061918 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 03:01
Shift handover updated to ask dayshift to deal
JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 13 April 2000 07:34 by UKO61809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 07:35
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IREASSIGN: ‘Thu 13 April 2000 07:35 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 07:35
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Jeanette Cozzi, Group SMC1
Information Thu 13 April 2000 08:24 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:24
Tried to contact the PO, but there is no reply., will try again later.
JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 13 April 2000 08:45 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:47
) Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IContacted Thu 13 April 2000 08:47 by UKO61809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:47
Contacted the PO to gain access times, The PM is no longer mr jackson, the new PM is MR HARRISON. Mrs
harrison still works at the PO, but they no longer own the business.
[Access Times Thu 13 April 2000 08:48 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:48
The PO is open from 9am - 5:30pm. mon-fri.
IREASSIGN Thu 18 April 2000 08:49 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:49
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Jeanette Cozzi, Group“SMC1 to Group CFM3
Information Thu 13 April 2000 09:03 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:03
Please refer to previous updtae regarding site access.
f IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 09:03 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:03
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM4
Information Thu 13 April 2000 09:03 by uk059960 / CFM3 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:03
As per previous update regarding access times.
IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 09:06 by uk059960 / CFM3 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:06
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFM4
information Thu 13 April 2000 09:34 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:34
Energis Update: Energis NMC have been advised of site access times.
IIinformation Thu 13 April 2000 14:25 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 14:25
Energis Update: Nortel engineer is booked to go to site on 14/4/00 between 09:00-12:00.
Information Fri 14 April 2000 16:01 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:01
Energis Update: Nortel engineer has been to site, but did not have the right kind of tester, this has now been
couriered to Nortel. They will go back to site on Monday and run tests with Energis engineer. There will be no need
to take cct down for three days as originally believed. Engineer dealing with this is Bob Tattersall will advise of ETA
when known.
Information Fri 14 April 2000 17:01 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:01
Energis Update: Energis NMC have confirmed Nortel engineer Bob Tattersall will be attending site on 17/4/00 @
09:00.
information Mon 17 April 2000 11:15 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 11:15
Energis Update: ETA for engineer to go to site is 12:30 today. It is also possible that a BT engineer will also attend
site.
Information Mon 17 April 2000 14:34 by eng0o4 / CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 14:34
Energis Update: Nortel engineer and BT engineer have been to site. Fault has been seen on line between site and
exchange. The line however tests as clear between exchange and site. BT have raised a task for the wiring pairs
between exchange and site to be replaced and for the line into site to be recrimped.
~ information Mon 17 April 2000 16:36 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:36
Energis Update: BT have advised this is still in hand with their line engineers.
Information Tue 18 April 2000 13:46 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:46
Energis Update: BT have confirmed wiring work was completed yesterday, Engineer went to site today to retest and
has confirmed line is now working properly.
IREASSIGN Tue 18 April 2000 13:47 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:47
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFM Call reassigned to CFMS for retesting as
per BT's clearance.
Information Tue 18 April 2000 13:30 by uk0S8987 / CFM1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:30
Confirmed, Comms to counter successful with ‘0x8090 Normal call clearing’ obtained. Thanks. JR

Joy

http://pwayweb0I /PatEnqWebNR2/CailDetails.asp?Call=E-0004101494 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details H-0UU4 101494 Pag

Tue 18 April 2000 13:31 by uk058987 / CFM1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 1

~~ Tue 18 April 2000 15:39 by UK06 1356 / SMCt 7 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 15:39
Passing call to EDSC fao M. Croshaw
Tue 18 April 2000 15:45 by UKO61356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 15:46
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1
Wed 19 April 2000 09:41 by PINICL / . Saved: Wed 19 April 2000 09:41

NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Mike Croshaw at 19-apr-2000 09:37:00 Category 70 - Avoidance Action Supplied This has now been resolved,
customer is happy. Call can be closed. HARDWARE FAULT - AVOIDANCE ACTION SUPPLIED

Wed 19 April 2000 09:41 by PINICL / Saved: Wed 19 April 2000 09:41
OTI monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to UK061916 (HSH1)

Wed 19 April 2000 12:48 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 19 April 2000 12:48
Call closed as per instruction in call log.

Wed 19 April 2000 12:48 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 19 April 2000 12:48

Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot: Call closed as per instruction in call log.

This call has. remarks

70S

http://pwayweb0 1 /PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0004 101494 71/06/00
POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0004122249 Page 1 of 2
Ho P . R: , \ re
Severity: Clasec:I Sat 22 April 2000 22:09 1039
Prior CSRTeam:]uk061916 / SMCt
Caller Details
Caller:Imaria@energis Phone]! GRO I ite. [153405
Tile: Login’
Caller 1D:
Call Problem Details
Product[PTO1 Call Type:N ProbType:INDO2 Problem:
Problem] Arrange to put the ISDN out of service for 2 to 3 days to test the circuit on this post office - have been many problems
Text:I with comms.
Call Closure Details
Closed: ] 22/04/00 22:09 I Cause:[c31__ I Repar]Rea I Resolution:[RS10
Texi:I Call Close by Russell King: ISDN repaired, commsa re now fine - call closed
3 Cail Asset Detaits
Asset ID! Description: Serial No:
Product: [ADMIN Description: [ADMIN Network 1D:
———
Cal Activity Log
OPEN Wed 12 April 2000 19:50 by UK061826 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 19:54
New call taken by Gary Sales: Arrange to put the ISDN out of service for 2 to 3 days to test the circuit on this post
office - have been many problems with comms.
information Wed 12 April 2000 19:57 by UK061826 / SMC1 ~~ Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 19:57
req82309 energis reference number
information Wed 12 April 2000 19:58 by UK061826 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 19:58
PM needs to be contacted to ask for time he would prefer this to happen and call then needs to be sent back to
energis.
IREASSIGN Wed 12 April 2000 19:59 by UK061826 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 19:59
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Gary Sales, Group SMC1 to Group HSH1 Please contact the po and
request the times he would like the line to be takn down
IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 19:01 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 19:01
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group HSH1 to Anthony Marsh, Group HSH1 for PM contact
Information Thu 13 April 2000 19:02 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 19:02
tryingn to contact PO for details of times...no answer, suspending call...
IAdvice Thu 13 April 2000 19:03 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 19:03
unable to suspend the call please contact the PM ASAP
{Information Fri 14 April 2000 10:51 by UK0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 10:51
BT engineer contacted to verify the ISDN number contacted CFM and thay gave the correct number to me
]OPEN_CALL_TS Fri 14 April 2000 12:43 by 535002/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:44
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Information Fri 14 April 2000 12:44 by 535002 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:44
Contacted PO. Opening times Mon- Friday 9-5:30 and 9-12:30 on Saturday. It seems that Nortel has already been
to site but need to confirm the setup of the PO ISDN line etc. Passing to CFM for progression.
REASSIGN —_—*Fri 14 April 2000 12:47 by 535002/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:47
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Anthony Marsh, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1
IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 12:47 by 535002/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:47
Call # £-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group CFM3
Information Fri 14 April 2000 12:49 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:49
Please refer to previous update re access times.
REASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 12:49 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:49
Call # €-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM to Group CFM4
Information Fri 14 April 2000 16:07 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:07
Energis Update: See update in £-0004101494.
Access Times — Mon 17 April 2000 20:47 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved:Mon 17 April 2000 20:47
BT have requested that CFM provide site access details and a contact number for a visit tomorrow, this will be at
the convenience of the PO.
JREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 20:50 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 20:50
Call # £-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFM3.

706

http://pwayweb01 /PatEnqgWebNR2/CailDetails.asp?Cal!=E-0004 122249 21/06/00
Call Details B-0004122249

Mon 17 April 2000 20:40 by uk058835 / CFM3

REASSIGN Tue 18 April 2000 11:25 by UK0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:25
Call # £-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group CFM3 as requested

Information _—-Tue 18 April 2000 11:27 by UK0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:27
contacted the PM she is happy for the engineer to come this afternoon

Information Tue 18 April 2000 11:23 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:23
Please see previous update re access times.

REASSIGN Tue 18 April 2000 11:23 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:24
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM4

Information Tue 18 April 2000 11:59 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:59
Energis Update; BT have been advised of site access details.

Information ‘Tue 18 April 2000 13:48 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:48

and has confirmed line is now working ok.

CLOSE Sat 22 April 2000 22:09 by uk061916/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 22:09
Gall Close by Russell King: ISDN repaired, commsa re now fine - call closed

Energis Update: BT confirmed wiring work was completed yesterday, and engineer has been to site today to retest

IREASSIGN —_Tue 18 April 2000 13:49 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:49
far # £-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFM3 Call reassigned to CFMS as per below
update

information Tue 18 April 2000 13:35 by uk058547 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:35
NCC obtained to counter. Comms know working. PH.

IREASSIGN Tue 18 April 2000 13:36 by uk058547 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:36
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group SMC1

information Sat 22 April 2000 21:27 by UKO61916 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 21:27
Pinged all 4 counters. OD alive and large packets returned successfully. Comms all OK.

IOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 22 April 2000 22:07 by UKO61916/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 22:08
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IREASSIGN —_—_Sat 22 April 2000 22:08 by UKO61916/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 22:09

Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Russell King, Group SMC1 reassigning for closure

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page 2 of 2

707

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CalIDetails.asp? Call=E-0004122249

21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-000405 1993 Page 1 of I

vax

A, sorecpeseeetlaPaIne? 09 STEOQUSHOS _ patenqweh 21!

rt a

Clesed:IMon 01 May 2000 14:06

31039
CSRTeam: I uK0631336 / SMC1
Caller Detalis
Caller:IMrs Woistem homes Phot Site:] 153405
Title: PostMaster Logirt: Departmant:]
Caller ID; Location:
Call Problem Details
Product Type] I Call Types I ProbType:] SD02 I Problem:]

Problem Taxt:ICaller Caller has put in some travellers cq s and it came off the screen and she had to log in again
Call Closure Details
Closed:I 01/05/00 14:06 I Cause:[c22 I Repair[Ros I Resolution:I RSOB
Text:I Call Close by Ross Wilmott -

“ICaller happy with the advice given call can be closed

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset I Description’
Pr feposs Description:
Call Activity Log
OPEN Wed 05 April 2000 17:02 by uk079680/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:04
New call taken by Tina Brown: Caller Caller has put in some travellers oq s and it came off the screen and she had
to log in again
lAdvice Wed 05 April 2000 17:06 by uk079680/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:06

the transactions have jumped to the other screen but not in her user name... also she has had a load of
transactions come up on the screen when she has not touched ariything also she was doing a report and it finished
on its own and then sold a tv stamp user name jwo001 and it jumped to the clerk which is mja001 all counters...the
gateway problem is being investigated which may have something to do with it as it keeps crashing

IREASSIGN Wed 05 April 2000 17:09 by uk079680 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:10
Call # E-0004051993 was Reassigned from Tina Brown, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 reassign for progression

IOPEN_CALL_TS Sun 09 April 2000 16:26 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Sun 09 April 2000 16:27
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

JOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 22 April 2000 19:51 by UKO61916/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 19:54
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

JOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 25 April 2000 03:25 by uk0B0068 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 25 April 2000 03:25
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 26 April 2000 02:50 by uk080068 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 26 April 2000 02:51
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IREASSIGN Thu 27 April 2000 16:32 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 27 April 2000 16:32
Call # E-0004051993 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Shaun Jowett, Group SMC1

information Thu 27 April 2000 18:02 by uk059129 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 27 April 2000 18:02
I did try several times to contact this office however the line merely rung without answer or was engaged.

IREASSIGN Thu 27 April 2000 18:02 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 27 April 2000 18:02
Call # £-0004051993 was Reassigned from Shaun Jowett, Group SMC1 to Group SMC1

SUSPEND Thu 27 April 2000 18:02 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 27 April 2000 18:03
Call suspended by Shaun Jowett Suspending for further callback.

RELEASE Mon 01 May 2000 14:05 by UK0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 01 May 2000 14:05
Call released by Ross Wilmott - 7281-5500: for closure

JOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 01 May 2000 14:05 by UK0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 01 May 2000 14:05
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

CLOSE Mon 01 May 2000 14:06 by uk0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 01 May 2000 14:06

Call Close by Ross Wilmott 7}Caller happy with the advice given call can be closed

70F

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CaliDetails.asp?Call=F-000405 1993 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0005090677 Page! of I

BEBE pathway Hel desk4.0a on pwayweb01

PH3PatLive on bdfel01pat01 patenqwebd 21/06/00 EL
seca ee

Severity:[3 B Ciosed: [Wed 10 May 2000 00:23 Customer: [1039

Priority: ]0 ‘CSA/Team: [uk061801 / SMC1
Caller. Roger Harrison Site: [153405

Title:I PostMaster Login: Department

Caller 10; Location:
Call Problem Detaiis
Product] PTO3 Cali Type:]S ProbTyps:]SD01 Problem

Type:

Problem] "Stop: 0x0000000A (0xA2A2A2,0x000000F F ,0x00000001,0x00000000837DC4) RQL not less or equal.” message on
Text:I blue screen on gateway station. No-one was logged on at the time.

Cali Closure Details

Ctosed:] 10/05/00 00:23 ] Cause:[c22 I Repair}Ro4 I Resotuton:IRSO2
Text:] Call Close by Wayne Bragg: NT blue screen stop0x000000a, rebooted.
} Call Asset Detaiis
Asset ID! Description: Serial No:
Product:I PATICLX365/400B Description:I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Network 1D:
Call SLA De
SLA:]8 Hour / Clear call within 8 hours Contract SLA?:[N Coverage Plan:]0800-2000
SLA Met?:JN ‘SLA Time (mins}:]503 Non-SLA Time (mi
1:{CLOSE (Clear call) _I Mat:[N I Target:]09/05/00 19:37 I Done:] 10/05/00 00:23 }Completed [Mandatory
Call Activity Log
OPEN Tue 09 May 2000 11:28 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:36

New call taken by uktemp21: "Stop: 0x0000000A (0xA2A2A2,0x000000FF,0x00000001 ,0x000000008370C4) RAL
not less or equal.” message on blue screen on gateway station. No-one was logged on at the time.
Information Tue 09 May 2000 11:45 by uktemp2t / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:45

Yesterday morning when office was opened, gateway counter was at screen for insertion on PMMC card. Site has
been live since early Feb.

IOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 09 May 2000 11:47 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:48
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Access Times Tue 09 May 2000 11:48 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 08 May 2000 11:48
Open Sam-5.30pm Mon-Fri and Sam-12.30pm Sat. Not closed at lunchtimes

Information Tue 09 May 2000 11:50 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:50

Cx Site has had about 9 replacement gateway stations since going live.
a7 IAdvice Tue 09 May 2000 11:56 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:56

Advised reboot of gateway counter. Reboot OK.

IREASSIGN Tue 09 May 2000 11:57 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:58
Call # E-0005090677 was Reassigned from uktemp21, Group HSH! to Group SMC1 Reassigning for investigation

MODIFY Tue 09 May 2000 11:58 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:59
Call information modified by uktemp21 CSR ID: Counter Aff: 10 1"

REASSIGN Wed 10 May 2000 00:19 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:19
Call # E-0005090677 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Wayne Bragg, Group SMC1

IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 10 May 2000 00:19 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:22
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Atfected Site:153405)

Information Wed 10 May 2000 00:22 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:22
counter issues under investigation with e-0004110130

MODIFY Wed 10 May 2000 00:23 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:23
Call information modified by Wayne Bragg Call Type: from 'H' to ’S' Problem Type: from'HDO1' to 'SDO1"

CLose Wed 10 May 2000 00:23 by uk061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:23

Call Close by Wayne Bragg: NT blue screen stop0x000000a, rebooted.

707

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWeb/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0005090677 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0004110310

Page I of 3

Ciosad:I Thu 25 May 2000 15:24 < 1039
F CSRiTeam:Iuktemp27 / EDSC1
Cailer Detaiis
Caiter:} Julie Phone: Site:] 153405
Title: I PostMaster Login:] Depariment:I
Caller 1D: Location:
Call Problem Detaiis
Product Call Type:]S ProbType:] SD02 Probiem:I
Types

Problem I PM is calling due to existing problem call E-0004100575(Which is closed now. Just for info). PM was getting problems

Texi:I with the gateway where it was crashing a lot in the mornings. (0x0000000A). PM has got that again. Also som of the
Icounters are running very slow.

Cali Closure Details

[Closed:]25/05/00 15:24 I Cause:]No Code I Rapairi[No Code I Resolution:] RSO3
Text:I Call Close by uktemp27: 17/04/2000 15:35:07 - By Pat Carroll CALL PC0042858 closed: Category 92, Type L 17/04/2000
3 15:35:07 - By Pat Carroll The response was delivered to: PowerHelp 17/04/2000 15:40:19 - By Customer Call Date and time
compiete
Call Asset Detail
Asset ID: Description: Serial No:
Product: [unknown product Description: Unknown Product
Call Activity Log
OPEN Tue 11 April 2000 09:29 by uk079782 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 09:32

New call taken by Anthony Leddra: PM is calling due to existing problem call E-0004100575(Which is closed now.
Just for info). PM was getting problems with the gateway where it was crashing a lot in the mornings.
(0x0000000A). PM has got that again. Also som of the counters are running very slow.

lAdvice Tue 11 April 2000 09:35 by uk079782/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 09:35
adviced pM that SMC will look in to it again.
IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 09:35 by uk079782 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 09:35
Calll # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Anthony Leddra, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re assigned for action
REASSIGN Wed 12 April 2000 12:28 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:29
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Simon Gavin, Group HSH1 re-assigning as PM called
again
Repeat Call Wed 12 April 2000 12:29 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:29
The PM has rung back for the second time today. PM has a blues screen with the stop message 0x0..0A
foe Advice Wed 12 April 2000 12:30 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:30
> Advised PM to reboot counter for now and information will be passed on
“ IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 12 April 2000 12:32 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:35
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 12 April 2000 12:36 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:36
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
REASSIGN —- Wed 12 April 2000 12:36 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:37

Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Simon Gavin, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re-assigning tor
investigation - call e-0004101494 maybe in relation to this.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 12 April 2000 12:38 by uk080012 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:41
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Repeat Call Thu 13 April 2000 08:54 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:54

The caller rang to advise he has got the stop message again this morning. this time the code reads:- STOP.
0x00000012 (0x00000000,0x00000000,0x00000000) TRAP_CAUSE_UNKNOWN, at the bottom of the screen the
message reads: Begining dump of physical memory.

Advice Thu 13 April 2000 08:57 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:57
J advised the PM to reboot the counter and we will investigate further.
IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 08:59 by uk080110/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:01

Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group SMC1 pm called to say his system has crashed
while putting the pin in when rebooting. please cantact pm

Information Thu 13 April 2000 09:01 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:01

Looked at kel: SParker346J.htm, cannot find a particular KEL relating to this stop message. Downloading evemts
for counter 1, which is the counter affected. Also checking web page for any errors.

wate)

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-00041 10310 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-00041 10310

Page 2 of 3

Call information modified by Jeanelie Cozzi Problem Descri

IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 09:29 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:29
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Jeanette Cozzi, Group SMC1
Information Thu 13 April 2000 09:29 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:29

The tivoli WEB events were from the 7.4.00. Passing to SSC for investigation, the NT blue appears to be
happening very often at this site, this could be relating to the comms issues at this site.

IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 09:31 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:31
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Jeanette Cozzi, Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 13 April 2000 10:27 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:27
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Contacted Thu 13 April 2000 10:30 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:30

Contacted the PM to check the reboot went OK, he confirmed to me that while he was rebooting the counter the
system crashed 3 more times. He advised me that he has had quite a few gateway swaps because of the NT blue
screen errors he is having.

Repeat Calt Fri 14 April 2000 15:38 by uk080108 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 15:38
Pm rang back to say that back office computer is showing node 1 as disconnected
Repeat Call Fri 14 April 2000 15:39 by uk080108 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 15:39
/ Advised reboot
wa Repeat Call Fri 14 April 2000 16:23 by uk066871 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:23

trying to reboot crashed twice (first ime had crash debug ,rebboted agian inserted card and pin no and went into
mode again) Now the counter said dumping physical memory with a counter counting up ,physical memory
complete please contact system administrator message.

IOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 14 April 2000 16:26 by uk066871 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:26
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Escalate Fri 14 April 2000 16:28 by uk066871 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:28
voiced ssc

UPDATE Mon 17 April 2000 12:15 by PINICL / “= Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 12:15

By Pat Carroll at 17-apr-2000 12:10:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation Energis (Jeremy Flashman)
contacted us (Wed 12/4) and agreed to have an Engineer Place monitoring egpt on site. Energis (Martin Southern)
said Nortel engineer was to go to site Fri 14/4 Nortel Engineer turned up on site with wrong equipment (14/4) Pat
Carroll arranged for Gateway Swap on Sat 15/4 due to Multiple Blue Screens Energis (Martin Southern) said Nortel
engineer was to go Back to site Mon 17/4 11:00 17/4 no sign of engineer, new Gateway behaving perfectly but
Comms still suspect with around 5% of 2000 byte pings failing. Martin Southern has voice mail to supply progress
report but has not returned call as of 12:10 today PM Is being kept infomed of progress on a daily basis.

Information Mon 17 April 2000 15:39 by UK061148/ SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:39
As per request by Pat Carroll. Assigning call to CFM3.
IOTLCLOSE —- Mon 17 April 2000 15:40 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:40

NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Pat Carroll at 17-apr-2000 19:35:00 Category 92 - Suspected hardware fault BT Outgoing line Fault Identified!
Please can we get CFM3 to progress with Energis as "A" Priority.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 15:40 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:40
OTI monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to UK061809 (SMC1)

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 15:40 by UK061148/ SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:40
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group EDSC1 to Group CFM3

IREASSIGN: Mon 17 April 2000 15:45 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:45,
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM3 WIGAN

information Mon 17 April 2000 15:50 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:50

Please refer to previous call information. This appears to be an intermittent fault as comms to this outlet on ISDN
01253852484 are failing sometimes and passing on other occassions either with 0x8090 or 0x8290 - Normal Call
Clearing. Sometimes pings pass with large packets but not small packets and visa versa. Please can Energis
investigate this circuit for CL! presentation in the CUG.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 15:57 by uk058353 / CFM3. Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:57
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned trom Group CFM3 WIGAN to Group CFM4
IMODIFY Mon 17 April 2000 15:50 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:57

Call information modified by Mark Hall Action Group: trom ‘CFM3 WIGAN to ‘CFM4' CSR ID: Problem Description:
Severity: from ‘3’ to '4

information Mon 17 April 2000 16:23 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:23

Energis Update: This is a duplicate of calls E-0004122249 and E-0004101494, this issue is currently in hand with
BT.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 16:24 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:24
Call # E-00041 10310 was Reassigned trom Group CFM4 to Group CFM3 Call reassigned to CFM3 as per previous
update,

information Mon 17 April 2000 16:08 by uk0S8353 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:08

As per the previous update from Energi, this seems to be a duplicate call

win

htt: //nwavwehNl /PatEnaWebNR2/CallDetails.aso?Call

21/06/00
Call Details B-00041 10310

eel

POL00118221
POL00118221

rage 3 of 3

Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:09
OSes

as

Tue 23 May 2000 14:25 by
chased barbara longley for update

‘Thu 25 May 2000 15:24 by uktemp27 / EDSC1 Saved: Thu 25 May 2000 15:24

Call Close by uktemp27: 17/04/2000 15:35:07 - By Pat Carroll CALL PC0042858 closed: Category 92, Type L

17/04/2000 15:

Customer Call Date and time complete: 17/04/2000 15:41 Service Complete (Confirmation) Received

- By Pat Carroll The response was delivéred to: PowerHelp 17/04/2000 15:40:19 - By

all has remarks.

WL

Aah AT Daten AW ALNIDI/Callataile sen ICnN=SR_ANAALEAITA aingian
POL00118221

POL00118221

Call Details E-000601 1093 Page I of i

28 py ue
oe :
Fhu Ot June 2000 12:32" ‘She f153s0s"
Thu 01 June 2000 12:51 Cusomes: 1039
Priority:]0 CSR/Team:]uk081125 / HSH1
Caller Details
Caller: Mr Harrison Phone: GRO H Site:] 153405
Title: I PostMaster Login: Dapartnent:I
Cater 1D: Locat
Cail Prodlem Details
t]PTO1 Call Type:IA Predtype:I ADO3 Prodiem:
Problem} PM reports that last night he produced ONCH declaration last night and it showed some things which the Pm is nt
Text:I aware of.

Cali Closure Details
Closed:] 01/06/00 12:51 I Cause]ce2 [I _—Repair-froo I Resolution [RSO6
Text:I Call Close by Carl hunt: PMHTCC

Cail Asset Detais

Asset iD: Description Sefial No.
Produci:I EPOSS Description: I EPOSS. Natwork 1D:
Cail SLA Detaii

SLA:INO SLA / No SLA defined for this call.

SLA Met?:IY
a

Coverage Plan]
2-SLA Time (7

Ne

Call Activity Log
OPEN. Thu 04 June 2000 12:28 by uk081125/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 01 June 2000 12:32

New call taken by Carl hunt: PM reports that last night he produced ONCH declaration last night and it showed some things
which the Pm is nt aware of.

IAdvice Thu 01 June 2000 12:35 by uk081125 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 01 June 2000 12:35

PM printed report last night and it shows cash declaration for Sunday which has duplicated Saturday, and Monday(bank
holiday)it Zeroed total but it shows somebody declared @ 8:50 on monday. on Tues it showed correct figure but duplicated
figure on Wednesday.

ICLEAR Thu 06 January 2000 12:50 by uk081125 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 January 2000 12:50

Advised PM that there is an error with ONCH declarations @ the moment and problem should be sorted by Friday, the PM
will contact back if problems persist.

ICLOSE Thu 01 June 2000 12:51 by uk081125/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 01 June 2000 12:51
Call Close by Carl hunt: PMHTCC.

As

POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details £-0006211199 Page I of L
EEDISEAN pathway Helpdesk4.0a on pwayweb01 PH3PatLive on bdiel01pat01 —patenqweb 21/06/00 #CL

Severity:[2C Ciosed: ia in
Priority:I0 »:[uk064729 7 HSH
Caller Details
-Juuite Phon Site:] 153405
* I PostMaster Login: Department:
Caller 1D:) Location:
Call Problem Detaits
Product Cali Type:]A Probtype:]AD03 Problem:
Type
Problem] PM has called to say that they need us to send a print out of the calls that they have made to us from 7th February. They
‘Text:] are being liable for alot of money and need to proof that they have called us. They mainly need the reference numbers.
Call Asset Detai's
Asset 10: — Description: Seriat No:
Product: [Eposs Description Network 1D:
Call SLA Details
e) SLA:INO SLA/ No SLA defined for this call. Contract SLA?:IN. Coverage Plan.
:I 19/07/00 23:59 Nex: Escalation: I 19/07/00 23:59 SiA Staie:IOpen
Cali Activity Log
OPEN Wed 21 June 2000 12:42 by uk081232/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 21 June 2000 12:49

New call taken by Sheron Palmer: PM has called to say that they need us to send a print out of the calls that they have

made to us from 7th February. They are being liable for alot of money and need to proot that they have called us. They
mainly need the reference numbers.

Advice Wed 21 June 2000 12:56 by uk081232/ HSH1 “Saved: Wed 21 June 2000 12:56
Spoke to HSH who advises me they will be able to collate that iformation for them and send it out.
IREASSIGN Wed 21 June 2000 12:59 by uk084729 / HSH4 Saved: Wed 21 June 2000 13:00

Call # E-0006211199 was Reassigned from Sheron Palmer, Group HSH1 to Aidan Heritage, Group HSH4 re-assign for
action as specified

7h

http://pwayweb0 I /PatEnqWeb/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0006211199 21/06/00
Call List

EESESEAT pathway NR2 Archivet.0a on pwayweb01

ows

PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS:

Zoey

(vot

patenqweb 21/06/00 #1

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page I of 2

Order by: Call ase
Cali Status Pr Severity Opensd Crosed Site Cat_Typa Probiem_Type Prob! ace Team
£-0001100451 Closed 32 3B 10/01/00 16:25 12/01/00 13:11 153405 Y IMo7 PATHI
}E-0001200323 Closed 0 1D — 20/01/00 14:08 20/01/00 14:16 153405 x xI05 HSH1
£-0001310195 Closed 90 4A 31/01/00 10:18 31/01/00 20:01 153405 Y IMo7 ENERGI
E-0001310301 Closed 90 4A 31/01/00 11:42 31/01/00 20:02 153405 Y IMO7 iPM2
I£-0001310382 Closed 90 4A 31/01/00 12:48 31/01/00 20:03 153405 Y IMo7 IPM2
E,0001310722 Closed 90 4A — 31/01/00 16:45 31/01/00 20:05 153405 Y 1MO7 IPM2
£-0001310826 Closed 90 4A — 31/01/00 18:05 31/01/0020:07 153405 Y 'Mo7 POCLIP:
£.0001310858 Closed 0 1D 31/01/00 19:40 31/01/00 19:43 153405 Y \Mo7 PATHI
£-0001310867 Closed 0 1D 31/01/00 19:55 31/01/00 19:57 153405 Y 1Mo7 PATH1
E.000200088 Closed 90 4A — 09/02/00 09:32 09/02/00 16:32 153405 Y Imo7 path
E-0002050182 Closed 90 4A 09/02/00 10:29 09/02/00 13:01 153405 Y IMo7 PATH1
=-0002090461 Closed 90 4A 09/02/00 13:26 11/02/00 16:01 153405 Y \Mo7 patht
£0002080708 Closed 88 4A 09/02/00 15:09 09/02/00 15:26 153405 Y IMo7 patht
£-0002091220 Closed 77 4A 09/02/00 21:57 09/02/00 21:59 153405 Y imo7 PATH
£-0002100075 Closed 77 20 10/02/00 09:01 10/02/00 11:20 153405 Y (MO7 PATH1
0002100138 Closed 0 2C  — 10/02/0009:26 10/02/0009:30 153405 O opo2 HSH1
£-0002190143 Closed 0 2C 10/02/00 09:31 10/02/00 09:37 153405 A AD12 HSH1
02100198 Closed 0 1D 10/02/00 10:09 10/02/00 10:12 153405 x xI05 HSH1
£.0002100219 Closed 0 26 10/02/00 10:16 10/02/00 10:25 153405 S $p02 HSH1
£-0002100289 Closed 0 38 10/02/00 10:48 10/02/00 10:57 153405 S sp02 HSH1
E-0002100508 Closed 0 38  — 10/02/00 13:00 10/02/00 13:03 153405 S p02 HSH1
E-0002100514 Closed 0 2C  — 10/02/00 13:04 10/02/00 13:11 153405 x x105 HSH1
£-0002100523 Closed 0 38  — 10/02/00 13:09 10/02/00 15:07 153405 Ss FEOS SMC1
£ 0002190085 Closed 0 2C — 19/02/0009:57 19/02/00 10:00 153405 A AD12 HSH1
E-0062220353 Closed 0 1D 22/02/00 11:52 22/02/00 11:56 153405 x X105 HSH1
£.0002240009 Closed 0 3B — 24/02/0008:05 01/03/00 18:17 153405 Ss sp02 sMct
€-0002241008 Closed 0 2C  — 24/02/00 15:59 24/02/00 16:01 153405 A ADI4 HSH1
£-0902280031 Closed 0 2C — 29/02/0008:49 29/02/00 08:53 153405 S sp02 HSH1
£.0903010031, Closed 0 3B — 01/03/0008:37 02/03/00 16:17 153405 H H001 SMC1
£-0003030254 Closed 0 2C  — 09/03/00 10:58 03/03/00 12:17 153405 H HD01 HSH1
£-0003030407 Closed 0 38  — 03/03/0011:35 03/09/00 11:40 153405 S sp02 HSH1
€-0003040085 Closed 0 2C  — 04/03/0009:43 04/03/00 09:45 153405 A ADi2 HSH1
£:0003070610 Closed 0 38 — 07/03/00 13:00 07/03/00 13:05 153405 Ss sDo2 HSH1
£-0003080445 Closed 0 2C  — 08/03/00 11:54 08/03/00 11:56 153405 x X105 HSH1
E-0003080691 Closed 0 2C — 08/03/00 13:40 08/03/00 13:47 153405 x x105 HSH1
£-0009082022 Closed 0 2C  — 08/09/0021:02 08/03/00 21:49 153405 S$ FEOS SMC1
£-0003080170 Closed 0 2C  — 09/03/0009:13 09/0/00 09:14 153405 S$ sp02 HSH1
0003100662 Closed 0 38 10/03/00 13:20 30/03/00 08:54 153405 H 001 SMC1
£-0003130143 Closed 0 3B  — 19/03/0009:07 13/03/00 09:10 153405 S spo2 HSH1
£-0003200387 Closed 0 38  — 20/03/00 10:48 20/03/00 10:51 153405 S sp02 HSHi
£-0003210083 Closed 0 38  21/03/0008:54 22/03/00 15:18 153405 S$ spo2 SMC1
£-0003280186 Closed 99 4A — 28/03/0009:08 10/04/00 14:31 153405 S$ $001 SMC1
£.0003280779 Closed 0 38  — 28/03/00 12:53 28/03/00 12:57 153405 S$ sD02 HSH1
£-)003281454 Closed 0 38 — 28/03/00 17:58 29/03/0009:18 153405 S$ sp02 SMC1
£.0003310117 Closed 0 38  — 31/03/0008:55 31/03/00 08:57 153405 S sp01 HSH1
0003311246 Closed 0 2C — 31/03/0017:35 01/04/00 09:20 153405 § sDo2 SMC1
£.00040519¢3 Closed 0 2C — 05/04/00 17:04 01/05/00 14:06 153405 S sp02 SMC1
£-0004052195 Closed 0 1D — 05/04/00 17:53 13/04/00 17:21 153405 x cc2a UKSS2
£-0004060258 Closed 0 3B 06/04/00 09:19 06/04/00 13:37 153405 H HO08 HSH1
0004060966 Closed 0 38 — 06/04/00 12:56 06/04/00 13:01 153405 § sp02 HSH1
E-0004061124 Closed 0 38  — 06/04/00 14:02 08/04/00 13:58 153405 x cca HSH1
£-0004980435 Closed 0 2C — 08/04/00 12:46 08/04/00 13:02 153405 A AD03 HSH1
E-0004100575 Closed 0 38  — 10/04/0011:41 10/04/00 15:39 153405 N NDO2 SMC1

WS

http://pwayweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/CallList.asp

TAKINN
Call List

$-0004101494 Closed 99 4A

10/04/00 16:46

434 36—-13/94/00-10:40--153405"

19/04/00 12:48

153405

N

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page 2 of 2

13058 = ! s

£:0004141583 Closed 99 4A 14/04/00 17:01 17/04/00 10:20 153405 S $002

9909290259 Closed 0 1D 23/09/99 11:04 01/10/99 16:06 153405 I 1Mo7 IPM2
19910040229 Closed 0 1D  04/10/9911:08 04/10/99 15:29 153405 I \MO7 POCLIP:
E-9910060134 Closed 0 4A 06/10/99 09:46 06/10/99 10:58 153405 I \MO7 POCLIP:
£-9910270398 Closed 0 1D 27/10/99 14:04 30/11/99 14:40 153405 1 Wd IpM2
(63 calls) 21/08/00 12:57:10
htto://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallList.asp 21/06/00
POL00118221
POL00118221

+ Call Details E-0001310477 ( ¢ MT Page bof2

ProbType: I{erd Problem:

RR 0410712000 14:07

Call Close by Christine Bourne: Cail closed - see mail to Steve Melvi im Nigel Mobley 030700
Call Asset Details
a
RD I RE ad Unknown Product Network i

cat aciviy Log ee

‘Mon 31 January 2000 14:08 by EXLO02 / EXEL {Saved: Mon 31 January 2000 14:10
iNew call taken by Joanne Steele: 153405 cleveleys. error 1090 0 gateway

Ramin
POL00118221
POL00118221

Gall Details B-00013 10477 er : C “Page 3 of2

‘Tue 01 February 2000
‘Problem identified

LOSE ‘Tue 04 “uly 2000 14:07 by uk0S6390 / PATH1 .
_(Call Close Cy Christine Bourne: Calll closed - see mail to Steve Melvin fran Nigel Mobley 030700
a

dae nee An NM ataile nnn 4/07/2003

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0001310595 G , Page I of 3

153405.

1938

I ___CsR/Team: RCEEeeaeand
I i ee I= re

SH)158405

Ca Problem Dela =
Lo I errs

resumed) &-0001310595 Cleveleys 153405 After swapping out gateway itis stuck at20% error 1090
Call Closure Details

forsee 04/07/2000 14:12 a Sc: Repair: RCE) i Resolution: [Ser E

ita Call Close by Christine Bourne: Call ciosed - see mail to Steve Melvin irom Nigel Mobley 030700

Sesser

= Product

ood

!Mon 31 January 2000 15:33 by EXLOO9 / EXEL {Saved: Mon 31 January 2000 15:35
ken ee pomnet Pritchard E-0001 310586 Cleveleys 18340: 5 Aft fapping ut gateway it is stuck at :20%, error 1090
i

nim 4 Carer 10s
Call Details B-0001310595 by i €

“Thave advised Exel,

i OPEN_CALL. TS Tue Ot February 2000 08 5 by uk056391 / PATH1

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page of 3

Open Cals qroublestioct (ered Site: 53405)

information Tue 01 February 2000 09:18 by uk506480/TVC _

‘Problem identified and known (Do not analyze) uw underying problem was the SDN line.

‘Thu 02 March 2000 17:40 by UkO79785 / HSH1 {Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 17:40

new base unit was installed this afternoon but that too has-crashed. pep wasn't performing any tasks on the system immediately as it crashed. got her to reboot the counter but seems
be

‘OPEN. CALL_TSIFri 03 March 2000 15 8 by UK061916 / SHt .

Open Cale Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Fri 03 March 2000 15:22 by UK061916 7HSH1
Calll # £-0001310595 was Reassigned from Russell King, Group HSHi to on EXEL i

JREASSIGN

04/07/2003
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0001310595 wy & Page 3 of 3

{Information

(Mon 06 March 2000 08: 20 by uk056681 / PATH! ISaved: Mon 06 March 2000 08:21
‘Call # E-0001310595 was Reassigned from Group EXEL to Group ING Routong call to TVC for progression / closure. PLEASE NOTE:- THIS CALL IS NOT TO BE REASSIGNED BACK
TOE Boe ITIs NOTHING To DO WITH THEMIIII!

Dane SIO.
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0006011093 Page 1 of 1

FUjiTSU

oan adnan I ThuO7 June'2000 1832 By 153405,

FThu'01 June 2000 12:61 E1039

; { (0kQ81125,/HSHA

I eee tro: eae I — <p
estMaster ES : 5

a —<—s
AAT ALL MT SL EE SI OS,
af _I

ProbType: eee Problem: I

1/06/2000 12:51 I case Repair Resolution: [St

yp Oita Call Close by Cari hunt: PMHTCC

Serial No:

Call Aciviy Log EE:

JOPEN [Thu 01 June 2000 12:28 by uk081125 / HSH1 ISaved: Thu 01 June 2000 12:32
New call taken by Carl hunt: PM reports that last night he produced ONCH declaration last night some things which the Pm is nt aware of.

CLEAR Thu 06 January 2000 12:50 by Uk081125 / THSHI (Saved: Thu 06 ‘Sanuary 2000 12:50
‘Advised PM that there is an 8 with eal rarer @ the moment and problem sho Id be sorted by Friday, the Zz) wil tact back if Drobeamrs per ist.
Ness

AA IAINADA
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0006211199 ; { & Page 1 of 1

W]ts3405

Priority: I MR Sd 2054729. sa

Caller Details
duile

RRR Postitaster

I} Cali Closure Details

Y/ Call Close by Aidan Heritage: as above

Cail Asset Details f

et
LT I

‘Wed 21 June 2000 12:42 by uk081232 / HSH1 ISaved: Wed 21 June 2000 12:49

New call taken by Sheron Palmer: PM has called to say that they need us to send a print out of the calls that they have made to us from 7th February. They are being liable for alot of money
‘and need to proof that they have called us. They mainly need the reference numb

REASSIGN Wed 21 June 2000 12:59 by uk064729/ HSHa {Save Wed 24 June 2000 13:00
Call # E-0006211199 was 5 Resssiined from Sheron Palmer, Group HSH1 te:Aidan Heritage, Co HSHA re-assign for actio
on .

AAINTINONS
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0006260642 4 Page 1 of 1

che 26/06/2000 11:02 aay
BICall Close by Hardev Raikmo: Transferred PM fo NBSC. PMHT(

Call Asset Details i

E Serial No: fl
Network ID:

i] Call Activity Log

Mon 26 June 2000 10:46 by uk081234 / HSH1 ISaved: Mon 26 June 2000 10:53
New call taken by Hardev Raikmo PM has a cash shortage that is held in susp ‘Susp acc now shows double the ori

ee
‘Mon 26 June 2000 11:00 by Uk081234/ HSH
‘Advised PM to contact NBSC. PM informs that she already called thern and they referred her to us {contacted NBSC on PM's behalf and explained situation. Transferred PM to NBSC.

iMon 26 June 2000 11: 02 by ukOB1234 7HSHi
Call Close by Hardev Raikmo: Transferred PM to NBSC, PMHTCC

AAIAAINANY
Call Details E-0007053554

POL00118221
POL00118221

‘Page lof 1

ukOB1205/ HSH1

Caller Details

I

penne teas a Fever 1 Resoision SS

» Call Close by Roger Parsons: PM.advised that the system is running slow ¢iue to the amount of network traffic today.. PMHTCC.

B= TNE aan
— a
Product: [ges = ___Description’I
71 San I NN eR

‘Wed 05 July 2000 19:27 by uk081205 / HSH1 ISaved: Wed 05 July 2000 19:29.
_, New call taken by Roger Parsons: PM \wanted to reboot that his system was running slow when completing his roll over
s we “iy

“ Gall Details E-0007080002

My

a

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page 1 of 2

Hiset 08 July'2000:00:12

Closed::

we 10 July 2000 14:40

"The device ee did not respond within the timeout.period"

[-catceswe ets

BREE 10/07/2000 14:40

PERRET cal Close by Nick Beatty: Call suspended by Gordon Sandeman Call suspended pending result of Re-boot - Counter 3, re-boot confirmed by PM'- Carried out OK.

a Call Asset Details :

aH) 1534053

SUSPEND

I ___ Product: RMB eaaere

iption

'Sat 08 July 2000 00:09 by uk061353 / SMC1
‘New call taken by David Sale: Critical event received for unter 3- “The device ‘\devicelsis porto, Ch Not 1 spond within the timeout period”
4 ee i

iCall suspended by David Sale suspend this call pending I Teboot of counter 3
ily uk

Call Activity Log I

ISaved: Sat 08 July 2000 00:12

AA INAINAND
POL00118221
POL00118221

~ Call Details B-0007080002 € q Page 2 of 2

10 July 2000 14:40 by SMCtemp3 / SMC Evts Mi
Call Close by Nick
Peas

a
Sain

POL00118221
POL00118221

“Call Details E-0007193490 é i j Page 2 of 2

NAINTIINNR
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0007201267 é i & ‘Page 1 of 1

Bowome oj.

Bi thu 20,vuly 2000'1a:51 j 153405
Thu 20 July 2000 19:25 {039
ke 081.220: HSH4

Caller Details

Resolution:

I Call Asset Details

Network ID:
‘Thu 20 July 2000 12:47 by uk081220 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Thu 20 July 2000 12:51

New call taken by Stephen Cairns; has discrepancy of 2219.80pounds and last night first adjusted stock then declared it now would like to get rid of disc. Also relates to previous closed call e-
0007181540

Thu 20 July 2000 12:57 by Pertas02 7HSH1
‘Advised to contact the NBSC_

goat HSH
ssisnedite
"ithe 20 July 2000 13:24 by uk081220 / HSH1
pm to call nbsc ref peritas cca

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0007201732 ¢ i & Page 1 of 1

Hi HOME ft I.

ee pone ge EES — Se
Alz.c: : ERY Thu 20 July. 2000.78-11 i Customer:
fog nn a (Ss SR/Team:

i Caller Details iil

fo nbsc and. w

Cail Closure Details

20/07/2000 15:11 es eeica:

Call Close by Rebecca Thompson: transfered the pm.to kevin @ tbs¢
: Call Asset Details

I 1 Descrition: ill _ Serial No
Rd known Product Network ID:
nae ete tn eee
OPEN ‘Thu 20 July 2000 14:57 by uk081196 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 20 July 2000 15:03

New call taker pson: pm reports a descrepancy of 2211.60 and has rolled over, pm has spoken to nbsc and was advised to call us back H
! Hina TAUPO WGI A6oO NSiO9 By UKORIA SH HSH eitciiny ie S Enya) ey i :

tae

ved: Thu 20 July 2000 15:11

Call Close by Reb

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0007210350 & } Rye Page 1 of 2

anna iciesedanaa c= i
Severity: RN ~: BER Sg Tue. 25 July 2000 09:08

25/07/2000 09:08 Resolution: [RU

Call Close by Adeboyega Abudu:

Description:

— ad cae
lI__ Call Activity Log
OPEN Fri 21 July 2000 11:14 by GB082156 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 21 July 2000 11:15

New call taken by Mark Byworth: FAD 153405 has not polled for 2 days since the 19/07/00. Please bin ng and why has it not polled

POL00118221
POL00118221

Gall Details E-0007210350 ee I € " Page 2 of 2

‘ue 25 July 2000 09:06 by GB082307 / SMC:
ILine fault cleared by BT

Zee

nAINTIAAND
Ex

POL00118221

POL00118221

Call Details E-0008021149 by

Page 1 of 1

Opened

WkOB1682/HSH1

as Ba a: se:
Caller Details I i
eS aT

(02/08/2000 12:59
Call Close by Sarah Harman: PMHTCC

Descriptor
ee I

Call Activity Log

79
Call Details E-0008172268 @

HOME f:5y5

POL00118221
POL00118221

Pe of *

BRIAR Thu 17 Avcust 2000 14:56 TS 3°:

Thu 17 August 2000 15:03 Customer: fISEE
CSR/Team: BRCEECSMA eae

Caller Details

x , 1 CallertD: Location:

Call Problem Details

Call Closure Details

AIS

Call Asset Details

av

Call Activity Log
Thu 17 August 2000 14:51 by uk081660 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Thu 17 August 2000 14:56
New call taken by Anthony Dobel pm wants a to preform a buy back on the system but deser't have the buy back icon
‘Thuit7“Adgust:2000/1 501 HYUKOBISEOVNSHa « ‘ :
aller referad:to the inbse,
Thu 17 August 2000 15:02 by uk081660 / HSH1
caller refered to the nbsc

TTI TN atte nnn WMaN—R_MNNQITIIAZR

30/10/2003
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details F-0008181263 : Page I of 1

Call E-0008181263
[Ciosed.

153405

Pen Status a an ee a
4 I

__Call Problem C Details

Call Type A

[Pm wants to know whether its correct to transfer cash into different su.

Call Closure Details

Description:

Call SLA Details

Call Activity Log
Fri 18 August 2000 13:49 by uktemp3 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Fri 18 August 2000 13:56
New call taken by uktemp3: Pm wants to know whether its correct to transfer cash
‘ ,

thetinasi@setovocuts i
Fri 18 August 2000 14:03 by uktemp3 / HSH1
Call Close by uktemp3: pm transfering cash into a different su.htcc.

httn://netdesk.icl.com/natenaweh(‘14/Calletails asn?Call=B-0008 181962
FL

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Derails r-11V08235084 ; Page L.of 1

153405

0

i eared I vk080108:/ HSH1

di a
Caller Details E

oge 153405
: Fa Sboging Denartneet

ss 1 Caller 1D:

Call Problem Details

wane Call Closure Details -_
23/08/2000 19:24 po Caise Repair ta Resolution: [See

¥en frozen for nearly 50 mins - advised reboot PMHTC

Call Asset Details

- Serial No:
Network ID:

Contract SLA?: Ip Coverage Plan:
f SLA Time (mins): Non-SLA Time (minsI

23/08/2000 19:24 [Completed Mandatory

Call Activity Log

lOPEN Wed 23 August 2000 19:21 by uk080108 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Wed 23 August 2000 19:22
I New call taken by Rachel Murray: Counter 3 has been frozen on ‘printing report for 3/4 an
IAdvice’ ws. Si Wed: aaAtigustiZooombizalnyukdeo1os;HSHTy 4 :
I " co ewadvised reboot’ ease i
ICLEAR Wed 23 August 2000 19:24 by uk080108 / HSH1
I ‘screen frozen for nearly 50 mins - advised reboot
CLOSE \* 1 Weai2S:Aliglist:2000% 9124) by/UROKO 18) HSH

Call, Close’byiRachél 8

hittns//natdach jal eam/notananehOTA IaH nen IAAT AANOAAALOA
Ii

Call Details E-0008233829

a Caller Details
Department:

Location:

POL00118221

POL00118221

Page 1 of 1

TT 0

Sees I 8081197 / HSH1

(REEIV.G No SLA / No SLA defined for this call

Serial N
Network I

Coverage Pla
Non-SLA Time (mins): OI

Call Activity Log

Wed 23 August 2000 19:36 by uk081197 / HSH1

I Call Close by Amir Nazir: PMHTCC

Wed 23 August 2000 19:44 by uk081197 / HSH1

New call taken by Amir Nazir: PM has re-booted and got a blue screen

‘Saved: Wed 23 August 2000 19:40

ttn: //netdeck icl eam/natenawehl ‘14/Callleraile

aenMall=

NDR 42QIO

TAIN
nical

POL00118221
POL00118221

call Deiuis E-vvu830u /4u page 1 of Z

Cali E-0008300740. : Earn anne ae mes an
on Status EEE Sie (Seiten) Wed 30 August 2000 11:04 Ri s5405
a Seventylf g

Closed Thu 31 August 2000 12: 38 omer: CEE)

eS ursudI GB082475 /SMC1

Site: [ERTS

Caller Details

SRN RRR A NERR:naaaNN tn EC men Rancc tet ay te CT a a TT
Pe cMet Pal’ [131 31/08/2000 12:38 [Completed Mandatory
Call Activity Log
OPEN Wed 30 August 2000 11:01 by SMCtemp8 / SMC Evts Man ISaved: Wed 30 August 2000 11:04

New call taken by Steve Sherdel: Cleardesk not run as active user detected - Host h15340500102 KEL Title: A corrupt index page was detected KEL Reference: MWright6052P, htm
i

Wed 3 August 10 11:08 by SMCtemp8 / SMC
Rang PM, she will reboot counter 2. Monitor for closure.
x IB/bY’ 'SMctéinips 1SMC-Evis Man.

f
Icear Thu 31 ‘August 2000 12:38 by GB082475 / SMC1
I Rang PM, she will reboot counter 2. Monitor for closure.

hittn-//natdachk ial eam/matenawehCld/MallMataile aenIall=RMMNRUNTAN aanamanr
POL00118221
POL00118221
GEL

ean

ana lantan aah OTA OalDataile con IM oll=RAANQMNTAN

POL00118221
POL00118221

rage 2uiz!

30/10/2003
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0008302691 ‘ a Page.1 of 2

153405
1039
Wk080051 /HSH1

Call Problem Details

Cail Type: [fg ProbType: [Ieee [Probie
* GE ei ues On counter 1 trying to balance and said still showing mandatory report

Call Closure Details

Call Activity Log
Wed 30 August 2000 15:39 by GB082168 / HSH1
New call taken by Tina Brodie: on counter 1 trying to balance and said still showing mandatory report

Caste
IREASSIGN Wed 30 August 2000 16:23 by PeritasO2 / HSH1

Call # E-0008302691 was Reassigned from Tina Brodie, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Cannot produce trial Dalance as outstanding mandatory report. Produced report but cannot cut off as
zero balance. Correct SU etc.

InntananahTA [Mall ataile acenWMall

{NNO LNIKO1 su 0/2005
~ Call Deus Bovyu8302071

red

le,torcut'
Wed 30 ‘August 2000 21:58 by 08006 1 / HSH

POL00118221
POL00118221

sage 2uc

Calll Close by Sarah Watling: pm has now cut off the giro report and is able to proceed.pm htc

ttn /Imetdack ial eam /natenaurehOd/CallNetaile aenICall=F-0008I07691

30/10/2003
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0008303371 Page 1 of 2

~

Product Type: [aka
Problem Text: I one of the clerks is

Call ome Details

Network 1D:)
Call SLA Details

iCall Activity Log
Wed 30 August 2000 17:57 by uk080051 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Wed 30 August 2000 17:59
New call taken by Sarah Watling: one ofthe clerks is doing a balance- a withdrawal that was done is appearing on the report and they have not done one.
‘Wedil0 Auguist'2000}18/02\yukos00s1 / HSH1:,

"Wed 30. ‘August 2000 18 08 by uk080051 / HSH1
the second clerk rkn001 stock unit rk the transaction is not showing on his - but is sho

a Ag
JOPEN. CALL. TSiWed 30 August 2000 18:08 by ukOB0051 / HSHt
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
‘poWed's0/Atioust’2000!B:o9ibyakospo54 HSH:

httn-/Imatdack ial cam/natenaweht 14/Calll details acn'/Call=H-000K 404371 3urcd/200s
Soe

POL00118221
POL00118221

* Call Dewaus E-vwu83039 moo ~ 7 Page 2 of 2

u eas) wy
gust 2000 18:14 by uk080051 / HSH ee Save _
a giro withdrawal is appearing on someone elses report who has not act jon. the clerk who did the giro withdrawal is aki001 serving on counter 3- in stock unit ak.
the session number for the transaction is 3-127947. this stock unit has balanced and the report has been cut off. the clerk who has the transaction appearing on his report is rkn001, on
counter 4, stock unit rk, this stock unit has not been rolled transaction log only shows one giro withdrawal for 100.00 for that counter. and stock unit. the transaction which
has appeared ‘on two reports has an account number off” L

transaction 1D 3-127947 for giro withdrawal of 100.00 against a/c n
Si AK show this transaction ok. Giro si

ers astig
REASSIGN Mon 04 September 2000 14:39 by uk061353 / sMct
Cal # perce was Reassigned from David Sale, Group SMC1 to She EDSC1

‘ Ife fom.Gr
Information Mon 04 September 200011 16:05 by UKO61824 / SMC1
PM disputed that a transaction was done on 26th - I asked PM to produce a transaction log using session number provided by SSC - the transaction printed off Pm happy with advice
given - call can be closed

Mon 04 September 2000 16:13 by UKO61824 / SMC1
Pm happy with advice given - call can be closed.
04

This call has remarks

hittn matdach jal nam lnatananeahOld /MallDataile sen all=Ph_MNNQWMIVN aninananr
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0008312027 ™ Page 1 of 1

Call E-0008312027

[Thu 31 August 2000 15:57 _ BY 153405 I

Oper
PRR Thu 31 August 2000 15:59 Customer: [Pr]
eS OO (Said 68082486 /HSH1

ae Call Problem Details
toon Product Type: Tr Cal ype ly ProbType: [ed
t ° teamed) PM wanted to know when SMC would call her back

Call Closure Detaits

Call Asset Details

ee Serial ne]

I I iit Contract SLA. [IN
3LA Time (mins): I[Q]

‘Call Activity Log
Thu 31 August 2000 1 by GB082486 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 31 August 2000 15:57 I

New call taken by Nick Raniga: pm wanted to know when SMC would call her back

I Call Close by Nick Raniga: pm htec

httn:/natdach int aam/matanawahl 1A/Calll lataile aon Iola ANNs 1 NIT aanaAMaAnD

POL00118221
POL00118221

, ' Pagel of 1

vail Devaus E-vvu205Z540
we

Call E-0009052546
153405

fail
jo Status: REE
‘ g)1039

po severity EE k= :
oT Ponty (GB082711'/HSH1
H[*63405

Deperonart a

Call Closure D alls

RMR TY 05/09/2000 17:55 a
oo text Close by Jonathan Waight: Advised a rebootpmhicc

N
RE
“A

Call Activity Le

Tue 05 September 2000 17:49 by GB082711 / HSH1
New call taken by Jonathan Waight: Trying to preview a balance and the screen is not moving

Tue 05 September 2000 17: 55 by GB082711 / HSH1
Advised a reboot
mber 000;1.7:55 by, Sanity 4 LHSHt,
wo

Pa

AAI AINAAN

hittn://natdack ial cam/natenawahOld/CallNataile aon all=PR_NMNONS ISAK
aL

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Netails E-0009204970 ; .Page:1 of 1

Hone 6

Call E- 0009204970

Caller Details

ETT Bs
Title: pests
ae Problem Details ;

EE RCe individual A2Ux no entry sign on office bal

as successful.

Cal Asset Details

——_

: Call SLA —_
Pec SUA 'SUA'defined for this cal... 6 Contract SLA? SSC overage PlanI

‘Non-SLA Time (mins)

IOPEN Wed 20 September 2000 19:05 by HSHCI416/ HSH Cla
New call taken by Mahesh Patel: individual A2Ux no entry sign on office bal
IAdvice ‘Wedd 20'Septeinib ICI4AGYIHSH Cla
“prison nade tia
I

ICLEAR Wed 20 September 2000 19:10 by HSHCI416 / HSH Cl4
advise given was successful

HSHCI416 HSH Cl4,
ibvas.stiocessfulsinminter <aisaa

nen POAall_D ANANANAAAN

httn://netdesk ie] eam/natenawehC14/CallMe
POL00118221
POL00118221

vall Detaus E-vviv091s0» sage lure

Mon 09 October 2000 13:20 Site: IEZEE

Mon 09 October 2000 13:25 1039
a a
RT Mc Harrison aA Site: I REEEI
RRRRRE TS Postmaster __I : fl
poise te al Pst eae * Caller 1D! j Location:

Call Problem Details

ae aE Call Tye: SA Probtype: eked

and he can get 1 page but not the second

Call Closure Details
Cause: [eval

Call Asset Details
ae is Description:
I TTS

Call SLA Details

Contract SLA?: I

[23/10/2000 00:00 BRET 09/10/2000 13:25

" Call Activity Log :

IOPEN Mon 09 October 2000 13:17 by uk079680 / HSH1
New call taken by Tina Brown: Caller can not get the giro print outs and he can get 1 page but not the second

ladvies Moti og Oetobet2000 s ey

[oye Saseah@iahs:te nivorflandoniteshasitrie

IAdvice Mon 09 October 2000 13:23 by uk079680 / HSH1

I this happens nealy every day

CLEAR’ Moni09:October’ '2000'19:25'by'ukO79680./;H1SH1.

ICLOSE Mon 09 October 2000 13:25 by uk079680

I Call Close by Tina Brown: pmhtce

httn-//natdeck tel cam/natanawehCld/CallNetaile acn?Call=!

30/10/2003
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0010161350 Page. 1 of 2

B24 Mon 16 October 2000 13:05 Pees 0 gieeI
RIMMER on 16 Oc 20001705 eon
ae

CSR/Team: [item asien

Caller Details

Call Closure Details

cause: “Repair ged Resolution: [G3

9) Call Close by uktemp29: ** [No Remark e entered 1] Call Call closure code of contr and repair ‘code 621 82
“Call Asset Details

: = cal ae Details

jefined for this call Contract SLA?: fM] Coverage Plan
“SLA Time (mins): IEZE) po __Non-SLA'Time (mins):I]

Call Activity Log
OPEN Mon 18 October 2000 13:04 by uk081616 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Mon 16 October 2000 13:05
New call taken by June Gayle: PM is having trouble with the counter printer on counter 8. it wont print his giro dep report

Iaavies

enis:nottaking) i i : f
Mon 16 October 2000 13:15 by uk081616 / "Saved: Mon 16 October 2000 13:15 :
Voiced call to Emma at SMC and she advised that PM presses print befor inserting the paper and then when error message appears to insert paper and then press retry as this can usually
stop this problem from reacurring, I tried this with the PM,but same problem occured were it only took half the slip in and then stopped and light changed from a steady green to a flashing
amber.

AR MAIO nN ataile aon Mall
bye

"Call Divaus Buvidl6ivvy : oof

POL00118221
POL00118221

ae 2 eee

REASSIGN Mon 16 October 2000 13:28 by GB082729 /SMC1
‘Call # £-0010161350 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Demi Folorunso,
Oe SM te

x pri sli
Recommend Mon 16 October 2000 13:32 by GB0B2729/ SMC1_
Please replace counter 5 printer to correct this defect.
sie ceehieeibeneid od psaiswiel ts

This call has remarks

httn-/Imatdeck iol eam/natenawehCl4/CallDetaile asn?Call=F-0010161350

30/10/2003
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0010253234 Page: 1 of 3

(Close: : itt I Wed 25 October 2000 16:04 153405
oT ef Noveber 2001655 —a

1039

eae) UkO80147-/HSH4

aes

Call Closure Details

Hors 172000 16:55 Hces Repair RSOS

Call Close by Hugh Evans: pm stock unit aa has a big daceraces and stock unit rj has loads of stock in stock balancing which should not be there. PM has called back to'say that the problem

Call Asset Details

Call SLA Details

Osd

Coverage Plan: ff
Non-SLA Time (mins): [RESO

Wed 25 October 2000 15:56 by GB082162 / HSH1
New call taken by Sarah Still: pm stock unit aa has

Wed 25'Octobier 200

6 @a'ls'down bys£40/OOolr ont larice: shanshothasi2)
IREASSIGN Wed 25 October 2000 16:27 by GB082162 / HSH1
I Call # €-0010253234 was Reassigned from Sarah Stil, Group HSH to Group TEMP! reassign for r progression.
Advice: Wel 25: Octoberi2000)46'80Iby!Peritds06/ HSH sx ish

Pettit ae tal eSienaie cUrider int
jow'to transferin.the.opy

es “Feport wa:
asione siipand the transfer

LOTAIA AN Datatle acon a

NN S29I8 wor 10/2 5%
IS&

POL00118221
POL00118221

* Call Detaus E-vuiv253294 . i 5 F 5 ; ; rage2 wot

igh

M9
Thu 26 October 2000

Call # E-0010253234

ig %6 se gest

ase provide transaction details of the Transfers that he reckons occurred twice, Le. date/time/transaction ret/SU/Counter/User/Amount(s), Also, while transfer
sh out at all and then did i nt gone through, so PM di it again event though ithad gone through?
os ees SOdutSioa by UKOEISI6iSh &
Cale, or oasSosuaE isslpried from Russe
ue 31 October 2000 4
Call sus nded by

hte Imeatdeck tal nam/natanawehOld/MallNataile aen%all=R_ON1NI6I944 AA AIINAR
tot,

Call Details E-0010253234 ~

Call Close by Hugh Evans: pm stock unit aa has a big discrepancies and stock unit rj has loads of st
problem rectified itself, PM has another problem being invg on ¢-0011012223. pmhtce

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page 3 ot 3

Saved: Wed 0

19 Which should not be there. PM has called back to say that the

Uitte matdacl ral naminatanawent iA/Cait retails asn?Can—n-00 10253234
m

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0010311359 ; ; rage lori

Sate [ute I
I

Call Problem Details

al balance 2. There are all sorts of transactions showing minus figures. Stock Unit AA

Call Closure Details

Call Asset Details Hi

Asset ID; Serial No
I ‘Cash Account ___ Network 10:

he Call SLA Details —_ —Th
ee, SLA Ne ‘SLA7 No SLA'defined:for this call, 0°" ‘ Contract SLA’ Coverage Plat
ily LA Time (mins)

Call Activity Log
JOPEN Tue 31 October 2000 11:51 by GB082486 / HSH! ‘Saved: Tue 31 October 2000 11:57
New call taken by Nick Raniga: pm has a discrepency in her trial balance, There are all sorts of transactions showing minus figures. Stock Unit AA
JOPEN-CALL®TS &iTue:31(October 200044 1357, by: GBOS2486/ HSH E

ate See sales
Tue 31 October 2000 12:05 by GB082486 i oT
Call Close by Nick Raniga: pm htcc

a — . AR om anenadanen ANITAINNNA
ilies

POL00118221

POL00118221
Call Details E-0011012223

: Page 1 of 3

Call E-0011012223

SRG Wes 01 November 2000 13:42
\ SRREEHI Tue 07 November 2000 16:27

‘Caller 1D:

Call Problem Details

Product faut
Type:

tA tea I PM has noticed that the adjust stock figures from shared SU AA are showing in shared SU RJ and vice versa, PM viewed the adjust stock figures in SU.RJ and it showed 20 x £20 smartcreds
fariaI that were remmed into SU AA on 25.10 at 11.24 with session ID 5-68278-1. These have not been transferred across to SU RJ but are showing on the adjust stock screen. Balance snapshot
é correct,

Call Closure Details
HRSA 0711112000 16:27 [cz RSIt
HEBER Cali Close by Sarah Astell: Spoke to the PM and explained KEL Reference: LKi Reference: Teas Muhtm and she is now happy for the call to be closed.

Call Asset Details

"Call SLA Details
Contact SA?

<__Non-SLA Time. n-SLA Time (mins): I
SS T
Call Activity Log be

Wed 01 November 2000 13:21 by uk080147 / HSH1

‘Saved: Wed 01 November 2000 13:42 -
New call taken by Hugh Evans: PM has noticed that the adjust stock figures from shared SU AA are showing in shared SU RJ and vice versa, PM viewed the adjust stock figures in SU
Ru and it showed 20 x £20 smartcreds that were remmed into SU AA on 25.10 at 11.24 with session ID 5-68278-1, These have not been transferred across to SU RJ but are showing on
_the adjust stock screen. Balance snapshot correct

Lite Imatdacl ial aam/matenawehOld/OallDeatails ana’

R001 119974 BYU ALUPAUIE!
SSL

call Deals Esvuil0l.e23 , +

: th :
‘Wed 01 November 2000 14 by uk080147, rast
Userid for the poqwiance was RLJOO1.

Wed 01 November 2000 14:08 by uk080147 / HSH1
Call a E-0011012223 was Reassigned from Hugh Evans, Group HSH1 to Group Mic Reassigning

POL00118221
POL00118221

rage 2.u1 >

12223. i
Thu 02 November 2000 08:23 by uk079679 / Suet
HSH contacted SMC for Update, advised Call is with SSC a willbe dealt with asap

Thu 02 November 2000 09:13 by uk059697 / HSH1
‘contacted SST about this call falling to go over ‘the OTI

Repeat Call Thu 02 Novena 200 1 42 by (8082468 / HSHi
rm calling they have called a few times now expecting a call back wi
Repeat Call. :

httn://netdeck ial aam/natenawehCld/CallNetaile acn?Call=F-001 1019992

AAT A/IAAR
Sz

Call Details E-0011012223 ~

Contacted

IREASSIGN

REASSIGN

information:

CLEAR

CLOSE...
eee

REASSIGN 4

OPEN. CALL 1s Tue 07 November 20 00 16: 2 by GB082641 1sMc1
Open Calis Troubleshoot t (Affected Site: 153405)

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page 3 of 3

"Saved: Thu 02 November 2000 13:13

3

Contacted the RNM for this office as she has now made a compiaint regarding this issue. Elaine (mm) advised that all SU's have now been rolied over and they are now checking them to

see if they final balance is showing to be correct. one of the SU's had something added to it, whilst rolling over. Elaine was very annoyed that no-one from 3rd line had called her back, as I

she has been promised a number of callbacks. Apologised for her not receiving any callbacks, and advised that I would escalate the fact that the agents she has spoken to have i

promised callbacks within the hour, as they should not be making promises like these, Advised that 3rd line are very busy with their investigations and sometimes do not have time to call I

back, They may call back sometimes if they requite addtional informaton/ations etc, ADvised that would monitor the eal and f any updates occured I would notify them.
noes

an bop
Tue 07 November 2000 11:41 by GB082641 / SMC1
Call # £-001 1012223 was Reassigned from Group SMC I to Group EDSC!
. are

si 07 November 2000 14: 43 by PIN! CL)
OT! monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to the Action Group SMC1 as directed

Late Mantdanls tal ane MmatananahTd /Malleataile aon all=H-O01 1019994 ou lO/Zu00.9
POL00118221
POL00118221

vall Detaus E-vui 1014004 sage lus

Cail E-0011014334
FRESE Closes MMSE Wea 07 Novernber 2000 17:46
Eo oy Soo
1 xT Caller Details
Phone:

a pee call e-0011012223 _ aa a

Call Closure Details

ii es _ e i
EE Gon Product i Cette Unknown Product

Coverage Plan:

Non-SLA Time (mins):

ta 01/1 1/2000 18:17 BRET 0111172000 17:49 Completed
Call Activity Log u
Wed 01 November 2000 17:43 by G3082965 / HSH1 'Saved: Wed 01 November 2000 17:46
New call taken by Rizwan Namaj: Duplicate call e-0011012223

», Wed:04)\November!2000 '17:46)by’ opoe7e6y TSH.

ICLEAR Wed 01 November 2000 17:49 by GBOB2965 / HSH1
I Dup ate call e-001 1012223
ICLose pies jovernet,2000:17;49 by GBOB29051: HSH

httn-//natdeck iel cam/natenawehCl4/CallNetaile asn?Call=R-001 1014334 30/10/9003
S24

Call Details E-0011015059

Call E-0011015059

‘Status:

d 01 November 2000 19:06

2
0

Closed

c fesoremee Lp) Ved 01 November 2000 19:07

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page l.of 1.

RET Acco

Caller Details

SORRY Postitaster rH t ‘Login:
ae —_ ;
a cai tyre Protein Problem

te “Product Type:

bec uactadI call cancelled

ICLOSE

Cail Closure Details

all Close by Martin Cawthorne: cancelled call - pmhtc

Call Asset Details
Description;

Call Activity Log

Wed 01 November 2000 19:05 by uk081126 / HSH1
New call taken by Martin Cawthorne: call cancelled

SH1
Call Close by Martin Cawthome: cancelled call - pmhtc

sen OOARIAD ANIIATENEO

a2ananons
6S2

POL00118221
POL00118221

al E

als Ei00.102 > : ' Pagel of 1

New

[Thu 02 November 2000 08:13 : 153405
i ria Novena 0000635 7030
MSs 68083020 ,HSHi

Call Closure Details

Call Asset Details
_ 7 - _ 3 tet Description:
Call SLA Details
: SL Ff % — i ad
: “ 4 : Contract SLA?: MN f° Coverage Plan: IEReeree)
welt —— i ——__I

): Non-SLA Time (mins): {9}

[Completed [Mandatory

‘Thu 02 November 2000 07:54 by GB083020 / HSH1
New call taken by Karen Holmes: follow up to open call e-0011012223
(anu O2INoVembert 2000;08:13 by:GB083020// HSH1

al ‘

: ho
Thu 02 November 2000 08:32 by GB083020 / HSH1
open call already for this

nie
Thu 02 November 2000 ¢ 08:33 by ‘5083020 /HSH1

Call Close by Karen Holmes: PMHTCC

httn://netdesk icl.com/natenawehCl4/CallNeataile anICall=F ANT 1NINNKA WAT KORE
Call Details E-0011020503

Cail E-0011020503

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page'l of 1

Thu 02 November 2000 09:14

Thu 02 November 2000 09:41

1039,
)gb083185/ HSH1

Caller Details

Roger Harrison
PostMaster

Department:

Problem:

SLATime (mins

overage Plan:

26 i Non-SLA Time (mins):

2/11/2000 09:40

im

[Completed Mandatory

Call Activity Log
‘Thu 02 November 2000 08:49 by gb083185 / HSH1
New call taken by Dale handley: repeat call ref e-0011012223

(Oren CALL:

lOPEN_CALL_”

RE gate cuiblabi a
Thu 02 November 2000 09:41 by gb083185 / HSH1
Call Close by Dale handiey: repeat call ref

Saved: Thu 02 November 2000 09:14

ne i ‘
ISaved: Thu 02 November 2000 0:

LATAINATY

ANT WIAA:

wi OZ
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Detauls E-Uu1 1021303 rage loro

<.:

9674: HSH4.
Caller Details i

Call Problem Details

SNE

Cat Coes Date Closure Details

— eS coe nn cn Resolution: aaa

Coverage Plan:

7 Non-SLA Time (mins

"Call Activity Log
ied Thu 02 November 2000 10:58 by GB082165 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 02 November 2000 11:18

New call taken by Tracy Mitchell: RNM is not happy that no one has rang back with regards to call e-0011012223, she has been promised many callbacks but no one has carried them
through. RNM now reports that all the stock units have been rolled over into the next CAP after adjusting stock figures. RNM wanted confirmation that it is okay to open the po if this
problem is stil ongoing. Confirmed that all SUs are in the correct CAP and if so then PO can open. There is more than 4 counters at this si

joren CALL: TS mi O2)Noveinber' 2006/4127 9%p a‘

ies eos

Information aa (02 November 2000 11:34 by GB082165 / HSH1

having given the RNM an update on the progress of the open call asked her if ths cal isto be escalated as a complaint, RNM wants to make an official Complaint about the lack of
I response to the original open call

REASSIGN,

PAIN OANA ANI IANIIND

2ala/IaAnr
292

Call Details E-0011021303 ia

dicallwes

OPEN I_CALL_TS Thu 02 November 2000

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page'2 of 3

Kel ail oot iis 340
IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 02 November 2000 13:11 by uk079674 / HSH4
‘Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
{THULOZENOI é2 K

by uk079674 / HSH4
bleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Hay

Contacted

Contacted the PO to expl: the Teason for the delay int resoiving this. Advised the PM of the workaround for this
investigate asap. Sh that she has a problem with foreign ene which i will log a new call for.
CLEAR. TUei2t*NG iC O:by'ik079674'/;HSH4" aoe

httn://netdeck icl cam/natenaweht 1A/Calllataile aenIOall=b ANT 171 INI

AIA INAnA
Can Deus Buuid2isuy 7

I Saved: Tue 21 Nover

mber 2000 14:44

POL00118221
POL00118221

3. Tops

e992

Vee Ment daate tal nme bantanaahMAMallDataile aenIall=R-001 1091303

30/10/2003
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0011021413 Page 1 of 1

re Caller Details f
Mr M A Jackson ee Rhone: ! Sie: EES
I} ; Logi Department

Location: jf

Call Closure Details

epee Call Close by Tracy Mitchell: pmhtcc
i OTS
Call SLA Details

; Contract SLA?:]IM Coverage Plan:
A Tinea Eo A Tine re
6/11/2000 00:00 $5 02/11/2000 11:42 Completed [Mandatory

Call Activity Log
Thu 02 November 2000 11:38 by GB082165 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 02 November 2000 11:40
New call taken by Tracy Mitchell: Elaine reports that one of the pe couiers hasa pees screen woh the msg STOPoxoooccea

* Call Asset Details

1 a ia
IAdvice Thu 02 November 2000 11:41 by GBO&2165 /HSH1.
I
advised to reboot the counter. RNM said that this counter had already been rebooted once

love 5 SS THUO2" Neisibe 2000, tt we by ‘GB082165 ae HST

I 2 ah
IcLose Thu 02 Noreneet 2000 11:42 by GB082165 / HSH
Call Close by Tracy Mitchell: pmhtce

inl nam/matenaurahl 1A/Call Details acnICan=h-001 1uZT41 + ww 10/202

Mitten
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Detaus E-vu1 1081 suo E "page Lune

Hs
eS
CSR/Team: [EWR

5 a a Call Problem Details
‘ : ‘$002 Problem:

I su apears on fj su

. a Closure a
[RBH 08/1 1/2000 18:24 [Repair Resolution: Rte

se regarding 0011021303. pm advises that the ssame problem is occuring ie they have two shared su. The aa su and fj su. They say stock from fj su'appears on aa su, and.stock from aa = I

BBB EitICall Close by Ambrose Henderson: PM reports that she has been able to balance ee week - still not happy - advised PM will log on existing open call - PM happy for this call now to be closed
lpmnte

N I
Do
n

SI yaa ety 22/1 1/2000 05:29 PaGRaEEY00711/2000 18:21 [Completed Mandatory
Call Activity Log
OPEN Wed 08 November 2000 11:47 by uk081216 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 November 2000 12:17
New call taken by Kuljinder Bhachu: call regarding 0011021303, pm advises that the ssame problem is occuring ie they have two shared su. The aa su and rj su. They say stock from 1
Su appears on aa su, and stock from aa su apears on fj su.

discovered that the pm is bal or looking at the info from counter 5. advised pm to use gateway, which did show correct correct info. advised pm to do bal from gateway instead of counter I:
‘6. advised pm that the call will be open pending on pm call back if bal went ok. advised pm to contact us whether bal went ok or not so we can investigate or close call
‘ : a

011081708 30/10/2002

Imatdack tel cam/matenawehCld/CallNetaile aen2Call=
992.

Call Details E-0011081708 \

Call Close by
closed pmhtc

POL00118221
POL00118221

> Page 2 of 2

ISaved: Wed 08 ‘November 2000 1:

veek - still not happy - advised PM will log on existing open call - PM happy for this call now to be

Lette Mantdack inl aam/matenauehOld/CallNetaile an all=!

2-001 108170X

ou LOfevus
ilies

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-vu1 1084u24 ~ auge lo. .

jo Soom
a _ ti eserrTs 3405

a i
gateway keeps a and wants to know if we know a

th the advice given. PMHTCC.

NN emma
cal

"Call SLA Details
[aa Te el Won SLA Tine (nine)

OPEN Wed 08 November 2000 16:43 by GB082283 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 November 2000 16:46
New call taken by Wayne Bateman: PM says that her gataway ca cece and warts to know if we know why.
os Wed.08November;2000'16:49:by, GEOR BRA: eee

IOREN. CALLSTSi\5

j af oA’
IOPEN_CALL_ Wed 08 November 2000 16:49 by GB082283 4 HSHt
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site: 153405)

\Advice:
I

N SyaaUINez a
‘Wed 08 November 2000 16:50 by GH082283 / HSHt
Gall Close by Wayne Bateman: PM happy withthe advice given. PMHTCC

Lite Maatdank inl nam MnatananahOTdiCaliDataile aen2Call=F-001 1084054 30/10/2003
TT

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0011140728 i Page I of 1

Bi[ Tue 14 November 2000 09:48 me 153405
i apne SSS 14 November 2000 09:52 Blioss
eT Priority: esate GB083112/ HSH1

Caller ne

eS a. TTT Acc
wanted to find a trans on the 17th of feb
a Ramey cc I —— onion
fees Text] fe eo Text EN Close by Luke S Stevenson advised >d pm that that you can only go back 3 mounths and refered to nbsc, pmhtcc.
ee a]

fai a de at ™” Call SLA Details eC

i Coverage Plai
SLA Time (mins): {BJ Non-SLA Time (mins): [fq

Call Activity Log l
Tue 14 November 2000 09:45 by GB083112/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 14 November 2000 09:48
New call taken by Luke Stevenson: pm wanted to find a trans on the 17th of feb

Tue 14 November 2000 09:52 by GB0831 12 / : “Saved: Tue 14 November 2000 09:52
Call Close by Luke ‘Stevenson: advised pm that you can only go back 3 mounths and ‘refered to nbsc, pmihtce.

atdack yal eam/natanawent “1d/Caittretaile acn2Can=r Mi 1 1aNTIx a Uses
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Detaus E-vu1 1180/41 ; sagelus

GB082469 / HSH1

Supervisor ate
ca

q T MESSAGE ON SCREEN SAYING THE COUNTER HAS NOW RECONNECTED PFOCEED _
Rue! [18/11/2000 09:46 Cause: I= R70 H/Rsos

I Call Close by Dee O'Beirne: pm hi

Call Asset Details

GEE 02/12/2000 00:00 BERR 18/11/2000 09:45
‘Call Activity Log
OPEN Sat 18 November 2000 09:39 by GB082469 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 18 November 2000 09:42
New _ taken by Dee O'Beirne: PM REPORTED THAT MESSAGE ON oneal SAYING THE COUNTER HAS NOW, RECONNECTED PFOCEED
saved

to reby
Sat 18 November 2000 09 8 by GB082469 / HSH1
pm rebooting 2

nam InatonawabOAlOalletaile acnIall=

-ANIT1RATAT 30/10/2003
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0011202437 * ‘ Page 1 of 1

none 0 fs jac,

“ ue 2002 Ful vi i

CSR/Team:

i

183405

Call Problem Details

GitRos
Pm reports been onto the other number trying to transfer all foreign currency from one stock unit to another
——

aa TG 2011/2000 15:04
Call Asset Details

ARSENE SI Call Close by Charlotte Knight: PMHTCC
Se
Call SLA Details ~
Coverage Plat

Call Activity Log
(OPEN Mon 20 November 2000 14:47 by uk081287 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Mon 20 November 2000 14:56

New call taken by Charlotte Knight: Pm reports been onto the other number trying to transfer all foreign currency on ‘one stock unit to another
apeniite

[CLEAR lon 20 November
Pm was advised on how to transfer from one stock unit to another, pr tec

CLOSE: Mon-20'Névember 20004 i04 iby ukdst2e7y:HSH1

ram natananeahOld /OallNeataile an all=k-O01 100497 sw iG/2uus

POL00118221
POL00118221

Page 1 of 1

Vall Lewils L-vo 1202.06
New

Call E-0011203306

Le ES Mon 20 November 2000 17:26 153405
i2c RYIMon 20 November 2000 17:41 i i039
eGo pe eg (Ga083495 /HSHi

aS 65 0

z }800xx77f88e01 close 0 or ok.
_ ™ afer <<

_ " Call Asset Details
5 r rf __Network (D:

BBXA/CLOSE (Clear call) [Completed [Mandatory l

Call Activity Log ?
Saved: Mon 20 November 2000 17:26

OPEN Mon 20 November 2000 17:16 by GBO83495 / HSH1

New call taken by Gillian Cox: pm had error message desktop exe Eig error 0xc0000800xx77f88e01.close or ok.
Iinformation Mon:20:November, 2000 AT37:b) Aes A. HSH Ns
I) jadvised:pm thathelwouldinee!
I

?actuallyitiad the problem so wel
ICLEAR ‘Mon 20 November 2000 17:40 by GB083495 / HSH1
I ‘pmhtce
(CLOSE. iMon20.Novernbst2000)17/41 by GB083405 / HSH

aAiiainaan

htin-//natdack inl cam/natenawehOld/Mallataile en all=P_N119NIWK
T

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0011224382 , Page 1 of 1

Call E- 0011224382 é ;
_——_ RRC Wea 22 November 2000 18:20 a fre yet Shia
zc I Wed 22 November 2000 18:25 1039

7: or GB082205 / HSH ___I

Caller Details

I Roger H

I

Call Problem Details

PM rang to say that he was trying to produce a report for the redeemed saving stamp and got a error message on the screen saying ‘EOD Runtime Error 450 - wrong number of arguments -
invalid property assignments’,

Call Closure Details
22/11/2000 18:25 Resolution: [ERY]

Cail Asset Details
<a
____Network 1D: t

Call SLA Details
s Contract SLA?: [M Coverage Plan:
‘SLA Time (mins): f] Non-SLA Time (mins): I

HESI[CLOSE (Clear cal) an) 2000 00:00 ee 18:24 [Completed [Mandatory LI

Call Activity Log

OPEN Wed 22 November 2000 18:16 by GB082205 / HSH1 ISaved: Wed 22 November 2000 18:20
New call taken by Anish Chudasama: PM rang to say that he was trying to produce a report for the redeemed saving stamp and got a err
= wrong number of arguments invalid property assignments’,

i 1y.GB082206. a nH
hudasamay!

se TAs
POL00118221
POL00118221

sage LO.

Call Details E-0011225158 ; ri

Suiits}

Call E-0011225158 : pu

cae
Caller 1D:)
eS SS

Problem: “Text: ICl4: want to know how to modify ttwo share SU into two indivual SU. }
‘“ Call Closure Details j
CT tse SE oor cn

Call Activity Log

‘Saved: Wed 22 November 2000 20:00

OPEN Wed 22 November 2000 19:56 by uk082225 / HSH1
New call taken by Dwight Clarke: Cl4: want to know how to modify ttwo share SU ae two indivual SU
"

Advice.

ICLose Wed 22 November 2000 20:05 by uk‘
Call Close by Dwight Clarke: PMHTCC

30/10/2003

ANIINAE TCO

PATA IN OM
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0011260098 Page 1 of 2

e

[sn 2 26 November 2000 23:07 163405
Close fen November 2000 13:31 1039
RRS siictempio/ Sc vis Man

Caller Details

Call Closure Details
[27/11/2000 13:31 a cause R70 RSO8
Call Close by Gordon Forbes: Reboot successful,NO further events,closing call.
i Call Asset Details
sera na]

Call SLA Details

Coverage Plat

REY 27/1 1/2000 13:30 Completed Mandatory I

stay (eer si
OPEN Sun 26 November 2000 23:02 by GB082484 / SMC1 Saved: Sun 26 November 2000 23:07

I New call taken by Clair Dowsett: Event received on 115340500103: Device \device\scsiport0 did not fespond within the Snocult period. KEL RColeman1253J.htm advises of reboot.
i nas i

SUSPEND Sun 26 November 2000. 2 11 by GB082484 / SMC
Call suspended by Clair Dowsett For PO contact

LATA IA nM Nataile anal

0011 26000x rnd leone

S2e

Call Details E-0011260098

POL00118221
POL00118221

rage 2orZ

. oes ns on

aon WM aN—D ANI IVENNO®

30/10/9003
POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0011292030 : Page 1 of 1

Call E-0011292030

Closed’ [Wed 29 November 2000 14:02, - Site: ERE
Peo Seventy: En Wed 29 November 2000 14:18 1038
ss : Caller Details F
TY Postmaster ~ E ae
t. oH —

a —_ a on
Cail Problem Details
SRS Product Type: ll === Call Type: IB ProbType: [teed  Probiem: ll

REET Iom reports the bar code reader isnt scanning any bar codes. light works and the noise comes on,

Call Closure Details
PARR 20/11/2000 14:18 [eo Cause: Repair: XQ) Resolution: IS) I

y Bt Call Close by John Leech: pmhtcc

Call Asset Details

[Desorption]

Bi ( - j / 1 Mandatory I

* Call Activity Log

jOPEN Wed 29 November 2000 13:45 by GB082970 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Wed 29 November 2000 14:02
New calll taken by John Leech: pm reports the bar code reader isnt scanning any bar codes. light works and the noise comes on.
ie 000'4.4:04'by’GB082970'/'HSH1, gaa i 1)

JOPENECALL STS.

Wed 29 November 2000 14
Call Close by John Leech: pmhtcc

atanawahOld/MallNataile aen MW all=b-AN1 1209020 sD wes
POL00118221
POL00118221

ame le. é

Call Details E-vu11292013

Call E-0011292618 oe ees

RST Closed _—_—ovenee IE 29 November 2000 14:59

___
Call Problem Details
Product Type: ‘bs Call 30: [ProblemsI
foreign currency su

Se 12201503 Ropar ———

a
Call Asset Details
ffae Description: Serial No:

Contract SLA?: [It] overage Plat
j Non-SLA Time (mins): [OE

SLA Time (mins): kj

Call Activity Log

IOPEN Wed 29 November 2000 14:56 by GB082690 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 29 November 2000 14:59
New call taken by Tony Mansfeld: pm wants to know why the foreign currency string figure is na on the foreign currency su
ay

[CLEAR ‘Wed 29 November 2000 15:03 by GB082690 / HSH1t
advised pm to check other su's to see if the foreign currency has been put on there. if not then check unrecon ied t ansfers and

0011999618 30/10/2003

srahOTACallMeataile acnIall=

POL00118221
POL00118221

Call Details E-0011294389 Page 1 of 1 5

153405

customer EY
Ciara 9083554 / HSH?

Call ‘Asset I Details
I

__ ~~ Network 1D:
Call SLA Details

[NO‘SLA7 No'SLA defined for this call “Contract SLA Coverage Pla
Non-SLA Time (mins): OI
" CallActiviylog SSS
OPEN Wed 29 November 2000 18:42 by gb083554 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 29 November 2000 18:47

New call taken by Samantha Calms: ci4. pm wished to speak to Ross Wilmott regarding call reference e-0011291662.
Sete ere Ic

OPEN<CALL_TS: af 4
ate 46, Oper Callsairoubleshoot (AtfectedISke:163405) 15.
JOPEN_CALL_TS ‘Wed 29 November 2000 18:50 by gb083554 / HSH1
‘Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
OPEN= CALE TS. Wed 29) November 200048: 50. by.gb083554 HASH

ni U

‘Wed 2 November 2000 18:51. by gb083554/ HSH1

Voiced throught to Ross Willmott who accepted the call
x n Iber 2000818 sf by, gb083554 /, HSHt

“ANI 1UAIRY a CAF.

httn:J/natdack ial eam/natenawehl TA/Calllataile acnIa

POL00118221
POL00118221

e1c

Call Details E-0011300602 P {

Call E-0011300602 EG ROR allen SAO Fgh .

Sevorty EKG : : 3:39 Customer: [EE
0 TSR/Team: IUEREER Ee
a ry

Caller Details

—

Depariment

care BE Aco Fron

Product Type!

"Problem Text: [gaged E rsa

~ Call C Closure Detail:

I
I
Call Asset Details
Description:
z Description el I

Call SLA Details,

d Contract SLA?
SLA Time (mins): 12 Non-SLA Time (mins): IfqJ

"Call Activity Log

Thu 30 November 2000 09:30 by uktemp33 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 30 November 2000 09:32

New call taken by Malcolm Goodall: PM called last night and had fospcien the reference number.
[OPEN-CALL TS: Thu'90/Novertiber:2000:09:33 by uktempSaicHSHt
408

OPEN_CALL_TS Thu 30 November 2000 09:34 by uktemp33 / HSHi
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Aacted Site: 153405)

I
JOPEN:CALL TS:
i

‘Thu 30 November 2000 09:35 by uktemp33 / HSH1
Adviced bi of reference number

IcLose

-AN1120NKN9 30/10/2003

Oi AL ATAIAN ated

POL00118221
POL00118221

Opened Closed Site Call_Type el p1 Problem_Co Team Problem Text

10/01/00 16:25] I 12/01/00 13:11 153405 CLEVELEYS. Martin
dale tester call :- The POM has
advised that they have not
reived a tester. This site is due
to be installed on 31/01/2000.

Status _Pr_ Severity

£-0001100

=0001200 [Closed of [1D 20/01/00 14:08] I 20/01/00 14:16] I 153405] Ix xI05 HSH1 Training has started for going
I live 31.01.00. PM wants to
know that they will be getting
paid for training and how many
hours training they will be paid
for.

=70001310 [Closed 30] I 4:00 AM] I 31/01/00 10:16] I 31/01/00 20:07[ I 153405] IY MOT ENERGISI IE-0001310195 Cleveleys
—e 153405 ISDN coming up FPGA
fall, possible phone problem?

E-0001310 [Closed 90} I 4:00 AM 31/01/00 11:42 31/01/00 20:02} 153405] IY M07 IPM2. IE-0001310301 Cleveleys
EouUigiy 183405 A4 printer laser shown
las being on a shelf under the

bureau de change there is a
metal cash cabinet between the;
N printer and the base unit for
counter 1 and the installer can't
3 feed the cable round
E-0001310 [Closed 90] I 4:00AM] I 31/01/00 12:48] I 31/01/00 20:03[ I 153405] /¥ M07 TPM2 153405 cleveleys, with the

problems with the plans e-
(0001310301 there will be a
ldelay on thelr 2nd site marton
imoss 187405

£-0001310) IClosed 1] [10 31/01/00 14:10) 04/07/00 14:07] 153405] IY M07 IPATH1 153405 cleveleys. error 1090
eves gateway

£-0001310 [Closed i] [to 31/01/00 15:35] I 04/07/00 44:12I I 153405] IY IMO7 PATHI E-0001310595 Cleveleys
£-0001319 153405 After swapping out
Igateway it is stuck at 20% error srtiNigeliMobley 030700
1090 i

~

&

POL00118221

POL00118221

10001310

[Closed

4:00 AM]

31/01/00 16:45]

31/01/00 20:05)

153405]

M07

TPM2

753405 cleveleys on site
10am...could you please cofirm
jovertime will be paid from 17.30)
as this site Is delayed e-
0001310195, e-0001310477 fad]
153405 cleveleys

Call Close
call closed

#000131

Closed

90)

4:00 AM)

31/01/00 18:05}

31/01/00 20:07}

183405]

M07

POCLIP7

753405 CLEVELEYS. call
raised by Amanda @ POCL
OOH :- Mick Ledger @ POCL
IP2 team has requested the
instal for this site to be aborted.I

Closed

31/01/00 19:40

31/01/00 19:43

153405}

M07

PATH1

153405 CLEVELYS. Call raised
by the IP2 team ;- this site is to
Ibe suspended at the isntall
[stage due to technical issues.

Call Close
This issue
closed. LG}

Closed

31/01/00 19:55]

31/01/00 19:57,

153405}

\MO7

PATH1

753405 CLEVELEYS. call
raised by the Ip2 team ;- This
site Is to be released back into
the programme at the install
stage.

(Call Close 8
This issue If

[Closed

20)

4:00 AMI

09/02/00 09:32}

09/02/00 16:32

153405}

M07

path?

153405 Cleveleys E-
10002090089. ISDN fault. When
lactioned the tests the installer
Iget the engaged tone which is

reads “clear cause 88".

lok but getting a message which] .

Closed

90

‘4:00 AM

09/02/00 10:29]

09/02/00 13:04

153405)

M07

PATH1

153405 Cleveleys E-
10002090182. Gateway is now
stuck at 3%.

20002090

Closed

4:00 AMI

09/02/00 13:26}

11/02/00 16:01

153405}

M07

path4

153405 Cleveleys E-
}0002090461. Counter 3 stuck
jat 20%, 1113 error.

$:0002090

Closed

88

4:00 AM]

09/02/00 15:09

09/02/00 15:26

153405}

M07

path

fe-0002090708 153405
cleveleys. exel confirm that they
have hardware acceptance at
this site at 14.45

&

POL00118221
POL00118221

Closed

77

4:00 AM

09/02/00 21:57

09/02/00 21:59)

153405}

M07

PATH

153405 - CLEVELEYS -
/E0002091220 - HFSO has
jadvised that she can't find the
Postal order section, hfso on
site is Davelin tel

Closed

7

2c

10/02/00 09:01

70/02/00 14:20}

153405]

M07

IPATH1

753405 CLEVELEYS. POCL
fax ref:- IP2/18119 AN.
Migration was completed
successfully @ 22.40 on
109/02/00.

[Closed

2c

70/02/00 09:26

10/02/00 09:30}

153405}

OD02

IHSH1

(PM is called Julie
Woolstonhulme) - Only gone
live this morning. One of the
clerks has tried to sell Orange
£5.00 phone card worried
because Icon says coming
soon.

£-0002100

J

Closed

2c

10/02/00 09:31

10/02/00 09:37I

153405}

IHSH1

flogged at same time as 138 of
today. One of the clerks tried to
log on this morning - now
locked out - user error.

£-0002100

Closed

10/02/00 10:09)

10/02/00 10:12}

153405}

XI05

IHSH1

[gateway - blue screen - restart
land sat recovery optiuons -
Jcrash debug - stop 0x0000000a
((0x000000086 0x000000ff - the
line to caller then went dead

[Closed

2c

10/02/00 10:16

10/02/00 10:25}

153405}

[sD02

]HSH1

(On the gateway the screen has
Igone blue with a message that
starts Stop 0x0000000a.

POL00118221

POL00118221

E-0002100,

(Closed

10/02/00 10:48)

10/02/00 10:57]

153405}

$002

HSH1

[Pm reports that the barcode
Iscanner and the swipe card
reader are not operational. Pm
reports that a a clerk was
lentering a barcoded bt bill and
Ishe entered the amount and
then she accidentally pressed
the reciept key and it printed a
reciept for a pre

E-0002109

[Closed

10/02/00 13:00)

10/02/00 13:03

153405]

'$D02

IHSH1

IPM was ringing to say that the
Isystem keeps on crashing and
has STOP 0X0000000A
message.

£-0002109

Closed

10/02/00 13:04}

40/02/00 13:11

153405]

X105,

HSH1

PM called regarding the
\gateway crashing, he started
telling me what was on the
screen but the line cut off.

E-0002100

N
a”
W

[Closed

40/02/00 13:09

10/02/00 15:07I

153405}

FEOS

SMC1

reporting gateway counter has
blue screen message
'stop..0x0000000a)0x0000029
.0x000000ff,0x00000000,0x808
}46dc6" has already happened
{twice this morning and have
rebooted system - happy to
reboot again but would like the
icause explaining/investigating.

E-0002190

Closed

19/02/00 09:57}

19/02/00 10:00}

153405}

HSH1

[A clerk has locked himself out
lof the system.

£-0002220

Closed

22/02/00 11:52}

22/02/00 11:56]

153405}

X105,

HSH1

PM is calling rprt that she has
entered an incorrect amt onto
the quantum machine

E-0002240

[Closed

24/02/00 08:05

01/03/00 18:17]

153405}

SD02

[SMC1

(Couldn't print due to a session
being suspended last night, has
rolled su & the office into the
next week. Rebooted to clear
the problem.

E-0002241

Closed

24/02/00 15:59)

24/02/00 16:01

153405}

AD14

HSH1

pm has a problem

E-0002290,

Closed

29/02/00 08:49)

29/02/00 08:53}

153405)

SD02

IHSH1

Gateway has on screen
}00000000A

Call Close

IPMHTCC

POL00118221

POL00118221

£-0003010

Closed)

3B

01/03/00 08:37

(02/03/00 16:17]

153405}

HD01

ISMC1

PM is having problems with
gateway - PM has come in this
morning, and it has bluescreen
with a Stop code ending with

0x00..04. PM has now reboot.

£-0003031

Closed

2c

03/03/00 10:58]

03/03/00 12:17I

153405)

DOT

IHSH1

[Call being raised off E-
10001310595, as requested,
\gateway workstation needs to
be swapped out.

£-000303

Closed

3B

03/03/00 11:35

03/03/00 11:40

153405]

ISD02

IHSH1

Through the transaction and theI
lscreen has frozen . and the
jscreen went dead he was
lentering the OBS foils received
in when this screen . The right
hand bank had now frozen and
the PM is not able to clear the
screen.

}will reboot

£-0003040

Closed

04/03/00 09:43}

04/03/00 09:45)

153405)

A012

HSH1

IPM cannot see anything on the
screen.

Closed

3B

07/03/00 13:00}

07/03/00 13:05]

153405]

S002

HSH1

[Screen has frozen twice ( prior
to that Clerk was just serving a
customer) - Clerk had items in
ithe stack but nothing
happened. Keyboard was
unresponsive too. Clerk logged
back in and was instantly in the
jengineer screen.

Closed

2c

08/03/00 11:54)

(08/03/00 17:56

153405)

X105,

IHSH1

[Avril Kirkby Clerk rang to say
[customer applying for british
passport because she's Polish
but born on USSR. Wants to
know about procedural Issue
with this.

NBSC - call

Closed

2c

08/03/00 13:40)

08/03/00 13:47

183405]

X105,

IHSH1

home care £3.00 blackpoo!
home help stamps,ni icon to put

them into system

POL00118221
POL00118221

E-0003082

(Closed

08/03/00 21:02

(08/03/00 21:49)

153405]

FEOS

ISMC1

Pm has had the system busy
icon on for approx 10minutes.
Pm was trying to preview the
balance report, so pm can
rollover, Pm complains that on
levery screen he has tried
working on has had the system
busy icon on, for approx 15
minutes at a time.

E-0003090

Closed

09/03/00 09:13}

09/03/00 09:14}

153405}

SD02

IHSH1

ICalier has turned on the
gateway and the scren is frozenI
lon the riposte screen the arrow
is frozen as well . he was just
trying to log on

‘Closed

10/03/00 13:20)

30/03/00 08:54}

153405)

HD01

ISMC1

RNM states that the gateway
crashes at least 3 or 4 times a
week now, but in the beginning
it was at least 2 times a day -
An Engineer has been out to
Iswap the base unit in the past
land advised that they should
have a Pentium 3 not a
Pentium 2 processor

E-0003130

(Closed

13/03/00 09:07,

43/03/00 09:10}

153405]

'sD02

IHSH1

Pm rang to say that the main
lgateway has crashed this
morning. He has rebooted and
this solved the problem. He ws
told to ring in to report this.

E-0003200

‘Closed

20/03/00 10:48

20/03/00 10:51

153405]

S02

HSH1

The gateway has crashed, it
lhas Stop0x0000000a on the
screen with a blue background.

£-0003210

[Closed

21/03/00 08:54)

22/03/00 15:18)

183405]

S002

ISMC1

[gateway has blue nt screen with]
stop message, this has
happened very regularly and
pm is re-booting almost
dally,ref:0002240009,00030100
'31,0003070610,0003080691 ,01
182372993,01132372003,0113
2373714. he had already begun
re-boot this morning on his own

POL00118221
POL00118221

0003280

(Closed

99)

4:00 AM]

28/03/00 09:08)

40/04/00 14:31

753405)

SD01

ISMC1

PM states that system has
already crashed this moring.
[System was rebooted and has
crashed again. This has
loccured within 10mins of each
lother. ***STOP 0x0000000A.

Closed

38

28/03/00 12:53

28/03/00 12:57

153405}

S02

IHSH4

[Pm says the gateway counter
has crashed again.

Closed

3B

28/03/00 17:58]

29/03/00 09:18

153405]

S002

SMC1

Counter printer not working -
green ready light on steady -
trying to print giro report at first
lbut then tried cheques listing
that did not work either - not run
lout of paper - problem first
fioticed approx 16.45 printing
giro report - PM went live 07.0

-000331

SJ
o

Closed

3B

31/03/00 08:55)

31/03/00 08:57

153405)

'SD01

}HSH1

gate way turned on and has
blue screen with
ISTOPX0000000XA.

30003311

Closed

2c

31/03/00 17:35)

01/04/00 09:20)

153405)

SD02

ISMC1

FThe system Keeps crashing and
IS DOING 3 or 4 times a day

land is getting worse. They have]

had several base units installed
ut the problem persists

Call Close

:-0004051

Closed

2c

(05/04/00 17:04]

01/05/00 14:06

153405]

'SD02

ISMC1

Caller Caller has putin some
travellers cq s and it came off
the screen and she had to log
in again

7-0004053

Closed

05/04/00 17:53]

13/04/00 17:21

153405)

iCC24

IUKSS2

[OBC work schedule. Engineer
to site 7/4/00 at 13:00 to
increase the number of
icounters from 4 to 5. Additional
counter equipment shipped to
PREO2 FAO Imraan Rawat
5/4/00.

Call Close &
complete

:-000406Q

Closed

3B

06/04/00 09:19}

(06/04/00 13:37

153405]

IHDO8

HSH1

pm reports that BOP OKI laser
[printer not working

100406

Closed

3B

06/04/00 12:56,

06/04/00 13:01

153405}

[SD02

IHSH1

Roger Harrison - this morning

06/03/00 scre

>

POL00118221

POL00118221

[Closed

3B

(06/04/00 14:02

08/04/00 13:58)

753405]

iCC24

ASHT

please swap Gateway tomorrow]
in addition to adding an extra
counter.

Closed’

2c

08/04/00 12:46

(08/04/00 13:02

753405)

ADO

IHSH1

PM reports that she is

Closed

3B

10/04/00 11:41

10/04/00 15:39}

153405}

INDO2

ISMC1

On Node 5- 2,3 & 4 are
disconnected - this was also
happening on Saturday and
they had a message on
[Saturday saying disconnected
from the network - the base
units are all switched on seem
to functioning fine, Please
investigate...

(Call Close
reboot all

Closed

99]

4:00 AM

10/04/00 16:46

49/04/00 12:48}

153405)

INDO2

IHSH1

ike Croshaw at SSC rang on
behalf of this FAD to say wants
this call routed to CFM3 so that
they can liaise with Energis re
the quality of teh ISDN fine as
ithe line seems to be losing
Packets on standard Ping tests.

Closed

4:00 AMI

41/04/00 09:32

25/05/00 15:24)

153405}

SD02

EDSC1

PM is calling due to existing
problem call E-
10004100575(Which is closed
now, Just for info). PM was
getting problems with the
gateway where it was crashing
a lot in the mornings.
((0x0000000A). PM has got that
again. Also som of the counters,
fare running

Carroll

17/04/2000

Closed

3B

11/04/00 13:26)

17/04/00 12:25

153405}

INDO3

ISMC1

please allocate engineer to site
jto check cables and land
connections to counters

Closed

3B

12/04/00 19:54}

22/04/00 22:09}

153405)

NDO2

ISMC1

[Arrange to put the ISDN out of
service for 2 to 3 days to test
the circuit on this post office -
lhave been many problems with
comms.

POL00118221
POL00118221

bey

=-0004130 [Closed 7 38 73704700 10:36] I 13/04/00 10:40] I 153405] IS [sboz SHt [Pm reports that node 5 Is,
——ES getting an error message when
trying to log on “cannot perform
lsesion transfer while
processing report”.

E-0004141) [Closed af I 4:00 Am] I 14/04/00 17:01] I 17/04/00 10:20] I 153405I /S SD02 HSHT [Repeated blue screen on
ae Gateway. PLease replace
Igateway UNit.

B 09/05/00 11:36] I 10/05/00 00:23] I 153405] IS S007 SMT "Stop: Ox0000000A
&-0008089 ICiosed 4 I(0xA2A2A2,0x000000FF 0x000
100001 ,0x000000008370C4)
RQL not less or equal."
message on blue screen on
Igateway station. No-one was
lJogged on at the time.

Zz Closed of f2c 01/06/00 12:32] 01/06/00 12:51 163405] JA IADO3 HSH1 PM reports that last night he
£-0006011 produced ONCH declaration
last night and it showed some
things which the Pm is nt aware
of.

Closed oO} j2Cc 21/06/00 12:49] 21/06/00 13:16 153405] JA IAD03 IHSH4 IPM has called to say that they
need us to send a print out of
the calls that they have made to}
lus from 7th February. They are
Ibeing liable for alot of money
jand need to proof that they
have called us. They mainly
Ineed the reference numbers.

Closed Oo} f2c 26/06/00 10:53} 26/06/00 11:02] 153405) JA JAD 14 HSH1 IPM has a cash shortage that is
held in susp acc, Susp acc now I
shows double the original
igure.

Closed Oo} j2c 05/07/00 19:29) 05/07/00 19:32, 153405] IA IAD03 HSH1 IPM wanted to reboot that his
system was running slow when
completing his roll over

&

POL00118221

POL00118221

0007080

Closed

3B

08/07/00 00:12

70/07/00 14:40}

153405)

}SD02

ISMC Evts

(Critical event received for
‘counter 3 - "The device
\devicelsiscport, did not
respond within the timeout
period”

Cali Close b

-0007181I

(Closed

2c

18/07/00 15:27

48/07/00 16:17]

453405)

SHI

PM had a discrepancy last
lweek in there individual su AF
lof £419 they transfered this
jamount out of AF and into AA
but when they balanced AF this
week it still showed a gain of
£419.

jeatty: Call
SandemanI

0007193

Closed

3B

19/07/00 19:09)

20/07/00 11:01

153405}

1HD07

SMC1

[counter printer has flashing
lorange light and will not print,
Paper has been changed and
put in properly. printer has beenI
turned off and back on. test
print tried, but did not print-~
printer only clicks,

0007201

Closed

2c

‘20/07/00 12:51

20/07/00 13:25]

153405}

HSH1

has discrepancy of
2219,80pounds and last night
first adjusted stock then
ideciared it now would like to get
rid of disc. Also relates to
previous closed call e-
10007181540

Call Close By

lpm to call
pmhtec

0007201,

Closed

2c

20/07/00 15:03}

20/07/00 15:11

153405]

X105

IHSH1

lpm reports a descrepancy of
I2219.80 and has rolled over,
pm has spoken to nbsc and
Iwas advised to call us back

0007210

Closed

99)

4:00 AM]

2107/00 11:15]

25/07/00 09:08}

153405]

INDO3

ISMC1

IFAD 183405 has not polled for
2 days since the 19/07/00.
Please ping and why has it not
polled

Line fault

0008021)

Closed

2c

02/08/00 12:51

02/08/00 12:59}

153405)

X105,

HSH1

[pm had an error notice for a
giro in payment, attached to it
Iwas a receipt which the pm had
never seen before

Call Close
IPMHTCC

0008172}

Status

Severity
2c

Opened
17/08/00 14:56

Closed
17/08/00 15:03)

Site
153405}

Call_Type
F

Problem_Tyt

FDO2

Problem_Co

Team
IHSH1

Problem Text
pm wants a to preform a buy
back on the system but dosen't
have the buy back icon

POL00118221
POL00118221

£-0008181I

[Closed

2c

78/08/00 13:56]

78/08/00 14:03]

153405}

IAGO6

IHSH1

Pm wants to know whether its
correct to transfer cash Into
different su.

£-0008233

Closed

3B

23/08/00 19:22

23/08/00 19:24)

153405}

SDO6

HSH1

Counter 3 has been frozen on
‘printing report’ for 3/4 an hour

£-0008233

Closed

2c

23/08/00 19:40}

23/08/00 19:44)

153405]

IAGO6

HSH1

PM has re-booted and got a
blue screen

£-0008300

‘Closed

38

30/08/00 11:04

31/08/00 12:38}

153405}

IsD02

SMC1

(Cleardesk not run as active
luser detected - Host
h15340500102 KEL Title: A
[corrupt index page was
detected KEL Reference:
MWright5052P.htm

£-0008302

Closed

2c

30/08/00 15:48}

30/08/00 21:58}

153405)

KAO3

HSH1

fon counter 7 trying to balance
land said still showing
mandatory report

E-000830:

~J

Closed

3B

30/08/00 17:59]

04/09/00 16:14

153405}

TR14

SMC1

lone of the clerks Is doing a
lbalance- a withdrawal that was
jdone is appearing on the report
land they have not done one.

E-0008312)

(Closed

2c

31/08/00 15:57

31/08/00 15:59]

183405]

IAGOG

HSH1

pm wanted to know when SMC
would call her back

£-0009052)

(Closed

3B

05/09/00 17:52)

(05/09/00 17:55

153405)

isD02

HSHT

Trying to preview a balance and
the screen Is not moving.

£-0009204

Closed

2c

20/09/00 19:07

20/09/00 19:10)

153405)

SH Cia

individual A2Ux no entry sign
lon office bal

£-0010043

(Closed

2c

(04/10/00 17:52

153405)

X106,

HSH1

pm wants to reverse an ap from
lanother day

E-0010091

Closed

3B

(09/10/00 13:20

09/10/00 13:25]

153405)

ISD02

HSH1

Caller can not get the giro print
outs and he can get 1 page but
not the second

E-0010161I

Closed

3B

16/10/00 13:05)

16/10/00 17:09)

153405)

HD07

ISMC1

PM is having trouble with the
counter printer on counter 5. It
won't print his giro dep report.

~0010253

Closed

3B

25/10/00 16:04)

01/11/00 16:55)

153405]

fsD02z

HSHT

lpm stock unit aa has a big
discrepancies and stock unit
has loads of stock in stock
balancing which should not be
there.

POL00118221
POL00118221

70010311}

Closed

2c

31/10/00 11:57,

31/10/00 12:05)

153405]

HSH1

[pm has a discrepency inher
trial balance. There are all sorts
lof transactions showing minus
figures. Stock Unit AA

0011012

3

—

Closed

3B

01/11/00 13:42I

07/11/00 16:27]

153405]

S002

ISMC1

IPM has noticed that the adjust
stock figures from shared SU
IAA are showing In shared SU
RU and vice versa. PM viewed
the adjust stock figures in SU
RJ and it showed 20 x £20
[smartcreds that were remmed
into SU AA on 25.10 at 11.24
with session ID 5-6

-0011014)

Closed

2c

01/11/00 17:46

01/11/00 17:49)

153405}

X107

HSH1

[Duplicate call e-0011012223

0011015

Closed

2c

04/11/00 19:06

01/11/00 19:07)

153405)

(AGO6

HSH1

[call cancelled

-001102

Closed

2c

02/11/00 08:13

02/11/00 08:33}

153405}

xIO7

HSH1

follow up to open call e-
10011012223

70011020

[Closed

2c

02/11/00 09:14]

02/11/00 09:47

183405]

XxIO7

IHSH1

repeat call ref e-0011012223

70011021

Closed

99]

4:00 AMI

02/11/00 11:18]

21/11/00 14:41

153405}

IMCO1

IHSH4

RNM Is not happy that no one
has rang back with regards to
call e-0011012223, she has
lbeen promised many callbacks
but no one has carried them
through. RNM now reports that
all the stock units have been
rolled over into the next CAP
jafter adjusting stoc

ee

POL00118221
POL00118221

0011021)

[Closed

3B

02/11/00 11:40

02/11/00 11:42

153405)

S001

HSH1

Elaine reports that one of the
counters has a blue screen with
the msg STOPoxoooo00a

0011081)

Closed

3B

(08/71/00 12:17I

08/17/00 16:24

153405}

SD02

IHSH14

call regarding 0011021303, pm
advises that the ssame problemI
lis occuring le they have two
Ishared su. The aa su and 1 su.
They say stock from fj su
[appears on aa su, and stock
{from aa su apears on 1 su.

0011084

Closed

2c

(08/11/00 16:46)

08/11/00 16:50

183405)

AGS.

IHSH1

PM says that her gateway
keeps freezing, and wants to
know if we know why.

0011140

Closed

10

14/11/00 09:48}

14/11/00 09:52]

153405)

IAGO6-

IHSH1

[pm wanted to find a trans on
the 17th of feb

fd refered to

0011180

x

N

Closed

3B

18/11/00 09:42

18/11/00 09:46)

153405)

[SDOT

HSH1

IPM REPORTED THAT
IMESSAGE ON SCREEN
ISAYING THE COUNTER HAS:
INOW RECONNECTED
IPFOCEED

0011202

Closed

2c

20/1700 14:56

20/11/00 15:04

153405)

TROS:

IHSH1

[Pm reports been onto the other
number trying to transfer all
foreign currency from one stock
lunit to another

0011203

[Closed

2c

20/1100 17:26

20/11/00 17:44

153405)

[SD01

IHSH1

pm had error message desktop
[exe application error
}oxc0000800xx77188e01.close
lor ok.

2011212

Closed

3B

21771700 14:42,

27/02/01 10:47

183405)

SD02

HSH4

[Outbound call - I contacted this
office to resolve a complaint,
land the PM mentioned that she
has been having difficulties with
Foreign Currency, in that she
lhad remmed It in through other
MOP, Foreign currency sterling
jequivalent, checked her adjust
st

Call Close
Closed by

&

POL00118221

POL00118221

(Closed [2c 22/11/00 18:20] I 92/11/06 16:25] I 153405) [sD02 SAT PM rang to say that he was [Call Close Chudasama:
trying to produce a report for PMHTC
the redeemed saving stamp
land got a error message on the I
screen saying "EOD Runtime
Error 450 - wrong number of
arguments - invalid property
assignments’.

Closed 2c 22/11/00 20:00} 22/11/00 20:05} 153405) IAGO6 HSH1 ICi4: want to know how to \Call Close jaht Clarke:
modify ttwo share SU into two IPMHTCC
indivual SU.

Closed 3B 26/11/00 23:07 27/11/00 13:31 153405) 'SD02 ISMC Evts I {Event received on \Call Close
H15340500103: Device Reboot sug
\device\scsiport0 did not levents, clo
respond within the timeout
period. KEL
IRColeman1253J.htm advises of
reboot.

:.0011291] IClosed 3B 29/11/00 13:23 05/03/01 19:06) 153405} SD02 IHSH5S pm said that all her stock Call Close
a seems to be mixed up again can be clo:

after the upgrade.

Closed 3B 29/11/00 14:02) 29/11/00 14:18) 153405} SD02 }HSH1 pm reports the bar code reader
isnt scanning any bar codes.
light works and the noise
comes on.

Closed 2c 29/11/00 14:59) 29/11/00 15:03) 153405) TR14 HSH1 pm wants to know why the
foreign currency sterling figure I -Ipmhtcc
is not on the foreign currency
isu.

Closed 2c 29/11/00 18:47 29/11/00 18:51 153405} IAGO6 IHSH1 \ci4. pm wished to speak to Call Close
Ross Willmott regarding call ICaller tran: Ross
reference e-0011291662. Willmott.

Closed 2c 30/11/00 09:32, 30/11/00 09:35) 153405) IAGO6 IHSH1 PM called last night and had Call Close
{forgotten the reference number.} IPM want.

{from calli la ced PM

+
Mrs J Wolstenholme Contact Susanne Helliwell
i OurRef NK SJH cf
G RO i 1485.1
L ence ! Your Ref
Date 29 April 2003
Dear Madam

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

Further to our letter dated 16 April 2003, we are now in receipt of your amended Defence
and Counterclaim. In that regard we have noted that the amended Defence and
Counterclaim is in an identical form to that served in June 2001 save that certain sections
have been underlined in red. We should be grateful if you would clarify the position
accordingly.

You will appreciate that there has been considerable slippage in the timetable for
Directions set by the Court on 10 February 2003. In particular, your amended Defence
and Counterclaim was served considerably out of time, you have yet to serve your List of
Documents and you have yet to request inspection of our client's List of Documents.

This has therefore meant that we have been unable to deal with the other Directions
given by the Court regarding expert evidence and exchange of witness statements.

In the circumstances, we look forward to receiving your List of Documents by return,
failing which, we will have no alternative but to make an Application to the Court seeking
an Order that unless you do serve your List of Documents within a period of 7 days of the
date of the Order, your Defence and Counterclaim be struck out. We trust that this will
not be necessary and we look forward to hearing from you accordingly. We would
however point out that even if your List of Documents is served, it may be necessary for
us to make a joint Application to the Court seeking an extension to the timetable set for
compliance with the various Directions.

We await hearing from you.

Yours faithfully

WEIGHTMAN VIZARDS

Ay

TALMC\PRIVATEWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\4845.1\LETTSIWOLSTENHOLME-290403,D0C

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

2 May, 2003

Weightman vizards

41 Spring Gardens.

Manchester REF NK SJH cf
M2 2BG 1485.1
Dear Madam:

Re. Letter dated 29/04/03 I have amended my counterclaim, parts underlined in red are now not
included in my claim. Also I acknowledge receipt of your amended Particulars of Claim.

I wrote to you requesting extra time to submit my counterclaim and you replied granting this. The List of
Documents you request is attached. I now request inspection of your client's List of Documents.

As far as I understood you were requested to appoint a Computer Expert and I would pay half the
costs, I await further instructions regarding this matter.

As a layman I did not realise that I had to request your List of Documents, I thought that as this was a
direction from the court they would be automatically sent.

I am quite upset with the attitude in your letter, please bare in mind I am just a layperson trying my best
to understand legal procedure.

Sincerely,

J. WOLSTENHOLME

AS
N

£3

Contact Susanne Helliwell

Our Ref NK SJH jw
1485.1

Your Ref

Date 14 May 2003

Dear Madam

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme
Thank you for your letter dated 2 May 2003, the contents of which we have noted.

As regards your amended Defence and Counterclaim, as we understand the position, the
parts underlined in red have in effect been deleted from your Defence and Counterclaim
and you do not propose to make any additional amendments to the Defence and
Counterclaim in response to our client's Amended Particulars of Claim.

We acknowledge receipt of your List of Documents and we should be grateful if you
would provide us with copies of 2-21 inclusive. We confirm that we will be responsible for
your reasonable photocopying charges.

As regards your request for inspection of our client's documents, we should be grateful if
you would confirm whether you wish to make arrangements to inspect our client’s
documents at our offices or whether you require copies of specific items referred to in our
client's List. In the event that you require copies of specific items, we should be grateful if
you would identify which items you require to be copieD and confirm that you will be
reasonable for our reasonable photocopying charges in respect thereof.

As regards the appointment of a Computer Technology Expert, whilst we did indicate at
the Case Management Conference on 10 February 2003 that we would attempt to locate
a suitable expert, the instruction will still then be a joint instruction and whilst we will
prepare a letter of instruction for your consideration and approval, the instruction is not
our sole responsibility as it is a joint instruction on behalf of both parties.

Further, we have not been in a position to proceed further with the Direction regarding the
instruction of a Computer Technology Expert as the Expert will require copies of both

parties documents and we have only just received your List of Documents and have
therefore only just requested copies.

AL

‘TALMCIPRIVATEWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSIWOLSTENHOL ME-130503(2),D0C

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

Page 2

Our Ref: NK SJH jw
ia) 1485.1

Your Ref

Finally, as regards your request for the call log details to Horizon for the period from June
2000 to November 2000, our client does not have copies of these call log details and the
only call log details in our client's possession are those referred to in item 10 of our

client's List. .

Yours faithfully

WEIGHTMAN VIZARDS

7
19 May, 2003

Weight man Vizards

41 Spring Gardens REF NK SJH jw
Manchester 1485.1

M2 2BG

Dear Madam:
Re: your letter dated 14/05/03. The contents are noted.

Para. 2. The items deleted are as shown. Unfortunately I did not notice your change of paragraph
numbers, these are now amended. Copy to follow.

Para. 3. Copies 2-21 to follow.

Para. 4. I require copies of the specific items to be sent to me when you send your clients List of
Documents, as yet not received.

Para. 5. You will recall you ajreed to instruct a Computer Technology expert as soon as possible, if this
is a problem are you agreeable for me to instruct an expert?

Para. 6. See Para. 3.

Para. 7. It seems rather convenient that these call logs cannot be obtained, when these would show
even more problems with the computers. I insist that you get them for me. 1 am today writing to the

Judge for him to note that you will not produce the call logs from June to November 2000, which is vital
evidence.

1 would like to note that I am at a loss as to what you are now claiming for. I presume that the items
underlined in red on your amended claim are now omitted. I told you when we went to court in February
that you could collect safes and alarms. The computers can be taken as soon as the expert has looked
at them.

Julie Wolstenholme

POL00118221
POL00118221
Contact Susanne Helliwell

Our Ref NK SJH jw
1485.1

Your Ref

Date 29 May 2003

Dear Madam

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme
Thank you for your letters dated 19 and 21 May 2003.

Dealing firstly with your letter dated 19 May 2003, as regards our client's List of
Documents, the List was sent to your solicitors under cover of our letter dated 24 March
2003. The List was properly served upon your solicitors as they were still on the Court
record at that time and in fact, they remain on the Court record as no Notice of Change of
Solicitor has been filed to indicate that you are now acting in person. Accordingly, it is our
understanding that any Court Notices or Orders will be sent by the Court to your solicitors
as opposed to yourself.

Notwithstanding this, we enclose a further copy of our client's List of Documents together
with copies of the items referred to therein. We have not included copies of items 1 and 2
as these items comprise documents and correspondence which are common to the
parties.

As regards the instruction of a Computer Technology Expert, we are willing to instruct an
Expert but as stated in our letter dated 14 May 2003, we were unable to do so until we
had received your List of Documents and copies of your documents. Now that we have
received the same we will accordingly proceed to locate a suitable expert and revert to
you accordingly.

As regards the call log details to Horizon for the period from June 2000 to November
2000, we have already set out our client's position with regard thereto in our letter dated
14 May 2003. As stated in that letter, our client does not have copies of the call log
details as they are retained by Horizon.

As regards our client's claim, you appear to have misunderstood the position regarding
the amendments made to our client’s Particulars of Claim. For the avoidance of doubt,

m4

TALMC\PRIVATEWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSIWOLSTENHOLME-290503.D0C

POL00118221
POL00118221
Page 2

Our Ref: NK SJH jw

_ 1485.1

Your Ref

the words underlined in red are words which have been added to the Particulars of Claim
and the words which are deleted are those with a red line through them. Accordingly, you

will note that our client is claiming losses in the sum of £25,034.04 together with the
return of the equipment.

As regards the recovery of the equipment, we note that you are willing to allow our client
to collect the safes and the alarm from the premises and that the computer equipment
can be removed from the premises following inspection by the Expert. As regards the
scales, we understand that it is your contention that Elaine Tagg removed them from the
premises. In this regard, we understand that an inventory was prepared detailing the
items removed from the premises and items which remained on the premises.
Unfortunately our client does not have a copy of the inventory and we should therefore be
grateful if you would confirm whether you have a copy of the inventory and if so provide
us with a copy of the same.

Finally, returning to your letter dated 21 May 2003, we acknowledge receipt of your re-
amended Defence together with your new List of Documents and copy documents.

Yours faithfully

WEIGHTMAN VIZARDS

Enc. Claimants List of Documents

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

Mrs J Wolstenholme Contact Susanne Helliwell

Our Ref NK SJH ame
14845.1

Your Ref

Date 8 July 2003

Dear Madam

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

We refer to previous correspondence regarding the removal of the scales from the
premises and in that regard, we now enclose a copy of the inventory of the items
removed from the premises from which you will note that the scales were not in fact
removed. We trust that this clarifies the position.

Yours faithfully

WEIGHTMAN VIZARDS

r Enc.

30

TALMCIPRIVATEWWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845. {LETTS\WOLSTENHOLME 080703006

Contact Susanne Helliwell

Our Ref NK SJHrb
1485.1

Your Ref

Date I August 2003

Dear Madam

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

Further to your recent telephone conversation with our Miss Helliwell, we enclose copies
of the call logs received from our client for the period from 9 February 2000 to 30
November 2000. You will note that the call logs are in a different form to those previously
disclosed and our client is attempting to obtain copies of the call logs in the more
comprehensive form of those previously disclosed. We will keep you advised of the
position.

In the meantime, we enclose a copy of our client's letter to this firm which sets out the
position with regard to the inspect of the computer equipment. In view of the contents of
our client's letter, we propose making enquiries of Best Practice pic to ascertain whether
an opinion can be given based only on the computer call logs in accordance with
paragraph 4a of the Order made on 7 July 2003. We should be grateful if you would
confirm your agreement to this course of action.

Yours faithfully

WEIGHTMAN VIZARDS

ENCS Call logs
Copy of Jim Cruise’s letter of 24 July 2003

GOL

\\FPO3SVR\TEAMS\LMC\PRIVATEW OLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSIWOLSTENHOLME-310703,D0C

POL00118221
POL00118221
24 s2003

Catherine Churchard LLB
Solicitor & Legal Services Director

Susanne Helliwell
Weightman Vizard
Solicitors

41 Spring Gardens
Manchester

M2 2BG

Dear Susanne,

Re: Post Office Limited -v- Julie Wolstenholme
Our Ref: LD/61926/JAC/en
Your Ref: SJH jw 14845.1

1am writing to you to deal with the question of the Horizon computer equipment
at Cleveleys Post Office and the Court Order dated the 7” July 2003 relating to
the evidence on the computer.

Post Office Limited, which is responsible for the operation of Sub Post Offices
such as Cleveleys Sub Post Office, has a contract with Fujitsu in respect of the
Horizon computer equipment at the Sub Post Offices. The Horizon computer
equipment itself is owned by Fujitsu Services until the end of the contract with
Post Office Limited. Neither Post Office Limited nor the individual Sub
Postmaster has any right to retain the computer equipment which remains the
property of Fujitsu Services at all times. The computer equipment is supplied
by Fujitsu Services to Post Office Limited which loans it to the individual Sub
Postmaster for use in the preparation of the Sub Post Office accounts.

The Horizon computer equipment was installed in most Post Offices in 1999.
Fujitsu Services charge Post Office Limited £1,500 per item per year to keep the
equipment on a Sub Post Office premises.

The Horizon system went live at Cleveleys on 10" February 2000 and the Sub
Post Office at Cleveleys closed on the 30" November 2000. It is understood
that the computer equipment was left plugged in and running for some time
after the office closed and the data would therefore have been archived. Fujitsu
Services have informed Post Office Limited that their technicians would not be
able to retrieve the data in these circumstances.

In 1999 and 2000 the data was stored in Fujitsu's data warehouse for a period
of time which was 13 weeks. However, the data warehouse would not have
held data such as stock units, cash holdings, etc. The data warehouse held
transaction details only.

‘TAuitigation\Postal Lit Work Folders\Cruise Jim\WOLSTENHOLME 61926\weightmans lett.2. 24.07.03.doc

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 1 of 2
Royal Mai isa trading raame of Royal Mail Group ple. Registered number 4138203,

Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ. &O. g

POL00118221
POL00118221

Royal Mail
Ld

The Real Network

Legal Services
Impact House
2 Edridge Road
Croydon

CR9 1PJ

Cont.

Beyond the data warehouse Fujitsu have a message store which holds greater
detail. This detail is held for 35 days in an accessible area and after that time it
is archived. I have been informed by Fujitsu that prior to the 1" April 2003 this
detail was only held for 18 months. The position is now that since the 1" April
2003 Fujitsu hold message store information for 7 years.

However, no transaction details are now available and accessible for the period
1999 and 2000.

As far as a computer expert looking at the Horizon computer equipment is
concerned, I am informed that very little data would be on the computer itself as
all the information is line fed and not held on disc. If somebody apart from an
authorised Fujitsu employee tried to obtain information from the equipment this
would not be possible as the equipment is specifically designed not to be
intercepted and the stored information is encrypted.

1am enclosing copies of e-mails dated the 4" of July 2003 from Reg Barton of
Fujitsu and from John Moran of Fujitsu which confirms the above.

The position is therefore that there is no retrievable data for a computer expert
to look at for the period in question ending the 30" November 2000. As you are
aware, there is a copy of the call logs which would be only data available to the
expert. Please take up with the expert whether he or she would be able to
Prepare a report on this basis.

In the circumstances I have not forwarded the cheque for the computer expert’s
fees as it would appear that the computer expert will not be able to assist in
relation to the operation of the Horizon computer equipment in 1999 and 2000
at Cleveleys Post Office.

If you require further information in relation to the computer equipment, please
let me know.

Yours sincerely

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 2 of 2 sot

POL00118221
POL00118221
, 04/07/2003 16:34 Talbot.

Mandy Talbot To: susannehelliwel:

cc:
04/07/2003 17:28 Subject: RE: Cleveleys SPSO

Mandy Talbot

Royal Mail Legal Services
Impact House

2 Edridge Road
CROYDON CR9 1PJ

e/POSTOFFICE on 04/07/2003 17:28 ——

Kevin Parkin To: Jim Cruise’. , Mandy

80.
4 ce:

3 Subject: RE: Cleveleys SPSO
Second of two e-mails.

Basically it tells us that Fujitsu have no record of any transactions going back this far.

I would appreciate it if you could advise me when the subpostmaster is agreeable to releasing the
equipment and I will make arrangements.

Kev

Kevin Parkin

Implementation Area Manager
Post Office Ltd

IT

Room 107 - 1st floor, Leeds CDO, 3 Infirmary St, LEEDS, LS1 1AJ

on 04/07/2003 16:32 ——-

: “Barton Reg S.G" 4
Parkin™ <i

Welsh Julie
b

Reg,

This information is no longer in the DWh. The DWh only hold data for 13
weeks. In any case the DWh tends not to hold data to the level needed for
these types of investigations, i.e it does not hold user ID's or SAP’,
SAN's, declarations, transfers, Stock units, Cash holdings etc... The DWh
holds transaction detail only.

Beyond the DWh there is the message store which holds much more detail (the
things listed above). This detail is held for 35 days in an accessible
area. After 35 days it is archived. When archived this data can be
accessed by the litigation support team who liase with Graham Ward (POL)
who

can request this data. Previous to April 1 2003 this detail was only held
for 18 months. Since April 1 we now hold message store information for 7

30S

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

years.

In any case it would appear that any date in 2001 is well beyond the 18
mont? threshold thus there is nothing we can do on this one.

> Original Message-----
> Barton Reg S.G
> 2 04 July 2003 08:35
> To: Kevin Parkin

> Cc: Dave Law; Miller Denise; Sewell Peter (FEL01); Crow Nick; Welsh
> Julie; Moran John

> Subject: Cleveleys SPSO
>

>

>

>

>

Kevin,

I understand from Denise that POL have been raising some questions about
Cleveleys SPSO, where I understand that the Postmaster is in possession

> (2?) sets of Horizon equipment dating back since 2001, which she
maintains
were responsible for poor balancing.

Fujitsu Services (until the end of the contract, when we sell you the lot

for £1). The Postmaster is not within her rights to retain the
equipment,

and if she decided to get someone to try and "hack" into it, then firstly
this could be constituted as criminal damage, and secondly it will be a
waste of hers and her “hackers” time, as the equipment is specifically
designed to be very resilient to this sort of attack, and the stored
information is encrypted. On top of that, if my memory serves me right,
the equipment was left plugged in and running for some time after the
office closed - so all the data would have been archived off; not even
ar

technicians could retrieve it, and they know what they are doing!!

>
>
> To answer the specific queries raised, the Horizon equipment is owned by
>
>

ovvvvvvy

Data is stored in the data warehouse for some time - but after a
relatively short period it becomes a lengthy exercise to retrieve it. I

doubt that we could retrieve data from 2001 now; John M - can you
comment ?

vvvvv

I have also copied this to Peter Sewell., our security manager, for his
awareness, and Dave Law and Nick Crow as I do remember that this office
was visited (several times, from memory) by Claudia Walker - a Fujitsu
Field Service Manager.

This clearly isn't an OBC matter - so I would suggest that any ongoing
queries should rest with Dave, who now owns the problem office
responsibility.

Best wishes,

Reg Barton
Strategic Services Manager - Post Office Account
Fujitsu Services ,

Lovelace Road,

Bracknell,

Berkshire,

RG12 8SN_

Mobile: I
Telephone [
Fujitsu Services Internal

VVVVVVVVVV VV VV VV VV VV
POL00118221
POL00118221

RECEIED ON
9,2 Aus 2003

19 August, 2003

Weightman Vizards
41 Spring Gardens
Manchester

M2 2BG

Dear Madam:

Re. Your letter dated 1 August 03. 1 agree with your next course of action to contact Best Practice PLC
to find out if an opinion can be given based only on computer call logs.

Sincerely,

J Wolstenholme

80)
Mrs J Wolstenholme Contact Susanne Helliwell

GRO Our Ref NK SJH rb

1485.1

Your Ref

Date 3 September 2003

Dear Madam

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme
Thank you for your letters dated 4 and 19 August 2003.

As regards your letter dated 4 August 2003, we have already set out our position in our
letter dated 1 August 2003 with regard to the call logs. We can confirm that our client has
contacted Miss Tagg to ascertain whether she has copies of the call logs and she has
confirmed that she does not have any papers whatsoever relating to this matter.

We confirm that we have written to Best Practice pic to ascertain whether a report can be
prepared without inspecting the computer system and based solely on the call logs. In
that regard, we enclose a copy of our letter to Best Practice pic, the contents of which are
self-explanatory.

Further, we refer to your recent telephone conversation with our Miss Helliwell in which it
was agreed that the forthcoming Case Management Conference on 5 September 2003
be adjourned to the next available date after 26 September 2003 and enclose a copy of
our letter to the Court, the contents of which are self-explanatory. We look forward to
receiving a copy of your letter to the Court for our file.

We will contact you further once we hear from Best Practice plc.

Yours faithfully

Weightman Vizards

CK

TALMC\PRIVATEWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSWOLSTENHOLME-030903.0C

POL00118221
POL00118221
Mrs J Wolstenholme Contact Susanne Helliwell
I Our Ref NK SJH cf
1485.1

Your Ref

Date 7 November 2003

Dear Madam
Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

Further to our letter dated 17 October 2003, we enclose copies of further call logs which
our client has been able to obtain from Fujitsu of the period from 31 January 2000 to 30
November 2000. We should be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of the enclosed
logs.

As regards the comparable logs for the purposes of instructing the expert, our client is still
endeavouring to obtain a set of comparable call logs and we expect to be in a position to
confirm whether our client is able to obtain a comparable set of call logs early next week.

In the meantime, you will by now have had an opportunity to consider our client's witness
statements. In that regard, we would point out that the following documents exhibited to
Elaine Tagg’s witness statements did not form part of either our ‘client's disclosure or
your disclosure:

Letter dated 21 September 1999 from your father to Elaine Tagg

E-mail dated 12 October 1999 from Kim Sharp to Judith Gough

Report on Candidates for Subpostmastership

Brief analysis of calls to the Horizon Help Desk prepared by Elaine Tagg
Letter dated 9 July 2000 to yourself from Elaine Tagg

A number of the various forms of authority to carry a cash account shortage
Letter dated 10 November 2000 from yourself to Elaine Tagg

Report prepared by Carol Hargreaves

Letter dated 29 November 2000 from yourself to Elaine Tagg

10. Letter dated 15 December 2000 from our client to yourself

11. Letter dated 20 December 2000 from yourself to Mr Biolchi

12. Letter dated 20 December 2000 from yourself to Elaine Tagg

13. Letter dated 23 December 2000 from Tony Biolchi to yourself

14. Letter dated 3 January 2001 from Elaine Tagg to yourself

DONOALON >

BA

TALMC\PRIVATEIWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSIWOLSTENHOLME-07 1 103.D0C

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

© Page 2
Our Ref: NK SJH jw
1485.1

Your Ref

15. Letter dated 4 January 2001 from yourself to Elaine Tagg

16. Letter dated 9 January 2001 from Mr Patel to yourself and Mr Harrison
17. Letter dated 29 January 2001 from yourself to Elaine Tagg

18. Letter dated 26 January 2001 from Elaine Tagg to yourself

19. Letter dated 20 February 2001 from Elaine Tagg to yourself

Accordingly, we would wish to confirm that such documents represent further disclosure
on the part of our client.

Yours faithfully

Weightman Vizards

Gio
Contact Susanne Helliwell

Our Ref NK SJHkh
14845.1

Your Ref

Date 17 November 2003

Dear Madam

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

Further to your recent telephone conversation with our Miss Helliwell, we enclose a copy
of our letter to Best Practice Plc, the contents of which are self explanatory. We will keep
you advised of the position.

In the meantime, we have received your witness statements each of which have now
been verified by a statement of truth. In that regard, we note that in the case of your own
witness statement, it is the witness statement which was included in your List of
Documents and not that which was served together with your other witness statements
under cover of your letter of 5 August 2003. In the circumstances, we should be grateful
if you would confirm that the witness statement verified by a statement of truth enclosed
in your letter received on 14 November 2003 represents your evidence as opposed to the
statement which was served under cover of your letter dated 5 August 2003 which was
not verified by a statement of truth.

Yours faithfully

Weightman Vizards

Sil

TALMC\PRIVATEWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSIWOLSTENHOLME-071103.D0C

POL00118221
POL00118221
23 November, 2003

Weightman Vizard REF NK SJH JW
41 Spring Gardens
Manchester

M2 2BG.

Dear Miss Helliwell

I am now requesting in writing a few details that ! require, which have been verbally requagimgd in the
past but have Tiot been supplied.

I require a complete breakdown of the amount of £14229.23 which Post Office Counters Ltd state is
outstanding in losses. Showing each item in detail and what it relates to. (Viith prooi).

showing member of staff was responsi so-called errors. Copies of the computer pri
outs and copies of the pension and allowance dockets. I also request an explanation as to why.
‘over eighteen months to come to fight?

How can evidence of error notices (losses or Gains) be checked when computer evidence was not
available?

I would also like an explanation of why my salary of £19322.85 was retained before the proof of the so-
called losses of £25034.04 was fact?

Why when it was obvious in December 2000 that this case was going to be pursued through court were
ail computer details destroyed?

J have today written to Mr Coyne of Best Practice Group (copy Attached) together with copy of letter to
me on 28 April 2000 re system problems and copy of letter from PO Legal Services to you, which you
teceived'on 25 July 2003.

J Wolstenholme

Please note:!-confirm that the witness statements enclosed in-my letter'dated 14 November 2003 are
statements of truth.

BIL

POL00118221
POL00118221

24 November, 2003
Best Group Practice PLC
8 Victoria Quay

Preston
PR22YW

Dear Sir

Re Post Office Counters Lid v Julie Wolstenholme

I have been trying to contact you by telephone for the past week to no avail. Re the letter from Miss
Helliwell of Weightman Vizards dated 17 November 2003 and your letter to Miss Helliwell dated 19
September 2003.

It would not be possible for Post Office Counters Ltd to produce a similar Post Office because if their
computers were installed correctly there would be no call logs.

The Post Office area manager Elaine Tagg has stated that the problems were just ‘teething’.

I am requesting that with your computer expertise is it not possible after perusal of the calll logs to give
an opinion that there were obvious problems. I.e. Multiple base unit replacements. Engineer stating
“should have Pentium 3 not Pentium 2”. ISDN line getting overloaded. Area manager stating computers.
are very slow, much slower than any other offices she had attended. Different engineers’ stating it
needs increase of ram. ISDN failure. Hardware/software faults. Etc. Etc.

I have shown call logs to two people who teach computer technology, who after looking at the logs
wonder how we managed fo operate at all.

I attach a copy of a letter from the Post Office to me, showing that my office had been raised to an ‘A’
Priority which normally only applies to situations when the Post Office cannot operate at all.

1 also enclose copy of tetters sent to Miss Helliwell, because I find it hard to believe that information
from the computer system cannot be retrieved.

Sincerely,

Julie Wolstenholme

I confirm that I am responsible for 50% of your fees.

eu

POL00118221
POL00118221
Contact Susanne Helliwell

Our Ref NK SJH BTH kh
14845.1

Your Ref

Date 5 December 2003

Dear Madam

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

We refer to the above matter and in particular, the position regarding the Horizon
equipment which is set out in some detail in our client's letter to this firm dated 24 July
2003.

In view of the position regarding the Horizon equipment, we should be grateful if you
would confirm whether our client can now arrange for its removal as you will be aware
that the equipment is owned by Fujitsu services and in those circumstances, neither our
client nor yourself has any right to retain the equipment.

We await hearing from you.

Yours faithfully

Weightman Vizards

Sy

TALMCIPRIVATEIWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSWWOLSTENHOLME-051203.D0C,

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

6 January, 2004

‘Weightman Vizards
41 Spring Gardens
Manchester

M2 2BG

Dear Madam:

Re your letter dated 5 December 04. Mr Jason Coyne, the instructed computer expert has advised me
to retain the Horizon equipment until he has completed his report.

Sincerely,

$IS
POL00118221
POL00118221

&
~
Tr

21 January, 2004 r ECEIVED OM

Vi 23 JAN tT
41 Spring Gardens 3 ey
Manchester 2
M2286 Po
Dear Madam:

1 sent a letter to you on 25/11/03 copy attached. Unfortunately this tetter appears to have been lost in
the post. I hope this letter reaches you safely.

J Wolstenholme

Clb
POL00118221
POL00118221

~

21 January, 2004

Weightman Vizard REF NK SSH JW
41 Spring Gardens

Manchester

M2 2BG.

Dear Miss Helliwell

1 am now requesting in writing a few details that 1 require, which have been verbally requested in the
past but have not been supplied.

I require a complete breakdown of the amount of £14229.23 which Post Office Counters Lid state is
outstanding in losses. Showing each item in detail and what it relates to. (With proof).

Re the further amount of £10804.81 which is related to pension and allowances. I need a breakdown
showing which member of staff was responsible for the so-called errors. Copies of the computer print
outs and copies of the pension and allowance dockets. I also request an explanation as to why it took
over eighteen months to come to fight?

How can evidence of error notices (losses or Gains) be checked when computer evidence was not
available?

I would also like an explanation of why my salary of £19322.85 was retained before the proof of the so-
called losses of £25034.04 was fact?

Why when it was obvious in December 2000 that this case was going to be pursued through court were
all computer details destroyed?

I have today written to Mr Coyne of Best Practice Group (copy Attached) together with copy of letter to
me on 28 April 2000 re system problems and copy of letter from PO Legal Services to you, which you
received on 25 July 2003.

J Wolstenholme

Please note I confirm that the witness statements enclosed in my letter dated 14 November 2003 are
statements of truth.

3)
Mrs J Wolstenholme Contact Susanne Helliwell

Our Ref NK SJH cf
14845.1

Your Ref

Date 26 January 2004
Second Letter

Dear Madam
Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

Thank you for your letter dated 21 January 2004. We had in fact already received your
letter dated 23 November 2003 but we have been awaiting instructions from our client.
We have now received instructions and are able to respond as follows:

1. A statement showing the breakdown of outstanding losses arising at your sub-post
office is contained within our client's List of Documents at item number 34. This
document also lists the schedule prepared by the Benefits Agency in Northern Ireland
showing the Pension and Allowances discrepancies.

2. We understand that the individual dockets or paid Pension and Allowances orders are
no longer available as they are destroyed after a period of 12/18 months. Further, we
understand that it would not be possible to state which member of staff dealt with an
individual docket as the docket/order showing the identity of the assistant’s date
stamp is not available. You will however appreciate that you are contractually liable
for all losses caused by your assistants and our client only has to show that the loss
arose at your office. This is clearly shown by the schedules referred to above. As
regards the computer printouts, these would no longer be available for reasons which
you are already aware relating to the destruction of the computer data. We should
state that it does take some considerable time and many months for error notices to
be raised for Pension and Allowances orders as there are so many which are
submitted to Northern Ireland for checking. You will further appreciate that not all paid
orders are automatically checked as this would be physically impossible.

3. The error notices arise when discrepancies are discovered by the various agencies
who deal with transactions carried out at post offices. The error notices are not

dependant on the computer printouts and the documentation in support of the
discrepancies/errors are at item number 34 of our client's List of Documents.

BE

TALMCIPRIVATEWOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSIWOLSTENHOLME-260104-2ND.DOC.

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

@ Page P-
Our Ref: NK SJH jw
1485.1

Your Ref

4. As regards your salary, our client was satisfied that under its normal procedures,
losses were identified at Cleveleys sub-post office and that you were responsible for
them under your contract for services. You will appreciate that our client had a right of
set off of the losses against the remuneration due and that such remuneration was
deducted from the losses leaving a balance of £5711.19 being claimed by our client.

5. Proceedings were commenced by our client in April 2001 seeking only delivery up of
the goods and equipment at the former post office premises following your
suspension in November 2000. The fitness of the computer equipment was referred
to in your Defence and Counterclaim received in June 2001 and it is therefore not
correct to state that it should have been obvious to our client in December 2000 that
this was going to be an issue. As we now know, the computer records were only kept
for a limited period at that time under the procedures then existing. Unfortunately, it
was not apparent to our client's representatives at that time that the computer records
would feature so heavily in the preparation of the case. Further, you did not at any
time request that they be preserved.

We trust that we have explained the position.

Yours faithfully

Weightman Vizards

B14
POL00118221
POL00118221

@?

Weightman Vizards

44 Spring Gardens
Manchester
M2 2BG

Dear Madam:

Re your letter dated 26/01/04. When I have gathered together all information needed I will be replying
to this letter in great detail. This will show how misleading the Post Office is.

I refer to the General Form of Judgement or Order by Deputy District Judge Lambert on the 14/02/03.
At part 8 (on it appearing to the court that expert evidence is needed on the issues of liability/causation
and that the evidence should be given in the form of written reports of a single expert instructed jointly
by the parties in the field of computer technology.) Of the 90 fault logs examined 63 without doubt are
system related (70%) Yet in Elaine Tagg's statement she states that calls made were not technical
problems. Has she flied? (Sorry, not a true representation) In the experts opinion the technology
installed was clearly defective and could not be attributed to being of my making or operation of the
‘System. This in my opinion is conclusive evidence. } now refer you to my counterclaim.

Sincerely,

J Wolstenholme

POL00118221
POL00118221

Mrs J Wolstenholme Contact Susanne Helliwell

Our Ref NK SJH kh
14845.1

Your Ref

Date 27 February 2004

Dear Madam

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

Further to your letter dated 19 February 2004, we enclose a copy of our letter to Best
Practice Group Plc, the contents of which are self explanatory.

Yours faithfully

Weightman Vizards

Sr
POL00118221
POL00118221

~
Mr J Coyne Contact Susanne Helliwell
Best Practice Group pic
8 Victoria Quay Our Ref SJHkh
Riversway 14845-1
Preston
PR2 2YW Your Ref WEIG-1003-JB

Date 27 February 2004

Dear Sir

Post Office Limited v Mrs Julie Wolstenholme

We refer to your brief Opinion dated 20 January 2004 and in that regard, we enclose a
copy of the comments and responses of Fujitsu Services to the main points set out in
your report.

We should be grateful if you would consider the comments and responses and confirm
whether they in any way alter the opinions in your report.

We would appreciate your response during the course of the next seven days as there is
a Case Management Conference on 8 March 2004.

Yours faithfully

WEIGHTMAN VIZARDS

c.c Mrs J Wolstenholme

SUL

TALMIC\PRIVATE\WOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTSICOYNE -270204.D0C
RECEIVED ON
3° MAR 2004

29 February, 2004

Weightman Vizards
41 Spring Gardens
chester

Man

M2 2BG

Dear Madam:

Re your letter dated 26th January 2004 which once again show how misleading the Post Office are being.

4

This is not a breakdown, these are just figures. What is the £14109.91 for, please list how this
figure is arrived at. If this cannot be shown in detail, it is obviously down to computer error.
Miss Tagg states 38 errors in the Bureau De Change, yet the final balance shows £22.54 in
credit. Also Rems from other offices £200 please show proof.

Pensions and Allowances. This shows errors in the period 18/10/00 (week 30) to 22/11/00
(week 35) showing a total shortage of £10804.81. However most of this total is for 11/10/00
(week 29), which is not included. So week 29's amount cannot be counted, £5477.88.
Therefore so-called shortage is now £5326.93. This again shows Post Office incompetence.
These dockets were so called checked on the 28/06/01. Why though was the error notice not
issued then, with proof of the errors, because the dockets would still.be on hand only 7 months
after receipt? Or why was I not charged with fraud and taken to court, because it implies that I
claimed for 163 dockets that did not exist. But no, 11months later 24/05/02 the error notice
mysteriously appears, and isn't it amazing that 7 + 11 = 18 months, just the maximum period
when the dockets would have been destroyed. What is most puzzling is why were they
destroyed when a court case was pending. Why should I be expected to pay without proof and
the devious way this has been dealt with? When an error notice is sent out it states “The error
notice must either be brought to account or disputed” obviously ‘in this case it is disputed. A
not received any error notices for these losses. Also-you will notice at the top of the sheets an
attempt has been made fo hide the dates by blanking it out, as can be seen by the lines, but
one was missed. .So I will assume that they were all really checked on the 03/04/01. Why then
was nothing done about them for 13 months. All dockets are sent off at the end of each week,
and according to the Post Office are randomly checked, which is news to me. I was told they
were all checked. Then what are the chances of the same 2 staff checking my dockets for 4
weeks running? This whole episode has a very bad smell about it. Whitewash or stitch-up?

‘What documentation item 34 is a call log?

Re. The figures in paragraph 2. Balance outstanding £5711.19. Less amount not applicable
£5477.88. So called balance of losses £233.31.

In December 2000 the call logs were requested, they were never received. It was explained
that they were needed for court proceedings to take place. They were sent to Miss Tagg on
5/12/00. See item 137 of your evidence, why were theynot passed on to me? She continued to
talk about lack of call logs, again lacking in the truth department. Also see your evidence no
142 - 30/01/01” we are expecting her to take the case further”. Evidence no 144, 08/02/01
“meeting with solicitor and now feels in a position to start court proceedings.” It was handed
over to P.O Legal Department. This proves they knew. But they have still gone ahead and
conveniently destroyed everything.

tS

POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221
POL00118221

wa
Q © Page2 February 29, 2004

Finally, Re. Our conversation on 14/02/03 when Deputy District Judge Lambert thought that this whole
issue rested on the findings of a computer expert. It is obvious that Jason Coyne has no doubt that the
equipment was faulty and was not of my making or operation of the system.

According to the Law Society Directory of expert witnesses, under the heading Computer Evidence, Mr
Jason Coyne is the leading expert in the North West of England. I cannot therefore see any point in

Sincerely,

POL00118221
POL00118221

Mrs J Wolstenholme Contact Susanne Helliwell
G RO I Our Ref NK SJH cf
I 14845.1
Your Ref
Date 3 March 2004

Dear Madam
Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

Further to our letter dated 27 February 2004, we enclose for your information a.copy of an
e-mail received from Best Practice Group Plc.

Yours faithfully

Weightman Vizards

GUS

TALMC\PRIVATE\WOLSTENHOLME, MS J\14845.1\LETTS\WOLSTENHOLME-260104,D0C
POL00118221
POL00118221

Mrs J Wolstenholme Contact Susanne Helliwell

Our Ref NK SJHkh
14845.1

Your Ref

Date 25 March 2004

Dear Madam-

Post Office Counters Limited v Julie Wolstenholme

We refer to your letter dated 29 February 2004. In that regard, we should point out from
the outset that we are not prepared to litigate this case in correspondence. You will
appreciate that each party has given disclosure of documents and exchanged witness
statements and your comments on the evidence are matters for Trial and not matters for
continuing correspondence.

We should however point out that the reference made in our letter dated 26 January 2004
to item numbered 34 of our client's List of Documents should have been to item number
33 which is the documentation in support of the discrepancies/errors. We should

however state that item 34 is not a call log as indicated in your letter dated 29 February
2004.

Further, for the avoidance of doubt, it is not our client who has destroyed any documents.
In particular, the Benefits Agency in Northern Ireland to whom the pension and allowance
orders are sent have destroyed such documents. Our client acts as the Benefits
Agency's agent in the payment of benefits. Similarly, in the case of the call logs, Fujitsu
destroy the same after a period of time pursuant to its own internal policies. There has

accordingly been no attempt whatsoever on the part of our client to destroy or withhold
documents from you.

Yours faithfully

Weightman Vizards

SX

Si eeeteins mer AUR ME azinand RA
