POL00298382
POL00298382

From: Alan Bateg- ~~
Sent: Sun 18/08/2013"
To: E
Ce: cp
fon. warrpinatoo:
Crichton,
andrew. parsonsé...
Bogerdf._ Andy Holt[é
Subject: Comments on Phase 1 Pack

Regarding Part 1 of version 3 of the scheme pack:-
Page 5 — The Scheme — line 1— ‘of’ is missing between ‘comprising’ and ‘representatives’
Page 7 — The Subpostmaster’s Role — paragraph 3 states:-

‘The information provided in the Case Questionnaire is likely to be shared with Post Office so that Post Office can
make its own internal enquiries and provide further relevant information to Second Sight.’

Re above statement — will the SPMR have an opportunity to see and comment on any further relevant information
provided to Second Sight by Post Office?

Page 8 — What is the Working Group? — see Page 5 comment above.

Page 10 — Can I use a professional advisor to prepare my written submissions to Second Sight? - &
Page 13 — Can I bring a professional advisor to the meeting?

The information in these would work better if they were reworked to read as follows:-

Page 10

Can I use a professional advisor to help prepare my written submissions to Second Sight?

Yes — you may engage a professional advisor, such as a lawyer or an accountant, to help with this.

JFSA may be able to assist you with selecting an advisor and the Working Group will be looking to establish a panel of
professional advisors that could be engaged by Subpostmasters.

Post Office will pay up to £1,500 + VAT towards the reasonable costs of a professional advisor assisting you during
Second Sight's investigation (ie. gathering information, completing the Case Questionnaire, responding to Second
Sight's questions, etc.).

You will be sent an Investigation Funding Agreement for this financial support if your Application is accepted.
Page 13

Can I bring a professional advisor to the mediation?

Yes — you may bring a professional advisor, such as a lawyer or accountant, to the mediation.

Page 10 —JFSA contact details, please use — email: horizon’
POL00298382
POL00298382

Then with regards to:-

Page 15 - Will Second Sight share my information with Post Office?
Yes — Second Sight will share your information with Post Office in order to investigate your case.

and
Page 16 - Can Second Sight's pre-mediation findings be used in subsequent Court proceedings?

Yes. A Subpostmaster may use Second Sight's findings against Post Office in later Court proceedings.

The questions these two points raise are:-
Does the Subpostmaster receive a copy of Second Sight’s findings?
Does Post Office receive a copy of Second Sight’s findings?

If ‘A Subpostmaster may use Second Sight's findings against Post Office in later Court proceedings’, how are they to
do so, unless they have received a copy of the finding?

Just think these points require the position to be clearly stated in the scheme documentation, otherwise the questions
will be asked later.

Alan
