POL00255647

POL00255647
From: Alisdair Cameron”
Sent: Thur 05/07/2018 7: 6 AM (UTC)
To: Clarke, Stephen - UKGIE 4
Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Thanks for copying me Stephen.
Not my area of expertise, but I don’t think the wording on settlement, point 4, is quite right?

I don’t think management recommend anything to BEIS as that would make the Permanent Secretary the executive
decision-maker and I think the whole point of our structure is to avoid that (and I suspect he wouldn’t welcome it!)?

Management recommend to the Board. I think we would be sharing the Board’s reflections. Of course as shareholder
the SoS can take whatever action he wishes but that’s a separate point.

As I say, not my area and we can discuss it more formally with the people who do understand these things if it’s an
issue.

Thanks al

Alisdair Cameron
Chief Finance & Operating Officer

eROSTa)
OFFICE

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI {__
Sent: 04 July 2018 14:06

To: Alisdair Cameron}
Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <
Subject: FW: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Alisdair,
With apologies, I had intended to copy you in on my email below.
Stephen

From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI
Sent: 03 July 2018 13:01

To: ‘Jane MacLeod’
Cc: O'Neill, Eliza
Rodric Williams i; Tom - UKGI
Vennells'? Aldred, Tom - UKGI
Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

i Lambert, Helen - UKG

POL00255647
POL00255647

Jane,
Thanks for your suggested agenda and apologies for the delay in responding.

There is a level of understanding of the background, current state of play and the Protocol as the Perm Sec and
Minister are already briefed thanks to your written updates under the Protocol. In addition, the meeting is currently
set to last 45 mins although this might be extended. So the meeting will need to be focused on the key issues that are
of concern to the audience.

Given this, the meeting should concentrate on the issues at stake in the November trial, the implications of losing and
the contingency arrangements for managing this, as well as considering the issue of settlement. We suggest the
following agenda to reflect this:

1. Background (Q&A based on latest written update) — 5 minutes
2. Key issues at stake in the November trial — 10 minutes
3. Implications of losing on these issues (20 minutes), divided into following consequences

-financial (damages)
-operational consequences, including changes to contracts with postmasters, operating procedures,
impact on operating costs and risks to POL

4. Pros and cons of settlement ahead of first trial and management’s recommendation on this — 10 minutes

We've also suggested a time allocation to try to ensure that the whole agenda is covered. It assumes that
Q&A/discussion would take place as you go along.

We think it will be important to provide a good briefing document ahead of the meeting and to cover the agenda
topics as far as possible in the summary that you and the team will be producing after the latest GLO sub-committee.
That way it should be possible to maximise the time available for questions and discussion, rather than spending time
on background topics.

On attendance, we’re still working through this with the Minister’s and Permanent Secretary’s Offices and will update
you when we have clarity on this.

Kind regards,
Stephen

Stephen Clarke I Post Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments
Corporate finance and governance in government.

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Jane MacLeo
Sent: 28 June 2018 17:46

To: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI GRO

Cc: O'Neill, Elizabeth - uKGIt. Lambert, Helen - UKGI ¢~
Rodric Williams Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Subject: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD.

POL00255647
POL00255647

Stephen

Thank you for your email. I have set out our suggested agenda below, however given the amount of expected activity
over the next 2 months, this should be reviewed closer to the time to ensure it remains pertinent.

. Reminder of the protocol

. History & background

. Current status of the judicial process

. Latest view on forward timetable and process

. Current view of risks and potential financial implications
. Status of Contingency Planning

. Costs (including budgets and security for costs)

NOWPWNE

It would be helpful to know who will attend from your side — we had expected this to be a small group, however I
gather from Tom that the attendance may have increased, and Paula should be aware of the likely attendees.

Regards,

Jane

Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ
Mobile number

From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI {_
Sent: 26 June 2018 11:41.
To: Jane MacLeod
Cc: O'Neill, Elizal "5 Lambert, Helen - UKGI ¢
Rodric Williams Cooper, Tom - UKGI}

Subject: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Jane,
I'd be very grateful if you could share with us your proposed agenda for the briefing on 10 September, which we need
to run by the Perm Sec and see whether he has anything to add. I understand from Tom Cooper that you discussed

this before he went on leave.

In case you’re not aware, I should probably confirm that I’ve signed up to the confidentiality obligations under the
Protocol and I’m therefore on the list of approved recipients for litigation-related information.

Many thanks,

Stephen

Stephen Clarke I Post Office Shareholder Team
POL00255647
POL00255647

UK Government Investments
Corporate finance and governance in government.

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

HER RRR A RR FAR A 2K RF ARR 0 RR RR FR ROR RR A RR a ao

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2H 28 2 F222 Rf 2K 2 FARR 2K 2 FARR 2K 2 2 AR 02 2 KR ok oR aR a aa a

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

