POL00089238
POL00089238

08 February 2012

Post Office Ltd
3" Floor
Clippers Quay
Salford
M50 3NW

Dear Mr Allen

Re: Winsford Post Office Branch

Telephone conversations of 08 February 2012 refers and further to your suspension on 02
February 2012 by Post Office Ltd.

At the recent audit at Winsford Post office branch on 2 February 2012 a number of
irregularities in the accounts have come to light and these matters need to be explored with
you. In order that you have an opportunity to discuss the circumstances, I am writing to invite
you to attend a voluntary interview with the Post Office Ltd Security Investigation Team.

During the course of the telephone conversation you indicated that you were arranging to see
a solicitor over a number of issues that you have. Alternatively if you engage the services of a
solicitor you may pass this letter onto your solicitors for them to deal with.

Alternatively if you do not engage the services of a solicitor, I would be grateful if a mutual
convenient time could be arranged to discuss the situation. Would you please reply listing
times and dates that are convenient for you? When I have received your reply, I will send you
the necessary details to enable you to attend for interview.

I must remind you that we are investigating possible criminal offences and as such the
proposed interview will be under caution and taped recorded.

Your legal rights will be explained to you in full at the interview, however so that you are
aware of them I will detail a brief summary of them now.

1. Should you attend the interview - it is on a voluntary basis - you do NOT have to remain at
the interview - you are NOT under arrest.

2. You may wish to seek legal advice from a solicitor before you attend this
interview - Your solicitor may also attend the interview with you.

3. In addition to your right to consult with or have a solicitor present - you may also have a
Post Office friend present. This friend is classed as someone over the age of 18 years of
age and is currently employed by the Post Office, he or she must not be involved in the

enquiry.

If you have any queries, please phone me on the number above.
POL00089238
POL00089238

08 February 2012

Yours sincerely

Stephen Bradshaw

Security Manager
Post Office Ltd Security Team
