POL00460600

POL00460600
POST OFFICE LIMITED
AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Title: SPMP Integrated Risk Assurance Universe I Meeting Date: I 21st May 2024
Author: I Anshu Mathur, Group Assurance Director Sponsor: Sarah Gray, Interim Group General Counsel

Input Sought: Approval
The Committee is asked to:

Approve the additions made to the SPMP Integrated Risk Assurance Universe.
Note the status of the SPMP Assurance Reviews.
Approve the 34 Statement of Works.

1. SPMP Integrated Risk Assurance Universe — For Approval

In the period since the last ARC in March 2024, we have made the following changes to the SPMP
Integrated Risk Assurance Universe:

Governance Pillar

Based on feedback from the GE SPMP Sub Committee in March 2024, we have now added 4
P1 risk lines/items to capture Business Case (BC) and Benefit Realisation (BR) Assurance. As
a consequence the Governance pillar has 21 risks vs 17 previously.

Whilst the Assurance teams (both SPMP and Group) currently do not have the capability to
deliver BC and BR assurance, funding has been secured to recruit.

The SPMP Integrated Risk Assurance Universe therefore comprises 509 (previously 505) inherent
risk spread across 16 pillars. Please refer to Appendix 1 for the current snapshot of the SPMP
Integrated Risk Assurance Universe.

2. Statement of Works (SoW) - Approval

As mentioned in the ARC in March 2024, we have now completed drafting 34 SoW defining the
assurance scope and coverage of risk lines. As shared with ARC, we have applied the following
principles to determine the coverage and scoping of SoW:

© 000000

Adequate coverage of material key risks (P1’s, where appropriate P2’s and P3’s).

End to End assurance to provide a programme and business view of readiness.
Assurance coverage across pillars to ensure efficiency and eliminate rework, if possible.
Clear assessment of Postmaster protection and or KRI’s.

Adequacy of design (where applicable — effectiveness) of Controls.

Identify SoWs that may need periodical refresh, contingent on release strategy.
Coverage and mapping of HIJ and Cl.

1
Confidential
POL00460600
POL00460600

By applying the above principles, we have ensured adequate coverage exists not only from a pillar
perspective but also from an inherent risk lens:

o Pillar coverage - The table below demonstrates that the 34 SoWs touch all 16 pillars:
Coverage of SoW per Pillar

A few key things to note are:

o ClJ spans across Transaction Integrity, Finance, Security, Retail, Business Support,
Data Privacy, Software Delivery.

o Transaction Integrity spans across: Finance, Data, Security, Business Support, & Retail.

o Culture will be a core underpin of all our reviews.

o Inherent Risk coverage - The 34 SoWs provide 100% coverage of all the P1. Please refer
to Appendix 2 which shows the coverage of inherent risk per SoW.

Appendix 3 provides the details of SoW scope and the assurance outcomes. Please note,
these SoWs form the initial premise from which assurance work will commenced and are
considered draft and not exhaustive, as input will be taken from Business / Programme / SMEs /
Stakeholders (internal and external) before finalising the Terms of Reference.

We have not provided anticipated timelines for when these 34 SoW would be delivered, as this
is very much contingent on resourcing, capability, allocation of external assurance support, risk
profiles of SPMP releases, and the completion of the first 5 SoW.

2
Confidential
POL00460600

POL00460600
3. SPMP Assurance Tracker
The table below provides the status update for the 5 SOWs as at 15 May 2024:
SOW Terms of 5 Planned Planned
bid Ref Reference dedentail Reportin: Completion
1 I Business Requirements sow 1
2 I Defects and Risk Management sow 6
3 I Security / User Access —
Account management, access
control, audit logging and user SOW.5'6.6
access
4 I Transaction Integrity SOW 3
5 Retail Readiness (NEW) SOW 26

Whilst progress has been made, we have not in full earnest commenced fieldwork. This is primarily
driven by the Assurance Team(s) focus on ensuring all SoW are drafted. In addition, the drafting
and finalisation of Terms of Reference were more complex than initially thought and required wider
business engagement.

Group Assurance are engaging with the programme to assess whether we continue to have the
right composition and capability to deliver the assurance programme. The programme has
recently approved to hiring of two assurance resources to support delivery of the assurance
programme.

For SoW 5 and 8 (Security / User Access — Account management, access control, audit logging
and user access) the SPMP assurance team are engaging with a 3" party service provider TMC3
who have been brought into look at data breaches by the SPMP Programme management team.
The provider at present is planning to conduct a root cause analysis of the 2 breaches identified
and the Statement of Work for this Phase is being drafted by TMC3. The functional assurance
team will ensure that there are no duplications of assurance through understanding TMC3 scope
before executing any detailed work.

We have also, subject to ARC retrospective approval, are planning to commence SoW 26 to focus
on Retail Readiness to receive the SPMP platform (both pilot and waves). The ToR for this review
will be shared and discussed with the Retail Engagement Director to ensure key operational
insights are captured from a legacy perspective.

4. Other Updates
e Procurement - External Assurance SME Support

After the initial pre-market engagement held from February to March - the initial engagement
engaged with 10 suppliers, of which 5 remain (PA Consulting, Ernest & Young, Crowe
Consulting, Protiviti and Credera).

A sourcing strategy has been created (informed by market engagement) has been submitted
to PDB, Steerco, SEG in May and Board for approval to proceed in June 2024.

The preferred procurement option would be to release a single FTS procurement but as this
would take 4-6 months to complete the plan is to split procurement activity into two phases.

3
Confidential
°

POL00460600
POL00460600

Phase 1 Review the current SPMP Integrated Assurance & Risk Universe for completeness
and against industry best practice.

Phase 2 Create the invitation to tender (ITT) with a detailed set of requirements derived
from the universe and a plan for assurance that can be provided to the market, including
commercial protections for both the bidder and POL on ‘how’ assurance outcomes will be
presented.

Group Assurance are also working in parallel to create a contingency worst-case scenario
where POL may have to create their own internal pool of SME Contractors.

Recent external review on SPMP:

For the committees awareness two external reviews have been performed on SPMP, which
management are in the process responding to and preparing remedial actions plan.

In our opinion, both reports highlight consistent concerns on the deliverability of SPMP. Key
extract from these reports are summarised below:

°

Infrastructure and Projects Authority (IPA) Draft Report

For the Committee’s awareness, in April 2024 IPA performed a review on Horizon

Replacement (SPMP, SDES, and Horizon Extension), this covered gates 0 to 3 to support

a Treasury Approval point of the Programme Business Case for funding between June

2024 and March 2026. Their scope covered:

« Gate 0 — Looks historically on the delivery of the Horizon replacement programme

« Gate 3—Test the maturity and robustness of the Programme Business Case

« The review also assesses whether governance arrangements across interested and
invested oversight and delivery partners remains effective and robust.

IPA ‘s draft opinion is as follows: ‘RED - Successful delivery of the 3 POL Programmes
that deliver the Horizon replacement to time, cost (defined in the business case under
consideration) and quality appears to be unachievable. There are major issues which, at
this stage, do not appear to be manageable or resolvable entirely within POL. The
programme/project may need re-baselining and/or its overall viability re-assessed.’

According to their rating guidance — ‘This programme/project should not proceed to the next
phase until these major issues are managed to an acceptable level of risk and the viability of the
project/programme has been re-confirmed.’

The review identified three strategic issues that could help sustain these high-risk
programmes through to successful conclusion:
(1) Providing clarity of governance, now Horizon replacement is on Government Major
Projects Portfolio (GMPP). There is confusion about which of the 3 programmes are
coming onto GMPP and this needs to be resolved.
(2) We are recommending government consider if the financial arrangements are
appropriate for these programmes.
(3) It is the right time for a meaningful conversation about risk appetite as only a
common understanding of this across all governance bodies involved, will enable the
programme, and especially the technical development of NBIT, to be successful.

The review recognised that Programme Leadership has been tackling poor quality and
weak management controls (especially planning, monitoring, and reporting and proper

4
Confidential
POL00460600

POL00460600

risk based assurance) and improving quality of technical development. The report has
identified 7 recommendations that management are in the process of working through.

Public Digital (PD) Report — Final

On behalf of DBT, PD have completed a review of SPMP and New Branch IT. The goal
of the review was to assess the viability of SPMP in meeting POL’s future needs,
focussing on POL’s capability to deliver the programme, the technical approach being
taken, value for money and other factors. Their key observations are summarised below:

Whilst trending in a generally positive direction with pocket of excellent work and
deeply expert people, SPMP overall is not currently in a healthy place.

There are significant gaps in strategy, capability, technology and Governance that
need addressing.

A high level of management churn along with lack of corporate memory, presents a
tisk of the past (lessons from previous failed attempt to re-platform) repeating itself.
Throwing ever more resources at the problem will not solve the problem.

SMPM's viability is being undermined by serious deficiencies in its governance,
technical, and implementation approach.

The responsibility and accountability to fix the issues does not sit only with the
Programme. It will require the whole of POL, and key partners in UKGI and DBT to
work together to do this.

Key findings:

The vision and dominant framing of SPMP does not align with an overall POL
strategy, is not agreed and understood by the wider POL business, and is not
consistently recognised within the SPMP programme

The organisation lacks permanent people with critical capabilities and experience,
and there is an absence of continuity in keystone functions, particularly in leadership
and management, which creates unacceptable risk to the programme.

Historical technology choices and development practices, adopted to attempt to meet

significantly different past programme goals, have left significant technical debt in the
heart of the product. Good practice and standards have now been codified, but are
not yet in place across the full delivery organisation.

o Weighing pros and cons, we concluded that if our review team was leading the
project despite the obvious sunk costs we would give very strong consideration
to reintroducing an off-the-shelf ePOS solution as the core retail element, while
retaining all the integration work that the teams have invested time in.

POL’s recent history is driving a fear of accountability for decisions, resulting in risk
aversion and a governance model unsuited to the need. The programme, business,
and wider stakeholder ecosystem must work as “one team” towards shared outcomes
The programme is not truly user-centred and the professional practice of “product
management’ is not well understood inside POL. This has resulted in an inconsistent
approach to product development that has become disconnected from delivering
value to users.

5. Key Next Steps

1.

Focus on commencing and completion of the 5 SoWs in flight.

5
Confidential
POL00460600
POL00460600

. Assess adequacy / capability of Assurance resources — June /July 2024.

. Commence G-Cloud 13 engagement to commence work on Phase 1 of the work required

to support assurance - May 2024.

. Obtain approval from the PDB, Steerco, SEG for the 2 Phased procurement approach -

May 24, followed by Board approval at the June 2024 meeting.

. SPMP functional assurance and Group Assurance to work on a paper to create a plan B for
an internal pool of SME Contractors - June 2024.

6
Confidential
Appendix-1- SPMP Integrate.

d Risk Assurance Universe — 30 April 2024

POL00460600
POL00460600

No [pillars inherent risks SS I
1 [eovernance 26 (22) "24 (17) 2 3
2 [Software Delivery 29 24 4 1
3 [Security 24 24 0 0
4 [Business Support 81 20 39 22
5 [Transaction Integrity 19 7 2 0
6 Retail 48 2 2 a
7 ILegal & Regulatory Compliance 27 B 6 8
8 Iclu/Speak up 57 57 0 0
9 [Data Privacy 23 20 3 0
10 Culture 14 11 3 0
11 [Finance integrity 26 26 0 0
12 [Procurement 8 0 8 0
13 [Contract Management 8 1 7 0
14 [Gating & Business Readiness 10 0 1 9
15 [inquiry Thematic 67 67 0 0
16 IcU (common Issue Judge) 42 19 14 9
Total 509 332 121 56

“Note: Change in the period is highlighted in yellow (prior figure).

7
Confidential
POL00460600
POL00460600

Appendix 2 - SoOW Coverage of Inherent Risks

ete Rene a Sans oy

i
I

‘sutometot er

I

8
Confidential
POLO0460600

POL00460600

Appendix 3 -SoW’s — [These will continue to be evolved and updated with business and SME input.]

Business
Requirements —
Capture and Execution

1. Governance
2. Business Support
3. Data

To ensure the programme has implemented a structured
methodology for the ownership, capture, execution and change
management of Business Requirements.

This will be an End-to-End review with a focus on:

1) Compliance with all legal, regulatory, operational, commercial
requirements and how featured in the Business Requirements
(including HlJ / ClJ considerations).

2) Alignment with the Business Case

3) Ensure effective translation of the requirements covering Data
and Security into the Business Requirements.

4) Document management to support status and amendments
throughout the programme delivery cycle.

5) Construct of testing (¢.g.UAT) to ensure essential elements of
the requirements are proven against deliverables.

6) Effectiveness of governance and oversight.

7) Clearly defined process, controls, reporting and organisation
structure (+RACI) fo support all the above.

Programme can demonstrate a clear audit trail of requirements,
and their lifecycle, including implemented vs not, and oversight.
Clear evidence / artefacts provided to support how Business: 1)
Requirements were initially captured and maintained /controlled
throughout the programme delivery cycles. Including change
controls process.

2)Proof that all essential elements of the programme deliverables
(e.g. regulatory / data / ClJ /Security, TI etc) have been defined
and appropriately sign off.

3) All testing (e.g. UAT) has been aligned with Business
Requirements to ensure compliance as necessary.

4) Processes / controls in place, and followed, and aligned with
best practice.

2 I Transaction Integrity —
Data Flow and Access

1. Transaction
Integrity

2.Business Support
3.Retail
4.Secutity

To ensure key data flows are mapped and documented. And to
ensure that access to relevant data sets is defined by roles and
transactions.

Obtain and review the Architectural design and set up of the new
platform and the data flow diagrams which sits alongside.
Understand ownership and change management protocols,

Review the Integration linkages to other systems to ensure these
have been identified and defined with dependencies/risks.
Understand the Integration plan and testing strategy, including the
stage gate sign-offs.

Review roles designs and set ups and how these relate to the
transaction objects and related information access through these
objects.

‘SPMP has a defined data flows and data set. And that rule sets
and roles exist to manage the access and visibility, including
security.

Clear Architectural design diagrams with supporting data flow
diagrams. With clear ownership and accountabilities for the
different data sets.

Integration linkages clearly documented with risks and
dependencies. With relevant supporting integration plans.
Clear role designs and responsibilities with supporting access
management to data and transactions.

9
Confidential
Transaction & Integrity
— Financial Accuracy
and Completeness

4. Finance
2. Retail

3. Legal &
Compliance

4, Business Support

To ensure the financial accuracy / completeness of transactions
and relevant controls and monitoring is in place.

Review the reports that are planned or available to support
financial transactions including reports that support the sub-ledgers
and general ledger and production of financial statements-cash
flows, Income Statement, Balance Sheet etc. Review and assess
design of exception reports designed to support daily, weekly,
month, quarterly and annual operations.

Assess whether controls and reconciliations (Control Framework)
built into the process to ensure relevant Management Review
Controls can operate successfully.

POLO0460600

POL00460600

‘SPMP ensures Financial Transactions are complete, accurate,
supported and evidenced. With reporting and monitoring in place
to identify and correct any identified issues, exception, anomalies
etc.

Platform Security
Resilience — Insider
Threat

All pillars, Key focus
on 1. Security

2. Finance
3. Retail
4, Business Support
5. Inquiry

To ensure the platform can withstand insider threats - To validate
that robust controls are in place to protect the platform from
unauthorised access and DLP (Data Loss Prevention).

Supported with the relevant training and awareness.

Assess whether tooling is in place to identify (proactively and
retrospectively), capture and report on insider threats and assess
whether remediation processes are set in place to counter such
instances.

Review adequacy of Ml and EWI in place to support the business
processes reporting and management, including
oversight/reporting at a senior level.

Including a review of the following:

+ Continuous vulnerability Management
* Audit Logging Management

+ Malware defences

+ Data Recovery

+ Penetration Testing

+ ITIDR Recovery.

And identifying and understanding Policies, Procedures and
training in place at POL and CISO input.

‘SPMP is accessing and designing preventative and monitoring
measures to manage Insider threats. Control's must be fully
documented and supported by KPI/KRIs. Supported with the
relevant MI that is timely and accurate for management to take
relevant actions to prevent or detect future threats.

10
Confidential
Platform Security
Resilience — External
Threat

All pillars, key focus
on 1. Security

2. Finance
3. Retail
4, Business Support

‘To ensure the Network Infrastructure can withstand external
threats. Adequate preventive and monitoring mechanisms are
designed

+ Assessment of network architecture, configuration, & security
controls.

+ Evaluation of firewall configurations, intrusion
detection/prevention systems, and network segmentation,

+ Review of network devices, such as routers, switches, and
access points, for vulnerabilities and misconfigurations

Including a review of the following:
* Continuous vulnerability Management
+ Audit Logging Management

+ Malware defences

+ Data Recovery

+ Penetration Testing

+ ITIDR Recovery.

And identifying and understanding Policies, Procedures and
training in place at POL and CISO input.

POL00460600

POL00460600

‘SPMP is accessing and designing preventative and monitoring
measures to manage External cyber threats. Control's must be
fully documented and supported by KPI/KRIs. Supported with the
relevant MI that is timely and accurate for management to take
relevant actions to prevent or detect future threats.

Defects and Risk All pillars, Key focus I To assess application and documentation of testing/defect ‘SPMP has applied testing in a consistent manner, with appropriate
Management on methodologies across the end-to-end software delivery life cycle. I consideration to risks and key SME are involved in risk
1. Software Delivery I To ensure appropriate ERM is applied in the assessment of assessments and decision making.
2. Hyper'Care defects (functionality, performance, Security, etc) and or Clear evidence that defect management and PENs are well
 Byp acceptance of defects vs risk profiles in isolation and or in managed with robust controls, measures and align with good
3. Business Support I aggregate. business practice, with the relevant approvals and oversight.
4, Transaction Assess appropriate sign off and governance applied to testing and
Integrity 5. Security I defects management.
6. Governance To ensure PEN's are managed, prioritised and addressed in
accordance with good business practice and reviewed and
7. Retail approved with those in authority.
Software Delivery All pillars, Key focus I Review of software delivery processes / development life cycles I Clearly able to demonstrate throughout the Software delivery
on 1. Software processes and procedures, stages that good practice has been applied and supporting
Delivery Assess application of good practices, process methods, testing eg I decumentation / artefacts available to support decisions,
2. Hyper Care UAT, defect management and compliance with the defined conclusions and approaches adopted.

3. Business Support

4, Transaction
Integrity 5. Security

6. Governance
7. Retail

deliverables,
Assure whether all activities clearly controlled and documented.

Overlap - Controls around defect management will also feature as
part of this review.

11
Confidential
POL00460600

POL00460600

8 ‘Security 1. Software Delivery I To assess that adequate preventive and monitoring controls are__I To assess whether the programme understands the technology
(Account 2 Security designed over Access and Identity Management. landscape to pinpoint exhaustively points of access (PM. POL,
Management, User —_I 3 Retail To assess whether super users’ profiles are commensurate with I Third parties, etc).

Access Control, Audit I 7 po cuss I Foles/potiles.
Logging) & User . PP Review whether all profiles accessing data (read only, edit, etc) I SPMP user access is structured, defined, exhaustive and
access (logical) 5. Hyper Care are identified and controlled, governed. And authentication is robust from a security
6. Transaction Including a review of the following: perspective, including the Segregation of Duties (SoD).
Integrity + Review of IAM (Identity and Access Management) processes,
including user account provisioning process, authentication, and
access controls, Access control lists
+ Assessment of privileged access management (PAM) controls.
+ Evaluation of single sign-on (SSO) and multi-factor
authentication (MFA) implementations.
+ Analysis of Access logs and audit trails
+ Automated tools or scripts used for scanning and assessing
access configurations.
And identifying and understand Policies, Procedures and training
in place at POL and CISO input.
9 I Postmaster Support I 71.Retail To assess whether processes and procedure, designed and Training and Detailed Procedures are in place to support Post
2.Transaction documented to support PM transition to SPMP. master's both pre and post go-live.
Integrity Hesneis eiemeerel OY Uinbibenhenarniebedioe he, Hypercare arrangements and Business Support processes and
3. Business Support I je-viey-whotn sdemonte have’ sat procedures are fit for purpose to support PM in transition,
: jeviswn weiner teste Juaginents Neve neon appropiateny Robust governess supported by adequate and appropriate EW
4. Culture considered and actioned — HlJ, Cld, Training Craik Prop :
5. Gating Assess whether hyper care is designed around PM.
6. Business
Readiness
70 I Data Privacy 7. Data To review and assess whether Data Privacy principals are ‘SPMP has designed and deployed Data Privacy principles that
2 Security appropriately designed and embedded to protect Postmaster, protect PM and POL, And other sensitive data.
3. Transaction POL, and other key sensitive data types. Appropriate and relevant restrictions and encryption are in place
integrity Assess adequacy of: to support security and protection of data and ensure compliance
* Data classification, encryption, and access controls. to relevant data protection regulations.
+ Assessment of data retention policies and procedures.
+ Compliance with data protection regulations (e.g., GDPR,
HIPAA, CCPA),
71 I Gating and Business _ I 1. Governance ‘Assess whether Gating decisions are based on sound data and I SPMP has a clear methodology and approach for gating and

Readiness

2. Business Support
3 Software Delivery
4, Retail, Security

5. Legal &
Compliance

6. Gating

MI, and key SMEs input.

Review the E2E gating process / methodology to ensure
appropriate controls are in place to provide key decision and
control points in the programme's delivery life cycle.

business readiness. With the relevant governance to ensure that
key SMEs are involved in decision making and outcomes
documented to evidence the decision-making process.

12
Confidential
POLO0460600

POL00460600

12 _ I Library of key controls I 1. Governance To review whether the design of key indicatorsicontrols fo ensure I POL governance is designed appropriately with adequate MI and
=design, coverage, I 9 oly POL has adequate coverage on the E2E platform and sufficient _I escalation by design, to support and ensure an appropriate
monitoring including . early warnings designed to ensure no adverse impacts to PM or I control environment.
efficacy of KRI, KPI, I 3: Security POL.

Ewlete. 4. Business Support I assess whether appropriate RACI and DOA (Delegation of
5, Transaction Authority) in place to ensure timely visibility and decision making
Integrity Review whether a library of controls, with clear ownership,
6. Retail, accountability and tracking exists
7. Data
8. Finance
9, A&CI

73 I CN/HIJ Conformance I All pillars will be To assess that lessons from the past have neam embedded in I SPMP can clearly demonstrate lessons have been leamt and all
(Including Postmaster I engaged throughout I SPMP design and clear outcomes and that mistakes and errors __I Hld / Cl observations have been addressed as part of design,
Detriment) allreviews with a —_I will not be repeated. build, test, and deployment.

specific focus at This will involve a line-by-line review to access how issues from I And that clear monitoring mechanics are in place contingent of
point of “go live the past (ClJ & HlJ) have been or are being address by the the release strategy of SPMP.
programme and BAU Assurance.
14 I Programme Planning I 1. Governance To assess whether there is a robust Integrated Programme Plan I A robust integrated programme level plan exists combining the

and Release
Management

2. Business Support
3. Software Delivery
4, Finance
5. Gating &
Business Readiness

6. Legal &
Compliance

along with a good release strategy to support the release and
rollout of SPMP to branches. This will encompass:

4) Alignment of the Programme Planning with the Technology
Delivery Roadmap.

2) Current status of the Programme Plan in relation to targets,
timelines and budgets clearly defined. eg Backlog Management.

3) KPI's and related measures that demonstrate effectiveness of
planning and how poor trends (early warnings) are addressed.

4) Review process, controls, methodology supporting planning
and release, This will cover historic (eg lessons learnt) and
planned (eg identified risks) to ensure effective and aligned with
good practice.

5) Reporting, communication, and document controls effective.

6) Application of good practice application and management of
Agile methodology.

7) Organisational clarity and defined R&R in this arena.
8) Integrated plan and milestone management/governance,

technology delivery roadmap, including clear documentation of
assumptions, dependencies, and milestones.

Also proving this has been tracked and regularly reported by
PMO.

13
Confidential
POL00460600

POL00460600

75] Vendor Management? ] 1.Security To assess and review the robustness of POL policy, process and ] There is clear evidence that the vendor selection process and
3rd Party Management I > Retail governance applied to the selection, acceptance and controls compliance to policy has been applied and effectively managed.
established to obtain vendor / 3rd party support for the SPMP With the relevant up to date DOA applied to spends and
3. Contract
Ronee Programme. approvals.
aL bs ‘ Review the adequacy of vendor management and performance I Ensure robust vendor performance management and monitoring
me nla hom related process and procedures. is in place.
Review design and oversight mechanisms for 3 parties.
5, Business Support a e ef
6. Procurement
16 I Software Delivery Life I 1.Governance The review will focus on To ensure that good practice has been applied across
Cycle 2. Software + Performing sample reviews on key process and procedures eg _I Governance Gates and protects integrity of the code
Development JIRA, EPIC and User stories, Coding Standards, Tooling, test For environment change requests a formal and established gatin
p g a ge req gating
3, Security scripts ete. process and procedure are embedded.
4. Data Assessing application of standards, practices and quality Detailed evidence retained to ensure that the correct level of
5 Retail frameworks. attention has been applied to ensure the desired outcomes of the
Reta + Assess whether robust policies and procedures are in place to. I SPMP platform delivery/BC. Also, identification of any potential
6. Business Support I jranage ‘change control, to ensure alignment with business deviations and how change management principles have been
7. Transaction requirements but also delivery of BC objectives and outcomes. applied managed correctly.
Integrity + Review whether appropriate Governance (incl KPI/KRI) and
oversight exists.
+ Review how PMO understand and assist in the identification of
risks, issues, assumptions, and dependencies.
+ Assess how the Programme Team drive continuous
improvement.
7 Enterprise Assets 7 Security To perform a deep-dive technical assessment into available To ensure that rigorous processes and controls are in place and

Logging
Enterprise Asset
Software

system logs relating to security and incident monitoring

The scope of the review will focus on:

+ Assessing the processes and data sources available that relate
to the logging functionality for security events and sensitive
transactions. e.g. Review logging functionality for security events,
review the logging functionality for sensitive transactions

+ Review the process designed to analyse the logs and address
exceptions

+ Review the process designed to respond to suspicious activity
discovered in the logs (manual, automated), and any incident
response and handling,

Management of PEN’s including planning, remediation and
closure.

followed to support enterprise assets logging and software.

And detailed evidence exists to demonstrate the logging
functionality for security events and sensitive transactions are
robust and in line with good practice and required policies. With
relevant processes to support monitoring, reporting and taking
preventive action.

14
Confidential
Network Infrastructure
Network Monitoring

7. Security
2. Retail
3. Transaction
Integrity

‘Assessment of network architecture, configuration, and security
controls.

Evaluation of firewall configurations, intrusion
detection/prevention systems, and network segmentation.

Review of network devices, such as routers, switches, and access
points, for vulnerabilities and misconfigurations.

Web & Email Browser Protection / Cyber Security

Assess whether good practice (eg ISO) have been applied to
security architecture, vulnerabilities, monitoring for change and
configuration controls.

Review will also focus on the network monitoring controls to
ensure countermeasures are deployed to prevent intrusions and
attacks to the network.

The review will also encompass:

1. Configuration management system: to track and manage
configurations of network devices

2. Baseline configurations: establishing and maintaining secure
baseline configurations for different types of network devices to
reduce vulnerabilities

3. Change management processes: to ensure that any changes
to network decide configurations are documented, reviewed, and
authorised

4. Vulnerability scanning tools
5. Patch management

6. Network segmentation

7. Logging and monitoring systems
8. Incident response plan

9. Employee training

10. Regular audit and reviews.

POL00460600

POL00460600

Clear evidence of robust controls & processes, with supporting
evidence / artefacts, confirming the network infrastructure and
measures are managed in accordance with good practice and
defined POL / Regulatory requirements.

15
Confidential
‘Application Software
Security

4. Security

2. Software Delivery
3. Retail

4, Data

5. Inquiry

Review of Application Security fo ensure that relevant tools have
been deployed and monitoring activities are in place to prevent
and detect intrusions and attacks

Assessment of application development practices, including
secure coding standards and vulnerability management.

Review of application architecture, design, and access controls.

Penetration testing and vulnerability assessments of web
applications, mobile apps, and other software systems.

The review will also encompass:
1. Static Application Security testing (SAST)

2. Dynamic application security testing (DAST)
3. Secutity training for developers

4, Secure development frameworks

5. Incident response plan for application security
6. Dependency scanning.

POL00460600

POL00460600

Programme can demonstrate that there are robust processes and
procedures in place to demonstrate practices and testing to
prevent and detect security risks at an application level.

20

People & Culture

Al pillars, key focus
on
1 Governance

2. Legal &
Compliance

3. A&CI
4. Contract
Management

5. Culture

6.CW

7. Business Support
8. Retail

9. Inquiry

Review will focus on SPMP Roles and include validation:
To assess whether the SPMP programme has adopted and
embedded the appropriate process and procedures in place to
‘embed the right culture and people into the organisation aligned
with achievement of strategic and operational objectives.

Assess how key cultural and people thematic from ClJ and HlJ
are applied and sustained.

To review the establish the effectiveness of WoW and how
managed across the programme.

Assess how TOM for business support and BAU Retail
Operations embed the right cultural and people values aligned
with the issue judgements.

Review the training in place upon entering the POL and the
subsequent training that supports employees understand and
adhere to the culture aspects of POL.

Assess how new roles and specs are created to ensure alignment
with business purpose and objectives.

Set KPI's / measures in place to identify success in this area (eg
attrition) and how poor trends are addressed.

Clear evidence available demonstrating good practice covering all
elements of people and culture across the programme. This will
include: 1) Records of training covering onboarding new staff and
ongoing training supporting identified training needs

2) Effective comms to support staff and advise of current / new
initiatives in this area of the business

3) Measures of effectiveness of WoW culture

4) How lessons learnt have been addressed

5) KPI's / Measures in place to identify poor trends (eg attrition)
and how they are resolved / mitigated

6) Clear reporting to the senior team on status, risks, issue
resolution and planning.

16
Confidential
POLO0460600

POL00460600

21 I Incident Response 1. Software Delivery I To ensure that Penetration Testing is fully controlled in alignment I To have obtained details of established processes and controls
and Management- I 2. security with good (business / Regulatory / ISO) practice. around the E2E penetration testing activity.
Penetration Testing I 3 ai, Scope of this review will also look at:
4. Legal & + intelligence gathering eg network and domain names, mails
Fe hl server to see how targets are focussed and vulnerabilities
eis identified
: + Process and controls around incident management including but
6. Inquiry not limited to:
+ Incident response plans, procedures, and capabilities.
+ Backup and recovery processes, including testing and
validation.
+ Incident detection and response tools, processes, and
training.
22 I Business & IT Controls I 1.Governance ‘Assess Business ControlsiIT that have been documented to date I POL is able fo monitor and measure the efficacy of t control

Library

2. Software Delivery

for programme/POL.

Assess how control coverage and design is adequate and covers
the risk landscape of SPMP/POL.

Assess the applications of these controls and identify and gaps of
application/remediation.

Scope of this review will also look at

+ Risk library (business and IT)

* Control library (business and IT)

+ RACI by process and controls

+ DOA

+ SoD and Access Management

+ Security and Integrity

+ Ml/Reporting and Governance, including REN and PENs.

environment vs the release profile of SPMP.

17
Confidential
23

Governance

All Pillars

Review the Governance arrangements within SPMP to ensure
robust practices exist for:
+ Progress Tracking and Reporting tracking and reporting of
progress including the programme financials is in place on the
programme; status reporting takes place to ensure that progress
is being tracked and reported on the programme.
Tracking, monitoring SPMP progress
* Monitoring of KRVEWI
+ Sufficient objectivity is in place to constructively challenge
SPMP direction, risk assessments and outcomes
+ Change management process and practices
+ Monitoring of BC and delivery of BR
+ Oversight of issue judgements
+ PM protection
+ Efficacy of reporting data sets with key business and SME input
* Decision making and risk assessments
+ Planning and Dependency Management
+ Programme Structures - a RACI matrix is defined and in place
for the programme and roles, responsibilities and accountabilities
have been clearly defined and key roles on the programme have
been filled
+ Communications and Stakeholder Management ~ stakeholder
mapping and communications plan for the programme is defined;
lower-level communications plans outlining the timing of activities
and responsible individuals has been defined for the programme.
+ Resource Management — there is a resource plan defined for
the programme; ensure that the plan is maintained, and regularly
reviewed and updated
+ Risk acceptances, inputs and continuous monitoring.

POLO0460600

POL00460600

‘A robust governance approach in place fo ensure successful
delivery of SPMP in line with BC and BR.

24

Integration strategy

(To POL strategies
and wider systems)

7. Software Delivery
2. Data
3. Legal & regulatory

4. Contract
Management

Review approach fo systems integrated with the new NBIT
platform to ensure they are/will be integrated and transferring,
providing information accurately and timely between different
systems.

Review and understand what Ml/reports and KPI's are in place to
manage and monitor transference of data between systems, to
ensure completeness, accuracy, and timeliness of transfer.

Review whether sufficient and relevant integration testing has
been carried out and signed off as part of the stage gating
process by relevant and authorised individuals.

Evidence of a robust integration Strategy with other systems
(SWIFT, Banking apps)

Master data being relied upon by the programme is accurate and
there are no inaccuracies in product set up or mapping. le no risk
that results in incorrect postings to downstream systems.
‘Systems integrated with the SPMP platform are providing
accurate information and supporting evidence
(controls/measures) are in place
Accurate MI/KPI/Reporting available and evidence of effective
action taken to address issues/poor trends.

Evidence of testing conducted and completed with supporting
processes and best practices controls
Evidence to demonstrate that the key stakeholders have been
engaged as part of the sign off / gating process.

18
Confidential
25

Legal Risk

1. Security
2. Legal &
Regulatory

Review the Legal Risk Framework to evaluate and assess how:
1) Sources of legal risk are identified, e.g. contracts, regulatory,
structural changes, and compliance.

2) Risks are defined vis a vis risks vs issues vs potential risks
and potential issues.

3) Risks processes and controls to ensure risks are appropriately
identified, managed and monitored
4) RACI and DoA for management and assessment of Legal risk
is appropriate and understood.

4) Monitoring and KPI - Aligned with high and low risk legal
issues with appropriate planning to support.

5) Defined controls and measures aligned with HIJ / Cl, and
lessons learnt.
6) Alignment is assured with Programme Deliverables and Gating
1 No Go decision making.

POL00460600

POL00460600

Clearly defined processes with supporting evidence to
demonstrate the controls and management of legal risks.

26

Retail Readiness and
Support to Post
Masters

Retail
Business Support /
Hypercare

The purpose of the review is to ensure the SPMP programme can
demonstrate robust processes and procedures, which validate the
retail readiness to receive the new platform from a Postmaster
lens (PM)

+ Retail PM readiness plans — coverage and conformance with
principles laid out within issue judgements.

+ PM Support and Training.
+ PM comms/engagement plans.

+ BSC Readiness — detailed procedure manuals etc.

+ Hypercare Arrangements.

+ PM Hardware and Commissioning.

+ Communication to PM's — clarity, approach and impact.

+ Role of BA and AM / RACI.

+ Transferring and cut off procedures from Horizon to SPMP.

+ PM routes to escalation and POL resolution SLA, and approach.
+ Approach and role of A&CI and Retail Assurance teams.

+ Plans for resourcing to ensure delivery.

+ Governance, KPI and Risk Management.

+ Adequacy and effectiveness of early warning indicators, with a
key focus on PM wellbeing (Clu).

+ Culture -Has PoL/Retail identified the right and appropriate
mechanism and triggers to capture culture.

To have ensured that all elements of the Retail Readiness
process is effectively Managed and providing the best level of
control and support to Post Masters as part of the programme
delivery requirements.

Evidence obtained to demonstrate planning accuracy, efficiency
in stock control, delivery planning, product verification, KPI's
monitored to ensure poor trends/performance addressed, swap
out and post-delivery support. Evidence of financial
controls/planning and alignment with the Programme Plan will
also have been validated.

19
Confidential
POL00460600

POL00460600

27 Cloud Security ‘Security + Assessment of cloud infrastructure configurations (e.g., AWS, —_I Ensured that controls, processes, and measures managing the
‘Azure, GCP). cloud infrastructure, CSP security controls and identity and
+ Review of cloud service provider (CSP) security controls and I access management are in place and align with good business
shared responsibility models. practics Ie a
+ Evaluation of cloud identity and access management, data
encryption, and compliance posture.

28 I End Point Security Security + Assessment of endpoint protection solutions (e.g, antivirus, Ensured that robust controls, processes, and effective measures,
endpoint detection and response). are in place to manage endpoint protection, configuration, patch
+ Review of endpoint configuration management and patch management and mobile device management. ISO 27001 /
management practices. 27002.
+ Evaluation of mobile device management (MDM) and bring-
your-own-device (BYOD) policies.

29 I Compliance & ‘Security + Assessment of IT controls against relevant regulatory Validated, with supporting evidence, that all the programme IT
Regulatory requirements and industry standards (e.g., ISO 27001, NIST controls are in compliance with POL and regulatory requirements.
Requirements / Cybersecurity Framework), (eg., PCI DSS, HIPAA, GDPR). The application and
Frameworks + Review of compliance with specific regulations (e.g., PCI DSS, I management of this being aligned to good business practice le

HIPAA, GDPR). ISO 27001.

30 I Security Risk ‘Security + Evaluation of risk assessment methodologies and risk Ensured the E2E Risk Management process is robust and
Management management processes. ; followed in line with defined controls & processes
“Potential to merge * Review of risk treatment plana and mitigation strategies. Evidence / artefacts seen to confirm good practice supporting risk
with SOW 24 * Assessment of risk monitoring and reporting mechanisms. assessment methodology, risk treatment / mitigation and effective

monitoring. Good industry practice being aligned with ISO27001.

31 I Security Operations I Security The scope of Security Operations will be to look at the designed I Ensured that robust and defined Organisational Design including
(Organisation) or to be designed Security Organisation (TOM) and assess: controls and processes are in place and followed to manage the

+ Evaluation of security operations centre (SOC) processes and I security operations centre.
capabilities. Validated, with supporting evidence, the effectiveness of security
+ Review of security monitoring and incident detection tools. monitoring / incident detection and response controls. This all
+ Assessment of security incident response workflows and being aligned with POL, regulatory requirements and good
procedures. business practice le ISO 27001.

32 I Disaster Recovery and I All Pillars Review to ensure that POL standards are adhered to for Disaster_I To ensure robust DR and Business Continuity plan is in place with

Business Continuity

Recovery and Business Continuity.
Review to include assessment of:

+ measures of effectiveness and how controls are tested and
enhanced to align with pre and post (Final Platform) deliverables.
+ DR and BC RACI

+ Approach to integrated testing, including approach to cyber
threats

+ Roll back process and procedures

supporting processes. Detailed evidence of how the plans are
tested to ensure effectiveness and alignment with the platform
during release phases and current planning(preparation) for final
release. Full ownership and RACI to support this model has been
defined. All planning aligned with good business practice and
POL / Regulatory requirements

20
Confidential
33

Finance & Cost Model

1. Governance
2. Finance
3. Inquiry

To review the Financial Cost modelling of the SPMP programme
to ensure that costs being incurred are accounted for are
completely and accurate. Including the accounting principles
being followed.

Review the linkage of the cost model to the Business Case and
Business Requirements. And how changes in the Business Case
and Business Requirements are being reflected into the Finance
Cost Model

Review the processes in place to monitor and manage Actuals to
Budget/Forecast. How exceptions and deviations are being
escalated and addressed

POLO0460600

POL00460600

Ensure that there are robust processes and procedures in place
to capture and appropriately account for SPMP cost, including the
monitoring and reporting against budgets /forecast.

Ensure alignment with BC and BR.

Business Case and
Benefit Realisation
Assurance

1.Governance_

The scope of the Business Case and Benefit Realisation review
will consider:

a Modelling for business case and benefit realisation is
sufficiently robust and appropriate

b Sufficient to support funding draw downs

c Captures impacts of risks, issues and assurance
reviews/outcomes

d BC and BR change management process is robust.

Ensure that there is a robust model in place for the Business
Case and the linkage into Business Requirements and delivery.

Provide an opinion on the Cost, Benefits realisation model and
assumptions.

Provide opinion on the monitoring and reporting mechanisms of
the Business Case and change management.

21
Confidential
