POL00150292
POL00150292

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce:

, Jane FrenchI ; Clare

Subject: Queries
Hi Mark
I wonder if you or your colleagues could help me with a few queries.

When was the last time the Post Office did any research into how satisfied or otherwise SPMRs are with the Horizon
system? It would be very helpful to know the scope of that research and its results.

Is your statement about the vast majority of SPMRs not having any problems with Horizon based on customer
feedback or purely on the volume of successful transactions?

I get the sense from speaking to a number of SPMRs that they don’t like the system, they don’t trust it and they live in
fear of what the Post Office might do if they get something wrong with it. It may be because I only come into contact

with SPMRs who are having problems that I keep hearing this, so it would be useful to know the other side of the coin.

\f you have data which shows the vast majority of SPMRS love using Horizon and trust it implicitly, it would be useful
to have that information.

Also is it true that you are in the process of commissioning a new system to replace Horizon? If so, why? And when do
you expect it to be operational?

During my planned chat on the sofa with Matt and Alex tomorrow I will be reporting on the comments of MPs during
the Westminster Hall debate. I’d also like to talk about my experiences of dealing with former and existing SPMRs and
their attitude to Horizon, plus whether or not this system is due to be replaced any time soon.

Your help would be greatly appreciated.

Many thanks

Sent: 15 December 2014 17:35

To: Jane French; Nick Wallis; Clare Hoban

Cc: Ingrid Kelly; Melanie Corfield; Ruth X Barker
Subject: Fwd: One Show

All
Just copying to Nick to ensure you all have the statement and answers to your questions.
Mark

Mark Davies
Communications and Corporate Affairs Director

POL00150292
POL00150292

Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:

From: Melanie Corfield
Date: 15 Decemb:
To: Jane Frencl
"Ingrid.Kelly!

Cc: Mark R Davies; GRO.
Subject: One Show

I attach the answers to the questions you have raised with us and also a short statement, for use in full
please, in the film.
Please let me know if you need clarification about any of the information.

Thanks

Mel Corfield
Communications Team

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Je SR IS ISHII III IS IIS IOI IISA III IIIS II II III III
