POL00145677
POL00145677

From: Parsons, Andrew
Sent: Wed 24/07/2013 6:51:15 PM (UTC)
To: Susan Crichtory

Ce: Piero D'Agostinof;
Subject: Re: Proposed letter to JLT re: Horizon

Susan

The letter does nothing more than put POL's insurers on notice of the Horizon issues. It's very bland. My only
hesitation is whether this is strictly necessary to do. From a PR perspective, it would look bad if this got into the
public domain - sign of guilt / concern from the board.

I'd be happy to have one of our insurance lawyers look over the D&O policy to see if POL is required to notify
the insurers. If not, then we might want to hold fire on this.

I would recommend tweaking the first paragraph. The current version suggests that there are problems with
Horizon - when at present there are no systemic problems to report.

It should just say that the press have reported on "potential issues with Horizon" rather "financial discrepancies
have occurred in Horizon". Apologies, the letter is a pdf so I can't make changes to the document itself.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
Bond Dickinson LLP

Andy could you take a look at this its a draft letter to go to our insurance broker re the horizon issue. I have not looked at
it.

Thanks

Susan

From: Charles Colquhoun

Sent: Wednesday, July 24, 2013 07:23 AM

To: Chris M Day; Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons; Piero D'Agostino
Subject: Proposed letter to JLT re: Horizon

Been discussing with Miller what we should tell JLT re: Horizon issues. We have worked up the attached version
— which hasn’t been sent — any comments? I think we should send it this week so would welcome comments over
POL00145677
POL00145677

next day or so.

Regards

Charles

Charles Colquhoun I Head of Corporate Finance

First Floor — Old Street Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V SHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must
not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

mail and any attachments is confi
crichtord

Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communi

The information in this
this e-mail and any at

ly is authorised to a
soon as possible and delete any copies.
ful

ments, If you are not sus

se notify andrew.parsont
jon or attachments is prohibited and may be u

hed to this e-mail will ha
¢ caused by software vi

Any files att
which may

been checked by us with virus detection software befor
ses and you shoul

‘ansmission, Bond Dickinson LLP
carry out your own virus checks before openi

epts no liability for any los

any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC31766 1. Our registered
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NE] 3DX, where a list of memb nes is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of,
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equi ‘anding. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

alent

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
