POL00031124
POL00031124

Oi-MAR-1999 14:58 FROM BIRD & BIRD GRO_ P.01703

ov h b : 4 .
ird + OEE
FAX TRANSMISSION iA
BIRD & BIRD
To: Horizon 90 Fetter Lane
Atten\Ref: Dave Miller ee ECAA TIP
Fax No: C by

Racin
cc: - Catherine Churchard, Post Office Counters *
Fax No: i

{ego} London
Web Page
ewe bwabindsscom

Fax'No:

Nick Gray & Paul Lam-Po-Tan: Slaughter & May

Ores

Ct canes
Pat Kelsey, BAROCI. Prosramme : OM Gytwale

TM Cock
RNSao

PI Crist
Path
DWeyamCock
C)HSmith

Fax No: reevntiey

From: Howard Rubin . nace

AccountNo: BPOCL/001 CWres
Date: 1 March 1999 bse
Time: : DHA
Number of pages (including this page) : ows

° NT Jenkins
‘Notes This fax is intended for the named addressee only. It contains information which may be confidential and = RM Bho
which may also be privileged, Unless you are thc named addressee (or authorised to receive for the addressee) SKTopping
you may not copy of use it, or disclose it to anyone else. If you have recelved it in error pleas: notify us TCTs

ediate

ly so that we can arrange for its return, To do so, or if you have any queries, please telephon ysacet

TRO Aston
J Stannard

. Ch Bares
Dear Mr Miller DCI Cock
IMO pgs
MRHitie

As you are aware Hamish is in the United States at present, J have, with him, CPoret
drafted a response to the letter from John Bennett for your consideration, Alanon

HJ Riin
IWweke
Hopefully my draft speaks for itself however should you wish to discuss the draft fRRrsiow
please do not hesitate to contact me. - FAReeve
Seams

te ‘Oaty
RH Buterwodh
NSP Bhinddl
RWFawea
IP Herdio®
ANugu*
CChesh

IfIam not in the office I can be contacted on my mobile phone whi

Coasts
HOWARD RUBIN KTCAreld
SNUChaten
] Dam
RFhiwant
Or Nn?
Iidex

trata sdictor
“eccat regaered
In Bosses and Pass
AXAMILLERF14

POL00031124
POL00031124

GicMAR-1999 14:58 FROM BIRD & BIRD

HXR/SJB

1 March 1999

DRAFT

Without Prejudice and Subject to Contract

Thank you for your letter of 25 February, Tam disappointed - and somewhat puzzled
that you should wish, at this point, to change the basis of our discussions that have
served us well over the life of the project to date.

As I read your letter, it would appear that you wish to establish that a contractually
binding project plan was agreed in correspondence following the Corbett discussions
of last year. This ignores, however, that those discussions were without prejudice to
the notice of breach ‘of 24 November 1997 and were, in any event, by necessity subject
to contract. What this meant, as we have repeatedly made clear, is two things. First,
by discussing a revised project plan, the Authorities did not waive any of their rights
and remedies with respect to earlier project delays including in particular, ICL
Pathway’s failure to complete the Operational Trial by the due date of 21 November

¢ 1997 (which was agreed in CCN105). Second, unless and until formally agreed in

i accordance with our change control procedures, any revised project plan arising from
these discussions is informal and not contractually binding.

Scale sect the DSS has unilaterally varied the multi benefit testing
programme, for the reasons already explained,e
the current testing programme has no contractual status. 7

earlier Sette:

miod Desember. 1998, TaSt Teal

Continued...../

P.62/83

, _SicMAR-1999 14:59 FROM BIRD & BIRD

POL00031124
POL00031124

Tremendous progress has been made by all parties in moving towards a resolution of
these matters, As you acknowledge in your letter this can only progress if matters are
to proceed on a “without prejudice” and “subject to contract” basis, I believe it is in
all our interests to establish an agreed and practicable basis for taking forward the day
to day work on the project, while discussions on the wider aspects of the project’s
future continue.

IT hope you will consider that this is a constructive way forward and will agree to

Tesume our meeting on this basis.

Yours sincerely

Dave Miller

cc: Vince Gaskell, BA Project Director _

P.03/83

TOTAL P.@3

