POL00293025
POL00293025

From: Nick Vamos.
Sent: Tue 28/01/2020 6:08:03 PM (UTC)
To:
Ce:

"GRO Charlotte Tregunnaj

Subject: RE: Legal privilege/confidential - POL criminal matters - Cabragh and Howard Street [PP-
DOCS.FID119697]

Ben/Rod

Please see amendments to the version below in light of the information about when Disclosure Notices were sent out.
Thanks

Nick

Nick Vamos
Partner

For and on behalf of Peters & Peters Solicitors LLP

15 Fetter Lane, London EC4A 1BW I Tel DDi:

From: Nick Vamos
Sent: 27 January 2020 22:33

To: 'Ben Beabey'
Ce: '‘Rodric Williams
Charlotte Tregunna <. i:
Subject: RE: Legal privilege/confidential - POL criminal matters - Cabragh and Howard Street

Dear Ben

I’ve now had a chance to look through the various documents and threads you sent through at the end of last week.
Eamon is going through the CoH spreadsheet so we have a better understanding of what’s coming down the line,
common/emerging themes and where there are information gaps. We will be able to provide some high-level advice
on what POL’s approach should be to those cases, and identify where case-specific advice is needed, later in the week.
However, I anticipate that we will need to have detailed discussions with the Security Team to clarify the information
on the spreadsheet before we will be able to give definitive advice on any given case.

That said, I recognise the need for urgent advice in Newtown Road (R v Rogers), which was sentenced on 7 January
2020, and Great Bookham (R v Karimi) which his due for sentence on 7 February 2020. You have also asked for
interim advice on how to obtain more information on Cabragh (defendant’s name unknown), due for trial on 25
March 2020 and Howard Street (defendant’s name unknown), both Northern Ireland cases in which Simon
Hutchinson of POL Security team is giving evidence.

1. Newtown Road (R v Rogers]

According to the CoH spreadsheet, email threads and news report I have seen, Victoria Rogers pleaded guilty at
Newcastle Crown Court on 7 January 2019. It’s not clear precisely what offences she pleaded to, but the facts
demonstrate that she admitted creating fictitious transaction reversals on 78 occasions between July and October
2017 worth over £10,000 and pocketed the cash surplus. Her motivation was to feed a cocaine habit. She openly
POL00293025
POL00293025

accepted responsibility and guilt for her conduct. There is no suggestion, on the limited information I have, that she
ever challenged the accuracy of the evidence derived from Horizon that, I am assuming, formed part of the
prosecution case.

Helen Dickinson has confirmed that POL Security did not send the Horizon issues December ‘Disclosure Notice’
directly to the police or CPS, because by that time Rogers had already pleaded guilty. However, the December letter
was sent to all CPS Areas as a mailshot. I am aware that similar ‘Disclosure Notices’ were sent out in September and
October 2019 containing updates on the status of the GLO.

Even if POL had not sent out any Disclosure Notices, it is almost impossible to see how the Horizon issues judgment
could have made any difference to the outcome of these criminal proceedings. Rogers freely accepted her guilt and,
through her barrister, explained her motivation for the crime. Therefore, implicitly, she accepted the accuracy of the
Horizon data.

However, it appears that POL Security notified each CPS Area of the potential impact of the GLO in writing
inSeptermber,-Octoberand December 2019. id be helpful t the actual st ingit by it}
that tte h-CPS Area-but-aAssuming the letters were sent to the correct CPS addresses, there is nothing more
that POL reasonably could have been expected to do in this case. As per my previous advice, POL does not owe any
disclosure duties to the defendant. It is for the CPS to identify potentially disclosable material in the possession of 3
parties and, by sending the Disclosure Notices, POL put CPS on notice of the issues.

2. Great Bookham (R v Karimi)

According to the CoH spreadsheet and email threads, counter clerk Dawood Karimi was reported by a colleague for
using his own debit card to withdraw money. He was arrested, interviewed and made full admissions, apparently to
multiple acts of dishonesty. However, according to the CoH, in interview he disputed about “£6K worth of
transactions / shortages. He claims this amount is due to the operator.” It is not clear what is meant by “the
operator” in this context, nor precisely how he committed the offences. The most recent update from POL Security is
that Karimi was eventually charged with fraud and money laundering amounting to £87,500 and pleaded guilty at the
first hearing at the Magistrates’ Court. He was committed for sentence to the Crown Court (probably Kingston, given
the location of Great Bookham). The CoH states that the Disclosure Letter was sent in October 2019. The column

headed “Mediation Case” states that “legal letter sent 19/12/19”, which I understand refers to the December
mailshot. isthe-date-ofthe Di ber Disel Letter although+ tel hether this refers te thatlett

th tt Id be helpfulte have that clarified.

Karimi has pleaded guilty after making full admissions. Therefore, as with Rogers, it is impossible to see how the
Horizon issues judgment could have made any difference to his acceptance of guilt. However, as he appears to be
contesting some of the evidence from Horizon, albeit on unclear grounds, it would be prudent for POL Security to
check whether he intends to also challenge that evidence at his sentencing, or whether the CPS have accepted the
lower figure. A defendant can submit a ‘basis of plea’ for sentencing which specifies the factual basis upon which he
accepts his guilty. The prosecution do not have to accept the basis of plea, but often they will if it makes no real
difference to the judge’s sentencing options. Where the dispute concerns the value of a theft or fraud, the most
obvious impact is on the amount of compensation and/or confiscation that the court can order. If the basis of plea is
not accepted and the dispute does make a difference to the judge’s option, the court will usually hold a ‘Newton
Hearing’, which is a mini trial of the disputed facts. In this case, it is possible that a Newton Hearing might involve the
examination of some disputed Horizon data. Therefore, I suggest that POL Security (Joel Watson?) contact the
police/CPS as soon as possible as follows (happy for the draft to be tinkered with provided the substance is
unchanged):

I understand that Mr Karimi is due to be sentenced on 7 February 2020. I appears that in his interview he disputed
about £6,000 of transactions. Could you please confirm whether the final figure for the purpose of sentencing has
now been agreed between the CPS and defence? If not, could you please clarify the nature of the dispute, for
POL00293025
POL00293025

example is he suggesting that the record of transactions attributed to him is simply incorrect, or that someone else
was responsible for those transactions? Finally, is it proposed to have a Newton Hearing at the sentencing in order to
resolve the dispute? The reason I ask is that, if there is a defence challenge to the accuracy of evidence from the Post
Office Horizon computer system, the issues flagged in the attached letter [re-send the December letter] may need to
be considered by the CPS as a matter of urgency. In that event, please let me know as soon as possible because Post
Office has instructed specialist criminal solicitors to deal with any such issues and they will need to discuss it with the
CPS.

In my view there could be no criticism of Post Office, even if it did nothing at this point, given that it sent a Disclosure
Notice in October 2019{and- prebably December) directly to the police/CPS in this case, as well as the general mailshot
to all CPS Areas in December 2019. However, given that Post Office is aware that there might be a dispute involving
Horizon data, the prudent approach is to send the email above in order to clarify the position.

Cabragh and Howard Street — obtaining more information

Simon Hutchinson should, as a minimum, have copies of his own statements. I would also expect him to have
correspondence with the PSNI which might contain information about the underlying facts, reports of hearings etc.
Provided that Simon is giving evidence as a POL employee, on behalf of POL, then there is no difficulty with you asking
him to provide you with what he has. For example, if he was a POL employee who happened to be an eye witness to
certain disputed key events, then it might be inappropriate to discuss that evidence with him in advance. However, if
his evidence concerns POL’s business records, policies, practices etc then there is no problem. Even in the former
scenario, you could ask to see his statement but then not discuss it with him once you saw what it was about. Also, as
per my previous email, your purpose in requesting the information would be to ensure the accuracy of his evidence
and the fairness of proceedings, which could not be criticised.

Therefore, I suggest that you contact him in an entirely straightforward manner and ask to see copies of his
statements and any other correspondence he has had with PSNI (police) or PPSNI (prosecutors) about the cases. You
should explain that POL is reviewing the impact of the Horizon Issues judgment on cases it is currently assisting other
prosecutors with (as well as cases it prosecuted itself in the past), to ensure the accuracy of evidence and fairness of
any proceedings.

I hope the advice above is clear and sets out the immediate actions required. As mentioned above, we will advise
further on the general approach POL should take to ongoing police/CPS cases and we will be liaising with the Security
team to obtain further information, where needed.

Kind regards
Nick

From: Nick Vamos

Sent: 24 January 2020 10:15 .
To: Ben Beabey < GRO >
Ce: Rodric Williams <
Subject: RE: Legal privilege/confidential - POL criminal matters - Cabragh and Howard Street

Ben/Rod

Apologies for not replying sooner. I have set aside time today to look at this issue and the other cases/questions you
sent through yesterday. There should be no problem in you speaking to Simon about the cases as he is giving
evidence as a POL employee, on behalf of POL and the purpose, at least in part, would be to ensure the accuracy of his
evidence and the fairness of proceedings. However, I want to read through some of the material first before giving
you a concluded view.
POL00293025
POL00293025

Thanks

Nick

From: Ben Beabey <
Sent: 23 January 2020 1:
To: Nick Vamos
Cc: Ben Beabey
Subject: FW: Legal privilege/confidential

; Rodric Williams
- POL criminal matters - Cabragh and Howard Street

This message originated from outside the firm.

Nick

* Looking over the Cases on Hand Spreadsheet with Rod, we saw there is another potential trial date in June
2020 in the case concerning Newtown Branch (please note that is a different matter from the Newtown matter
referred to below — they have different Branch Codes).

* As for timings, as well as Scotter Road coming up on 2 March, we can see the case of Cabragh coming up on
25 March.

My query for you on Cabragh is this:

© The spreadsheet doesn’t provide much by way of information but it looks like a Northern Irish case - I can see
the POL Security member Simon Hutchinson is to be called as a witness; Rod and I considered me calling Simon
to ask him more about the facts of the case to give you more context — but very conscious he is to be a witness —
is that appropriate? If so, is a call sensible or is there documentation you might expect him to have and which
you'd suggest I email him to ask for it? Could you just reassure/guide as how best to get more background
information about this case for you to consider given it is another March trial date and if Simon is after all the
best bet and if so, how?

© Similarly, another (what looks like) Northern Irish case under the management of Simon Hutchinson is
Howard Street - and so if we were in touch with Simon about above, we could ask him about this too — but
again it looks from the spreadsheet that Simon has provided a witness statement to the Police in this case also.

\'d prefer to have your guidance before picking up the phone/emailing Simon.
Thanks

Ben

Ben Beabey
Senior Legal Counsel, Dispute Resolution and Brand
POL00293025
POL00293025

Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street

London EC2Y 9AQ

From: Ben Beabey
Sent: 23 January 2020 14:15
To: Nick Vamos {7 GRO “S
Ce: Rodric Williams.

Subject: Legal privilege/confidential - POL criminal matters

Legal privilege/confidential
Dear Nick

A. POL Security's schedule of “Cases on Hand”

Please find attached today’s email exchange with the POL Security Team as mentioned by Rod’s email earlier today;
attached to that is the Security Team’s working spreadsheet of “Cases on Hand”. This has been annotated with a
colour coding as explained by Chris Knight of Security.

Rod was anxious for you to be aware of the overall picture coming from POL Security on ongoing criminal cases for
further discussion with Rod — and so can I suggest once you've reviewed the attached schedule in that context, if

immediate questions arise, I can look to field those for you with Security.

I will send you the password to open that Spreadsheet separately.

B. Two new criminal advice queries from POL for advice from Peters & Peters

I know you are busy in the main matter for Rod and obviously must prioritise that — however, Rod has also agreed that
Post Office also ask you to advise on a couple of other (much more self-contained) matters of a criminal nature.

can summarise those as follows:

1. Newtown Branch — has POL done sufficient in terms of updating the CPS as to the Horizon GLO outcome
given the timing/circumstances of the guilty plea? I have attached a relevant email chain setting out what I
have learnt from Helen Dickinson which included a relevant weblink to a report to give the context; obviously
come back to me if more is required.

2. Hanger Lane Branch — a CPS criminal prosecution of a Branch Assistant coming to trial in November 2020;
the issue concerns certain emails inadvertently cc’d to a POL witness in the case when figures as to the financial
amounts involved in the case being put forward in evidence (in a witness statement from POL Security’s Steven
Moseley) in the criminal case were being checked/debated/considered within POL’s deliberations as to what
POL00293025
POL00293025

amounts were in issue for potential civil recovery from the PMR (as distinct from the Defendant Branch
Assistant).

Some of those emails considering the correct amounts in issue and including emails to/from POL Legal and
WBD were cc’d to the POL witness, Steven Moseley. A question is whether or not this gives rise to a duty to
disclose them to the CPS/Defence (including emails from Legal/WBD and a potential waiver of privilege).
There is a related potential civil recovery from the former PMR of the Branch amounting to c£250K —- WBD
have advised this civil recovery is to be considered within the parameters of the new compensation/claims
“scheme” being developed but the criminal question arises in connection with the emails cc’d to Steven .

I have attached an email from WBD with a file of the relevant emails in question which WBD have “de-duped”
for consideration. The POL witness in the case is Steven Moseley and you will see where he was cc’d to such
email traffic.

There is a lot of surrounding background to this case and the internal debate at POL around whether the
figures in evidence were or were not correct; I suspect the most productive route would be for a conference
call with the solicitor at WBD who has been most involved assisting me and we can provide the wider context
and go from there — both by way of explanation and providing further emails/documents you may wish to see
—for example, the witness statement of Steven Moseley or other material concerning the potential civil
recovery itself and the debate which then ensued about the correct amounts in issue (both criminal and civil).

You should note that in both cases of Newtown and Hanger Lane, POL Legal had put the matters to CartwrightKing
and indeed CK did provide advice before Christmas on Hanger Lane (indicating no immediate urgency and it could
await this month) — however in both cases Rod would like Peters & Peters to pick up the matters and advice POL from
now on as I have a concern as to the timely nature of any next steps as may be required.

Rod said you and he can speak separately as regards time recording and billing arrangements.

Kind regards

Ben

Ben Beabey
Senior Legal Counsel, Dispute Resolution and Brand

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

FESS SESS SIO BESS O SIO SEEI SSSI SS EOFS OOS OSES

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
POL00293025
POL00293025

received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FECES EES ES SEES S HESS ES OSES EES EES nS SSE aa ida iia ici inca

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our

website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”
