POL00066817
POL00066817

From: martin smith

Sent: 26 September 2013 11:22

To: ‘Susan Crichton’

Subject: RE: Note of meeting with Sir Anthony Hooper
Susan,

Thank you for your e-mail. I have had a look at the Note of the Meeting with Sir Anthony
Hooper and would comment as follows:-

In Para 4(c) it is noted that, “he suggested (quite firmly) that it might be more appropriate
for cases that have been through the courts to be referred to the CCRC rather than go
through the mediation scheme”

I do not get the feeling that he is suggesting that (all of) the criminal cases should be sent to
the CCRC rather than going through the review process which we are presently
conducting. I think his suggestion is very much in line with the concerns expressed by
Brian Altman QC about the dangers of allowing convicted people into the mediation
scheme. Brian’s view was that convicted people should instead exhaust such rights of
appeal that are open to them. There is a of course the possibility thereafter that a case could
be referred to the CCRC and Simon has previously advised in relation to that.

Brian expressed a concern that the slightest apology to a convicted person or the payment
of compensation could indeed give rise to an appeal. He was concerned that Misra would
use the mediation scheme to obtain some sort of concession to allow her to appeal.

I note from paragraph 4(e) Sir Anthony Hooper observed that “sorry was a good word”. If
he intends to use it in relation to any convicted person allowed into the mediation scheme,
the possibility of a successful appeal may well be increased.

Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions or if you wish to discuss
matters further.

Kind regards,

Martin.

Martin Si

3756
POL00066817
POL00066817

Sent: 26 September 2013 09:20
To: martin smith
Subject: FW: Note of meeting with Sir Anthony Hooper

Susan Crichton I General Counsel

From: Martin Edwards

Sent: 25 September 2013 12:26

To: Paula Vennells; alasdairmarnoch@: ~=GRO___} Susan Crichton
Subject: Note of meeting with Sir Anthony Hooper

Paula, Alasdair, Susan

Here’s my note of yesterday’s meeting with Sir Anthony, which also captures the next steps as discussed
with Susan.

Let me know if you have any further comments.

Thanks,
Martin

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender,
unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

3757
