POL00104912

POL00104912
Page 1
Royal Mail Group Ltd Criminal Investigation and Prosecution Policy
PURPOSE
This policy describes Royal Mail Group Ltd response to crime

and suspected crime against the organisation.

LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES

Criminal Investigation Team

PO Ltd Investigation Team

PFWW Investigation Team

Criminal Intelligence and Support
Planning and Development Team

Criminal Lawyers

Team

POLICY

3.1 I Policy

Royal Mail Group w investigate crime and suspected crime
against the organisation, identify offenders, highlight factors
that facilitated crime and take appropriate action - not
excluding prosecution.

3.1.1 Protecting the Integrity of the Mail

This policy supports the Postcomm Code of Practice “Protecting
the Integrity of the Mail” section 6.3 (c) in preventing and
detecting criminal loss, theft and interference with ‘Code
Postal Packets’.

3.1.2 Protecting the Business

This policy supports paragraphs 15, ‘Security and Trust’ and
22, ‘Preventing and Reporting Crime’ in the Code of Business
Standards. Furthermore, highlighting crime facilitators,
investigations will identify (i) non-compliance with security
procedures, ( non-compliance with the code of business
standards (iii) poor management and (iv) shortcomings in
physical security.

3.1.3 Policing Crime

Royal Mail Group Security Investigation Teams are the providers
of in-house investigations and will maintain the lead in all
dealings with the Police.

3.1.4 Conduct of Investigations

The conduct, course and progress of an investigation will be a
matter for the investigators as long as it is within the law,
rules and priorities of the business. Investigators will
ultimately report to the Director of Security with regard to
the conduct of criminal investigations.

3.1.5 Role of Royal Mail Employees

Royal Mail employees are expected to maintain a high standard
of integrity and whatever their position in the company, are
expected to assist investigators with their inquiries.
Employees have a duty to;

(i) report crime against the business and suspicion of
Document title: Version Date Review date: Owner: Location
number: stored:

Criminal
sitgation

Nov 2011 ER Manager
1a Nov 2010 HR Help

Page 2

POL00104912
POL00104912

Royal Mail Group Ltd Criminal Investigation and Prosecution Policy

crime against the business to the Security Helpdesk
or Crimestoppers on!GRO
ployee wishes to remain

vy, even if thi

‘Shonyhous

(ii) report to the company if they are charged, cautioned,
summonsed or convicted in connection with any criminal
offence.

3.1.6 Prosecuting Criminals

This policy supports the Code of Business Standards in normally
prosecuting those who commit theft or fraud and where
appropriate offences against the Postal Services Act 2000
Sections 83 and 84.

Criminal investigations will be conducted in accordance with
the procedures and to the standards required by legislation,

case law and the courts.

3.1.7 Procedures and Standards

Criminal investigations will be conducted in accordance with
legal powers, restrictions and guidelines provided by the
government or governed by Royal Mail policies (see para 3.2).

3.2 I Procedures and Standards

3.2.1 Gathering Intelligence

Investigators and colleagues in Criminal Intelligence will
adhere to the principles of the Data Protection Act 1998, The
Data Protection (Processing of Sensitive Personal Data) Order
2000 and the Code of Practice for the Management of Police
Information when acquiring, retaining, storing and disclosing

The P6 process will be adhered to when accessing the computer
or official telephone records of employees.

As the Communications Data Order 2003 scheduled Royal Mail as a
public authority for the purposes of the acquisition of
communications data, the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act
(RIPA) Code of Practice for the Acquisition and Disclosure of
Communications Data will be adhered to for the purposes of RIPA
Part 1 Chapter 2.

Anonymous informants will be recorded on the Information Source
Register. The Police will handle any person likely to become a
Covert Human Intelligence Source and investigators will adhere
to the Covert Human Intelligence Sources Code ractice.

3.2.2 Conducting Enquiries and Exhibit Management

Evidence will be gathered and retained in accordance with the
Criminal Procedure And Investigations Act 1996 (S. 23(1)) Code
Of Practice.

3.2.3 Safety and Planning

In_accordance with The Management of Health and Safety at Work

Document title: Version Date Review date: I Owner: Location
number: stored:

Criminal
sitgation

Nov 2011 ER Manager
let Nov 2010 HR Help

Page 3

POL00104912
POL00104912

Royal Mail Group Ltd Criminal Investigation and Prosecution Policy

Regulations 1999, a Safe Working Practices Committee wi

measures.

Planned Operation Risk Assessment.

3.2.4 Surveillance and ‘Testing’

2 lists Roy.

Practice.

in
carried out in accordance with investiga

ion guidelines.

3.2.5 Approach and Arrest

Suspects will be dealt with in accordance to the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984, in particular the ‘Code Of Practice
For The Detention, Treatment And Questioning Of Persons By
Police Officers’.

3.2.6 Interviewing

Suspects will be interviewed in accordance to the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984, in particular the ‘Code Of Practice
On Tape Recording Interviews With Suspects’. Suspects who are
mployees are entitled to the additional rights provided for in
the Royal Mail Conduct Code.

3.2.7 Searching

Searches will be carried out in accordance to the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984, in particular the ‘Code Of Practice
For Searches Of Premises By Police Officers And The Seizure Of
Property Found By Police Officers On Persons Or Premises’.
Suspects who are employees are entitled to the addi
rights provided for in the Royal Mail Conduct Code.

onal

3.2.8 Casework

Investigations Act 1996 and the Criminal
Investigations Act 1996 (S. 23(1)) Code Of Practice.

3.2.9 Prosecution

Suspect offenders will be prosecuted where there is s

conduct an annual risk assessment of investigatory duties
reviewing existing, and setting new controls and measures where
required. Investigators will adhere to these controls and

Investigators will plan for and assess the risks of all
investigation operations (with the exception of responses to
immediate events) using the PORA operational planning tool:

The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 Schedule 1 Part
Mail as a public authority for the purpose of
conducting directed surveillance. irected surveillance will
be carried out according to the Regulation of Investigatory
Powers Act 2000 Part 2 and the Covert Surveillance Code of

Where appropriate ‘tests’ may be applied to the honesty of
iduals suspected of crime. Authorised ‘testing’ will be

Investigations leading to potential prosecution will be
reported in accordance with the Criminal Procedure And
1 Procedure And

ficient
evidence and it is in the public interest in accordance with
the Code for Crown Prosecutors. Decisions to prosecute in non-

Criminal
sitgation and 1a Nov 2010 HR Help

Document title: Version Date Review date: Owner: Location
number: Nov 2011 ER Manager I Stored:

Policy

Page 4

POL00104912
POL00104912

Royal Mail Group Ltd Criminal Investigation and Prosecution Policy

Crown Prosecution Services cases wil
advice provided by the Royal Mail Group Criminal Law Team.

3.2.10 Conduct and Oversight of Investigations

Royal Mail Group Security employees pe
behalf of the public, the Criminal Jus

orm a

have absolute conf
professional status of Investigators.

This means adherence to the laws, regulations and codes along
with their respective Procedure and Standards referred to
above.

Complaints should be forwarded in the first instance to either
the Head of Investigations (Royal Mail, PFWW or POL) or to the
Complaint Manager (RMLS Policy, Standards and Investigation
Support Manager) or his nominated deputy for initial assessment
and selection of the business procedure, namely Criminal
Investigation, Grievance Procedure, Conduct Code or the
Bullying and Harassment procedure.

3.2.11 Scots Law and Northern Ireland

Paragraphs 3.1 to 3.2.10 all apply to Scotland and Northern
Ireland except where specifically articulated in Scots law,
Northern Ireland Statutory Instruments or by the Northern
Ireland Assembly, Procurator Fiscal or Director of Public
Prosecution (NI) guidelines.

3.2.12 Post Office Ltd Investigation
Wh.

adhering to legi

comply. Post Office Ltd Investigation team w.
separate casework procedure and database.

be taken by nominated
representatives in the business with consideration to the

al role on
ice system and Royal
Mail Group Ltd customers and employees. These stakeholders must
dence in the integrity, conduct and

lative and group policy requirements,
the POL Investigation team have additional and, in some cases,
alternative Procedures and Standards, and supporting
documentation with which Post Office Ltd colleagues will

i maintain a

Deployment

policy No. $2.

The procedures to investigate c

reviewed in response to changes in legislation.

investigation circulars and communications.

This Policy is published on the Royal Mail Intranet site as

ime against the Royal Mail
Group have been in existence for many years and are regularly

Investigation Procedures and Standards relating to this policy
are included in the induction and ongoing training courses and
material provided to investigators. Any changes to the
procedures and standards are notified to investigators via

Criminal number:

Document title: Version Date Review date: I Owner: Location

Nov 2011 ER Manager I Stored:

sitgation

1a Nov 2010 HR Help

POL00104912
POL00104912

Page 5
5. I Compliance
Reports of Incidents of crime or suspected crime are evaluated,
categorised and prioritised for investigation by the Criminal
Investigation Casework Teams.
The Casework teams report on volumes of investigations,
RM/POL/PFWW products, processes and services affected, and
types of offences and outcomes of prosecutions.
The Casework Teams monitor compliance with investigatory
procedures and standards.
Complaints will be investigated as per the complaints
procedure.
6. I Monitoring
Representatives from Group Security, Criminal Law and the
business u investigation teams will review this policy at
least annually.
In addition The Criminal Justice Inspection Northern Izeland
will conduct an occasional review all investigatory
processes in Northern Ireland.
7. [Contract Manager
Not applicable.
8. I Document details
8.1 I Author Ray Pratt
8.2 I owner Head of Criminal Investigation, RMLS
8.3 I Enquiry point Ray Pratt
8.4 I Effective from 1 December 2007
8.5 I Review date November 2011
8.6 I Last updated November 2010
9. [Assurance Details
9.1 I Name Tony Marsh, Phil Gerrish, Rob G Wilson,
Roger Duckworth, Ray Pratt, Simon Ramsden,
Marcus Copper, John M Scott
9.2 I Business Unit Royal Mail Group
9.3 I Assurance Date October 2005
10. [Final Review
10. I Approved by Phil Gerrish
1
10. I Documented (Hard NO Location
2 Copy)
10. » YES Location : Corporate Security
3 (Electronic) Database, HR Help
Document title: Version Date Review date: Owner: Location
Criminal number: Nov 2021 ER Manager I stored:
Invesitgation and let Nov 2010 HR Help

