POL00039029
POL00039029

Transaction Corrections, Debt
Reporting and Debt Recovery

Review

dy Wi
January 2009

W Current Ways Of working and supporting
operating processes in the transaction correction,
debt reporting and debt recovery areas.

= Review the impact of the current ways of working

and current operating processes in the transaction

correction, debt reporting and debt recovery area
on the POL Network.

se and then recommend cost effective

POL00039029
POL00039029
POL00039029
POL00039029

What is “Settle Centrally’?

Branch Trading forces IC acceptance
Inadequate TC evidence/instructions
Unclear process

Non conformance not addressed

d/High Value/High Volume TCs

Unclear processes e.g. Ops manual talked of branches being issued with 2 equal and opposite TCs.
POL00039029
POL00039029

SPUTE BUTTON
OUT OF CORE HOURS CONTACT
LOTTERY EVIDENCE NOT SPECIFIC

SYSTEM ROLLOVER TIME

HORIZON TC RECEIPT
ORE & QUTIREACH.CO!

Dispute button - facility would be abused. POL believe they have provided evidence to support validity on issue. Dispute
simply asks us to do it again. Robust dispute process is answer.

Out of hours - come to later

Lottery - in some cases this would mean 30-40 TCs/month

System rollover - acknowledged but out of scope.
TC receipt - no clear benefit bar subpostmasters claiming for losses.

Consolidated statements - considering along with local multiples/temporary agencies. Robust master data needed to avoid
creating an industry. Unclear requirements from C&O. eg branch trading dates.
POL00039029
POL00039029

Varying TC routines
Resource

POLES limitations
Increasing debt levels

Varying TC routines - one of the clear ideals I had on setting out and from others who I spoke to was consistency. But then
most teams have completely different approaches to identifying errors and resolving them - and for good reasons.
Resource - time and money

POLFS - space/access to reference data/different transactions used by different teams.

Debt levels - both current & former.

Ownership - main focus has been on clearing backlog. Whether that helps the bottom line depends on whether debts
generated are paid. Equally there is no incentive to seek out compensating TCs.
POL00039029
POL00039029

= Test relevance of TC evidence and
resolution instructions.

= Consistent Product IDs on TCs
= Define “Settle Centrally”
resolved prior to
atch of evidence

Test relevance - by exception. Network/NFSP to provide subpostmasters will illustrations to work through. We can then take
back to teams to improve.

Consistent Product IDs - needed for MI

Define Settle Centrally - legally they have accepted the debt. But would a court wear it? Need some assurances around it.
Disputes pre DFR - should not happen but need to lay out their responsibilities as well as ours. How does a dispute become
formal? They need to present evidence.

Timely despatch of evidence - wanted to say pre TC issue or seek evidence option. In some areas not possible. Feels
reasonable to despatch on day of issue as minimum.
POL00039029
POL00039029

Network communications -aged, high value,
large volume TCs

Out of hours contact process
Worst Branch

Recovery - remove one letter in process - not contractual and adds no value. People either pay up or hang out to dfr - may as
well get there.

Coms to Network before issuing. Marie to define later.

Out of hours - not recreating helpline. Requests via NBSC/mailbox to set up contacts by exception.

Worst branch - differentiate from risk model. Concept is that branch may cause loads of work to manage - no actual losses but
high cost to manage. So far looked at TCs, cash declaration failures, green giro despatches, scratchcard holdings and reversals.
Could do with more but data needs to be available. Love to put something in about cheque despatch but data not easily
accessible. Will pick out top xx and add on sections that need individual analysis - cheques, complaints. Will not be statistically
valid initially. What is anyone going to do with it?

New subpostmasters - ATM team manage new installations in early days. Once trainers have left no one seems to look at the
whole picture for early days. Can identify problems early and hopefully stop future losses.

Communications to branches should be addressed either by subpostmaster name or “Subpostmaster
POL00039029
POL00039029

Network — Marie Jan 09

Proposals to Stakeholders — Jan 09

Relaunch - March 09
Deliverables

Dispute Process

Deliverables - there does not look anything in here that holds significant resource implications so would expect everything to
be in place except by exception.
