POL00090223
POL00090223

Louise Parry

From: Anne Allaker

Sent: 06 May 2015 15:34

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Ce: Peter Prior-Mills

Subject: NBSC Employee Feedback
Attachments: NBSC Employee Comments.doc
Hi Angela,

I've attached the One Pager (it's actually a 2 sided one pager) on the NBSC employee comments.

We've made comments towards the end of the document, related to our observations from the comment, what's
noted from the McKinsey feedback and with regard to findings throughout Branch Support.
Hope this is what you need. Let me know if you have any questions.

I've also been looking into the process for requesting communications (raised at the last BUF meeting). Given that
much of this feedback has a link to comms I'll tidy up what I've found on my way home on the train and send that
onto you tonight

Thanks
Anne.

° Anne Allaker
Branch Support Programme
Markets Post Offi

POL00090223
POL00090223

NBSC Employee Comments 06.05.15
NBSC Employee Comments

Themes from Employee Feedback
81 comments in total broken down as follows.

e Communication- 14 comments. Main theme relates to timely and better communications and also knowledge
of what to do when new products are launched or when things change or go wrong. This theme was raised
within Branch Support Programme and is a theme raised by BUF too. Comments may have been impacted by
Dynamics being unavailable however given this is a theme raised elsewhere solutions may include a
mandatary sign off for NBSC before any change is live and communications go out to Network, more
ownership of communications within NBSC (allow them to put front end messages in place when things go
wrong), more engagement with NBSC at an earlier point for product changes te include a contact who will
take ownership if escalation is needed, an awareness session within NBSC so that they understand impacts
that can’t be communicated early (e.g. Budget announcements/Royal Mail price increases). Closing the loop
for NBSC needs to be embedded across the piece so that they receive feedback on call closure when they've
escalated incident to other teams or individuals. AHT was also raised as an issue by advisors in that they feel
they are pressurised to achieve AHT above quality of response to branch.

« Training 13 comments. These relate more to branch staff training than NBSC advisor training. Many of the
camments relate to better access to training for new and possibly existing praducts and services this would be
relevant to both branch and NBSC. There's one request for ongoing refresher training. One comment about
call recording which needs more context. Solutions may be in train with Online training modules, “How to”
videos which will be available 24/7. Over and above that it may be that NBSC in house training can be
reviewed and there's clearly a need to get better information to NBSC quicker for product and service changes
and introductions.

e Process and Procedure. 13 comments. These actually relate to communications as above, training, tools for
the job and there's also comments related to AHT delivery having a detrimental effect on quality of response
to branch.

* Tools and Equipment 7 comments mainly related to the new Dynamics system not being adequate. I
comment relates to a better IVR this would need further context.

* Line Management. 7 comments. 2 of these comments relate to consultants, this would need further context.
The remainder relate to speed of decision making and lack of control over decision making within NBSC. Many
of these comments may relate to the communications section above.

« Company Strategy. 6 comments. 1 comment relates to providing more channels for customers some of which
will be digital, h is within the business strategy so maybe an awareness session is needed with NBSC. The
remaining comments relate to staffing in NBSC meeting dernand/Crown restructuring/AHT and responsibility.
None of the later are company strategy and are covered elsewhere in themes.

« Post Office Reputation 4 comments. These comments all appear to relate to Branch apart from 1 comment
related to more staff which could be NBSC or branch.

e Decision Making. 3 comments relating to decision making. 2 of which relate to speed and ease of decision
making which could be linked to Communications theme above. The third relates to Senior Managers listening
to NBSC. The later may be helped by the potential solutions outlined in the communication theme.

e Leadership Senior Management 3 comments 7 of which refers to Crown Transformation Pragramme so this
is more likely to be fram Property and Modernisation than from NBSC. The other 2 comments relate to
POL00090223
POL00090223

NBSC Employee Comments 06.05.15

impacts of decisions that have been taken and the effect it’s having on their morale and AHT target delivery

above duality of answer.

¢ Treatment of employees and well-being- 2 comments. Possibly relates to work life balance but needs further
context 7 relates to numbers of Temp and agency staff being employed in favour of retaining and retraining
existing experienced staff.

» Work Life balance. 2 comments both of which rnay not relate to NBSC as they mention travel, unsocial hours.
pay not being aligned anc too many pecole in the decision making process and individual priorities not aligning
with their line manager. More context would be neecled to establish that these comments are from NBSC.

* Working with colleagues. 2 comments. 1 relates te better communication between departments see
communication theme. The other comment relates to cutting queues in branch.

» Working Environment. 1 comment oniy relates to longer Crown branch opening hours. Again this appears not
to relate to comments made by NBSC.

* Other- 4 comments. 1 No Comment. 1 AHT as mentioned throughout. 7 asking for a permanent contract. 1
wanted to be able te better use their skills and qualifications.

ave heen made by NBSC.

General Comments- We'v ci that there are a number of comments which may no’
The comments would appear more relevant to Property & Modernisation. For example:
1. Working environment- Longer opening hours for Crowns.
2. Post Office Reputation- Include meeter greeter in Crown Office duties.
3. Line Management-Proper accountable PO tne management rather than line management that has been
outsourced to a consultant.

Mckinsey general comments:-

The Mckinsey report focusses on numb nd particularly AHT. They identify variation in performance and suggest it
should reduce but fail to ask why variation ace
They suggest calis inte NBSC should be reduced but don’t say how.

They identify that there’s no structured approach to continuous improvement and gh
ment or performa formation on the call centre floor. They alsa mention that the
analysis behind variations in performance but don’ tify how this can be improved

They mention workflow segmentation, IVR and streaming of calis by type without demonstrating why they think this
would heip. Our view is that this may adversely affect Customer and Agent experience as the ity to flex staffing
would be reduced if and when an influx of calls arrived. It also reduces multi skilling of advisors. IVR changes would
need to be fully explored with stakeholders engaged as in the past IVR options have been the source of colleague
ustration,

McKinsey haven't directly commented a
perhaps training would improve bath indiv
be validated.

tes of lack of visual
o's little root cause

ining however their comments on AKT imp! nging behaviours end
ual performance and overall call centre performance. This would need to

Branch Support Programme General comments:-

Most of the above themes have been raised throughout the programme lifetime and are
Forum,

I's not clear whether McKmsey actually understand the processes branches follow in ail cases. For example their
comments relating to branches using channels other than NBSC to chase stock orders (point 3 slide11). As far as we
are aware NBSC is the channel.

Longer term consideration is that all of the above lends itself to Case Management/workflow tracking but the reach of
that must also go outside of NBSC/CCU/POEx

raised by Branch User

