POL00054007
POL00054007

Royal Mail Group

NC INDIVIDUAL CHECK

his facility must only be used for the purposes of obtaining previous convictions of alleged offenders and witnesses
who have provided witness statements in cases being prosecuted or under active consideration for possible prosecution
Requests can also be made for Health and safety reasons. Misuse of the information provided deliberately or through
negligence will invoke serious action under the conduct code not falling short of dismissal and may lead to prosecution.

ELLIGENCE TEAMONLY.
S10 GRO

IS! Unique ref no W3447 Date Received 04/02/2010
Processed by: Rodney Williams Time Call received

Authorising Date Reply sent

Manager's name 03/02/2010}
Reason for urgent

Check

Urgent check
C ‘ined (State
Reason)

Case Reference (state
reason if not available) 29128

Reason for request
(Provide brief details of
ithe offence under
investigation and/or
explain why the
information is necessary
to be obtained.) h

Please supply information in respect of the following individual (* Mandatory information)

[*Sumame [Amold [Previous Surnames [N/K I

[*First Name(s) in full: [Jason Yousef I *Male or Female IMale

[FDate of Birth I ‘Place & Country of Birth _]N/K

(Current Private Address I GRO i

Previous Address

Information required in order to process a PNC check (complete the boxes that are applicable)
[Reason for request: Risk Assessment (Suspect) Yelsion 13 Prosecution Result TT
PRE Doe Risk assessment (Open enquiry) [J Intelligence Gathering Oo

POL00054007

POL00054007
ce et ded correct! 8
Requesters Name Andy Bowman Mobex GRO
[Rank ML3 Date

URGENT REQUESTS ONLY: The Security Intelligence Transaction Team member should forward the form to the Authorising
Manager. via.their e-mail account only. The Authorising Manager must be one rank higher than the requestor.

NORMAL REQUESTS: The Requestor should forward the form to the Authorising Manager via their e-mail account only. The
Authorising Manager must be one rank higher than the requestoi

Reason for declining

Authorisers Narne
Rank

Tho authorising Manager should forward the completed form to the Security Intelligence Team e-mail address using
t. outton on the summary sheet within 5 working days of receipt via their respective e-mail account only.

The Security Intelligence Transaction Team member should forward the form to the
Authorising Manager via their e-mail account only. The Authorising Manager must be one
rank higher than the requestor

Version 13
PNC 65208
