POL00005816
POL00005816

Process for seeking relief on losses

Version 1
15* Dec 2005

Owner:

This process, consistent with the contractual relationships
between Post Office Ltd and its agents, is designed to
clarify circumstances where mitigation may be appropriate
and to provide a clear framework to handle individual
cases.

The overall purpose of the process is to:

e Ensure probity, objectivity and conformity across the
network in a commercial manner

e Clarify roles and responsibilities;

e Ensure equality and fairness of treatment of
Subpostmasters and other agents.

As noted above, the agent is responsible for all branch

losses. Occasionally, there may be exceptional

circumstances that allow for relief (either repaying the
loss by instalments or writing-off part or all of the loss).

The main circumstances where consideration may be

given are:

e losses incurred by a new agent (one without previous
post office experience and who offers personal service
at the branch ) during the first six weeks of
appointment;

e where there is clear evidence of financial hardship

e  Distressing personal circumstances incurred at the
branch that impacted the sub postmaster’s ability to
function on the day in question

If a subpostmaster considers that there are mitigating
circumstances he must apply in writing to the area
performance manager who will assess whether relief from
the loss is justified (or whether a face to face meeting is
required). The subpostmaster must be prepared to give
full details to support his request.

The area performance manager will forward the case and
a recommendation to the Branch Accounting and control
manager in Product and Branch accounting. A

F3/42/1
POL00005816
POL00005816

representative of the Finance Director within PBA has the
right to challenge the recommendation.

A decision will be taken within 28 days. The decision taken
and communicated via the area performance manager will
be final and no further appeals will be allowed.

It must be emphasised that this process will operate by
exception and is not a means by which subpostmasters
can abrogate their contractual responsibilities.

F3/42/2
