POL00040075
POL00040075

CUid CridiiO
i,

a Gj

al Compla Review and

POL00040075
POL00040075

Scenarios

There are a number of scenarios that could impact the success of the programme and have
implications for communications:

1. JFSA disengage from Working Group

Second Sight disengage from Working Group

Second Sight additional support needed

Applicant(s\/MP talks to the press about the outcome of mediation (satisfied)

Applicant(s)/MP talks to the press about the outcome of mediation (dis-satisfied)

Investigation findings

MP / Stakeholder / James Arbuthnot raise concerns with the Press or Parliament (e.g. question in
Parliament)

8 Arbuthnot meeting MPs (likely to be February 2014)

9. Mediation outcome communication to WG made public

10. Network issues (increased number of concerns citing Horizon, separate ‘Horizon’ issue raised)

11. Post Office Legal Issue (sued) / Prosecution(s) and Policy

12. Consumer futures involvement

13. NFSP move position of satisfaction to dissatisfaction

14. Interested journalist contacts us proactively (e.g. Matt Prodger, BBC or Karl Flinders, Computer Weeki
The Impact of external non-Horizon engagement on the Scheme

NOBRON

POL00040075
POL00040075

Media Scenario Risk Map

Media Scenario Planning Overview Side

1. JFSA disengage from Working Group

2. Second Sight disengage from Working Group

3. Second Sight additional support needed

4. Applicant(syMP talks to the press about the outcome of mediation (satisfied)

5. Applicant(s)/MIP talks to the press about the outcome of mediation (dis-satistied)

6. Investigation findings

7. MP/ Stakeholder / James Arbuthnot raise concerns with the Press or Parliament
{€.g, question in Parliament)

8 James Arbuthnot meeting MPs (likely to be February 2014)

©. Mediation outcome communication to WG made public

4

10. Network issues (increased number of concerns citing Horizon, separate
"Horizon’ issue raised)

+1. Past Office Legal Issue (sued) / Prosecution(s) and Policy

42. Consumer futures involvement

43. __NFSP move position of satisfaction to dissatisfaction

14. Interested journalist contacts us proactively (e.g. Matt Prodger, BBC or Karl
Flinders, Computer Weekly)

45, The Impact of external non-Horizon engagement on the Scheme

Impact i Risk Realised
3

Low

Unity Possible Probable

Lxettood of Riek Realising

POL00040075
POL00040075

Media Scenario Risk Assessment

1. JFSA disengage from Working Group

3. Second Sight additional support needed

4. Applicant(s)MP talks to the press about the
outcome of mediation (satisfied)

2. Second Sight disengage from Working Group

8. James Arbuthnot meeting with MPs

6. Investigation findings

5. Applicant(s MP talks to the press about the
‘outcome of mediation (dis-satisfied)

13. NFSP move position of satisfaction to
dissatisfaction

12. Consumer futures involvement

7. MP / Stakeholder / James Arbuthnot raise
‘concems with the Press or Parliament (e.g.
question in Parliament)

15. The Impact of external non-Horizon
‘engagement on the Scheme.

9, Mediation outcome communication to WG
made public

10. Network issues (increased number of
‘concems citing Horizon, separate ‘Horizon’ issue
raised)

11. Post Office Legal Issue (sued) /
Prosecution(s) and Policy

14, Interested joumaiist contacts us proactively
(€.g. Matt Prodger, BC or Karl Flinders,
Computer Weekly)

POL00040075

POL00040075

High Impact

1. JFSA disengage from Working Group

Poston: Remain Reactive
(8, (eisappointment but carrying on as WG to support SPMRs)

‘Syeda to cevelop reactive lines
\We may need to engage James Arbuthnot to reassure MPs

2, Second Sight dsengage from Working
Group

Position: Remain Reactve
{Q8< (eisappointment but carrying on as WG to support SPMRs)

‘Syeea to Cevelop reactive lines
\We may need to engage James Arbuthnot to reassure MPS

5 Applicani(s)MP talks to the press about the
utceme of mediation (s-satistad)

Position: Remain Reactive
8A (outcomes are confidential, resterate process ard have ines for
righ profle cases ~ i pushed)

‘Legal fo send ines to Press:
Lines developed on high pre cases
Contact and Arrange meeting with MP.

7.MIP/ Stakeholder / James Arbuthrot raise
concems with he Press or Pariament eg
question in Parliament)

Position: Remain Reactve
OSA (Reiterate process, WG, SAH, outcomes confidential)
Moniter MP Questions / Liaise wth BIS fer answer

‘Syeca to Covelop reactive lines
\We may need to engage James Arbuthnot to reassure MPS
Re-assire stakeholcers

Contact MP who asked queston in Parliament

©, Meciaton auteome communication to WG
made publ

Position: Remain Reactive
(8A (Papers for first case tobe sent to press to develop generic
reactive lines)

‘Meritor Case Tracker
Sparrow team to serd papers to press team

10. Network issues (inereased number of
concers eting Horizon, separate Hotzor!
issue raised)

Position: Remain Reactive with mecia but proactive withthe network
8A :No systemicissues with Horizon, Business Improvements,

‘Comm to the network team ane network (eubapace onine)
Business Improvements communicated

We would need to counter any cross reference to the
Meciation Scheme for ‘other Horizon issues ang ensure it was
‘an integral part of Fre-planring for comms.

“1. Post Office Legal issue (sued) /
Prosecution(s) ané Policy

Work with legal tear fo establish positon,

Prosecution Policy Overview from Legal (Chris A/ Andy
Parsons)

14. Interested journalist contacts us
proactively (e.g. Matt Prodger, BBC or Kari
Flinders, Computer Weekly)

Reactive Position inital, providing journalist with a holding
statement

Depending on media envrormert, pick-up and investigation we may
reed toissue a public statement

Draft Holding Statement
Statement may be needed eatter than the one needed at the
fend ofthe scheme,
POL00040075
POL00040075

High Profile Media Cases

iCase Ref [IMP Party [Status
(M007 jGreg Knight [Conservative [Accepted
Wioos jonathon Bjanogh ‘onservalive Accepted
1006 IGeorge Osborne. [Conservative [Accepted
IMO12 Jonathon Lord [Conservative [Accepted
Mors evan Jones [Labour
{W026 [Albert owen [Labour
(M030 Applicant said - Ben Wallace (however applicant lives in USA)IConservative jAccepted
[wos james Arbuthnot (Conservative IAcoapted
{M039 Karen Lumley [Conservative [Accepted
Wvioad Ronnie Campbell [Labour lAccepted
[viodS"~JAndrew Tyrie IGonservative [Accepted
(M054 [Oliver Letwin, onservative _jAccepted
[vios8[Andrew George Libdem [Accepted
iMO80 IRH David Havard Labour Accepted
Koes ike Wood [Labour lAccepied
i086 iSteven Mosiey Conservative Accepted

[David Jones

[Conservative

POL00040075
POL00040075

Medium

3. Second Sight additional support
needed

Position: Remain Reactive
Q&A (SS still part of the WG,
‘additional support to ensure we can
address concerns of SPRMs)

Syeda to develop reactive lines
We may need to engage James
Arbuthnot to reassure MPs.

8. James Arbuthnot meeting with MPs.

Position: Remain Reactive
‘QA (Generic Lines about the
‘Scheme)

Generic reactive lines developed
Follow-up to meeting email sent to
MPs with a case offering a face to
face meeting

13. NFSP move position of satisfaction
to dissatisfaction

Position: Remain Reactive
Q&A (Re-iterate no systemic issues
with Horizon, Process, WG)

Include NFSP in SOTS
development

Update at regular comms meetings
with the NFSP

15. The Impact of external non-Horizon
engagement on the Scheme

Evaluate impact of external
‘engagement on the scheme and
take a cautious approach

Evaluate impact of external

engagement on the scheme and
take a cautious approach

POL00040075
POL00040075

4. Applicant(s)/MP talks to the press
about the outcome of mediation
(satisfied)

Position: Remain Reactive
QBA (Wwe are supporting SPMRs.
‘Scheme working)

Syeda to develop reactive lines

6. Investigation findings

Position: Proactive?
QBA (based on investigation
findings — reiterate business.
improvement plans)

Findings to be highlighted to the
‘comms team

Reaative lines to be drafted
Network and Internal Comms may
be needed to reassure

12. Consumer futures involvement

Position: Remain Reactive
‘Q8A (no consumer angle)

‘Mike to continue to monitor
‘Consumer Futures interested and
update sparrow team when
necessary

POL00040075
POL00040075

Summary of Materials Needed

Impact Questions / Communications needed now ‘Questions / Communications needed with a dependency
High + Reactive line for JFSA cisengacing withthe WG + Reassurance emallio MPs/ James Abuthrot
+ Reactive lire for 8S dsengagirg wit the WG + Meet vith individual MPs where necessary
+ Generic ines about the Business Improvements Programme (meluding the I + Generic Lines on ease outcomes (specific lines vill be needed for high
Branch User Forum) profile cases)
+ Halaing Statement + Generic Lines based on frst case papers (specific nes wil be needed for
+ Prosecution Policy Overview from Legal (Chris A / Ardy Parsons) righ profi cases)
+ Letter/emai/Subspace tothe network based on Business Improvement
Monitor: case tracker for high profile cases Programme
Monitor: Questions in Parliament/ Liaise with BIS re answors + Public statement before end of the Scheme i necessary
Medium Reactive line for SS needing adétioral support + Engage James Arbuthnot re aditioral support
‘Support James Arbuthnot to host MP evering inluding emails, briefs ard
agenda for meeting
+ Engage NFSP early on the future ofthe Scheme
+ Reactive line if NFSP were to come out in press against Scheme:
Evaluate impact ofall external engagement on the Scheme
Low + Generic QA for mediation outcomes, 7 GBA for firings (wll need fo assess whether we go proactive wth the

retuork ard how we ergage withthe media)
Internal and Netwerk comms may be needed iirvestigaion findings leaked
Tissue found

