Financial Investigation Policy Log
Case Number: POLTD 0607/0401

Date

Text

15 Nov
06

I have commenced an investigation into Miss Janet
Louise Skinner ex subpostmaster of N Bransholme Post
Office. She is under investigation for the suspected theft
of £59, 175.39 whilst she was employed as
subpostmaster. This investigation is for the purpose of
identifying money laundering offences and confiscation.
The investigation will be proportionate, have a legal
framework, accountable and necessary.

It will follow the legal requirements of the Proceeds of
Crime Act The Police & Criminal Evidence Act, Criminal
Procedures & Investigations Act and the Regulation of
Investigatory Powers Act. It will also be European
Convention on Human Rights Compliant. Mr T Utting is
my supervising officer and he will be kept aware of the
investigation and where necessary direct the
investigation in accordance with the above legislation.

7 Dec 06

Dianne Matthews reported that Wendy Lyell the current
office manager at North Bransholme has been
suspended on suspicion of theft. Dianne is to establish
details.

25 Jan
06

Discussed the confidential information the Halifax had
given us re the correct banking information with Juliet.
As the information was confidential from a confidential
source it should not be revealed to Miss Skinner. I
decided that I would ask for a blanket authority for all
accounts

10 May
06

Discussed with Juliet the further enquiries. I feel that for
the effective conduct of the investigation these enquiries
need to be undertaken, however I am not confident that
they will reveal further assets. As such I am of the view
that we should go a head and get a Confiscation Order
on the 25 May 2007, as long as if necessary we can
revisit the Confiscation Order in accordance with
Section 22 of the POCA 2002, Order made:
reconsideration of available amount, if my enquiries do

POL00064033
POL00064033

reveal significant further assets. Juliet was out of the
office for the day and would advise on her return.
Agreed that I would send her an email

E mail Sent to Juliet

Spoke with Juliet as it occurred to me that the defence
would say that Miss Skinner has not benefited from
Crime as it was a member of staff. I say that our case is
that the loss increased because of Miss Skinner's
dishonesty and that she was liable for a debt and by not
paying it she has benefited. I asked if she would discuss
this with the barrister to see if they thought we had a
case she said that she had done so and the Barrister
was confident that we did have a case.

22 May
07

It occurred to me that I had not made any enquiries
about Wendy Liddell. I looked through the event log and
read the entry dated the 7 December. I had overlooked
pursuing the matter. Decided to find what the current
position was.

Received an email from Dave Pardoe my new Line
Manager to the effect that no further resources were to
be expended on the case in respect of Wendy Lyell Item

27 Aug
07

It occurred to me that in the interests of justice we could
be rightfully criticised for not carrying out a
comprehensive investigation into Wendy Lyell. I spoke
with and asked him Dave to reconsider allocating
resources in order for the matter to be further
investigated. Dave said that if we are criticised, so be it,
no further investigation resource was going to be
allocated

27 Aug
07

Following the conversation it occurred to me that the
defence in the interests of justice may well be entitled to
a comprehensive investigation and it my view that one
should be carried out. Spoke with Dave again and he
said that he did not agree and he was maintaining his
position.

POL00064033
POL00064033
POL00064033
POL00064033

Financial Investigation Policy Log

Case Number:
