POL00297285
POL00297285

From: Pheasant, Andrew[
Sent: Fri 05/07/2013 3:
To: Rodric Williams{

Subject: FW: Second Sight Report
Attachment: _DOC_27096022(1)_POL Interim Report v24 + BD comments.DOC
Hi Rodric,

If you need anything over the weekend do not hesitate to give me a call on my mobile. I am around and happy to
help.

Many thanks
Andy

Andrew Pheasant
Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:
Blin

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Parsons, Andrew
Sent: 05 July 2013 1.
To: Rodric Williams
Cc: Matthews, Gavin; Gaisford, Rosie
Subject: Second Sight Report

Rodric
My comments attached. On the whole, I'm deeply unimpressed with the report.
Headline thoughts:
1. Despite the rhetoric, SS have not managed to identify a problem in Horizon or a gap in our SR responses.

2. In general, SS has provided little if any analysis. Predominantly, they have just quoted the SPMRs and POL's
views without adding their own assessment. This was not the scope of work agreed with SS who were
supposed to neutrally evaluate the position — I see little if any actual evaluation.

3. The few views expressed by SS generally lack justification and explanation. They draw conclusions without
providing supporting reasons. This is in breach of the Investigation agreement.

SR1 — the most problematic. SS's conclusion is that the Horizon system does not provide timely responses in the
POL00297285
POL00297285

event of a power/comms failure. The facts simply do not support this conclusion. Horizon recovered in just 4 minutes
and the SPMR knew immediately that there was a problem as Horizon did not print a customer receipt.

SRs, 5, 21 and 22 are dealt with more fairly, but mainly because SS haven't reached any conclusions yet.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

only is authorised to
35 S608 4S possible and delete any
be unlawful

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rodric.williamsq_
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copy)

privileged and protected by law. rod

[please notify andrew.pheasan
of this Communication or attachments is prohibited and m

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the offic

business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neith

iven nor endorsed by it,

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC31766 1. Our registered
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors R

lation Authority

