POL00067404

= _ POL00067404
POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
POLTD/0506/ 0061
OFFENCE
THEFT & FALSE ACCOUNTING

Name: Tahir MAHMOOD
Rank: Subpostmaster Identification Code: C4
Office: Ten Acre Street FAD Code 383.201.5

Selly Oak

Birmingham

B30 2XN
Age: 30 Date of Birth:
Service: 6 years Date Service Commenced: 20.05.1999
NatInsNo: = = I I
Home Address: G R O
Contract for Services 30.04.2005 on the authority of Colin Price
Suspended:

Handed into custody: N/A

To be prosecuted by: Royal Mail Group (including Post Office Ltd)

Designated Prosecution
Authority:

Tony Utting, National Investigation Manager

Discipline Manager: Sue Muddeman

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL

POL00067404
POL00067404

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL

Sue Muddeman
Contracts Manager

Subject: Mr Tahir Mahmood — Sub Postmaster Ten Acre Street Post Office FAD 383.215.5.

The facts of this case are as follows. On the 30” of April 2005 I attended Ten Acre Street
Branch with my colleagues Mr Michael Cooksey and Mr Paul Dawkins and members of the
post office audit team, Miss Alison Edwards and Mr Guru Aubby. On our arrival we were met
by Mr Mohammed Hanif, the Sub postmaster’s father. Tahir Mahmood arrived
approximately thirty minutes later.

When Mr Mahmood arrived at the office the audit had already commenced and Miss
Edwards asked Mr Mahmood if there was any more cash on hand other than what she had
retrieved from the safe. Mr Mahmood replied that ‘there were some differences. At this
point Miss Edwards and Mr Mahmood left the secure area and approached Mr Dawkins, Mr
Cooksey and myself. Mr Mahmood informed Mr Dawkins that the post office would be
about £25,000 short. Just before 10:30 Miss Edwards informed me that the audit had been
completed and there was a shortage in the post office accounts of £33,437.39. I then
cautioned Mr Mahmood and recorded the caution in my notebook. Miss Edwards then
informed Mr Mahmood of the audit result and Mr Mahmood said that he agreed with the
audit figure. I informed Mr Mahmood that I would need to speak to him formally. I
explained the interview process in detail and the right to have a solicitor and/or a friend
present at the interview. An interview was arranged for 10:00 on Wednesday 4° May 2005
at the post office premises in 86 Lionel St, Birmingham B3 1HQ.

Mr Mahmood attended Lionel Street on Wednesday 4" of May for interview and was
accompanied by his Federation Representative, Mr Jitesh Chavda. I reminded Mr Mahmood
of the reason for the interview and recapped on the events of Saturday 30" " April 2005 and!
began questioning Mr Mahmood. Mr Mahmood said that he worked in the post office full
time and that he had not taken a holiday in the six years he has been sub postmaster. He
said that he has one assistant, his father, who usually opens the post office on a Saturday
morning and helps out on the odd occasion. Mr Mahmood said that he completed all the
daily and weekly documentation himself and that he would thoroughly check everything
before despatch, explaining in detail how he would complete those checks. Mr Mahmood
added that he completes the weekly balance and receives no assistance in doing so.

When questioned on the audit shortage Mr Mahmood said that following his last audit (10
March 2003) he has been incurring large losses on a regular basis. That he did not know
how to pay the money back and had panicked and inflated the cash account. When
questioned further Mr Mahmood said that his first large loss, following that audit, was in the
tegion of £400 to £500. He added that he had not declared the loss but had hidden it by
inflating the cash on hand figure in the weekly office balance and that he had continued to
falsify his cash account each week since April 2003, as the loss figure grew larger. When
informed that by his actions he was false accounting an official document Mr Mahmood
said that he was aware of that fact.

Mr Mahmood said that he was aware, that by hiding the losses and falsifying the weekly
office balance, that he had gained financially and also maintained his position as

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL

mt}
m3

POL00067404

POL00067404

To: From: cc.
Sue Muddeman Alison Edwards Colin Price
Contract and Service Manager Branch Auditor Investigation Manager
Martin Ferlinc

National Branch Audit Manager
Glyn Burrows

Data Analyist

John Jenkinson

Operations Manager - Branch
Audit Team

Date: 03 May 2005
Audit of Post Office ® Ten Acre Street branch, FAD 3832015

An audit of accounts was undertaken at the above branch on Saturday 30 April 2005. The audit was
performed at the request of Internal Crime. The audit commenced at 0845 and concluded at 1430
revealing a shortage of £33437.39. I was the Lead Auditor and was accompanied by Branch Auditor
Guru Aubby. Internal Crime Managers, Colin Price, Paul Dawkins and Mike Cooksey were present
throughout the audit.

The audit shortage was made up as follows:

Inflated cash £33575.72 *
subtract Cheque on hand difference £20037 ”
add Difference at audit £66.83 Sahil
subtract Previous week balance result £4.79 wees
* The previous nights declared cash on hand was obtained and compared to the cash counted on

audit.

hid The cheque on hand figure was understated by £200.37; this is made up of two cheques (one
cheque for a BT phone bill payment totalling £73.87 and a second cheque for TV licence payment.
totalling £126.50)

“" This figure is made up of stock on hand differences (TVLSS overstated by £20.00, Philatelic
items overstated by £2.04, Postage overstated y £34.79 and Branded Post Office Phonecards
overstated by £10.00.

*#* This was the result of week 05 Cash Account not cleared.

At the outset of the audit Mr Tahir Mahmood Subpostmaster was not present, his father Mohammed
Hanif was present and was setting up the branch ready for trading. Mohammed Hanif contacted his
son to advise of an audit and to ask him to come to the branch as soon as possible.

When Tahir Mahmood arrived at the branch I ask him if any more Post Office cash was on hand, Tahir
Mahmood replied ‘ no there will be some differences. When Tahir Mahmood said this I referred him to
Colin Price. Colin Price took details of what Tahir Mahmood said.

Tahir Mahmood was precautionary suspended by Colin Price. The branch had not been open on the
day of the audit and was defunded. The shortage was sent to Late Account.

The Post Office Card Account cards were forwarded to Selly Oak Branch via Royal Mail Special delivery.

POL00067404
POL00067404

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL
Subpostmaster. Whereby if he had informed the RLM of the losses, and the fact that he
could not make good those amounts, it was most probable that his contract with the post
office would have been terminated.

Mr Mahmood explained that he had informed his father in January of 2005 that his post

office was £25,000 short and that his father had agreed to take a loan to pay the post office. -

Mr Mahmood was to say later in the interview that his father was only willing to pay the
money if the Ten Acre Street Post Office was kept in the family, otherwise he would not pay
it. Mr Mahmood continued throughout the interview to say that all the losses were genuine
and denied taking money from the post office. He said that he believed that all of the cash
loss had been created by giving it to customers by mistake and that he had inflated-his cash
account every week to cover the increasing loss figure.

Mr Mahmood’'s father financed the purchase of Ten Acre Post Office in 1999 by way of re-
mortgaging his house. Mr Mahmood receives on average £2,500 per month for
remuneration of which he keeps £200 and the rest is handed over to his father. Mr
Mahmood, his wife and two children, live in the family home with his parents and other
members of the family. All household bills, including food bills, are paid for by the father.

Further enquiries are ongoing and I will keep you updated as and when information is
received. Should you require any further information please do not hesitate to call me on
the number listed below.

CR Price
_lnvestigation Manager __

POST OFFICE LTD CONFIDENTIAL: INVESTIGATION, PERSONNEL

y

OL t—‘i—~*™Y
