POL00359871
POL00359871

Message

From: Patrick Bourke!

on behalf of Patrick Bourk ~
Sent: 20/03/2019 2

To: Mark R Davies {- Melanie Corfield
Subject: RE: IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

I think this is much better — preserves the tone, but much shorter. Two immediate observations — can we re-introduce
the fact that we are making operational changes following the judgment, so we can’t be accused of burying our head in
the sand; and I might be tempted not to use ‘passionately’, not because I disagree with the sentiment, but because I
wonder whether, again, someone might say this is an emotional reaction which just goes to show how incapable we are
of being objective and open to the possibility of our being wrong...or some such.

P

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: 20 March 2019 22:06
To: Melanie Corfield
Subject: IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

“I; Patrick Bourke! GRO

“We have reflected in great depth on the long and detailed Judgment from the first trial. After serious
consideration and following advice from external legal counsel not previously engaged on these issues, we have

decided to seek leave to appeal the findings.

“Furthermore, we will today also be making an application for the sitting Judge to be recused from the ongoing
and upcoming trials. We are acutely aware of the significance of this application, but (based on the advice we
have received) we have serious reservations about the Judge’s ability to remain impartial in ongoing and future

Post Office hearings.

“We do not take this action lightly. However we passionately and firmly believe that this application is in the
best interests of Post Office customers, postmasters and their staff and the communities who rely on our

network and services every single day.

“We will take urgent steps to address the criticisms made in the judgment about aspects of the Post Office’s

practices and behaviour but have confidence in our position and defence of this group litigation.”
