RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAG EMENT/POLICY

BA/POCL Programme Development Authority Board

Minutes of the Meeting 4 June 1997

Present

Alec Wylie - SSAQND (Chair)

George McCorkell - BA

Peter Crahan ~ PDA

Paul Rich - POCL

Bruce MeNiven - PDA

John Bennett - ICL Pathway

Terry Austin - ICL Pathway

Debra Channon - PDA (for Item 4)
AonaCampopiano — - ICL Pathway (for item 4)
Barrie Davies - ICL Pathway (for item 5)
Chris Mann - BA/POCL (Secretary)

1. Agenda Item 1 - Minutes and Matters arising

1.1 The minutes of the previous meeting were agreed. Actions from the previous
meeting were discussed, the following point arose in discussion.

LL.1 Action Point I - Mr Bennett to examine the foreign encashment
manual processes to see whether it can be improved - Mr Bennet had checked

the processes, The manual system worked satisfactorily as long as a call was
made to the payment helpline where a check against records would be carried
out. However this would only occur if the foreign encashment was attempted
ata non automated post office. ICL Pathway would therefore continue to
monitor foreign encashments and if necessary would forward records to Initial
Go-Live post offices. Foreign encashment was not seen as a major issue but
would need to be factored into the monthly reports,

Action Point I: Mr MeNiven to ensure that figure on foreign encashments
are added to the monthly performance report,

POL00028304
POL00028304
POL00028304
POL00028304

STRICTED - COMMERCIAL ¢MANAGEMENT/POLICY

2. Agenda Item 2.- Progress Reports
2.4 PDA
Peter Crahan reported on the following PDA issues.

24.1 The next release of the masterplan had been put on hold pending the
result of replanning,

2.1.2 CAPS release 2.1 was successfully implemented over the weekend and
OBCS was running in up to 112 post offices.

21.3 The detailed elements of BA implementation had been transferred to
CAPS but PDA had assumed responsibility for end to end communication
with Ministers and Senior Sponsor representatives on CAPS and BA/POCL
issues.

2.1.4 A recent presentation to PMT at Feltham on the next release was
thought to be helpful and PDA were considering allowing access to other PDA
members.

2.1.5 A meeting with the Minister - PSCQD) (ohn Denham) - was booked
for 1f June 1997 and there would be a meeting with Secretary of State in July.

2.2.6 Recruiting for a testing manager was ongoing

2.2 CAPS

No additional issues to report.

2.3 POC.

Paul Rich reported on the following issues,
2.3.1 POCL had undertaken to examine operational capacity planning.
POCL management agreed to take forward an expansion of the role of regional
liaison manager to include regional implementation. On a national level, there
was agreement in principle to establishing a national implementation co-
ordination manager who would look at operational procedures and changes on

behalf of the Director of Regions.

2.3.2 DTI Ministers had initiated discussions on wider Post Office issues,
John Roberts and DTI officials were taking this forward

POL00028304
POL00028304

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/) POLICY

John Bennett reported on ICL, Pathway issues. ‘the following points arose in
discussion.

2.4.1 There had been a problem on 3 June with Microsoft software affecting

Kings Stanley post office. This problem manifested itself as a failure to re-

boot the system after it closed down, The problem was limited to IGL offices

and a software change had been implemented across all sites.

. brwetos vod MS ‘s
24.2 OBCS was progressing satisfactorily and was on target to achieve 150
operational post offices by the end of June wit a further 24 by the end of
July/beginning of August. The balance were more complex and might fall
outside the planned timeframe.

op

ter a
24.3 The ten PSTN offices were included in the timeframe and PDA staff \ Some, Sete
would be able to have access to the end to end testing of the PSTN solution.

Terry Austin reported that ICL Pathway were attempting to identify which

post offices nationally were ISDN compatible but that BT had offered to

provide this information only asa response to ICL Pathway’s roll out plans.

244 John Bennett, Paul Rich and Colin Baker (NFSP) had visited sites in
the North East. It was noted that this had been a usefull exercise in terms of
achieving early exposure of some of the issues needing NFSP decisions.

we

3.1 [t was accepted for planning purposes that Congo 4 would now be introduced
on 18 August and would roll out BPS in 200 locations. Sponsors accepted that ICL
Pathway had been unable to come up with a plan that allowed for delivery of Congo 4
before that date.

3.2 All parties understood what was needed to deliver CAPS 2.2 ( Congo 4.1) and BRE
this would be delivered on 21 July. However there would be a need for some manual I .
procedures as the CAPS functionality would not lly mate! Pathway \ Ung
functionality until Congo 5. —_ <

3.3 Ifany additional offices were to be rolled out before live trial, BA would be

unwilling to go beyond OBCS functionality because the introduction of a parallel

stream of BPS would disrupt the implementation plans for geographical roll out. In

addition, BA was examining the value of rolling out additional offices,

34 it was accepted for planning purposes that Congo 5, which would introduce
EPOSS and AP, would now be introduced on 5 January 1998. Sponsors were content
to endorse that national roll out could start two weeks after live trial.
RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

3.8 {n respect of Nile releases, the capability for operation on multiple ACCs
factored in. There was also a need to decouple CAPS and [CL
Pathway 2S. In addition there was a need for arity on the functionality
proposed for [CL Pathway release 2. Until all this was clarified, it would not be
possible to confirm that the proposed date of 30 March 1998 would be achievable.
‘The key issue would be to be achieve a release that delivered multiple benefit
payments. It would be necessary to look at the impact of three options:

3) removing all functionality except that needed for BA multiple cards and

benefits, urgent payments and stops

ii) base software set

iii) functionality now proposed by ICL Pathway

would need to

Action Point 2: Mr Crahan with ICL Pathway to examine the impact of the
three option for ICL Pathway release 2.

3.6 The seriousness of this delay to Sponsors was stressed. It would be vitally
important to deliver a plan that Sponsors could have confidence in because of the need
to convince Ministers, For that reason the ability to roll out multiple benefits would
be essential as soon as possible.

37 It was agreed that Sponsors and [CL Pathway would seek to get to the stage
where the best replan had been agreed and then to tackle the commercial issues.

Action Point 3: Mr Crahan and Mr Bennett to jointly consider the best
process for taking forward consideration of the commercial issues

4. Agenda Item 4 - Communication and Customer Education

Debra Channon (PDA Communications) and Anna Campopiano (ICL Pathway) gave
a joint presentation on the proposals for a customer education campaign. The slides
used in the presentation are appended to these minutes at Annex A. The following
points arose in discussion:

4 Although it had been agreed at the PDA Board of 8 May that
commercial issues would be set aside pending the production of a jointly
agreed programme, the current proposals maintained value for money.

4.2 it was recognised that BA were responsible for communicating policy
changes and the proposals featured a link to Feeder Benefit System (FBS)
conununications in the form of Payment Advice Notes (PANSs) which were
the equivalent of order book yellow pages. The link to FBS communications
integral to the overall approach be it would enable policy changes to
de communicated on migration. In addition to this, it would enable a
migration letter be issued that would notify customers of the migration of
second and subsequent benefits because the funding was not available for FBS
to issue PANs. In addition, although the CAPS BA/POCL business case
identified funding for communication at migration, that would not neces

POL00028304
POL00028304

I
I
I
{
i
j
j

a

K
Ae
(hes
POL00028304
POL00028304

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

ailable tc
ie GUeSUON
oard on 9 June,

mean the funding wa:

upport the issue of PANs and migration
*ANs was being considered at the CAPS

It was noted that the entire campaign was not predicated on all the
actions taking place but the importance of the TV advertising and the
notification of migration of second benefit was stressed,

44 The campaign would begin shortly before the migration of IS. It was
not thought necessary to carry out additional activity for the migration of child
benefit because these customers already received Pick up Notices (PUNs),
PANs and a benefit stream letter.

4.5 The proposals were endorsed subject to the endorsement of the
Communications Working Group and the considerations of the CAPS
Programme Board on the issue of PANs. In addition cost and funding issues
would need to be investigated further.

5. nda Item 5 - Physical Installation Update and Outlet Installation
Process

Barrie Davies [CL Pathway gave a presentation on the outlet installation process in
support of Paper 11/97. The slides used in the presentation are appended to these
minutes at Annex B, The key points from the presentation are as follows.

3.1 Some early problems in installation had been caused by the absence,
during installation of the first 50 sites, of the Auto Configuration System
which allowed for remote configuration of equipment. This was a new system
and needed development and testing. It was seen as vital for achieving the
300 beat rate because it would limit the need for manual configuration of
equipment. It was thought that auto configuration would solve 50% - 60% of
installation problems :

5.2 Instances of equipment being “dead on arrival” were not seen by [CL
Pathway as a problem because the installers would carry sufficient stocks to
cover any such problems. Although this was an effective means of avoiding
problems, if incidents occurred in sufficient numbers to indicate a supply chain
problem, ICL Pathway would raise the issue with their suppliers.

5.3 A catalogue of solutions to installation problems was being compiled
which would ensure that there would he fewer problems with physical
installation.

5.4 An important lesson was that there had been a failure to set the right
level of expectation from users. It was inevitable that teething problems
would occur and at a communication level expectations could have been

POL00028304
POL00028304

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL/MANAGEMENT/POLICY

ineana,
support ar

i better. Purthermore, a structure should have been in plas
oblem solving.

5.5 The problem management process was now in place. The presence of
POCL regional staff on site and the lengthening of the installation programme
timescale was seen as helpful but there was a need for physical security co-
ordination with POCL’s own security standards,

5.6 It would be useful for POCL to know where responsibility for cach
activity lay within the installation process. This would enable them to
understand all processes and activities and to undertake necess ary
communications,

5.7 The extended implementation period would result in the need for
additional awareness training. Discussions were underway between PDA and
ICL Pathway as to the best way to approach this. ICL Pathway would be
providing proposals for content and costings.

5.8 ft was noted that some installation difficulties had been caused by
problems with utility companies. Management of the utilities recognised
as a key issue which needed tackling.

Action Point 4: Mr McNiven and Mr Davies to examine issues concerning
the management of utility companies

6. Agenda [tem 6 - AOB

PDA Pre-Board had discussed the evolving role of PDA. It was agreed that ICL
Pathway should now be involved and that they should receive a presentation.
Action Point 5: Mr Crahan to ensure that ICL Pathway receive a
presentation on the future organisation of PDA.

7. Agenda Jtem 7 - Time and Date of next meeting

Next meeting to be held on {5 July at Terminal House. Pre Board to start at 9.00am,
Main Board at 11.00am and PSC at 1.00pm.

PA ‘The meeting of 21 August to be held at Feltham. Pre Board 9.30am, Main
Board 11.30 am, lunch 1.30 - 2.00 followed by a demonstration of the equipment.
