POL00104861
POL00104861

ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

APPENDIX 4 — INTERVIEWING SUSPECTS USING NOTES OF INTERVIEW I P&S Doc 7.4 Appendix
QUICK REFERENCE GUIDE - ENGLAND & WALES 4 v1

© The record of interview must be accurate and should be a contemporaneous record of what
has been said.

* Any errors made when recording the notes should be corrected by a line being drawn
through the error. The error should not be completely obliterated.

* Each page should be timed when completed at the bottom.

* Any actions or events which occur in the interview which are not direct questions or
answers about the offence, such as introductions, handing out forms or producing items
of evidence should be timed and recorded as per the examples below:

Person TEXT
speaking

15.25hrs Mr Brown is handed form GS001 Explanation of Legal Rights,
15.34hrs Mr Brown is shown item MFM/2 a white envelope_i
condition. The item is addressed to Mr Henry GREEN, }

Jan the 28 Meer SA
* When asking dixéct” questions “about the offence they and the answer should be recorded
verbatim. The questions and answers are recorded as per the example below with the

initials of the person speaking in the relevant column.

Person TEXT
speaking
ABC Have you always been employed at Anytown Delivery Office?
seen No I started work at Hightown Delivery Office and I was there until 2007
when I moved to Anytown.
INTRODUCTION
Memo Complete appropriate sections of the preamble of the form GS000.
State & ‘My name is.... My colleague is. We are Investigators employed by Royal
Write Mail Group Ltd to investigate possible criminal offences. Also present is....
(name of suspect and any other person present and their role). I want to ask
you some questions about.... (detail precisely, for example, the theft of

postal packets which they were due to deliver between...date...and...date.. and
that they are suspected of the theft of the items) .”

Memo The suspect must be under no misapprehension that they are facing a criminal
investigation because the Investigators suspect that they have committed a
criminal offence.

PROCEDURE TO FOLLOW WHEN AN APPROPRIATE ADULT IS PRESENT
State & “As an appropriate adult I must inform you that you are not expected to act

Write simply as an observer during this interview. The purpose of your presence is
to advise the person being questioned, observe whether or not the interview is
being conducted properly and fairly, and to facilitate communication with the

(To the person being interviewed.” Please confirm you have been given written guidance
Juvenile) form GSOO1A.
The duties of the appropriate adult include giving you advice and assistance.
Also you can consult privately with your appropriate adult at any time.”
LEGAL RIGHTS & THE CAUTION

Note Hand the suspect a form GS001, ensuring that it is identified by an item
reference number and the time and date shown is recorded on the form. (A note
to this effect should be made in the interview record). Go through the form
with the suspect by reading it with and to them. After cautioning the suspect
and asking if they understand they should be asked to write their response in
the appropriate place and asked to sign and time the reply.

Note If the interviewee states or indicates that they do not understand the
caution, or if the interviewer has any doubt as to their understanding, they
should explain the caution as follows, recording the explanation and responses
on the notes of interview:

State & You do not have to say anything; you do not have to answer my questions. Do

Write I you understand that?
Note Record the suspect's response.

State & However if this matter goes to court and you then give an explanation which
Write I you have not told me about today the court may wonder why you are saying it

then. They may think you needed time to think up an explanation, they may in
fact think you are lying. So if you have an explanation now is your
opportunity to give it. Do you understand that?

Record the suspect’s response

sing Notes of

view ORG England & Wales

POL00104861
POL00104861

ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

State & Anything you do say may be recorded and given in evidence. Do you understand
Write that?

Note Record the suspect’s response.

Note Should the suspect still not understand the caution then legal advice must be
recommended.

Note Go through the remainder of the form GS001 side A with the suspect. If the

suspect has any doubts about their legal rights then further explanation
should be given and recorded verbatim, along with any responses in the notes
of interview. Following completion of the GS001 side A a note should be made
in the notes of interview detailing that the suspect had been offered their
legal rights and the form GS001 completed.
OFFER OF FREIND
Note Show the form GS003 to the suspect and go through it with them recording in the
notes this fact and action taken. If there is a significant delay awaiting the
arrival of the friend the suspect should be re-cautioned and reminded of their
legal rights.
QUESTIONING
Note Commence questioning suspect. At the beginning of questioning, the Investigator
shall ask the suspect to confirm or deny or add to any significant statements or
silences made by the suspect in the hearing of Investigators prior to the
interview. (A significant statement is one that is capable of being used in
evidence against the suspect such as an admission of guilt. A significant silence
is a failure or refusal to answer a question or answer satisfactorily when under
caution).
Note All items shown to the suspect should be described in the notes concisely and given
item identification numbers.
VISITORS TO INTERVIEW ROOM
Note Ensure it is clear that an interview is being conducted in the interview room with
a sign on the door, so that other people do not enter the room unnecessarily. If
someone does enter room make a note of the time, who it is and why they have
entered the room.
BREAKS IN INTERVIEW

Note Make a note in the record of the reason for the break.
WHEN INTERVIEW IS BEING STOPPED IN ORDER THAT SEARCHES CAN BE MADE
Note Inform the suspect of the purpose of the searches and deal with consent and the

forms GS004, GS005. Remind the suspect of their right to have a friend present at
the searches. Then suspend the interview in order that searches can be conducted,
ensuring that all decisions and actions are recorded in the notes.
RESUMING THE INTERVIEW AFTER BREAKS
Note Resume the interview making a record in the notes and covering the following;
1. Everyone present should be introduced along with the place, date, time.
2. Remind the suspect what they are being questioned about.
3. Re-caution/remind the suspect they are under caution. Additionally remind
them of their legal rights.
4. Re-offer the presence of a friend.
5. The reason for the break should be stated.
6. Confirm that no questions about the offence, (apart from those documented)
were asked during the break.
7. Commence questioning by dealing with any significant statements made during
the break and cover any documentation completed.
TO END THE INTERVIEW

Note If it is appropriate to inform the suspect that they may have rendered themselves
liable to prosecution and be given the second caution they should be told the
following;

State & “I have to inform you that you may have rendered yourself liable to prosecution.

Write I You do not have to say anything, but it may harm your defence if you do not mention

now something which you later rely on in court. Anything you do say may be given
in evidence. Do you wish to clarify anything you have said or add anything else
before the end of the interview?”

Note Record the suspect’s response. If as a result of the interview it is not
appropriate to mention the first two sentences the suspect should still be asked if
he/she wishes to add or clarify anything that has been said.

State & (fime)..I am now going to read the notes of interview to you and I want you to read

Weite them afterwards. If you agree with the interview record sign it as correct. If you
consider that the interview record is incorrect you should indicate how you
consider it incorrect.”

sing Notes of Int

Title

view ORG England & Wales

POL00104861
POL00104861

ROYAL MAIL GROUP SECURITY - PROCEDURES & STANDARDS

Note When reading the notes the interviewee should initial any errors identified in the
notes and they should be asked to sign the bottom left side of each page. At the
State & end of the notes the suspect should be asked to write one of the following

Write certificates;

These notes have been read to and by me. I was told that I could indicate any
inaccuracies, adding why I disagreed with the notes. I agree that these notes are
a correct record of the interview...(signed, name, time & date).

or

These notes have been read to and by me. I was told that I could indicate

any inaccuracies, adding why I disagreed with the notes. I disagree with

some of the notes and I have marked those passages with which I do not

agree. This is my version of what was said.(The interviewee should then

continue with their written explanation..(signed name, time & dated))

Note If the interviewee cannot read or refuses to read the record and sign it the Senior
Investigator present shall read the notes to them and ask whether they would like
sign it as correct or make their mark or indicate how they consider it inaccurate.
The Investigator shall certify on the interview record itself what has occurred,
sign it and write their name the time and date.

Note If an appropriate adult, solicitor or friend is present they should also be given
the opportunity to read the record and certify it as correct or otherwise as they
consider appropriate. They should then sign it and write their name the time and
date.

Note The Investigator who made the notes should certify that they took the notes and
that they were read to the suspect. They should also record, as appropriate, if the
suspect read and/or signed them in the Investigator’s presence. The Investigator
should then sign the notes and write their name the time and date. Any other
witnesses should certify that they witnessed the interview then sign the notes and
write their name the time and date.

sing Notes of Interview ORG England & Wales

