POL00296725

POL00296725
From: Rodric Williams[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RODRIC WILLIAMSE9C114F4-B03F-4595-B082-
CE89BE5C79D47B]
Sent: Thur 27/06/2013 5:54:51 PM (UTC)
To: ;
; Alwen Lyons
Subject: Second Sight Review
Attachment: _DOC_27053113(1)_Second Sight Response.DOCX
All,

Please find attached the first draft “Response” document, which could also serve as briefing note for Alice.

It does not yet deal with the anomalies identified in the “14” and “64” branches. The draft responses on the “14”
branches anomaly will follow shortly by separate email.

Please let me have any comments.
Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer
zs ene TON eS OSI ET

iO} 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
©

Y

@) rodric.williams@

© Post Office stories

®
® @postofficenews

From: Parsons, Andrew [ _ GRO
Sent: 27 June 2013 17:13

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Hugh Flemington

Subject: RE: Second Sight Review

Rodric
Draft response attached for your review.

Kind regards
POL00296725
POL00296725

Andy

Andrew Parsons

Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Sent: 27 June 2013 14:15
To: Parsons, Andrew
Cc: Hugh Flemington
Subject: Second Sight Review

Andy,

As discussed, Second Sight will shortly be presenting an interim report to MPs on their investigation (“Inquiry”) into
the Horizon system.

We want to ensure that all concerned are aware of the responses we have given to the issues raised with us during
the Inquiry (including any supporting documentation).

Second Sight has been conducting the Inquiry in line with the “Raising Concerns with Horizon” document (copy
attached in pdf and Word), the Appendix to which sets out the Remit, Conduct and Output of the Inquiry. I draw your
attention to the following extracts from the Appendix section 3. “Establishment and conduct of Inquiry”:

- “Post Office Limited may provide Second Sight with its own comments on any or all concerns, and on Horizon
generally.”

- “Second Sight will consult with JFSA, Post Office Limited, and/or any other party as it considers necessary
before producing any report."

- “Second Sight will consider and take into account any comments received from JFSA, Post Office Limited
and/or any other consulted party...”

- “Second Sight will prepare the report... bearing in mind the primary need to ensure that the report is
reasoned and evidence based.”

Could you please therefore prepare a document referring to Second Sight’s obligations to consider the evidence we
produce in response to the Inquiry, and summarising the responses we have given on 4 specific Spot Reviews sent to
us by Second Sight, i.e. those concerning the Bracknell Test Centre, communication line interruptions to the branch
terminal, remming-in scratch cards, and stamp stock balancing.

Please give me a call if you need to discuss anything further.

Thanks, Rod
POL00296725
POL00296725

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

@ 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
xX

RY
Y
©

(@) rodric.williams¢

YY

@ Post Office stories

® @postofficenews
Yy

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JER SS ID ISDS II III IID IDO III IOI ISS IID III IO III III III III

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and an;

attachments. If you are not rodric.williamsI ase notify andrew.parsons@
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and

only is authorised to
possible and delete any

be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage
which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neithe

fen nor endorsed by it,

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership r
office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX, where a list of membei
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT

istered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
es is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of
tration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Reg!

‘ion Authority
