POL00297905

POL00297905

From: Rod Ismay[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ROD.ISMAYB8406224-7AE7-4FF 1-B8E6-
F1A8E506F2E5)

Sent: Tue 23/07/2013 4:52:39 PM (UTC)

To: Simon Baker{_ Angela
Van-Den-Bogerd

Subject: FW: [SPMRs] Stock adjustments

For our discussion tomorrow.

In terms of final response, and in line with other improvement ideas, we would need to write in terms of clarity toa
layman here.

However, we can talk from this tomorrow.

In essence Andy is saying that the call was not tackled properly, that we need to address the issues arising, but that it
would not have financially disadvantaged the branch and indeed that it would probably have led to the branch
wrongly receiving remuneration where not appropriate.

lam in 148 tomorrow. See you tomorrow.
Where will you be in the building?
Thanks, Rod

From: Andrew Winn

Sent: 18 July 2013 14:55

To: Rod Ismay

Subject: FW: [SPMRs] Stock adjustments

Rod
The call related to stamp declarations and not stock adjustments as in Jenny O’Dells case.

The branch was not carrying out the balance period process correctly. However we accept that the explanation given
was not as comprehensive as it should have been.

This has highlighted a training requirement in FSC that we need to address. The fact is that outbound calls relating to
stock adjustments have been principally to branches doing much higher levels of stock adjustments for no valid
reason. In this case I can quite see the process the branch is following is logical but not correct. I’m not aware of any
specific communication to branches around stamp declarations. Our focus has been around trying to bring down the
huge non-conformance issues around stock adjustments.

As the branch claims they are quite correctly selling 1*/2" class, recorded and special delivery stamps at balance
periods to align these stamp stocks that have been sold through Other Postage. This generates a cash loss.

They are then declaring their Other Postage stock holdings. As sales recorded there include the stamps above the
downward revision of stamp holdings do not match up to the Other Postage sales recorded in Horizon. A gain is
recorded on committing the stamp discrepancy.

The branch’s cash losses and stamp declaration gains are balancing one another each week at an acceptable level.

I believe the statement in the 16/7 e mail dated 14.06 “You get paid the same” is not correct. My understanding (Gill
has spoken to HR but we may wish to get written confirmation) is that stamp declarations do not impact
remuneration. This will mean that the branch will be paid for the initial sale through Other Postage sales and again
POL00297905
POL00297905

for the “phantom” sales recorded at the period end.

The correct process would be to determine the sales required above and after recording them to carry out an equal
value sales reversal in Other Postage — this would produce a cash gain. The stamp declaration should then be carried
out and would theoretically balance.

I have sight of a Branch Focus article (issue 46 February 2010) which clarifies how to account for Recorded Signed For
sales. I assume the same process type applies for special delivery stamps.

Before we formally respond I would suggest we confirm the remuneration question around stamps declarations and
some clarification around best practice from the training team (Sandra McBride). It would be sensible to assure On
Line Help as well.

Andy

From: Simon Baker
Sent: 17 July 2013 15:57
To: Andrew Parson:

5 Andrew Winn; Craig Tuthill; Dave Posnett; gareth jenkins
in Norbury; Rod Ismay; Rodric Williams;

i an Swepson;
rosie.gaisfordt GRO. j

Cc: Andy Holt; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: FW: [SPMRs] Stock adjustments

All
Looks like we may have something to discuss on Friday.
Can I ask you all to have a look at the message below and see if you can make sense of it. We will discuss on Friday.

Thanks, Simon

From: ron.warminaton!
Sent: 16 July 2013 19:46
To: Henderson Ian; Bates Alan; Linnell Kay; Simon Baker
Subject: Fwd: [SPMRs] Stock adjustments

Is this perhaps what has been happening to Jenny O'Dell (Spot Review 21). See "I had a phonecall last week
from Alex..." From "Rita" in this email trail.

Ron

Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:

From: michael rudkin +
Date: 16 July 2013 15:

I Alan Bates

Subject: Fw: [SPMRs] Stock adjustments
Reply-To: michael rudki

From: "bowmanjc¢
POL00297905

POL00297905

To: Spm group
Sent: Tuesday, Ns
Subject: Re: [SPMRs] Stock adjustments

Question why have u got to adjust quote 9 RMSF, 10 RMSF large, 1 SD up to 100g. If you sell
these through Business Suite in serve customer screen the stock is adjust automatically. You get
paid the same.

JBJB</div>

Sent using BlackBerry® from Orange

Sender: SPMRsi_
Date: Tue, 16 Jul 2013 1

Subject: [SPMRs] Stock adjustments

Thad a phonecall last week from Alex at Chesterfield, to tell me that I had been doing stock
adjustments on postage when I shouldn't have been, and I needed to do a new reversal and a
stock adjustment to fix it. Going back to 1st April the total amount was £885.42. I pointed out
that I never do stock adjustments for postage, but sell and reverse as required. The only time I
ever use stock adjustment is if I have put a cheque through as cash, when I go to stock
adjustment and adjust the cheque figure to correct it. I have checked that my assistant does the
same. He said he would send proof.

Got the letter today and there is according to them, an adjustment going through every
wednesday, when we balance up. So I printed off a transaction log for the last four wednesdays,
and the figures quoted by Chesterfield are being put through as as adjustment by Horizon each
week just after rolling over. I phoned Alex, who put me on to his supervisor. I said we count the
stamps every week, and sell any that are under and reverse any that are over. This is mainly
RMSF and SD stamps, and the odd Ist class or whatever that we have missed. Then I declare
stamps and cash, and roll over. The system then produces this stock adjustment. She said that
doing a stamp declaration is the same as doing a stock adjustment. So I have a discrepancy
showing for every week since Ist April. She says my stamps and cash should balance before I roll
over each week, or else the system produces a discrepancy. She said lots of offices are in the same
situation at the moment.

So what am I doing wrong?

E.g 10 July printed a stock on hand report. Other postage is £413.52.

Counted all the items on the report, short 1 Ist class stamp, 9 RMSF, 10 RMSF large, 1 SD up to
100g.

Put through a sale for all the stamps I am short, total £104.32.

Declared stamps, total £515.24.

Declared cash and currency, rolled over at 17.45.

Transaction log shows the following at 17.46:

DD Postage stamp 1 101.72

DD Surplus disc 1- 101.72-

£101.72 is the difference between the other postage figure before sales and declaration, and after,
(e.g £413.52 + £101.72 = £515.24)

This is the figure that Chesterfield want me to reverse then stock adjust.

I have a figure like this for every week since Ist April.
POL00297905
POL00297905

Should I do what they say, and if so what am I doing wrong?
Thanks,
Rita

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]

Reply via web post Reply tosender Reply to group _ Start a New Topic _ Messages in this topic (2)

RECENT ACTIVITY:
New Members i I
Visit Your Group
Community email addre
Post message: SPMRS_
Subscribe: S

List owner: SPMRs-ownerg

Shortcut URL to this page:
http://www. groups.yahoo.com/group/SPMRs

PLEASE NOTE:

1.All messages sent on this list, unless otherwise stated by the sender, are the sender's own personal
thoughts and in no way reflect the Policy of The National Federation of Subpostmasters, or any other
body.

2. All e-mails sent to this list remain the property of the sender, and as such must not, in any form,
be disclosed outside of this list without the specific permission of the sender.

Ces C ner & Co-Moderator)

ly Digest » Unsubscribe + Terms of Use * Send us Feedback
