POL00025368
POL00025368

o)

Information Rights Team
Post Office Limited

1* Floor

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

Our reference: FOI201604010946

Mr Tim McCormack

29 April 2016
Dear Mr McCormack, -
Freedom of Information Request - FOI201604010946

Iam writing in response to your email received by Post Office Limited (“Post
Office”) on 1 April 2016, which I am dealing with under the terms of the Freedom of
Information Act 2000 (“FOIA”).

In your email you have requested information regarding the updating of the Horizon
system.

I can confirm that Post Office does hold information related to your request. However
we believe that this information is exempt from disclosure under Section 43(2) of the
Act, concerning likely prejudice to commercial interests and Section 31(1)(a) Law
Enforcement.

Commercial Interest

Post Office considers that disclosure of information requested about updates to the
Horizon system would be likely to prejudice the commercial interests of Post Office
and other commercial partners, in that software updates for the Horizon system are
released on a regular basis to ensure that operational performance is maintained at
optimal levels, as you would expect for any large IT system. Such updates include, for
example, upgrades and improvements to functionality; and the introduction of new
business capabilities for products & services and are, therefore, considered to be
commercially sensitive.

Post Office in this respect considers that disclosure of the information would weaken
its position in a competitive environment, by revealing information which could be
unfairly used by its competitors.

Law Enforcement

Post Office also relies upon the exemption under Section 31(1)(a) of the FOIA,
concerning law enforcement. Post Office considers that disclosure of this information
would be likely to inhibit its abilities to prevent and detect crime, in that software
updates for the Horizon system are released on a regular basis to ensure that
operational performance is maintained at optimal levels, as you would expect for any
large IT system. Such updates include, for example, security-related matters and
upgrades.

Depending on the nature and extent of changes they are applied in carefully managed
periodic releases, following thorough impact assessment and testing. The Post Office

PostOffice.co.uk

: Limited
POL00025368
POL00025368

cannot make public information that could compromise the security of its systems and
Iam unable therefore to provide you with technical details of our software updates.
Public Interest

As information has been exempted under Section 43(2) and Section 31(1)(a) of the
act, a public interest test applies. This involves weighing the balance of public interest
in maintaining the exemption or releasing the information. Post Office understands
that there is public interest in promoting the transparency and understanding of
matters which are of interest to the public. However, there is also strong public
interest in ensuring that Post Office is able to operate in a fair marketplace in relation
to its commercial activities and that the integrity its process and systems is protected
from fraudulent or other criminal activity. This is equally applicable to the interests of
its commercial partners, who should not suffer security or commercial detriments as a
result of inappropriate disclosure of the information.

Accordingly, Post Office considers that the public interest is best served by
maintaining the exemption respect of the information requested.

I hope the information I have provided on this occasion is useful, however if you are
dissatisfied with the handling of this response, you do have a right to request an
internal review. You can do this by writing to the address below stating your reasons
for your internal review request.

Information Rights Manager
Post Office Limited
Information Rights Team

1st Floor

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London
EC2Y 9AQ
foiag

If, having requested an internal review by Post Office, you are still not satisfied with
our response you also have a right of appeal to the Information Commissioner at:

Information Commissioner's Office
Wycliffe House

Water Lane

Wilmslow
Cheshire
SK9 5AF
Telephone
www. informationcommissioner.gov.uk

Yours. sincerely.

GRO

“Martin Humphreys
Information. Rights.Team
Ri i

foi
http://corporate. postoffice.co.uk/access-information
@postofficenews

