POL00116649
POLO00116649

1ST JULY 2014

To:-

The Rt. Hon. David Cameron P.M.
The House Of Commons

London SW1A OAA.

Dear Mr Cameron,

Have you heard of Martin Griffiths? If not, why not? As you, H.M. Government,
but mostly Post Office Ltd., killed him. Yes, you read it correctly, you killed him.

I know that the Coroner, Wirral Coroner 's court, deemed that Martin committed
suicide, but the Coroner also mentioned that Martin had had enough because of
Post Office Ltd., and who owns Post Office Ltd? Answer :- The Government.

The Government are allowing Post Office Ltd., to do what they do best, incompe-
tence and delaying tactics, maybe Post Office Ltd., hopes that by doing that many
more of us will take our lives, as we have had enough!!! Then they and Govern-
ment won 't have to take responsibility for their gross negligence, but then, that
is what is wrong with the world today, no-one will take responsibility, and they
wonder why joe public couldn 't care less, why should they?

This time last year, we (The JFSA ) met, and we were ecstatic, that at last Gov-
ernment had taken us seriously, and on finishing the meeting our Chairman,
Alan, said ‘ this time next year, we will all be celebrating, and the champagne
will be flowing ’ , well it 's anything but flowing, the tears of frustration maybe,
the tears for Martin might be flowing, but champagne no.
POL00116649
POLO00116649

My papers went to Post Office Ltd., way back in January 2014, it should have
taken then 8-12 weeks to gather their information (they had already had nine
months to get this, in my case ) and pass the papers to 2nd Sight, the Independ-
ent IT specialists, who would then deem whether my case could go to mediation,
if so they would send all papers to me and my solicitor, who would then have
seven days to send back for mediation. If this had been done then all should be
over and done with by now, only taking four and a half years in my case.

Well, it hasn ’t, by 8th May, Post Office Ltd., already had been given two exten-
sions, yes two, and the working group weren’ t going to give them any more!!!
Ha!Ha! My papers might be going in 2nd July, so how many more extensions
were they allowed? As I said previously, it isn’ t as if we have sprung this on
them, they knew about my case since April 2013, and before that when it all went
wrong which was 2009.

Sir Anthony Hooper , Chair of the Working Group, has allowed Post Office Ltd., to
defer my case, and others, no end of times, I really do question just how inde-

pendent he is?

If my case has taken this length of time, and let me tell you I am absolutely so fed
up, you cannot imagine what my life has been like these five years, you have no
idea, the complete and utter frustration, anxiety, anger and some very dark
thoughts. I can relate somewhat to Martin, I don 't know his case, I don *t know
how long he has been fighting for justice, I am crying as \ type this, because it is
just so sad what you and Post Office Ltd., has made Martin do, and the effect that
this has had on so many people, by people who will not take responsibility, and
hold their hands up and say ‘YES, HORIZON SYSTEM WAS/IS WRONG, AND
WE HAVE MADE A TERRIBLE MISTAKE, SO LETS RECTIFY IT, AND PUT
YOU OUT OF YOUR ANGUISH, AND MOVE FORWARD AND LET YOU LIVE
YOUR LIVES IN A RIGHT A PROPER WAY. IT WILL ALL BE DONE AND
DUSTED BY THE END OF AUGUST 2014’
POL00116649
POLO00116649

Mr Cameron, please look at this, don 't just pass it on, for it to get put back into
the hands of Post Office Lid etc., especially for Martin 's family please, and all
the families that have had to endure years of Post Office Ltd., intimidation, incom-

petence and negligence.

Yours sincerely,

Mrs Jennifer O ’ Dell

Cc. Mr E. Miliband M.P., Mr N Clegg M.P., Ms J Swinson M.P., Sir A Hooper

( Chair of the Working Group ), Ms P Vennells CEO Post Office Ltd. Mr J Dja-
nogly M.P.
