POL00025169
POL00025169

From: "Parsons, Andrew" <
To: Mark Underwood; GRO. >
Subject: RE: Tim Parker Briefing [BD-4A.FID26859284]
Date: Tue, 12 Jul 2016 08:03:19 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001 jpg; image002.jpg; image003 jpg

Mark

Paragraph below. This is pretty vague but intentionally so as we can't share details of our legal advice with the
Minister for fear of waiving privilege in that advice. In all privilege arguments, the risk that pulling one thread leads to
the unravelling of privilege in other areas eg.

¢ We tell the Minister that the reason we are not progressing the review is due a risk that TP's review is not
privileged.

« — That communication to the Minister is, itself, not privileged. We may then need to disclose that
communication to the Minister to Freeths.

«  Freeths then use that communication to attack the privilege in TP's work.

Suggested para:

"Once litigation is contemplated, confidential investigations and work done for the dominant purpose of furthering the
litigation will be covered by litigation privilege. Any work going forward should therefore be driven by the needs of the
litigation and not for other reasons, such as the Review, so to maximise the protection of privilege. If work is not
covered by privilege, this may force Post Office to disclose sensitive material to the Claimants, undermining Post
Office's position in the litigation."

Call if you'd like to discuss. In Rod's absence, I'd like to cast an eye of the briefing note if that is ok? I just want to
check that we're not crossing any privilege lines.

Call if you want to discuss.

Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Mark Underwood!
Sent: 12 July 2016 08:28
To: Parsons, Andrew
Subject: Tim Parker Briefing
Importance: High

Hi Andy,

Tim P has a meeting with the Minister on Tuesday. I am preparing his brief, to circulate tomorrow amongst Patrick,
Rod & Jane — all of whom are currently on Annual Leave.

POL-0021648
POL00025169
POL00025169

In conversations with the Minister’s office, they have confirmed that they understand (and indeed anticipated) the
need for prioritising the litigation and therefore for work to cease on the ‘Review’.

The Minister has been briefed by her officials and though our understanding is that she does not wish to challenge
this decision, she would like to better understand the reasons underpinning the legal advice received.

With Rod away, would you be able to provide me with a paragraph / couple of bullets on the reasons underpinning
the legal advice?

It would be great if I could have this by close today — will that be possible?

Mark

Jeiobiotoipicioloioioini iolbiinig oid odio oi dogg ag ab Sg SDI SEIS EASE SSE ISIE
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FEISS SI CISISIEISI SISSIES ICISISISI I IGISIS A IGISISI A IGICISI ACI I CISA OK ISI OR CCI IK CAC 1 CAC oH A CoC A

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

"poly is authorised

chments If you are not mark underwood.
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copyin

kp son 48 possible and
Of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful

attached to this e-mail will have been cl
which may be caused by software virus

ced by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or
and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office is 4 More
London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or
consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB12339362

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

POL-0021648
