POL00150460
POL00150460

Message

From: Melanie Corfiel

on behalf of — Melanie Corfiel

Sent: 31/12/2014 15:20;

To: Parsons, Andre’

cc:

Subject: ‘ost Office response to case related MP queries from Westminster Hall Debate [BD-4A.FID20472253]

{agree that the perameters for any meetings must be very clearly set upfront so that this cannot be viewed in any way
as a potential negotiation. Some of these MPs are misinformed but others are, as we know, intransigent even when

in possession of the facts. We should I think consider providing with the letter a short synopsis of our own timeline, key
actions to date with factual narrative on PO's role, what has been discovered plus clarity on the position re criminal
cases/ overturning convictions. This fits with the “dossier” for the Minister ~ and any individual MP meetings can be in
the context of discussing and explaining the investigations & the scheme (and how these apply to their constituency
cases).

On the criminal cases the main message to land now that PO investigations are completed is our view that there is
nothing that undermines the safety of convictions (but legal routes have of course never been closed to people). This
will be unpalatable in the extreme to some and any meetings will certainly be made public, so we need to be ina
position where we can release supporting, non-case specific documentation to counter inevitable allegations as much as
possible.

The timing on some of our proposed comms activity needs to be pretty simultaneous to draw as much of a line as we
can re the “miscarriages of justice” story. I've been working on the potential comms scenarios against current timeline
today so will circulate later in the week for comments.

Mel

From: Parsons, Andrew : _
Sent: 31 December 2014 12:26
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Tom Wechsler; Belinda Crowe; Melanie Corfield; Jane Hill; Patrick Bourke

Cc: Georgia Barker; Mark Underwood1; Jessica Barker; Lorraine Lynch; Rodric Williams

Subject: RE: Post Office response to case related MP queries from Westminster Hall Debate [BD-4A.FID20472253]

A few thoughts from me.

Confidentiality / Without prejudice — It will be difficult to class the meetings as "without prejudice” as we are not making
any attempt to settle at the meetings. Also, as the meetings with MPs are arguably outside the scope of the Scheme, we
would need the Applicant to sign a Confidentiality Agreement in order to be sure that the meeting was bound in
confidence — there will of course be an allegation of gagging if we do this. In any event, the MPs may be able to
circumvent the confidentiality obligations by asserting Parliamentary privilege. In short, I think we need to assume that
these meetings will be open and public.

I agree with Angela that some form of engagement with MPs is needed to correct the misinformation. However, their level
of understanding is very basic and most of the accusations levied at POL are not case specific. I wonder whether a more
general meeting to discuss some basics of how Horizon works and what amounts to false accounting would help bring
some clarity?

This would also avoid the need to discuss specific criminal cases which brings with it the risk of upsetting a conviction. I
see no difference between a meeting with an MP and a meeting / mediation with an Applicant in this regard. If we were to
proceed down this route, we may want to seek advice from CK / Brian Altman on how the meetings should be managed
{eg. attendees, note taking, rules of engagement, etc.).

Kind regards
Andy
POL00150460
POL00150460

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd:
Sent: 31 December 2014 09:14
To: Tom Wechsler; Belinda Crowe; Melanie Corfield; Jane Hill; Patrick Bourke

Cc eorgia Barker; Mark Underwood1; Jessica Barker; Lorraine Lynch; Parsons, Andrew; Rodric Williams
Subject: RE: Post Office response to case related MP queries from Westminster Hall Debate

A couple of tracked changes from

Bi
the only way we
state as fact
our 0a

presum
what is

- on ng is

the MPs

rough
room.

Thanks,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

® Ty Brwydran House, Atlantic Close,
SWANSEA SA7 9FI

@> Mobile:

@

POST,
meamennS
Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

POL00150460
POL00150460

From: Tom Wechsler

Sent: 30 December 2014 17:21

To: Belinda Crowe; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Melanie Corfield; Jane Hill; Patrick Bourke
Cc: Georgia Barker; Mark Underwood1; Jessica Barker; Lorraine Lynch; andrew.parsons:
Williams

Subject: Post Office response to case related MP queries from Westminster Hall Debate

All

Please find attached generic letters to send to MPs who spoke in the Westminster Hall Debate, separated into
categories.

They'll need a bit of personal tailoring (and some is covered within) but views on this approach plus any drafting issues
very welcome.

Thanks

Tom

Tom Wechsler
Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

JER SOO IOI IOI OBIS IIIB III IO II III II III III III III II IOI ITE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JH SRO IOI II IOI I ORISHA IO IIS IIB IAI IA IIA IIA IIIA IIA IIA IIE

<i Dickinson LLG,

POL00150460
POL00150460

Jeno ion a Ano IESE IO ISITE D IIHS IA I AIOE IIA IIIS IIIA IIA IIHR

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
