POL00069918
POL00069918

Page I of 1

Stephen Dilley

From: Stephen Dilley

Sent: 30 November 2006 15:19

To: ‘ruth.simpson:

Subject: Mr Castleton's witness statements

Attachments: eCopy scanned document.pdf

Dear Ruth,

T attach a set of papers we received from Mr Castleton yesterday, which includes his witness
statements. Please can I ask you to review them and let me have your comments, particularly
on the points below. It might be quickest if I just call you to discuss:

1. At para 27 of Christine Train's statement, she says you didn't leave until around 7pm on the
first day's trading because it took you that long to produce the cash account and that "it was
apparent that something was amiss form the length of time she spent on the phone and the
number of calls she was making." Is this right?

2. At para 29 of Christine Train's statement she says that there was a constant queue and
customers complained all day long at the length of time it took them to be served. Is this
correct?

3. There were 2 lottery errors (1 claim, 1 charge error) that the P.O advises occurred on 23
March 2004 (the day of the audit) but which only came to light afterwards, so they are not
included in the audit figures. They total £100.20 net and form part of the P.O's claim against
Mr Castleton. At para 40 of Christine Train's statement, she says she went through your
paperwork and found lottery tickets loose in an envelope that had not been entered which
created the error notices. Do you remember if you did have those tickets (I assume she means
receipts) amongst your paperwork?

4. At para 40 of Christine Train's statement, she also states that there is a summary on which
you wrote the amount of cash received from the shop and that you made a mistake by not
accounting to Mr Castleton for prize money paid out, or showing the balance as a gain. Is this
correct?

5. At para 8 of Dorothy Day's statement she says the amount you had handwritten on the
lottery transaction as having being taken from Mr Castleton had not had the prizes deducted
even though they were shown on the account. She wonders why you weren't over by this
amount at the final balance. Should you have been?

6. At para 9 of Dorothy Day's statement, she says the cash account had been rolled over twice
with 2 final balance tally rolls produced at different times of day. Is this correct?

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley . .
Solicitor ‘Do (+
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

?

01/12/2006
