POL00040354
POL00040354

Mr A Bates

27.08.03

Dear Mr Bates
“an essential part of everyday life’ www.postoffice.co.uk

Thank you for your letter dated 7 August addressed to Allan Leighton,
Chairman Royal Mail, which has been forwarded to me for reply.

I have now completed my enquiries into the issues you have raised,
and I apologise for the delay in replying to you. My enquiries have
taken longer than expected.

I have spoken with a number of the personnel involved in the search for
a solution to the situation at Craig y Don Post Office® branch.

Although I regret that the situation has reached the point of termination
of your contract, I am confident that the various teams concerned in the
events have worked hard to provide support and assistance to you in a
consistent and sympathetic manner. This support included a number
of on site attendances to assist with balancing and also to provide extra
training on the Horizon system. The aim was always that of achieving a
solution to the difficulties you were experiencing in managing
transactions and processes at Craig y Don Post Office® branch.

The Horizon system at Craig y Don Post Office® has been reviewed
and interrogated in response to your complaints, and the reports from
both the Horizon Field Support team and the NBSC have confirmed
that there is nothing inherently wrong with the Horizon system installed
at the branch.

Page 1 of 2

Post Office Ltd
Registered in
Registered Or

Wales number: 2154540
6 Old Street

L ECIV SNN-
The Post Office and the Post Office symbol are
registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd in the

UK and other counteies,
POL00040354
POL00040354

Page 2o0f2

The Sub postmaster contract is clear on the requirement that
postmasters must make good losses or gains made when misbalances
occur and to bring error notices to account appropriately. It is evident
you have consistently refused to do this, even when specifically
requested to do so by the Area Management team. The contract also
states that either party, Post Office Ltd or a Sub postmaster, may
terminate the contract with three months notice without a reason being
given. In this instance the Management Team, on behalf of Post Office
Ltd, are exercising their right under this clause to terminate the
agreement with you.

I am sure you have carefully considered the idea of your website. I feel
that you should be aware that use of Post Office Ltd's imagery on your
website may constitute trade mark infringement.

In the circumstances I feel that the Management Team has been wholly

professional in the management, deliberation and investigation of your
issues.

Yaurs sii

_ GRO

Ria MacQueen” ~~
Case Liaison Manager

Post Office Ltd
Operations

Telephone!
