POL00028557

POL00028557
= —
(1/4
17 Nov 1999
223)
Roll-out Decision - Proposals for Continued Monitoring Activities .

In anticipation of the criteria due to be met by 24" November not having been met by that date, and
given POCL’s associated concems, POCL is proposing that the existing monitoring activities should
continue and be strengthened, and is also proposing the introduction of some new activities. POCL
proposes the following.

1.

AI 298 - System Stability

to ensure that Pathway continue to reduce the level of instability.

e the current recording at the HSH does not facilitate the analysis and identification of faults
and trends. POCL believe the best way of doing this is for Pathway, at their own expense,
to develop a codified and structured fault recording system to support the combined
problem management and resolution function

© the current monitoring should continue for a further four weeks. The target for this period
should be the same as the current period.

AI376 - Data Integrity

© to ensure that the integrity control is capable of detecting all relevant incidents
* to continue to monitor error levels so POCL has an appropriate view of the level of
disruption and cause of new incidents .
© to increase POCL’s level of understanding of the design and operation of emerging
reconciliation controls:
a) to be ina position for POCL to design complementary operational procedures
b) obtain confidence that the new controls will be effective - given the constrained
level of testing, POCL require greater level of assurance before release into the
live environment. This is necessary in order for POCL to be assured that criteria
376 iii and iv are being met

¢ the current monitoring should continue as defined in the second supplemental agreement .
for criteria 376 i-iii with the monitoring period commencing on the 18° November

¢ Pathway should demonstrate that they have met criterion 376 iv, if necessary by enhancing
their Integrity Control design. This should include faults identified before September 24”
and any faults found in the current monitoring period which would not have been detected
by the current integrity control design

© Pathway should co-operate with POCL to review and revise the Rectification Plan to
include new activities necessary for the successful development and implementation of
operational procedures and any other new activities shown to be necessary by the review

¢ Pathway to extend the Logical Design information that is contractually controlled to cover
those areas that POCL’s experts reasonably say need to be subject to POCL’s agreement,
mainly interface and operational procedures

© mindful of the short time scales and the desire not to impede progress, the POCL ATM to
be integrated into Pathway’s delivery team so that POCL can gain the appropriate level of
visibility in the design and progress to give POCL confidence in the Release

© Pathway’s progress in developing the integrity release to be included in the scope of the
review of readiness for roll-out which has been agreed and will be carried out by PA
Consulting

¢ TIP checking shall continue at Pathway’s expense until both of the following have
occurred:

— four weeks parallel running without faults as in the current contract
- Pathway to have modified their integrity control to detect all error types that have
occurred by that date.

POL00028557
POL00028557

3. AI 408 - HSH Performance

Objectives:
© to give POCL confidence that HSH can support roll-out especially:
a) to ensure that the HSH is appropriately resourced for. the peak periods within a
week
b) to ensure conformance to scripts.

Activities:
© continue to monitor all HSH criteria for a further four weeks. The six week monitoring
period to be 1* November to 12 December. As per the original criteria, the aim being to
attain the target levels in four out of the six weeks. In addition, 408 ii and v criteria should
be enhanced (see below)
© to facilitate a detailed analysis of the root cause of the problems and allow POCL to have a
more transparent understanding of ICL Pathway's performance, criterion 408 ii (calls
answered within 20 seconds) should be reported during the four week extended period on
a daily basis. The target of 80% of all calls answered within 20 seconds should be met
every Wednesday and Thursday for three out of the four weeks and achieved as a weekly
average for the same three out of the four weeks,
© to permit POCL to perform an audit of actual physical resource to the planned resource
levels, Pathway to supply the four weck detailed resourcing model broken down into 30
minute slots. POCL should be permitted to undertake an audit of physical resource to this
model at any time during the 4 week period without prior notice. The actual resource
levels should be within 95% of the planned levels for every audit performed
© paragraph 4.3.2.9 of schedule G10 (as amended by Schedule 5 of CCN560) to be further
amended so that the compliance with the scripts shall be measured using call recordings
which have been in operation since 1" November. A joint Pathway and POCL team to
review and agree whether the operator has conformed to the scripts. Pathway must
achieve the target for the final three weeks of the audit. For this method of monitoring
compliance to be effective:
a) Pathway to satisfy POCL that Pathway auditors have the expertise to undertake
the review
b) POCL to select the calls at random
¢) should only audited calls be recorded, the operator must not know whether they
are being recorded.
Note that this also has the effect of changing the method of measuring criterion 408v
¢ Pathway to continue to work with POCL to review the standard of scripts and to acquire
business knowledge from POCL.

