POL00310758

POL00310758
From: Chris Aujard[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=CHRISTOPHER AA0452485-80B7-40D2-ADE7-
6F6FEAE19CC3F88]
Sent: Tue 20/01/2015 9:47:41 PM (UTC)
To:

Cc:
Wechsler{i
Subject: RE: Meeting with Finance Team
lan,

Thanks for your email. As discussed at the Working Group last week, I have now talked to both the relevant people in
the finance team and to Alisdair Cameron, our newly appointed Chief Financial Officer; many apologies that it has
taken a few days to get hold of them and get back to you. Nonetheless, I am pleased now to confirm that not only will
members of the team from the FSC in Chesterfield be able to make themselves available to meet you, but that
Alisdair himself will also attend the meeting.

As I think I may have mentioned to you previously, Alisdair only joined Post Office at the beginning of the month. In
light of this, his desire to bring himself up to speed so that he is fully equipped to answer your questions and the need
to co-ordinate somewhat congested diaries, I would suggest the following: we provide the written
answers/information as and when we send over the other information we are providing (which I think is at the
beginning of next week) and that you meet with Alisdair and the team once you have had an opportunity properly to
consider the written information. Alisdair has said he could be available Monday 2 February. Would that date work
for you and Ron?

Regards

Chris

From: Ian Henderson!
Sent: 19 January 2015 17:06

To: Chris Aujard

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Tom Wechsler; rjw@_ = GRO
Subject: Meeting with Finance Team
Sensitivity: Confidential

Chris

At last week’s face-to-face meeting you agreed to arrange a meeting with representatives from the POL
finance team in order to discuss the Part 2 questions relation to the POL Suspense Account, together with
the provision of the data requested.

Belinda also said she would try to find a previously prepared document summarising the Suspense Account
transactions in advance of any meeting.

You were hoping to arrange the meeting for Tuesday or Wednesday of this week.

I would be grateful for an update on this. I confirm that Ron and I are available on both Tuesday and
Wednesday this week.

I look forward to hearing from you.
POL00310758
POL00310758

With best wishes
Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

UK Mobile:

Email: irh@ GRO i

Website: http://advancedforensics.com

LinkedIn:

Twitter

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at

irhé GRO ~~} and delete the email and any attachments.

