POL00447938
POL00447938

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

POST OFFICE JOB DESCRIPTION

Job Title

Grade: T B

Post Reports to: Speak Up and Intelligence Manager
Division: Central Investigations Unit.
Business Unit: Legal, Compliance and Governance

Budget Accountability: _ None
Number of Direct / None
Indirect Reports:

Location: Homebased

Fit & Proper NO

Requirements.

Unique Position Per SF org structure (added after evaluation)
Number:

Purpose of the role

To review all in-coming intelligence and information, to triage potential cases, to recommend the allocation of
potential cases, and to produce monthly MI and on-demand intelligence assessments.

Where does this role fit in within Post Office?

Principal accountabilities

Responsible for conducting daily reviews of intelligence and information from all sources including from
the business-based investigation teams, Speak Up cases, and the Central Investigation Unit in order:

«To identify trends and risks to then produce ad hoc geographic, product, service, or other thematic
intelligence assessments and to present these assessments to senior leaders and to teams together
with any recommendations.

* To identify potential cases which should be routed to the Speak Up team; to identify cases where CIU
are required to provide guidance or other assistance to the business; to identify training needs in the
business; and where cases need to be allocated to CIU.

e Producing monthly MI packs relating to Speak Up and CIU for use by the Head of CIU, the General
Executive, and the Non-Executive Directors for Speak Up and for Investigations.

¢ Production of bi-annual intelligence assessments relating for business customers.
Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Knowledge, experience and skills

POL00447938
POL00447938

e Essential: experience in conducting an investigative or intelligence triage function. An advantage will be to
have done this in a combination of two or more settings e.g. law enforcement, military/intelligence,
regulatory, or corporate environments

e Essential: Experience of producing strategic and tactical intelligence products and thematic assessments. An
advantage would be to have experience in producing these in a National Intelligence Model-compliant

environment.

e Essential: experience of complex report writing and subsequent presentation to senior staff. Presentation of

analytical products at court an advantage.

¢ Essential: Experience of relationship/stakeholder management.

* Desirable: Experience of having worked in a Speak Up/Whistleblowing team.

e Desirable: Experience of Convercent, Relativity, and i2 software packages & tools.

Key Working Relationships

_—

Weekly

Who? When? To achieve what?

Speak Up & Daily To be tasked, to make escalations

Intelligence

Manger

Compliance & Daily To pass cases, provide and be provided

Integrity with up-dates, discuss potential cases,

Investigators provide analytical support to

investigations

Business-based I Ad hoc but Manage relationships with these teams to

investigators likely to be ensure the right information is provided
daily by them and promote compliance with

best practice; identify training and
knowledge gaps; negotiate best routing
of potential cases; provide analytical
support as needed.

CIU
Investigators

Ad hoc but
likely to be

To pass cases, provide and be provided
with up-dates, discuss potential cases,

Post Office Limited - Document Classification: INTERNAL

Counsel, GE,
Board

daily provide analytical support to
investigations
Head of CIU Ad hoc but To provide updates, discuss themes,
likely to be identify potential assessment
weekly requirements, report high risk intelligence
Senior business I Ad hoc but To provide briefing documents and
leaders, Legal likely to be deliver presentations in person re
Director, monthly assessments and to make
General recommendations as to lessons learned,

process changes, vulnerability
assessments etc.

POL00447938
POL00447938
