POL00423388
POL00423388

Speak Up Line

Audience: POL employees / workers

Channel: Intranet article

Aim: Proactively promote Speak Up line to the business
Key messages:

e There is an existing policy and confidential number to call for workers

e You will be protected when you raise a concern

e If you are seriously concerned about something the normal route is to report it to your line manager or
alternatively you can call the Speak Up line

Post Office is committed to conducting business with the highest standards of honesty, integrity and
openness. Colleagues can raise concerns in confidence, secure in the knowledge that we will take those
concerns seriously and act on them.

Our Whistleblowing Policy sets out the procedure to follow if a colleague wants to raise a concern. The
business will support anyone who raises a genuine concern, even if it turns out to be mistaken. You will not
be treated unfairly or liable to disciplinary action as a result of doing so.

What is whistleblowing?

“Whistleblowing" refers to the act of exposing potential or actual wrongdoing by reporting it either
internally within an organisation, or externally, for example to a regulator.

Colleagues should raise a concern if they are aware of, or suspect, wrongdoing which affects others (e.g.
customers, members of the public, colleagues or the Post Office).

How do I raise a concern?

In the first instance, colleagues should raise concerns with their line manager or a HR Director.
Alternatively, you can contact the Speak Up confidential reporting service o1 which is run

by InTouch MCS Ltd, an independent company.
You can also use the Speak Up secure on-line web portal at http://www.intouchfeedback.com/postoffice.
Can I remain anonymous?

When reports are made anonymously via Speak Up, there is no requirement to provide contact details.
However, not providing details may reduce our ability to undertake a thorough investigation into the
concerns raised. In all cases the individual’s concern will be treated sensitively.

What happens after I have made a report?

All concerns (including those raised via Speak Up) will be passed to the Whistleblowing Officer who will
carry out an initial assessment of the issue to determine the scope of investigation. They will decide
whether an investigation is appropriate and what form it should take.

The Whistleblowing Officer for the Post Office is Jane MacLeod who can be contacted by email at

Where can I find out more?

For further information please see the Whistleblowing policy on the Intranet. Alternatively, you can refer to
the HR Advice Speak Up guidance by clicking here.
POL00423388
POL00423388

Whistleblowing

Audience: Agency branch staff
Channel: branch focus article

Aim: Address regulatory requirement for branches to report concerns to the FCA
Key messages:

 FCArequirement to encourage employees to report any concerns regarding financial products e.g.
relating how products are being sold
e Agents should report any whistleblowing relating to POL to Grapevine first on:

Post Office is committed to conducting business with the highest standards of honesty, integrity and
openness. Operators and branch staff should report concerns about wrongdoing within Post Office and can
raise these in confidence, secure in the knowledge that we will take them seriously and act on them.

“Whistleblowing" refers to the act of exposing potential or actual wrongdoing by reporting it either
internally within an organisation, or externally, for example to a regulator.

Colleagues should raise a concern if they are aware of, or suspect, wrongdoing which affects others (e.g.
customers, members of the public, colleagues or the Post Office).

If you have a genuine concern regarding any potential wrongdoing, please contact Grapevine on C GRO}
SGrapevine will log your concern and advise the appropriate course of action.

In most cases you should not find it necessary to alert anyone externally. However, Post Office
acknowledges that in some circumstances it may be appropriate for individuals to report their concerns to
an external body such as a regulator, including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for matters related to

certain financial services.

I Email: whistle(

“GRO

Website: http://www.fca.org/firms/whistleblowing I Helpline:

