POL00095375
POL00095375

POST OFFICE CONFIDENTIAL: LEGAL

Colin Lenton-Smith

Commercial and Finance Director, Post Office Account Team
Fujitsu Services Limited

Forest Road

Feltham

MIDDLESEX

TW13 7EJ

05.02.04 POST
OFFICE

Dear Colin

Re: Post Office Counters Ltd. v Mrs Julie Wolstenholme

You may be aware of the above case which relates (among other
matters) to the recovery by Post Office Ltd. of some Horizon equipment
belonging to Fujitsu Services which a former subpostmistress at
Cleveleys Post Office branch (Mrs Wolstenholme) has refused to
return. There has been previous correspondence with Jan Holmes of
Fujitsu Services relating to this case.

Mrs Wolstenholme has counter-claimed against the Post Office, and
the essence of her claim is that deficiencies in the Horizon system and
in the service provided by the HSH resulted in her incurring costs and
losing income because of the waste of her time. She is claiming that
the Horizon system itself caused losses in the sub postoffice accounts
which PO Ltd is claiming against her as being due to her fault and she
wants the computer equipment to be examined by an expert witness
before she will agree to its release to Fujitsu Services from her
premises.

The County Court instructed the parties jointly to commission a report
from an expert approved by the Court. I enclose a copy of his report.
As you will see, the expert’s opinion is that the Horizon system installed
at Cleveleys branch was defective and that the HSH was more
concerned with closing calls than preventing recurrence of faults. As
I’m sure you will understand, Post Office is concerned by these
findings, not only in relation to this particular case, but also because of
any precedent that this may set and that may be used by Post Office’s

Page 1 of 2 Post Office Ltd

Registered in England and Wales Number: 2154540
Registered Office: 80-86 Old Street London EC1V 9NN

The Post Office and the Post Office symbol are
registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd in the
UK and other countries.
Page 2 of 2
Re: Post Office Counters Ltd. v Mrs Julie Wolstenholme

agents to support claims that the Horizon System is causing errors in
their branch accounts.

Please can you advise me of Fujitsu Services’ view of the main points
in this report and, if you do not agree with them, please can you
suggest what information or advice Fujitsu Services can provide to the
expert that might lead him to change his findings.

An early response would be appreciated.

Yours sincerely,

Keith Baines
Contract Manager

Post Office Ltd

IT Directorate
Calthorpe House
15-20 Phoenix Place
LONDON WC1X 0DG

enc: Best Practice Group plc Opinion

POL00095375
POL00095375
