POL00448884
POL00448884

From:
Sent:
To:

Ce: Henry Staunton;
Subject: RE: Project Pineapple - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

Elliot Jacobs } GRO

Hi Nick

Unfortunately I am meeting different suppliers all day, either way I would prefer a response to my
email before speaking.

Regards

Saf Ismail
Non-Executive Director

100 Wood Street,
London, EC2V 7ER

postoffice.co.uk

From: Nick Read!
Sent: 19 January 2024 07:55

GRO.

Ce: Philippa Hankin: :
Subject: FW: Project Pineapple - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Importance: High

Both,

I am very sorry this situation has occurred. Lets have a call this morning.
Can I suggest 10am ?

Perhaps Philippa can distribute a teams invitation

Nick

Nick Read
Group CEO

EA: I GRO.

100 Wood Street
London EC2V 7AN

postoffice.co.uk

From: Saf ismail: GRO Pp
Sent: Thursday, January 18, 2024 11

To: Nick Read <7
Ce: Elliot Jacobs §
Subject: FW: Project

>; Henry Staunton; ~ GRO “>
SAE ~~

POL00448884
POL00448884

Importance: High
Dear Nick,

1am writing to address a deeply concerning and distressing matter that has recently come to my
attention. As you are aware, there was a confidential meeting held between myself, Elliott, and the
Chairman, where we discussed our observations and concerns regarding the operations of the Post
Office and our ongoing cultural issues. Regrettably, it has come to my knowledge that the notes of
this meeting, which were intended to be kept in strict confidence, have been circulated to the
individuals who were the subject of our discussion.

The implications of this breach of confidentiality are far-reaching and have placed me in an
extremely compromising position. It has not only damaged the relationships between myself and
those individuals (head of legal and head of Postmasters) but will have eroded trust and will create
an atmosphere of tension and hostility and I worry about serious repercussion for me as a
Postmaster as both these individuals are ”untouchable” as you have said.

I am deeply troubled by how this breach occurred and what measures were in place to prevent
such a mishap from happening.

Please see below my concerns which outlines the gravity of the situation. I request that you
thoroughly investigate how this breach of confidentiality occurred and address the following
questions:

1. Was this breach a result of negligence or a lack of judgment of your part?

2. How can a mistake of this magnitude happen within the organisation, especially when dealing
with sensitive matters and with all the current spotlight on us?

3. By exposing me to such a compromising and jeopardising position, how do you expect me to
continue working effectively with the individuals involved?

Furthermore, I would like to inquire if incidents of mistakenly sending confidential information to
the end user have occurred in the past? It is crucial to understand if this is a recurring issue within
our organisation and what steps have been taken to prevent such occurrences in the future.

Additionally, I have become aware of the distribution of Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs) to
individuals within the Post Office in recent years. I find it perplexing that you are not aware of this
during the Select Committee's discussion on NDAs. I would appreciate clarification on this matter
and whether the legal department may have withheld this information from you.

lam deeply committed to my role as a non-executive director and Postmaster. I have always strived
to contribute my best efforts, honesty, and factual opinions for the betterment of our organisation.
However, this incident has left me feeling vulnerable and uncertain about my ability to fulfil my
duties effectively.

Given the gravity of the situation, I strongly urge you to seek external legal advice to understand
the potential legal ramifications of this breach of confidentiality.
POL00448884
POL00448884

In addition, it is crucial to address the concerns of the Head of Legal and Retail, as they will
undoubtedly have their own thoughts and concerns regarding this matter.

The mishandling of this email and the breach of confidentiality not only constitute a breach of duty
but have also caused significant damage to my professional relationships. Moving forward, it is
essential to restore trust and rectify the harm that has been done and possible future implications
for me from these “untouchable” individuals. How do you suggest we solve these issues?

I kindly request your prompt attention to this matter and a thorough investigation into the breach
of confidentiality. I trust that you will take the necessary actions to suggest a way forward.

Thank you for your understanding and immediate attention to this urgent matter.

Regards

Saf Ismail
Non-Executive Director

100 Wood Street,
London, EC2V 7ER

postoffice.co.uk

From: Henry Staunton;
Sent: 18 January 2024
To: Amanda Burton f°

>; Elliot Jacob:

Cc: Benjamin Tidswell ¢

>; Brian Gaunt} GRO
Subject: Project Pineapple - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL ~

Dear All,

Nick confirmed he had sent the confidential note to the Independent NEDs entitled Project Pineapple to Ben and
Martin amongst others . This note contained the private comments of our Post Master NED colleagues inter alia on
Ben and Martin .

I have suggested he immediately apologised to Elliot and Saf as this was a very serious incident as far as they and
other NEDs were concerned . Elliot and Saf were now exposed to further investigations from these two individuals
particularly in view of the fact that Investigations were " untouchable " ( to use Nick's words ) . I suggested he
apologised to all the NEDs at our private meeting before the Board which he is happy to do.

Nick said it was an accident resulting from the huge pressures on him . There is a lot on his mind including the
Investigation on him . He understands it was a serious lapse and was very apologetic .

Best , Henry

Sent from Outlook for iOS
