POL00447765
POL00447765

® Post Office Limited
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2Y 9AQ

Dr. Vikas Shah
Chair of Audit, Risk and Assurance Committee
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy

By way of email f GRO

19 December 2022

Dear Dr. Shah,

Deteriorating Risk Profile of Post Office

We have appreciated your interest in our developing risk profile and governance. There
are some difficult external events, from RMG strikes to our need to replace Horizon,
that are increasing our risk profile and creating additional financial pressures. We are
having to reduce risk mitigation as a result. Our ARC therefore wanted to give you a
heads up on some key risk areas that are now outside tolerance.

The following risk areas are expected to remain outside of tolerance until the funding
position improves:

1. Loss of Availability of critical systems (Cyber Risk) : Due to external malicious
actors, there is a risk that the Post Office critical systems become unavailable.
Reduced funding will prevent Post Office from improving its maturity of Cyber
Security controls over the next 3 years. Whilst we have implemented multifactor
authentication to strengthen our cyber defences and are currently reviewing
responses to ransomware attacks, the residual risk position and exposure to cyber
threat remains unacceptably high.

2. Inability to extend Fujitsu Contract: The Fujitsu contract is currently being
managed within the extended contract agreement. The contract is due to cease in
March 2025, by which point the New Branch IT system (NBIT) must be fully
operational. The ability to extend the contract may be required as contingency for
any delays with NBIT and also to ensure a continuation of service for end of life
items and datacentre lease arrangements. It is unclear if we will be able to
negotiate an extension to the agreement. Furthermore, if an extension can be
negotiated, there will be increased costs, for which funding is currently not
available.

3. Poor management of unstructured information : There is a risk that we do not
have adequate oversight of information held within physical and digital locations,
which could lead to the inability to locate and retrieve information when required,
as well as non-compliance with legislation such as the Data Protection Act, resulting
in financial, regulatory and reputational harm. A programme was stood up to
address shortcomings in Post Office’s data governance and management, however,
the scope of this work was significantly curtailed due to reduced funding allocation.
Whilst we will make slow progress in reducing the risk, it is likely that the risk will
remain outside of tolerance over the next 3 years.

Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540. .
Registered Office Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London. EC2Y 9AQ PostOffice.co.uk

Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited I : I
Highly Confidential
We have implemented enhanced monitoring to manage the above risks, as well as other
areas of concern, which are outside of appetite or tolerance. These include:

e Inadequate Service Resilience: Without appropriate contractual resilience tests
with our suppliers, there is a risk that following a catastrophic IT incident, disaster
recovery cannot be invoked.

* Overturned Historical Convictions : Potential for civil actions from claimants.

e Regulatory: Post Office operating model may not be supportive or agile to
accommodate changing regulatory and control landscapes.

« Postmaster Proposition: The risk that Post Office's retail value proposition is not
profitable enough to sustain Postmasters' business.

* Non-compliance with IR35: Post Office is changing its approach to bring more
contractors inside IR35. However, it is unclear to what extent HMRC may rule with
regards to our historical practices.

Happy to discuss or welcome you at a future Post Office Audit, Risk and Compliance
meeting.

Kind regards,

Carla Stent

Chair of Post Office ARC

POL00447765
POL00447765
