Linklaters

Linklaters LLP.
One Silk Street
London EC2Y 8HO

21 tansy 2015

The Secretary of State for Business, Innovation & Skills
and

Post Office Limited

DEED OF AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT

relating to
an agreement to provide funding to Post Office Limited

Ref L-220198

POL00362162
POL00362162
This Deed (the ‘Deed’) is made on_/ Janvacy 2015 between:

(1)

(2)

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR BUSINESS, INNOVATION & SKILLS, of 1 Victoria
Street, London SW1H OET (the “Secretary of State"); and

POST OFFICE LIMITED, a company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales
with registered number 2154540 and registered office at 148 Old Street, London EC1V
9HQ ("POL").

Whereas:

(A)

(B)

The Secretary of State and POL entered into an agreement on 26 November 2013 under
which POL is provided funding to enable it to provide post office services of general
economic interest over a national network of post offices across the United Kingdom (the
“Funding Agreement’).

The Secretary of State and POL now wish to amend and restate the Funding Agreement.

It is agreed as follows:

1.4

1.2

3.2

Definitions and Interpretation
In this Deed, unless the context otherwise requires, the provisions in this Clause 1 apply:
Incorporation of defined terms

Unless otherwise stated, terms defined in the Funding Agreement shall have the same
meaning in this Deed.

Interpretation clauses

4.2.1 The principles of interpretation set out in Clause 1 of the Funding Agreement shall
have effect as if set out in this Deed, save that references to “this Agreement” shall
be construed as references to this Deed.

1.2.2 References to this Deed include its Schedule.

Amendment

With effect from the date of this Deed, the Funding Agreement shall be amended and
restated in the form set out in the Schedule to this Deed.

Miscellaneous

Incorporation of terms

The provisions of clause 13 (Consents) and 14 (Confidentiality) of the Funding Agreement
shall apply to this Deed as if set out in full in this Deed and as if references in that clause to
“this Agreement" are references to this Deed and references to “party” or “parties” are
references to parties to this Deed.

Third party rights

Aperson who is not a party to this Deed has no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third
Parties) Act 1999 to enforce or to enjoy the benefit of any term of this Deed.

POL00362162
POL00362162
3.3

4.2

Counterparts

This Deed may be entered into in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together
shall constitute one and the same instrument. A party may enter into this Deed by
executing any such counterpart.

Governing law and submission to jurisdiction

Governing law

This Deed and any non-contractual obligations arising out of or in connection with it are
governed by English law.

Jurisdiction

The parties irrevocably agree that the courts of England are to have exclusive jurisdiction
to settle any disputes which may arise out of or in connection with this Deed.

POL00362162
POL00362162
POL00362162
POL00362162

In witness whereof this Deed has been delivered on the date first stated above.

THE CORPORATE SEAL of )
THE SECRETARY OF STATE )
FOR Business, Innovation and Skills )
hereunto affixed is authenticated by )

An official in the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills

Executed by the affixing
of the COMMON SEAL of
POST OFFICE LIMITED
in the presence of:

Aperson authorised by Post Office Limited to act for that purpose

POL00362162
POL00362162

Schedule

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

Dated 26 November 2013

as amended and restated on__Q 7 spot 2015

THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR BUSINESS, INNOVATION & SKILLS

POST OFFICE LIMITED

FUNDING AGREEME!

POL00362162
POL00362162
CONTENTS

CLAUSE PAGE

1. INTERPRETATION .....
2. CONDITIONS...

3 DELAYED PAYMENT
4, STATE AID CLEARANCES ..
5.

GOVERNMENT FUNDING FOR SERVICES OF GENERAL
ECONOMIC INTEREST .

6. POL STRATEGIC PLAN

7. FINAL CONTRIBUTION

8. EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE ARRANGEMENTS
9. SUB-POSTMASTER COMPENSATION CONDITIONS
10. I ACCESS CRITERIA
11. JOINT VENTURES
12. I PUBLIC CONSULTATION, COMMUNICATION AND EQUALITY.
13, CONSENTS
14. CONFIDENTIALITY
15. NOTICES...
16. I ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
17, GENERAL
SCHEDULE I DELIVERABLES
SCHEDULE

PART A FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE

PART B POTENTIAL FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE, .
SCHEDULE 3 CALCULATION OF ACTUAL SGEI C!
APPENDIX A POL ENTRUSTMENT LETTER
APPENDIX B STRATEGIC PLAN

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RE! D VERSION

¢ Agreement

THIS AGREEMENT was made on 26 November 2013 and is amended and restated on

a Jan vary 2015

BETWEEN:

ad) THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR BUSINESS, INNOVATION & SKILLS of
1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET (the Secretary of State); and

(2) POST OFFICE LIMITED, a company incorporated in England and Wales
(registered number 2154540) and whose registered address is 148 Old Street, London
ECIV 9HQ (POL).

WHEREAS:

(A) The Parties entered into the 2010 Funding Agreement in respect of funding for certain
post office services until the end of the Financial Year 2014/15.

(B) The Secretary of State has requested that POL continues to provide a national
network of post offices across the United Kingdom and wishes to entrust to POL the
provision of services of general economic interest over that network.

(C) The Secretary of State has agreed to enter into this Agreement in order to provide
funding to POL to enable it to continue to provide services of general economic interest
across that national network.

NOW THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSES as follows:
1 INTERPRETATION

Ll In this Agreement, including the recitals, Schedules and Appendices, unless the
context requires otherwise:

2010 Funding Agreement means the funding agreement entered into by, inter alia, the
Parties dated 25 October 2010.

Actual SGEI Cost means POL’s net cost of: (i) maintaining a network of post offices in
accordance with clause 10 (Access Criteria); and (ii) ensuring the provision of services of
general economic interest over that network, calculated in accordance with Schedule 3
(Calculation of Actual SGEI Cost).

Branch means any retail outlet of POL, including any post office counter or means of
transacting any post office services (including those services described in clause 10.1(a)
(Access Criteria)) at a third party premises and any other facility (including an “outreach”
facility) designated for the transaction of business with members of the public by or on behalf
of POL.

Business Day means a day (not being a Saturday or a Sunday) on which banks are open for
general non-automated banking business in the City of London.

Code of Practice means the Code of Practice on Public Consultation and Communication

with respect to change in the Post Office network published in December 2012 as amended,
varied, supplemented or substituted from time to time.

Page 1

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

Community Branch means Branches that possess characteristics that could make them
unviable if they were to receive the same terms as those offered to subpostmasters under new
or amended agency contracts. They are predominantly, but not exclusively, the “only shop in
the community”, where “the community” is defined as a direct ‘crow flies’ distance of 0.5
miles from the current post office. When considering if Branches are the “only shop in the
community”, only alternative retailers most likely to be suitable for post offices are included,
such as convenience and CTN (Confectioner, Tobacconist and Newsagent) stores.

Cumulative SGEI Cost has the meaning given to it in clause 5.9 (Government Funding for
Services of General Economic Interest).

Cumulative SGEI Payment means the total aggregate amount of all SGEI Payments made by
the Secretary of State under clauses 5.5 and 5.6 (Government Funding for Services of General

Economic Interest).

Cumulative SGEI Statement has the meaning given to it in clause 5.9 (Government Funding
for Services of General Economic Interest).

Deprived Urban Areas means:
(a) the most deprived fifteen per cent. (15%) of super output areas in England;
(b) the most deprived fifteen per cent. (15%) of data zones in Scotland; and

(c) the most deprived thirty per cent. (30%) of super output areas in Wales and Northern
Ireland,

based upon each country’s then current index of multiple deprivation.

Entrustment Letter means the letter in the form set out at Appendix A (POL Entrustment
Letter) from the Secretary of State to POL and countersigned by POL.

Financial Year means an accounting period of POL commencing on or around 1 April in any
calendar year and ending on or around 31 March in the following calendar year.

Fundamental Change means the occurrence of any of the events listed in PartA of
Schedule 2 (Fundamental Change).

Funding Period means the period commencing the start of Financial Year 2015/16 and
ending the end of Financial Year 2017/18.

Government means Her Majesty’s Government.
Milestone means:

(a) __ in respect of the SGEI Payment payable on 1 April 2015 (or the first Business Day
thereafter), the requirements referred to as Milestone 1;

(b) in respect of the SGEI Payment payable on 1 April 2016 (or the first Business Day
thereafter), the requirements referred to as Milestone 2; and

(c) in respect of the SGEI Payment payable on 1 April 2017 (or the first Business Day
thereafter), the requirements referred to as Milestone 3,

Page 2

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

in each case in Appendix A (Funding milestones and test dates) of the Strategic Plan.

Milestone Test Date means, in respect of each SGEI Payment, the date specified in Appendix
A (Funding milestones and test dates) of the Strategic Plan for the achievement of the
Milestone applicable to that SGEI Payment.

Order means the Post Office Network Subsidy Scheme Order 2007 (SI 2007/962) made
pursuant to section 103 of the PSA2000 and amended by the Post Office Network Subsidy
Scheme (Amendment) Order 2011 (SI 2011/98) as may be further amended or replaced by
any subsequent payment order increasing the maximum amount payable under it in any
twelve (12) month period.

Parties means the parties to this Agreement.

PO Group means POL and its subsidiaries from time to time.

POL Working Capital Facility means the working capital facility provided to POL pursuant
to the terms of the credit facilities agreement between the Secretary of State and POL dated
17 October 2003 (as amended from time to time).

Potential Fundamental Change has the meaning given to it in PartB of Schedule 2
(Potential Fundamental Change).

PSA2000 means the Postal Services Act 2000.

PSA2011 means the Postal Services Act 2011.

Relevant Payment has the meaning given to it in clause 3 (Delayed payment).

Remedy Period has the meaning given to it in clause 3 (Delayed payment).

Required Payment Date has the meaning given to it in clause 3 (Delayed payment).

Rural Areas means those areas which are not Urban Areas.

SGEI Payment means a payment by the Secretary of State in a Financial Year of an amount
calculated to compensate POL for the net cost of: (i) maintaining a network of post offices in
accordance with clause 10 (Access Criteria); and (ii) ensuring the provision of services of

general economic interest over that network, in each case during that Financial Year.

SGEI Statement has the meaning given to it in clause 5.9 (Government Funding for Services
of General Economic Interest).

SGEI Supporting Statement has the meaning given to it in clause 5.9 (Government Funding
for Services of General Economic Interest).

State Aid Clearance means, in respect of any payment to be made to POL under this
Agreement, confirmation by the European Commission that such payment is compatible with
the requirements on State Aid of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.

Strategic Plan means POL’s strategic plan in relation to the provision of services of general
economic interest as set out in Appendix B (Strategic Plan).

Page 3

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

Urban Areas means communities with ten thousand (10,000) or more inhabitants in a
continuous built up area.

VAT Amount has the meaning given to it in clause 5.12 (Government Funding for Services of
General Economic Interest).

1.2 In this Agreement, except where the context otherwise requires:

(a) a reference to a person (which shall include any individual, firm, company,
corporation or other body corporate, government, state or agency or any association,
trust, fund or partnership (whether or not having separate legal personality) shall
include, as appropriate, its successors, permitted assignees or transferees;

(b) a reference to an enactment or statutory provision shall include a reference to any
subordinate legislation made under that enactment or statutory provision and is a
reference to that enactment, statutory provision or subordinate legislation as from
time to time amended, consolidated, modified, or re-enacted;

(c) words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa;

(d) references to one gender include other genders;

(e) areference to any agreement or other instrument (other than an enactment or statutory
provision) shall be deemed to be a reference to that agreement or instrument as from
time to time amended, varied, supplemented, substituted, novated, assigned or

restated;

(p a reference to a clause, Schedule or Appendix shall be a reference to a clause of, or
Schedule or Appendix to, this Agreement;

(g) a reference to “includes” or “including” shall be construed without limitation to any
events, circumstances, conditions, acts or matters specified after those words;

(h) references to dates which do not fall on a Business Day shall be construed as
references to the immediately subsequent Business Day;

(i) the headings are for convenience only and shall not affect its interpretation; and

(0) references to this Agreement include this Agreement as amended or supplemented.
13 The Schedules and Appendices form part of this Agreement and shall have the same
force and effect as if expressly set out in this Agreement, and any reference to this Agreement
shall include the Schedules and Appendices.

2. CONDITIONS

21 The obligation of the Secretary of State under this Agreement to make any SGEI
Payment is conditional on:

(a) all necessary State Aid Clearances having been obtained for the making of that
payment; and

(b) the relevant Milestone having been achieved.

Page 4

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

2.2 Each obligation of POL under clauses 5 (Government Funding for Services of
General Economic Interest), 6 (POL Strategic Plan), 8 (Employee Incentive Arrangements),
10 (Access Criteria) and 12 (Public Consultation, Communication and Equality) of this
Agreement, and the obligations of POL under the Entrustment Letter, in each case in each of
Financial Years 2015/16 and 2016/17 and 2017/18 (respectively), is conditional on the
conditions referred to in clause 2.1 having been met in respect of the SGEI Payment for,
subject to clause 2.3, that Financial Year, save that to the extent the condition in clause 2.1(b)
is not met and (at the absolute discretion of the Secretary of State) only part of the SGEI
Payment for that Financial Year is paid, then POL shall perform such of its obligations under
this Agreement and the Entrustment Letter as shall be correspondingly adjusted by POL and
the Secretary of State to be appropriate having regard to the funding constraints to which POL
will be subject and to POL’s obligations under clause 6 (POL Strategic Plan).

2.3 In the event that POL fails to achieve any Milestone by the Milestone Test Date, POL
shall provide to the Secretary of State a remedial plan and the Secretary of State shall have no
obligation to make the SGEI Payment until POL has achieved the Milestone. Should POL not
achieve the Milestone within three (3) months following the Milestone Test Date, any
payment (or part thereof) by the Secretary of State of the SGEI Payment shall be at the
absolute discretion of the Secretary of State.

Deliverables

24 On the date of this Agreement, POL shall deliver (or ensure that there is delivered) all
those documents listed in Schedule 1 (Deliverables) in a form and substance satisfactory to
the Secretary of State (acting reasonably).

Fundamental Change

2.5 Without prejudice to the accrued rights and remedies of the Parties, the obligations of
the Secretary of State to make or facilitate any payments in accordance with this Agreement,
the obligations of POL under clauses 5 (Government Funding for Services of General
Economic Interest), 8 (Employee Incentive Arrangements), 10 (Access Criteria) and 12
(Public Consultation, Communication and Equality) of this Agreement and the obligations of
POL under the Entrustment Letter, shall immediately terminate upon the occurrence of a
Fundamental Change.

2.6 If on the date on which any payment is due to be made by the Secretary of State to
POL under this Agreement a Potential Fundamental Change exists, the Secretary of State
shall be entitled to withhold such payment until such time as:

(a) a Fundamental Change occurs, whereupon clause 2.5 shall apply and the Secretary of
State shall have no obligation to make that payment; or

(b) the Potential Fundamental Change ceases to exist, whereupon the payment shall
become immediately due and payable, together with interest from the due date until
the date of actual payment at a rate equivalent to the rate of interest then applicable to
drawings by POL under the POL Working Capital Facility (as amended from time to
time).

2.7 Until the date on which the last SGEI Payment is due to be made by the Secretary of
State to POL under this Agreement, POL shall promptly disclose to the Secretary of State any
matter or thing of which its board of directors becomes aware after entering into this
Agreement which constitutes, or which in the reasonable opinion of its board of directors is
reasonably likely to give rise to, a Fundamental Change or a Potential Fundamental Change.

Page $

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

3. DELAYED PAYMENT

If any SGEI Payment to be made by the Secretary of State to POL under this Agreement (a
Relevant Payment) is not made on or by the date on which it is required by clause 5.5
(Government Funding for Services of General Economic Interest) to be made (the Required
Payment Date), then during the period between the Required Payment Date and the end of the
tenth (10") Business Day thereafter (such period being the Remedy Period), the Parties shall
continue to comply with their respective obligations under this Agreement and the Secretary
of State shall make the Relevant Payment within the Remedy Period.

4. STATE AID CLEARANCES
4.1 The Secretary of State agrees to:

(a) prepare as soon as reasonably practicable, in consultation with POL, an application
for State Aid Clearance for all arrangements under this Agreement requiring such
State Aid Clearance, including any payments to POL under clause 5 (Government
Funding for Services of General Economic Interest), in respect of each of the
Financial Years 2015/16 and 2016/17 and 2017/18;

(b) pursue such State Aid Clearance application in good faith and expeditiously;
(c) keep POL informed as to the progress of such State Aid Clearance application;

(d) permit representatives appointed by POL to attend meetings with the European
Commission in respect of such application, to the extent permitted by the European
Commission and deemed appropriate by the Secretary of State;

(e) discuss with POL any written notifications to the European Commission in respect of
such State Aid Clearance application before they are submitted; and

(p discuss with POL any written notifications from the European Commission in respect
of such State Aid Clearance application promptly upon their receipt.

4.2 As at the date of this Agreement the Secretary of State is targeting the obtaining of
the State Aid Clearance referred to in clause 4.1 by the start of the Funding Period and the
Parties shall use their reasonable endeavours to obtain the State Aid Clearance by such date, it
being acknowledged that a mere failure to achieve that target is not of itself a breach of this
clause 4.2.

5. GOVERNMENT FUNDING FOR SERVICES OF GENERAL ECONOMIC INTEREST

Sl POL undertakes to the Secretary of State that it will for the duration of the Funding
Period: (i) maintain a network of post offices in accordance with clause 10 (Access Criteria);
and (ii) provide across that network the services of general economic interest entrusted to it
by the Entrustment Letter.

5.2 Subject to clause 2.1 (Conditions), the Secretary of State agrees to make to POL in
each of the Financial Years 2015/16, 2016/17 and 2017/18 an SGEI Payment in the amount
specified in clause 5.6, to enable POL to maintain the network and to provide services of
general economic interest over the network.

5.3 The SGEI Payment for each of the Financial Years 2015/16, 2016/17 and 2017/18
shall be made in a manner or manners to be determined by the Secretary of State in his

Page 6

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

absolute discretion (but having consulted with POL as to the impact thereof (if any) on their
profit and loss accounts and the tax treatment of such payments).

5.4 The Secretary of State agrees:

(a) to submit for approval of both Houses of Parliament as soon as reasonably practicable
any order amending or replacing the Order to increase the maximum amount payable
under the Order in any period of twelve (12) months in order to make any payment
under this Agreement which it is determined by the Secretary of State in accordance
with clause 5.3 will be made pursuant to section 103 of the PSA2000;

(b) to submit for approval of the House of Commons as soon as reasonably practicable
any payment under this Agreement which it is determined by the Secretary of State in
accordance with clause 5.3 will be made pursuant to section 8 of the Industrial
Development Act 1982;

(c) to keep POL informed as to the progress of such approval(s); and

(d) to notify POL in writing as soon as reasonably practicable after such approval(s) have
been obtained.

5.5 Each SGEI Payment shall be made by way of payment on 1 April (or the first
Business Day thereafter) of the relevant Financial Year of the amount specified in clause 5.6.

5.6 The amount payable in:

(a) the Financial Year 2015/16 shall be up to two hundred and eighty million pounds
(£280,000,000);

(b) the Financial Year 2016/17 shall be up to two hundred and twenty million pounds
(£220,000,000); and

(c) the Financial Year 2017/18 shall be up to one hundred and forty million pounds
(£140,000,000).

In ascertaining for any purpose of this clause 5 the amount or maximum amount of any SGEI
Payment no account shall be taken of: (i) any VAT Amount which may be payable under
clause 5.12; or (ii) the benefit of any interest receivable on any amount held by POL prior to
its expenditure.

5.7 The Secretary of State acknowledges that, without prejudicing clause 5.2 or his
discretion to determine the method of payment of the SGEI Payment referred to in clause 5.3
above, it is his current expectation that:

(a) one hundred and thirty million pounds (£130,000,000) of the SGEI Payment for
Financial Year 2015/16;

(b) eighty million pounds (£80,000,000) of the SGEI Payment for Financial Year
2016/17; and

(c) seventy million pounds (£70,000,000) of the SGEI Payment for Financial Year
2017/18,

Page 7

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

will be made by way of a payment under a network subsidy scheme introduced under the
Order provided that: (i) the necessary statutory instrument to permit such payment has been
approved by an affirmative resolution of each House of Parliament; and (ii) any necessary
consent to the making of such statutory instrument has been given by the Lords
Commissioners of Her Majesty’s Treasury.

5.8 It is acknowledged by the Parties that any part of the SGEI Payments received by
POL under a network subsidy scheme pursuant to section 103 of the PSA2000 (currently
expected to be the amounts specified in clause 5.7 above) would be treated as revenue in
POL’s accounts, which has an impact on POL’s operating profit. Should any SGEI Payment
(or part thereof) be made in any Financial Year in any manner which would result in it not
being treated as revenue in POL’s accounts then any target operating profit applicable for any
purpose to POL, or the PO Group as a whole, in such Financial Year shall be reduced by the
amount of any SGEI Payment (or part thereof) received in any such manner in that Financial
Year.

5.9 Within three months following the signature of POL’s accounts in respect of each of
the Financial Years 2015/16, 2016/17 and 2017/18, POL shall provide to the Secretary of
State a statement (the SGEI Statement) setting out in writing the Actual SGEI Cost for that
Financial Year and a cumulative statement (the Cumulative SGEI Statement) setting out the
cumulative amount of all Actual SGEI Cost for the Funding Period up to and including the
relevant Financial Year (the Cumulative SGEI Cost), together with supporting calculations
and a clear explanation of how the amounts of each have been calculated. Each SGEI
Statement shall be accompanied by a statement (the SGEI Supporting Statement) from an
independent firm of financial advisers confirming:

(a) that the SGEI Statement has been properly prepared in accordance with the
requirements of Schedule 3 (Calculation of Actual SGEI Cost) and any additional
conditions imposed by any relevant State Aid Clearance; and

(b) that while carrying out its financial analysis for the purposes of providing the
statement referred to in paragraph (a) above, they did not discover any inconsistency
of POL’s use of the SGEI Payment as against the terms of this Agreement or of any
applicable State Aid Clearance.

For the avoidance of doubt, the independent firm of financial advisers will not be responsible
for determining whether the net profit that would have been incurred by POL in Schedule 3
(Calculation of Actual SGEI Cost) is reasonable. POL agrees to use reasonable endeavours to
engage such independent firm of financial advisers on the basis that, if requested by the
Secretary of State and on such terms as the financial advisers may agree:

(a) an accountancy firm nominated by the Secretary of State shall be entitled to discuss
directly with the financial advisers the manner in which the SGEI Supporting
Statement has been prepared; and

(b) the financial advisers shall provide to the Secretary of State all notes and other work
products produced by them in the preparation of the SGEI Supporting Statement.

5.10 — If following the end of the Funding Period the Cumulative SGEI Statement (for the
entire Funding Period) shows that the Cumulative SGEI Cost is less than the Cumulative
SGEI Payment, POL shall, within ten (10) Business Days of a request by the Secretary of
State, reimburse to the Secretary of State, without deduction, an amount equal to the
difference.

Page 8

POL00362162
POL00362162
ED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

5.11 POL shall use each SGEI Payment only to meet the direct and indirect costs
associated with: (i) maintaining a network of post offices in accordance with clause 10
(Access Criteria); and (ii) ensuring the provision of services of general economic interest over
that network (as entrusted to it pursuant to the Entrustment Letter), as described in Schedule 3
(Calculation of Actual SGEI Cost) (or to make any reimbursement required to be made by
POL pursuant to clause 5.10) and only for purposes permitted by any State Aid Clearance
applicable to it.

5.12 It is the mutual opinion of the Parties that the SGEI Payments received by POL will
not (and POL agrees not to take any steps with the intention of procuring that they will)
constitute, for VAT purposes, the consideration for any taxable supply and that, accordingly,
the receipt by POL of such SGEI Payments should not give rise to any liability of POL (or
any other member of the PO Group) to account for VAT in respect of any such receipt.
Notwithstanding the foregoing opinion, if it should, at any time (whether or not a time falling
within the duration of this Agreement), be determined by Her Majesty's Revenue and
Customs that such SGEI Payments (or any of them) must be treated as the consideration for
taxable supplies made by POL (or, as the case may be, by any other member of the PO
Group) and that in consequence POL (or such other member of the PO Group) is liable to
account for VAT in respect of the receipt of any of such SGEI Payments (the VAT Amount),
POL shall notify the Secretary of State of that determination within five (5) Business Days of
being so advised by Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs and the Secretary of State shall, as
soon as reasonably practicable following notification of such determination, make a payment
to POL, in addition to all amounts otherwise payable by the Secretary of State to POL under
this Agreement, of a sum equal to the VAT Amount, against production of a valid VAT
invoice.

5.13 If Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs issues a determination as referred to in clause
5.12, the Parties shall (acting reasonably) consult as to what action to take regarding such
determination. If the Secretary of State disagrees with the determination he may, within ten
(10) Business Days of being notified by POL of such determination, give written notice to
POL that he requires POL (or any other member of the PO Group) to obtain a review by Her
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs of that determination; and POL (or such other member of the
PO Group, as the case may be) shall promptly request (the form of that request being subject
to reasonable review by the Secretary of State) Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs to
undertake such review. In the event that the review results in POL obtaining a refund of any
VAT Amount, or not being required to pay a VAT Amount, in each case in respect of which
the Secretary of State shall have made a corresponding payment under clause 5.12, POL shall
promptly refund to the Secretary of State the amount of such corresponding payment.

5.14 The Secretary of State acknowledges the expectation of the Parties that ongoing SGEI
Payments may be required to be made to POL following the end of the Funding Period to the
extent that POL may be requested to continue to provide services of general economic interest
following the Funding Period.

5.15 The Secretary of State acknowledged in the 2010 Funding Agreement that the
expectation of the Parties was that ongoing SGEI payments would be required to be made to
POL following the end of the 2010 Funding Period to the extent that POL was requested to
continue to provide services of general economic interest following the 2010 Funding Period.
The Secretary of State acknowledges that this Agreement and the Strategic Plan continue the
arrangements under the 2010 Funding Agreement.

Page 9

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RES’

ED VERSION
nding Agreement

6. POL STRATEGIC PLAN

6.1 POL shall from 1 April 2015 use its best endeavours to procure the delivery of the
Strategic Plan within the financial parameters of the SGEI Payments provided pursuant to this
Agreement and (unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State or required by the terms of
any State Aid Clearance) POL shall not apply any SGEI Payment for a purpose inconsistent
with the Strategic Plan or make any material deviation from the Strategic Plan.

6.2 In monitoring POL’s progress in delivering the Strategic Plan, the Secretary of State
may request information both on a routine and an ad hoc basis. The Secretary of State will
ensure that information requests are not overly onerous and POL will use its reasonable
endeavours to satisfy all information requests.

7 FINAL CONTRIBUTION

POL acknowledges that the SGEI Payments to be provided by the Secretary of State pursuant
to this Agreement represent the Secretary of State’s final funding contribution in respect of
POL’s obligations over the Funding Period to: (i) maintain a network of post offices in
accordance with clause 10 (Access Criteria); and (ii) ensure the provision of services of
general economic interest over that network in accordance with the Strategic Plan as entrusted
to it by the Entrustment Letter.

8. EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE ARRANGEMENTS,

8.1 POL shall continue to maintain an incentive scheme, approved by the Secretary of
State, for its senior executive team in a manner which is designed to ensure, and is consistent
with ensuring, the delivery of the Strategic Plan.

8.2 POL confirms that:

(a) the terms of any bonus arrangements specific to POL (or those parts of any group-
wide arrangements which are related to the performance of POL) are designed to
incentivise and reward the performance of POL;

(b) the terms of such bonus arrangements are robust, subject to annual review and
designed not to provide rewards where POL’s business has not performed
satisfactorily against the relevant target; and

(c) accordingly, no such bonus arrangements will pay out in respect of any Financial
Year during the Funding Period in which POL seeks and obtains new funding from
the Secretary of State, over and above that anticipated in this Agreement, as a result
of a failure by POL to perform in accordance with the requirements of the Strategic
Plan (other than as a result of a change in Government policy or other reasons beyond
POL's control). Any future bonus arrangements following any such Financial Year
will be discussed with the Secretary of State at the time.

9. SUB-POSTMASTER COMPENSATION CONDITIONS

9.1 As part of its obligations to deliver the Strategic Plan, POL shall ensure that it
complies with the provisions of clause 10 (Access Criteria) and confirms that the Strategic
Plan has been developed on the basis that no community loses access to services of the type
contemplated in clause 10 (Access Criteria) other than due to circumstances beyond POL’s
control.

Page 10

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

9.2 POL shall ensure that during the Funding Period all new or amended agency contracts
entered into between POL and any sub-postmaster shall be on such terms as to ensure that
such sub-postmaster has no right to receive: (i) fixed pay; or (ii) any compensation payment
for termination of such agency contract (other than in respect of a breach by POL of the terms
of such agency contract or applicable law), provided that that any new agency contracts
entered into with sub-postmasters of Community Branches pursuant to a sale, transfer,
termination or otherwise may be on materially the same terms as the existing agency contract
for such Community Branches.

9.3 POL shall ensure that (save as required by law or contractual requirements) during
the Funding Period, no compensation payments may be paid to any sub-postmaster upon
replacement of such sub-postmaster’s existing agency contract, unless such replacement
agency contract complies with the provisions of clause 9.2.

10. ACCESS CRITERIA
10.1 Without prejudice to its obligations pursuant to clause 5.1 (Government Funding for

Services of General Economic Interest), POL shall throughout the Funding Period provide a
network of at least eleven thousand, five hundred (11,500) Branches which:

(a) provide access to all of the following services:
(i) postal services;
(ii) basic cash and banking facilities and payout services including those that
POL is required to provide on behalf of Government (in respect of pensions,
benefits or tax credits);

(iii) bill payment facilities; and

(iv) information about other services which may be available from POL outlets
from time to time,

provided that only eleven thousand (11,000) of such Branches (such Branches to be
determined by POL in its absolute discretion) shall be required to provide the service
contemplated in clause 10.1(a)(ii) (Access Criteria) above; and

(b) enables the following criteria to be met:

(i) Nationally:

(A) ninety per cent. (90%) of the UK population are within one (1) mile
of the nearest Branch;

(B) ninety nine per cent. (99%) of the UK population are within three (3)
miles of the nearest Branch;

(ii) In Urban Areas:

(A) ninety five per cent. (95%) of the total population within Urban
Areas across the UK are within one (1) mile of the nearest Branch;

Page I

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMI

ED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

(B) ninety nine per cent. (99%) of the total population within Deprived
Urban Areas across the UK are within one (1) mile of the nearest
Branch;

(iii) In Rural Areas: ninety five per cent. (95%) of the total population within
Rural Areas across the UK are within three (3) miles of the nearest Branch;

(iv) In each postcode district: ninety five per cent. (95%) of the population in
each individual postcode district are within six (6) miles of the nearest
Branch.

10.2 In applying the above criteria POL shall in addition take account of geographical
constraints such as rivers, mountains and valleys, motorways and sea crossings to islands so
as not to impose undue hardship when considering the appropriate Branch network.

10.3. Reference to “Branch” in this clause 10 shall mean a Branch providing the services
described in clause 10.1(a).

1. JOINT VENTURES

Unless otherwise agreed with the Secretary of State, POL agrees that it shall only enter into
joint ventures with third parties for purposes consistent with the delivery of the Strategic Plan
and provided that the joint venture is structured on the basis that it would not (according to
Government advice) be classified as part of the public sector under the relevant rules of Her
Majesty’s Treasury.

12. PUBLIC CONSULTATION, COMMUNICATION AND EQUALITY
12.1 POL shall at all times comply with the Code of Practice.

12.2. POL acknowledges the commitment recorded in the resolutions made during its board
meeting of 21 January 2008 that any individuals taking any decision or exercising any other
function on POL’s behalf should do so having due regard to the need to observe factors which
comprise the statutory equality duties and that appropriate steps be taken to inform all people
making decisions or exercising functions on POL’s behalf of these equality duties. POL shall
ensure that this commitment is maintained in the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement.

13. CONSENTS

The Secretary of State hereby consents, for the purposes of the articles of association of POL
and of any other document or arrangement under which its consent or approval is required, to
the execution and performance by POL of this Agreement and the documents and
arrangements to be entered into pursuant to, or otherwise contemplated by, this Agreement
(other than any agreement contemplated in clause 11). The Secretary of State agrees that such
consents will take effect notwithstanding any failure to comply with any procedural
requirements of such articles or other documents in connection with the obtaining of such
consents.

14. (CONFIDENTIALITY
14.1 Each Party undertakes to the other Party that, subject to clause 14.2, it shall treat as

strictly confidential all confidential information. For the purposes of this clause 14,
confidential information shall mean:

Page 12

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

(a) the provisions of this Agreement, the Entrustment Letter and the Strategic Plan; and

(b) the negotiations relating to this Agreement, the Entrustment Letter and the Strategic
Plan.

14.2. Clause 14.1 shall not prevent the disclosure by a Party of any confidential

information:

(a) to those of its officers (including auditors), employees and agents as it considers have
a need for such information in the performance of their respective functions and who
shall in each case be made aware by such Party of its obligations under this
Agreement and shall be required by such Party to observe the same restrictions on the
use of the confidential information as are contained in this clause 14;

(b) to Postal Services Holding Company PLC and its officers (including auditors),
employees and agents, in each case who are bound to such Party by a duty of
confidence which applies to the confidential information disclosed;

(c) to its professional advisers who are bound to such Party by a duty of confidence
which applies to the confidential information disclosed;

(d) to the extent required by applicable law or by the regulations of any regulatory or
supervisory authority to which such Party is subject or pursuant to any order of court
or other competent authority or tribunal;

(e) which shall have entered the public domain or ceased to be confidential other than as
a result of a breach by such Party of its obligations under this clause 14;

(fp) which was already known to such Party prior to its disclosure to such Party other than
as a result of a breach by such Party of an obligation of confidentiality;

(g) as such Party, acting reasonably, considers necessary in connection with any
investigations, inquiries, or actual or threatened proceedings in connection with POL
or any of its directors;

(h) in the case of POL, to the extent that its board of directors acting reasonably,
considers disclosure necessary from time to time in its statutory accounts;

@ to the extent that the Secretary of State, acting reasonably, considers disclosure
necessary from time to time in the published accounts of the Department of Business,
Innovation & Skills or Her Majesty’s Treasury;

(i) to the extent required by any Parliamentary obligation;

(k) to the extent required for the purposes of any examination pursuant to section 6(1) of
the National Audit Act 1983 of the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which
the Secretary of State has used his resources;

(a) to the European Commission for the purposes of obtaining State Aid Clearance; or

(m) __ with the prior written consent of the other Party.

14.3. If a Party becomes required, in circumstances contemplated by clause 14.2(d), (g) or

(h) to disclose any confidential information, such Party shall, to the extent permitted by law,

Page 13

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

give to the other Party such notice of such disclosure as is practicable in the circumstances
and shall, to the extent permitted by law and practicable in the circumstances, consult with the
other Party as to the extent of such disclosure.

15. NOTICES

15.1 A notice to be served pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement shall be in
writing and, unless otherwise stated, served in person or sent by pre-paid first class post, fax
or any electronic method of communication as agreed by the Parties to the relevant Party at its
address or fax number set out below, or such other address in England or Wales or fax
number notified by it to the other Party and marked for the attention of the person or
department therein specified.

15.2 The address and addressee of each Party at the date of this Agreement are:

Name of Party I Addressee Address Fax Number
Secretary of I Legal Director for I 1 Victoria Street, [ I
State Postal Services London SW1H OET
POL Company Secretary I 148 Old Street,

London EC1V 9HQ

15.3 A notice shall be deemed to be received on the date and time specified below (save
that where such notice would otherwise be deemed to be received after 17:00 London time on
a particular day, it shall be deemed to have been received at 9:00 London time on the next
Business Day):

(a) in the case of a notice served in person, upon delivery at the address of the addressee;
(b) in the case of a posted letter, on the second Business Day after posting;
(c) in the case of a fax, when received in legible form; and

(d) in the case of any other electronic method of communication agreed by the Parties,
when actually received in readable form.

15.4 Each Party undertakes to notify the other Party by notice served in accordance with
this clause if the address specified for that Party herein is no longer an appropriate address for
the service of notice or if it is desired to substitute any individual addressee of that Party
named in clause 15.2.

15.5 In proving service of any notice under or in connection with this Agreement it will be
sufficient to prove:

(a) in the case of a letter, that such letter was properly stamped or franked, addressed and
placed in the post or in the case of personal delivery, was left at the correct address;
and

(b) in the case of a fax transmission, that fax was duly transmitted to the fax number, as
appropriate, of the addressee referred to in clause 15.2.

Page 14

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMI

ED & RESTATED Vi IN
Funding Agreement

16. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

16.1 This Agreement and any documents referred to in it or annexed to it constitute the
whole and only agreement between the Parties relating to its subject matter and, for the
avoidance of doubt, supersedes any other prior arrangement, understanding or agreement
between the Parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.

16.2 Each Party acknowledges that in entering into this Agreement, it is not relying on any
pre-contractual statement which is not set out in this Agreement.

16.3 Except in the case of fraud, neither Party shall have any right of action against the
other Party arising out of or in connection with any pre-contractual statement except to the
extent that it is expressly provided for in this Agreement.

16.4 For the purposes of this clause 16, pre-contractual statement means any draft,
agreement, undertaking, representation, warranty, promise, assurance, forecast, estimate or
arrangement of any nature whatsoever, whether or not in writing, relating to the subject matter
of this Agreement made or given by any person at any time prior to the date of this
Agreement.

17. Gi

RAL
Secretary of State

17.1 Nothing in this Agreement fetters the powers conferred on the Secretary of State by
the PSA2000 and the PSA2011.

Costs

17.2 Save as expressly provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, each of the Parties shall
at its own expense do all such things as shall be necessary to give full effect to the obligations
imposed on it under this Agreement.

Third parties

17.3 For the purposes of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999, no person other
than a Party shall have any rights in respect of this Agreement.

Counterparts
17.4 This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the Parties on

separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but
all the counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.

Page 15

POL00362162
POL00362162
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

Partial invalidity

17.5 If any term or provision in this Agreement is held to be illegal or unenforceable in
whole or in part under any enactment or rule of law, such term or provision or part shall to
that extent be deemed not to form part of this Agreement but the enforceability of the
remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected.

Rights, variations and waivers

17.6 The rights and remedies of the Parties shall not be affected by any failure to exercise
or delay in exercising any right or remedy or by the giving of any indulgence by the other
Party or by anything whatsoever except a specific waiver or release in writing and any such
waiver or release shall not prejudice or affect any other rights or remedies of the Parties. No
single or partial exercise of any right or remedy prevents any further or other exercise thereof
or the exercise of any other right or remedy.

17.7 No variation of this Agreement shall be of any effect unless it is agreed in writing by
or on behalf of each Party.

17.8 Any waiver of any right, power or remedy under this Agreement must be in writing
and may be given subject to any conditions thought fit by the grantor. The person seeking the
waiver shall disclose to the grantor all material facts then in that person’s knowledge relevant
to the subject matter of the waiver. Unless otherwise expressly stated, any waiver shall be
effective only in the instance and only for the purpose for which it is given.

Remedies

17.9 Without prejudice to any other rights or remedies that either Party may have, each
Party acknowledges and agrees that damages alone would not be an adequate remedy for any
breach by a Party of the provisions of this Agreement, and that the remedies of injunction and
specific performance as well as any other equitable relief for any threatened or actual breach
of the provisions of this Agreement by a Party may be more appropriate remedies and that no
proof of special damages shall be necessary for the enforcement of this Agreement.

Governing law and jurisdiction

17.10 This Agreement and any non-contractual obligations arising out of or in relation to
this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English law.

17.11 Each Party hereby submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England.

EXECUTED by the Parties on the date first written above.

Page 16

POL00362162
POL00362162
POL00362162
POL00362162

AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

SIGNED by
for and on behalf of
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR BUSINESS, INNOVATION & SKILLS

Signature: Will Gibson
Name: Will Gibson
Title: Executive Director, Shareholder Executive
SIGNED by

for and on behalf of

POST OFFICE LIMITED
Signature: PA Vennells
Name: Paula Vennells
Title: Chief Executive
Signature: Chris Day
Name: Chris Day
Title: CFO

Page 17
POL00362162
POL00362162

AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

SCHEDULE 1
DELIVERABLES

A certified copy of a resolution of the board of POL:

(a) approving the terms of, and the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement and the
amended and restated POL Working Capital Facility and resolving that it execute and
perform this Agreement and the amended and restated POL Working Capital Facility;

(b) authorising a specific person or persons to execute this Agreement on its behalf; and

(c) authorising a specified person or persons, on its behalf, to sign and/or dispatch all

documents and notices to be signed and/or dispatched by it under or in connection
with this Agreement and the amended and restated POL Working Capital Facility.

Page 18
AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

SCHEDULE 2

Part A
Fundamental Change

A Fundamental Change will have occurred if:

an order has been made or resolution has been passed for the winding-up of, or a
provisional liquidator to be appointed in respect of, POL;

an administrator has been appointed in respect of POL;

a receiver (which expression shall include an administrative receiver) has been
appointed in respect of POL;

POL has stopped paying its debts as they fall due;

a moratorium is declared in respect of the indebtedness of POL or POL enters into a
moratorium or a composition, assignment or similar arrangement with its creditors
generally;

a scheme of arrangement is approved, or proposed by POL, under Part 26 of the
Companies Act 2006 with a view to rescheduling or restructuring POL’s
indebtedness;

a voluntary arrangement has been proposed by POL under section I of the Insolvency
Act 1986 in respect of POL; or

an event analogous to the foregoing has occurred in relation to POL in any
jurisdiction outside England.

PartB
Potential Fundamental Change

A Potential Fundamental Change exists at any time if at that time a Fundamental Change shall
not have occurred but:

1.

a petition has been presented or a meeting has been convened for the purpose of
winding-up POL or appointing a provisional liquidator in respect of POL and such
petition has not been discharged or such meeting has not been held; or

POL is currently taking steps with a view to appointing an administrator or agreeing a

moratorium, composition, assignment or similar arrangement with its creditors
generally.

Page 19

POL00362162
POL00362162
ED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

SCHEDULE 3

CALCULATION OF ACTUAL SGEI COST

The amount of the Actual SGEI Cost shall be equal to the difference between the actual net
costs incurred by POL and the reasonable net profits that would have been incurred in
connection with the provision of a network that POL would maintain on a purely commercial
basis (as specified by the relevant European Commission decision(s)), during the relevant
Financial Year(s).

The calculation of those net costs shall include:

All variable costs including those incurred in providing the Network SGEI and the
Product SGEIs; plus

All fixed costs including those incurred in providing the Network SGEI and the
Product SGEIs; less

All revenues received by POL from providing the Product SGEIs as well as non-
SGEI services.

For the purposes of the calculation above:

The costs shall include, without limitation, contributions to pension funds, interest
costs, central costs, capital expenditure, costs of any employee incentivisation
arrangements and the costs of transforming the network, in each case whether such
costs are recurring or exceptional.

Network SGEI means, as set out in the Entrustment Letter, the obligation on POL to
maintain during the Funding Period a network of post offices beyond its optimal
commercial size.

Product SGEI means, as set out in the Entrustment Letter, the obligation on POL to

make available during the Funding Period certain services of general economic
interest across a network of post offices as defined by the Network SGEI.

Page 20

POL00362162
POL00362162
POL00362162
POL00362162

AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

APPENDIX A

POL ENTRUSTMENT LETTER

Page 21
POL00362162
POL00362162
POL00362162
POL00362162

AMENDED & RESTATED VERSION
Funding Agreement

APPENDIX B

STRATEGIC PLAN

Page 22
POL00362162
POL00362162
