POL00098294

POL00098294
Message
From: Simon Baker: GRO
Sent: 17/05/2013 11:
To: Parsons, Andre\ ‘Andrew Winn
“Dave Posnett
Ivan Swepsoni
Subject: Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation
All

Some feedback on the Spot reviews from JFSA. We won’t respond to these points right now, just to give you a flavour of
how they were received, maybe a learning to how we tone our next batch of responses?

Simon

To: Simon Baker; Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons
Cc: ‘Ian Henderson’
Subject: Needed for this morning's Update Call: Kay Linnell's response to POL's Spot Review Responses

All:

We think this should be on today's Agenda. You're already aware of the strength of opinion
(even hostility) that Alan and Kay hold in regard to the emerging issues. But Kay's response is
rather more aggressive than even we expected it to be. I'll forward Alan's response too
(that's shorter but equally dismissive). We always knew it was going to be extraordinarily
difficult to satisfy the JFSA's leadership and members and Kay's and Alan's emails certainly
confirm that. Let's discuss.

Ron.

From: Kay Linnell:__

Sent: Tuesday, May 14, 2013 10
To: ‘Ron Warmington’; ‘Alan Bates"
Cc: ‘Ian Henderson’

Subject: RE: Spot Review Responses

1AM

Dear Ron
{have had an opportunity to read these responses and I hope they are not representative of the quality you will get
across the board for the 2 others you have submitted and the ones you are yet to finish because POL is still withholding

or drip feeding data to you both.

Spot Review 1:

POL-0097877
POL00098294
POL00098294

Point 5 “The User would have been informed” well he wasn’t told about the reversal or he would have known about the
reversal and told the customer who would not have had his phone cut off so who at POL failed to tell him ? this key
question remains unanswered and should e sent back to POL.

Also why can POL refuse to call for log data on the grounds of costs to POL but ruin lives by demanding unsubstantiated
sum because POL have not spent money or effort investigating the facts on which POL intend to rely simply assuming
POL are always rights means prosecutions without full investigations are unsafe.

10 page replies quoting from procedural manuals are NOT an answer.

Spot Review 11:

Why do SPMRs say they can’t review ALL Horizon transactions if POL say they can? Someone is incorrect.

Transaction corrections in “the vast majority of cases” — which can’t the SPMRs see?

POL have dodged the specific instance referred to and speak in generalities — this is NOT a full and proper answer for this
specific incident.

Spot Review 12:

How is the SPMR supposed to prove he/she has followed proper procedures by examining a cheque that is lost?
Spot Review 13:

Too old to investigate. Why wasn’t a full investigation carried out at the time?

Why does POL think it relates to a TV licence? POL’s general experience does not help. Nor does their continual defence
of the Horizon software and procedures. Too general and does not address the issues.

Ron, this is extremely disappointing and I feel that we are being sidelined with a great volume of words not specifically
addressing the real questions and issues.

thope, it is early days.

Kay

Miss Kay Linnell

Kay Linnell & Co
Brick Kiln Cottage
The Avenue, Herriard
Near Basingstoke
Hampshire RG25 2PR

_ GRO

Kay Linnell & Co, Brick Kiln Cottage, The Aveaue, Herviard, Near Basingstoke, Hampshire R625 2PR
This communication is confidential and is intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom it is addressed. If you are not the intended recipient, olease
deiete this email immediately, as any disclosure, copying or distribution is strictly prohibited

Sent: 13 May 2013 11:06

POL-0097877
POL00098294
POL00098294

To: ‘Alan Bates'; GRO

Cc: ‘Ian Henderson’
Subject: FW: Spot Review Responses

Hello Alan/Kay. We now have four Spot Review responses from POL. I have POL's permission
to forward all of their responses to you both and each SPMR's relevant responses to that
SPMR. I will do those distributions today, though am off to meeting shortly and in Vienna for a
couple of days (will have laptop with me).

The responses are VERY detailed and long. But they are thorough. A few of our
observations/allegations are challenged or refuted and it now falls to the SPMRs and myself to
check out what POL has said so that we can all arrive at a solid and agreed set of facts upon
which Ian and I can base our conclusions and, in due course, our report. I have read through all
of this material and see no need, as yet, to change the original SRs. To do that would then
necessitate amendment of POL's response and the whole process would become tediously
circuitous. Only if/where it emerges we (I) have got something completely wrong will I alter or
withdraw the SR. Does that make sense to you Ian?

Speak soon. Ron

From: Simon Baker:
Sent: Monday, May

NS
!Susan Crichton
nses

Spot reviews attached with confidential markings removed.

Simon

From: Ron Warmingtori_
Sent: 13 May 2013 07:15
To: Alwen Lyons - one ;
Cc: Simon Baker; irk GRO I Susan Crichton
Subject: Re: Spot Review Responses

Of course Alwen. I shall make that completely clear to Alan, Kay and each SPMR. Each SPMR will only of course get the
Spot Reviews applicable to his or her own case.

Sent from my iPhone

On 13 May 2013, at 07:06, Alwen Lyons

Ron

We would still want JFSA to treat them as confidential at this stage, we certainly do not want any
external statements.

Thanks

POL-0097877
POL00098294
POL00098294

Alwen

Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary

Sent from Blackberry

From: Simon Baker

Sent: Monday, May 13,2013
: warming: GRO

Ce:

Subject: Re: Spot Review Responses

Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons

Ron

Legal have got back to me, and confirmed that it is OK to forward to JFSA.
\ will get a second version issued with the confidential markings removed.
Regards,

Simon

From: Ron Warmington;
Sent: Saturday, May 11, 2013 06:0:
To: Simon Baker

Cc: "Ian Henderson’ <irh
Subject: RE: Spot Revi

Responses

Thanks Simon/Alwen: I am confident that Alan can he trusted and would welcome
his input here. Will hold off of course until I hear from you.

Many thanks. Ron.

From: Simon Baker, __
Sent: Saturday, May 1
To: Ron Warmington
Cc: Ian Henderson; Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons
Subject: RE: Spot Review Responses

{think so, as they were written with the expectation that others would read them, but let me check with
our legal team first.

From: Ron Warmingto
Sent: 11 May 2013 06:02

To: Simon Baker

Cc: Ian Henderson; Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons
Subject: Re: Spot Review Responses

Thanks Simon. These are very well written responses. They are, of course, marked Strictly Private and
Confidential. We will need POL's approval therefore to disclose each response to the applicable SPMR

POL-0097877
POL00098294
POL00098294

in order to arrive at closure on each Spot Review. We would also like to include Alan Bates and Kay
Linnell in that process. Is that acceptable to you?

Thanks and regards. Ron.

Sent from my iPhone

Ron, lan

Please find attached the Post Office responses to the first four spot reviews.
Give me a call if you have any questions on them.

Regards, Simon
Simon Baker Head of Business Change and Assurance

<imi
af]

don, ECLV 9HQ

<image002.png>

JOHOR ISO OID RIO IID RIO BOA III SO III AI SOI III I

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If
you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please
contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered
Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH EIS SO HEI OIG SOHO IIRC IO BIA II ASOT III AISI III AIK

<Spot Review I - Response.pdf>

<Spot Review 11 - Response.pdf>
<Spot Review 12 - Response.pdf>
<Spot Review 13 - Response.pdf>

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0097877
POL00098294
POL00098294

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions.
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V SHQ.

JOH OSS SOI AIO BOIS ISO DIDI ISOLA III OS ODI III AI SODA IOI AIS

JOHOR IOI IO IO IID IIA SOO III IOI IDI IISA II IDI DISA IIIA IIE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

POL-0097877
