POL00091419
POL00091419

Message
From: Thomas P Moran} GRO seen
Sent:
To:

Jane MacLeod

ce:
H Rob Houghton

Subject: ALLY PRIVILEGED - DO NOT

FORWARD.

Paula

As another non-lawyers, both Rob H and / have edited along these lines and agree we should make things as straight
forward as possible, and also not be apologetic given we have answered in good faith throughout.

Jane — as you now have consistent feedback from Al, Paula, me as SteerCo chair and Rob can we take the approach
below as the default in our call at 5? if there is a critical legal reason why you/BD/our QC thinks we have to keep the
original text or something similar we'll need to understand what that is and weigh it up against the reputational/comms
impact on the network and wider business.

As discussed, key thing remaining for me is for this to have the Comms review and the reactive comms management
approach in place prior to sending.

Thanks

Tom

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 28 November 2016 15:41

To: Rodric Williams; Jane MacLeod

Cc: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Alisdair Cameron; Thomas P Moran; Tom Wechsler; Rob Houghton; Mark R Davies

Subject: Re: Postmaster Litigation - Remote Access: extract from draft Letter to Freeths - LEGALLY PRIVILEGED - DO NOT
FORWARD

My preference:

"

1. Ateach stage, Post Office ascertained the position so to respond transparently to the question it
believed it was being asked. With the benefit of hindsight, some of Post Office's statements may
have been incorrect in light of what has since been identified in relation to Fujitsu's administrator
access (see below). Post Office refutes any suggestion that it ever made false statements
deliberately or did so to mislead or deceive. The Post Office personnel responsible for those
statements made them in good faith: what was said reflected what they understood the position to
be after they had made relevant enquiries at the time."

But as Al says, I'm not a lawyer either. I prefer this as it is both simple and the truth. Any reason why it needs to
be different?

Thanks,

Paula

Paula Vennells

POL-0090441
POL00091419
POL00091419

Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

On 28 Noy 2016, at 15:04, Alisdair Cameron GRO “wrote:

1.

Thanks Jane. Strong letter. I paused and sucked my teeth on this para

At each stage, Post Office did its honest best to ascertain the position so to respond to the question it
believed it was being asked. With the benefit of hindsight, some of Post Office's statements may have
been incorrect in light of what has now been identified in relation to Fujitsu's administrator access (see
below). However, Post Office refutes any suggestion that it ever made false statements deliberately or
did so to mislead or deceive. The Post Office personnel responsible for those statements believed the
statements when they were made. What was said reflected what they understood the position to be after
making relevant enquiries.

For the avoidance of doubt, I am sure it is true, it just reads defensively and as a
conspiracy theorist’s wet dream? Happy to leave it with your best judgement but rather
than making value statements about honesty, may have been incorrect, I did wonder if
we would be better off simply saying...”We now understand the question more fully and
would answer questions X and Y as follows: “Fujitsu can do X but there are rigorous
controls of Y etc.”

Only a thought and no need to change it if you disagree, I am not a lawyer!

Thanks Al

From: Jane MacLeod
Sent: 28 November 2016 1

I Alisdair Cameron

>; Tom Wechsler :
GRO “t; Mark R Davies

mote Access: extract from draft Letter to Freeths - LEGALLY

PRIVILEGED - DO NOT FORWARD

Paula, Al

Attached is the current draft of the proposed wording regarding remote access that is to be included ina
much longer, and largely procedural letter to be sent to Freeths later tomorrow. We have a further call
with our QC at Spm this evening to review this wording again with the team and Mark Davies is included
on that. For reference the key statement made in the letter to Freeths in July, was as follows:

POL-0090441
POL00091419
POL00091419

“Administrator access to databases. Database and server access and edit permission is provided,
within strict controls (including logging user access), to a small, controlled number of specialist Fujitsu
(not Post Office) administrators. As far as we are currently aware, privileged administrator access has

not been used to alter branch transaction data. We are seeking further assurance from Fujitsu on this
point.”

Freeths have picked this up and therefore the new wording is designed to address their challenges.
Please let me have any comments asap

Jane

Jane MacLeod
General Counsel
Ground Floor
<< OLE Object: Picture (Device Independent Bitmap) >> 20 Finsbury Street
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number:

<< File: _DOC_34439974(1)_RA comments on Response to Letter of Reply_ 27 November....docx >>

POL-0090441
