POL00047494
POL00047494

Record of Tape
Recorded Interview

Person Interviewed David Yates (DY) Exhibit No:
Number of pages: 14

Place of Interview Walton on Thames Post Office
73 Hersham Road

Walton on Thames Signature of interviewing
Surrey KT12 1LN officer producing exhibit

Date of Interview 07 March 2003

Time commenced 12.10 hours Time concluded 12.54 hours

Duration of interview 44 minutes Tape reference no 046861

Interviewing Officer(s) Dave Posnett (DP) Rob Fitzgerald (RF)

Other persons present

Tape Person Text
counter speaking

times

Introductions made. Mr Posnett informs Mr Yates that he wishes to ask him
questions in relation to audit concerns at Walton on Thames Post Office.

118 DP Right I'm just going to refer you now to a form CS001, which explains your legal
rights. Now because you are suspected of having committed a criminal offence
which may result in a criminal prosecution, I must inform you that you do not
have to say anything but it may harm your defence if you do not mention when
questioned something which you later rely on in court. Anything you do say
may be given in evidence. Do you understand.

DY Yes.
DP In order to check your understanding of that caution could you just explain it to
me.
DY Anything that I say can be used in court basically and if I don’t say anything it
could be used against me.
213 DP That's certainly an element of it. What I'll do is just break it down to make sure

you're absolutely satisfied with it. I'm an investigator employed by Post Office
LTD to investigate possible criminal offences. You are suspected of committing
acriminal offence. Do you understand that.

DY Yeah.

DP I wish to put questions to you about this criminal offence and record your
answers to those questions. Do you understand that.

DY Yeah, that's fine.

esos Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
DP Firstly, a person who is being interviewed for a suspected criminal offence does

not have to say anything. You do not have to answer my questions. Do you
understand that.

DY Yes I understand that.

DP Secondly, if you say nothing now but in court give an explanation which could
be given now, then the court may think that the explanation is untrue or you
have made it up. You understand that bit.

DY Yeah.
DP And thirdly anything you say during the interview is being recorded on tape and
can be read out in court.
DY Yeah that’s fine.
309 DP Right back to this form CS001, there’s 4 points at the top of the form. I'll go

through these with you. 1 you are not under arrest. 2 you do not have to
remain at this interview.

Mr Yates confirms he consents to be interviewed at Walton on Thames Post
Office.

DP 3 If you do remain you have the right to seek legal representation and advice,
including the right to speak with a solicitor either in person or on the telephone.
The solicitor will give you advice regarding legal aid and I can help you obtain a
solicitor. 4 you are entitled to read the Police & Criminal Evidence 1984 Act
codes of practice if you wish. I've got the booklet here and those codes
basically set out your legal rights and the rules governing the conduct of this

interview.
DY Okay, fine, yeah I understand.
DP Now there are a few questions underneath that, if I can just get you to answer

those in your own handwriting.

Mr Yates completes form CS001.

449 DP If you sign it, it's now 12.16. Right I'll just go through these questions you've
answered. Have you read 1 to 4 above, you've indicated yes. Do you
understand 1 to 4 above, you've indicated yes. With regards to speaking to a
solicitor you’ve signed to say you do not wish to speak to a solicitor at this time.
But in relation to the question ‘if you do not wish to speak to a solicitor at this
time you can change you mind at any time during the interview, do you

understand’, you've indicated yes.

cso15A Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494
POL00047494

Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)

Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
DY Yes.

Mr Posnett refers Mr Yates to form CS003 relating to the procedure of having a
friend present at the interview. Mr Yates indicates he does not wish to have a
friend present.

704 DP Okay, what I'll do first is go through a report that the audit manager, Paul
Bosson has written. I'll read it out on tape and it starts’ I attended Walton on
Thames Post Office on Friday 7 March 2003 to conduct an audit. The audit
commenced at approximately 0855. At the start of the audit I asked the
Subpostmaster, David Yates, to produce an office snapshot, which indicated an
office cash holding of £410,354.67. I asked David to produce the office cash
declaration completed at 16.40 the day previous, which showed at total of
£43,566.00. David told me he had sent a rem the previous day but had not
booked it out on the Horizon system. I asked him to show me the CIT (Cash In
Transit) collection receipt, but this indicated that the last collection was
Wednesday 5" March 2003. I asked David if he could produce the rem out
form P884 but he could not find it. At this point David admitted to me that he
had not sent a rem and that we would find a shortage in the account of around
£350,000.00. I confirm that this is a true account of the events and
conversation that took place between myself, Paul Bosson, and the
Subpostmaster, David Yates’.

DY Yeah.

DP And Paul Bosson’s signed it I believe.

DY And so have I.

DP And you've signed it. Do you agree with the content of that note.

DY Yeah, absolutely, yeah.

DP Right, so why is there going to be a shortage of £350,000.00.

DY Well I've been carrying it for ... I don’t know... years basically. I don’t know how
to explain really.

DP Well let's take it one step at a time. You've been carrying it for years, what
does that actually mean.

DY Carrying like a shortage for like ... I don’t know ... at least 3 years.

DP 3 years.

DY Yeah, maybe even more, I can’t remember exactly when I started getting into
trouble.

CSO15A Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
DP So how much was the shortage at that stage.
DY What 3 years ago. I don’t know it may have been 250, something like that
maybe.
DP £250.
DY No £250,000.00. It must have started miles before then. It started off that we

kept having shortages, we couldn’t afford to put them in ... or I kept having
shortages I should say. So I was just carrying it and carrying it and it just builds

up.

DP Just to recap, at least 3 years ago ...

DY Yeah, I mean, probably, maybe ... 5 years ago you know, it’s been a long time.

DP You said you'd suffered shortages, what’s the correct procedure for shortages.

DY Obviously to show it and correct it, put it in or take it out depending on whether
it's over or short.

DP Right so to correct a shortage you put it in, by that you mean you have to pay
for any shortages in your accounts.

DY Yeah.

DP Okay. You said you couldn't afford it.

DY No. I was just carrying it as a figure, basically carrying the cash as if it was
there. So inflating the cash figure I suppose so the shortage didn’t show.

DP You inflated the cash figure on your cash accounts at the end of each
accounting week.

DY Yeah.

1051 DP And this is over the last 3 to 5 years but you can't be specific. Okay. That's an

awful lot of money Dave.

DY Yeah ... I know ... I know it is ... a hell of a lot.

DP So are you saying that over the last 5 years £350,000.00 relates to shortages in
your accounts.

DY No it’s not shortages. I have taken ...so I don't know.

DP What do you mean you've taken.

DY Taken to pay staff or ... you know the business wasn't doing as well as it should
be.

DP So an element of this is shortages, some of it is taking the money to pay staff

DY To pay staff, to pay bills yeah.

CSO15A Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
DP And that all amounts to £350,000.00
DY I don’t know, I haven't carried a breakdown of it but yes some of it I would have

had, but nowhere near that amount. I mean some of it was ... a couple of times
they phoned up saying we’ve done rems wrong, that we’d sent them too much
to what we'd claimed, but I didn’t know and they wouldn't tell me how much, I
had to let it go and I just got deeper and deeper into the mire.

DP So you just mentioned a rem there, didn’t you get an error notice for things like
that.
DY No because I don’t know whether they weren't sure it was my bag, they just said

there’s a problem with this rem, can you tell me whether yours was right. Of
course I didn’t know.

1233 DP So this shortage, which has yet to be determined because the audit is still
carrying on, but we guesstimate it’s going to be in excess of £350,000.00. Asa
result of shortages, money you've taken for staff wages, and bills I think you
said. Error notices or other errors.

DY Yeah it would have been yeah, I mean basically everything.
DP Has the money been used for anything else.
DY No, not really, no. I mean I’ve taken some of it. I had to pay bills of my own.

You know I haven't bought expensive cars or anything like that with it, or
second houses.

Mr Yates restates he has taken some of the money in order to pay bills.

RF How did it all start.

DY I find it difficult to remember. It first started when we had some really large
error notices come back but I just couldn't explain, we had Savings Bank ones
that came back and they were like 5 and 6 thousand pounds. And I just couldn't
understand why they were wrong. I queried it but they said it was definitely right
and I could not afford to pay it and it just seemed to then slowly mount up.

RF If you have an error notice, forgive me if I'm wrong, by generating an error
notice for 6 or 7 thousand pounds, your office should actually be over.

DY Well this is it, it should have been over but it wasn't.

RF Right, and did you ever bring those error notices to the attention of anyone

other than Savings Bank.
DY No, no, I just queried it with them as to why it was wrong. I mean I can't
remember how long ago that was.

CSO15A Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
RF So have you got a record of how much this shortage is for error notices, how
much for staff wages.
DY I haven't no, I don’t keep any records like that.
1456 DP Do you declare surpluses and shortages each week.
DY Yeah usually.
DP You do. So how do you decide what to declare and what not to declare.
DY Well, I roughly knew the figure I was carrying so I would have put that in and
then you know declare whatever the actual ... is out that week.
DP Do you make good your losses ....
DY Yeah, usually, unless there’s anything major. But the last few years, 2 or 3

years it hasn’t been problems with that, it was before I seemed to be in trouble
with that. I don’t know why.

RF You say you roughly add to the figure, how much have you been adding.

DY I said to Paul the last time I think it was £350,000.00. I added to it on
Wednesday.

RF That would be the Wednesday just gone, Wednesday 5".

DY 5" March yeah.

RF So that was included in your cash figure, £350,000.00.

DY Yeah, (indecipherable)

1601 DP Right so in order to show a balance, you've inflated your cash by about

£350,000.00 and that’s been going on for ...

DY (indecipherable)

DP When you say weeks, months, years, has it gradually increased over the time.

DY Yeah it has, it’s got worse and worse. I just didn’t know what to do then, it
slowly got worse and worse, I didn’t know ...

DP Okay, so for example on Wednesday then, who does the office cash accounts.

DY Me.

1633 DP Does anybody else do them.

DY No.

DP How do you actually balance then, what is the physical process when you're
declaring the cash and getting the summaries. How do you determine ...

DY Because I've already declared the extra cash in that week it was only ...

whatever it was out, £50 or £100 wrong it would only be showing that amount.
DP So on Wednesdays, do you declare the actual physical cash that is within the

CSO15A Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times

Post Office ...

DY Yeah and the figure I was carrying..

DP So you don't declare the correct figure and re-declare it with the £350,000.00.

DY No, I had already put all the money in, yeah.

DP And how long have you been Subpostmaster here.

DY About 9 years or so.

DP And did these problems start immediately or was it after ...

DY Probably 3 or 4 years after.

DP 3 or 4 years after. And have you always done the accounts.

DY Yeah.

DP When was the last period of annual leave you had.

DY I don’t know because I only usually take a few days, because I knew I had to be
here to do the accounts, I don’t tend to go away, I only have long weekends.

DP So you've not had a week off or two weeks off in the last 9 years then.

DY No, well probably 5 years. Long weekends rather than a long holiday.

DP So you’ve worked solidly week in week out, with exception to the odd weekend
here or there in the last 5 years.

DY Yeah, I’ve worked.

RF Has anyone else produced an account in the last 5 years, bearing in mind we

can check the signatures.

DY No a couple of times I’ve done it with people, shown them when they wanted to
do it ... because Rod went to a different office ... Rod Chipping ... but this was
before the problems started, it was 4 or 5 years ago so I mean I would have
done it with him, sort of shown him how to do it, but he didn’t actually do the
account, I just went through the process with him.

DP Was anybody else aware of what you were doing.
DY No, Nobody at all.

DP. Nobody at all.

DY No, no family, friends, nobody.

Mr Fitzgerald enquires as to how long the loss has been running at
£350,000.00. Mr Yates claims it has been for the past 6 or 7 months and that it
was slowly going up until it reached this amount. He claims not to recall any big
jumps, the amount kept building up.

RF If you've been carrying £350,000.00 for the past 6 months, what has been

CSO15A Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
happening to the losses you've been showing.
DY Each week I just usually made them up or take them out.
RF So for the last 6 months you’ve been making the shortage and surpluses good.
DY Yeah, doing each weeks properly but of course I had this great wad that wasn’t
there all the time.
RF You see what I’m getting at is it can't have always been £350,000.
DY No it’s built up slowly over the whatever it is, 3 to 5 years. It started off with

these error notices and slowly mushroomed. It was having to pay you know
VAT, tax people and just it all suddenly snowballed, we weren't making enough
money to cover it, just got myself into a big mess.

2124 DP This money, is it yours, the £350,000.00, whose money is that.
DY It belongs to the Post Office.
DP So you acknowledge that it wasn’t yours.
DY Of course, yeah.
DP So what are your thoughts as to what you have done.
DY Well, I feel terrible.
DP The reason being.
DY {t's wrong.
DP It's wrong. Would it be a dishonest thing to do.
DY Oh, absolutely, yeah.
DP Okay, and why have you done it.
DY I wish I knew really ... I don’t know ... trying to get by, trying to live. I don’t

know, trying to keep the Post Office going, trying to keep the business going,
there’s been lots of things, I don’t know.

DP So the ultimate gain by keeping the office going, how would that affect you.

DY It keeps me employed.

DP. Keeps you employed. So you get to gain your employment, retain your
employment.

DY Yes.

DP Mr Posnett recaps that cash figures have been inflated each week for 3 to 5

years. He asks what documents are produced from the Horizon system and Mr
Yates confirms that cash accounts are produced, with a copy being retained at
the office and another copy being sent to Chesterfield.

DP And the figures on those cash accounts, namely the cash on hand figures in

cSOIsA Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
table 5 ...
DY Wasn't right, no.
2327 DP They haven't been right for a number of years, so they are false figures, in
effect they are false accounts.
DY Yeah I know that yeah.

Mr Fitzgerald enquires as to when the office transferred from the previous
computerised accounting system (Capture) to Horizon. On examination of cash
accounts on hand it appears that the office migrated in 2000. Mr Fitzgerald
enquires how the migration occurred. Mr Yates confirmed that he would have
performed a balance and the ‘Horizon Field Support Officer’ would have taken
these figures to migrate onto the Horizon system. Mr Fitzgerald refers to the
cash account for week 44, ending 26/01/00, whereby the cash on hand is
declared as £109,811.02 and the cash account for week 43, whereby the cash
on hand is declared as £201,000.00. Mr Yates cannot explain why the amount
has dropped within the space of a week, claiming he cannot remember, but that
the £201 ,000.00 would in all probability be correct.

2752 DP Right we are going to plough through these cash accounts, are we going to see
an occasion where cash varies by a significant amount or is it going to be a
gradual process as you've described.

DY It should be gradual.

DP Should be or will it be.

DY As far as I can remember it will be.

RF Have you ever taken a lump sum out to pay this or that.

DY Yeah I mean I suppose I've taken sort of the odd 1 or 2 thousand to pay the
staff wages and things.

RF Do you do that on a weekly or monthly basis.

DY I don’t know, every 2 months maybe, every month maybe sometimes,

depending on how bad I'd got into a position, we weren't making enough to
meet our costs.

RF What's your salary.

DY Post Office salary about 70 I think.
RF And have you got a shop as well.
DY Yeah

RF How much do you get off that.

cso1sa Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
DY About 40 roughly now, obviously it wasn’t as much as that then because it’s
slowly built up. The shop originally was about 20, it’s slowly gone up.
2922 DP So why haven't you mentioned these problems to anyone.
DY I wish I knew, wish I had. I just knew I was in a deep hole and didn’t know

where to turn to really. I knew I should go and see somebody but just didn't
know what to do.

DP Now you had an audit I believe at the office in November 2002. What
happened on that audit.

DY I probably told them there was a rem to go out or going out which would have
made up the shortfall.

DP Now is that not pretty much the story you told Paul Bosson this morning.

DY Yeah.

DP So what's the difference, why wasn't it picked up at the last audit.

DY I don't know.

DP But you agree you were inflating the cash at that audit.

DY Yeah it should have been picked up.

DP And the audit prior to that.

DY Again it would have been, though I don’t know when that was.

Mr Posnett recaps on the report written by Paul Bosson and Mr Yates confirms
the content of the report. He indicates that it wasn't a case of he couldn't find
the P884 forms, it was the case that he didn’t have them to find.

3107 DP Now you’ve been Subpostmaster for 9 years and I happen to know you worked
at this office before it was converted from a Branch Office. How long in total
have you been working here.

DY 22 years or so, no, longer than that, 24 years I suppose, 1979 I started.

DP So fairly experienced.

DY Oh yeah.

DP And what about training issues, would you say you are fully conversant with all
areas of a Post Office.

DY Should be yeah. Yeah I would say so.

RF You said you had dug a hole, you were in a hole, where did you see that hole
finishing.

DY { didn’t, I didn’t know what I was going to do.

RF What was the ultimate end to this then.

CSO15A Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
DY I don’t know.
RF Obviously the ultimate end now is the audit team arriving today ...
DY Absolutely yeah, I thought that would happen eventually.
RF From your point of view, you've already said this money belonged to the Post
Office. Were you ever in any position to pay any of the money back.
DY I could never see how I could ever pay it. I mean obviously some maybe, but
never be able to pay it all back.
RF Did you ever make any attempt to try and pay the money back.
DY Yes but ... not ... no, not really, not a major amount no. I just didn't know what

I was going to do, I really didn't know what I was going to do..

Mr Yates explains there are 4 staff in the Post Office with a salary bill of about
£52,000.00 plus the shop people. He reiterates that the money has been used
to carry on living, that the matter wasn’t referred to the area manager and that
no staff were aware. Mr Yates cannot recall when he had previous audits,
though he believed there was a period of 3 years without an audit.

3424 RF So if you hadn't had an audit today and we didn’t have an audit say for another 3
years, what do you reckon the figure would have been at that stage.
DY 1 don’t know, I really don’t know.
RF So you were never ever going to bring it to anyone's attention, you'd have just
carried on.
DY 1 don't know, no, as far as I know I probably wouldn't have done. I would have

probably hoped some miracle would have happened that I would have been able
in some way to pay it back somewhere along the line.

DP So you're not in a position to pay it back and based on what you've said, you had
no intention to pay it back, subject to a miracle.

DY No, yeah, I would have liked to have paid it back because I knew it was wrong but
.... My ability to pay it back, you know, I probably couldn't.

DP Okay in week 36, ending 4" December 2002, there were £23,478.95 of Green
Giros that were transacted at this office but didn’t arrive in the pouch to Girobank.

DY Well, I don’t know.

DP You don’t know anything about that.

DY No, definitely. I mean I definitely send those every week.

DP Could they be in the office somewhere.

DY Not unless someone has put them somewhere strange. I don’t know. No,

CSO15A Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494
POL00047494

Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)

Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times

because I usually put them in the pouches every week. And they haven't turned

up at all.
DP They haven't turned up, no.
DY I don't know, sorry.
3617 DP Okay, after this interview, what we'd like to do is conduct a search of the Post

Office, basically looking for those Green Giros and any other any documentation
that may be implicated in the main reason that we are here today.

DY Yeah of course, yeah.

DP. Obviously we need your consent for a search.

DY Yeah of course that’s fine.

DP Now additionally we are also considering attending your home address and
conducting a search there, again in order for us to do that we need your consent.

DY Yeah, okay, yeah ...

DP Well that's recorded on tape, there's a number of forms we'll need to complete

later for that purpose. Also, would you be willing to provide details of your bank
accounts to us.

DY Yeah, I should think so, yeah.

DP Okay, and again there’s forms for that we'll complete a bit later.

RF With regards to both those issues, are we going to find anything on those
searches that are detrimental to you, that you haven't told us.

DY No, not as far as I know, no. No, I mean there shouldn't be.

Mr Yates refers back to the Green Giros, claiming he can’t understand as he

sends them every week.

DP With regards to your current financial position ... what is it.

DY Okay, though I wouldn't say I’m well off or anything like that. I manage it each
month just about and today’s pretty much the same, the bank account.

RF Have you got an account with a lot of savings.

DY No I've got a Woolwich account with about £2,000.00 of savings.

3813 DP Right we are going to stop the interview in a moment, is there anything you want

to add or clarify before we stop the tape.

DY I don't think so.

DP What we'll do is flick through some of the cash accounts, we are not obviously

going to go through the last 5 years.
Mr Posnett refers to the account for week 49, ending 5" March 2003.

CS01SA Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times

DP It's got a signature or a little scribble ... that's your signature.

DY Yeah.

DP Okay, so have you completed that account in its entirety.

DY Yeah.

DP No-one else helped you.

DY No

DP And table 5 is recorded as £418,332.17. Is that figure correct, ie was that amount
of cash on hand.

DY No.

Mr Posnett shows Mr Yates a number of random accounts.

DP And all these signatures on these accounts are all yours.

DY Yeah.

DP And there’s one here that hasn't been signed at all, would you have completed
that.

DY Sorry, yeah I would have done.

DP And again, week 39 hasn't been signed.

DY That would be me.

Mr Posnett shows Mr Yates the account for week 10, ending 5" June 2002.

DP The signature looks different to the others.

DY Yeah, it’s not my signature, no.

DP Whose signature is it.

DY Lindsey's.

DP Lindsey ...

DY Smale.

DP And why is her signature on that one.

DY I expect I was showing her because she wanted to know how to do it, how to do
the cash account, so I was going through with her how to do it and she probably
just signed it because it was there to be signed. I mean she didn’t actually do the
account, I did it. I was just going through the process with her how to do it.

DP So she didn't complete that account.

DY No, no.

RF Would she have been aware ... I mean we've got a cash figure for that week of
£376,684.67.

DY No she wouldn't have known. She wouldn't have known, she wouldn't have

CSO15A Version 3.0 11/02
POL00047494

POL00047494
Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)
Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
looked.
RF So where did you used to keep these cash accounts.
DY Just in the file.
RF None of the other staff used to look at them at all.
DY Not as far as I know, no.
DP There’s another cash account here for week 9, ending 29" May 2002. Whose
signature is that.
DY Probably mine, but it doesn’t look very good. Well it was around then I was

showing her, so it might ... it’s not her signature so I don’t know, it’s probably
mine, it's not a very good signature is it. Yeah it was around then I was showing

her.

RF When you used to get these error notices then, didn't you ever bring them to the
attention of your staff.

DY Yeah sometimes I suppose.

DP Didn't you challenge the error notices in any way.

DY Sometimes, if I didn’t think they were right, but at the end of the day if they keep
coming back and saying they are right, what else could I do apart from put them
through.

RF This cash account here, week 8, week ending 22" May 2002, is that your
signature.

DY Yeah.

RF We've got a cash figure on hand of £362,879.22. Would that have been a true
and accurate figure of cash on hand.

DY No.

RF So that would have been a false account then.

DY Yeah.

RF And that would be the same if we go through the whole of this file.

DY Yeah, if you go through the whole lot it would be the same answer all the way
through.

DP Right, just to confirm that the file starts at ... this file goes back to 1999, but there

seem to be some missing, they don’t seem to be in any great particular order.
But it’s pretty much the last 5 years yeah.

DY Yeah.

4301 DP Anything else you want to say Dave.

CSO15A Version 3,0 11/02
POL00047494
POL00047494

Record of Tape Recorded Interview (continued)

Tape Person Text
counter speaking
times
DY No I don't think so.
4400 Mr Yates signs the tape seal 046861. Interview concluded at 12.54, Mr Posnett

CSO15A

hands Mr Yates a form CS019 which explains what will happen to the tapes.

Version 3.0 11/02
