POL00104765

POL00104765

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page I

INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES

1. PURPOSE

The aim of this policy is to give investigators a quick reference to interview recording procedures.

2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES

Security Managers

3. POLICY

31 TAPE RECORDED INTERVIEWS

Plan the interview thoroughly.

Get full names and ranks of all persons attending interview. Have a copy of CS001 available.
Give all exhibits identification numbers.

Put a ‘DO NOT ENTER’ notice on the door and disconnect the telephone.

Have sufficient new tapes and seals (CS022) available.

Have a notice to person form (CS019) available.

Have a copy of the PACE 1984 codes of practice available.

3.2 USE 24 HOUR CLOCK - USE FULL NAMES OF PERSONS PRESENT PRELIMINARIES

Unseal two tapes in the presence of the interviewee
Put the tapes in the machine

Write the starting time on Master Tape seal

Press the start/record button and wait for buzzer to end

State: "This interview is being tape recorded. My name is .... My colleague is .... We are Officers
OP ME vrsscreresssers employed to investigate possible criminal offences. Also present is ....(name
of interviewee and any other person present). The date is .... the time is .... This interview is being
conducted in the .... Office at the .... I want to ask you some questions about .... At the end of the
interview I will give you a notice explaining what will happen to the tapes. Have you any objection

to the interview being tape recorded?"

Itis important to ensure that the suspect is aware that his/her rights are covered by PACE and the
Codes of Practice issued thereunder. He/she should be under no misapprehension that he/she is
facing a criminal investigation because the Officers believe he/she has committed a criminal
offence.

3.3 PROCEDURE IF INTERVIEWEE OBJECTS TO INTERVIEW BEING TAPE RECORDED

Policy Title
Version
Date

If interviewee objects or does not answer question

State: "Twill be free to make a note of the interview anyway but the recording will provide a clear

and undisputed account of what takes place. If objections continue

State: "My instructions require that your objections should be recorded on tape."

After the interviewee has stated his objection or made no reph

State: "Jam going to stop the tape because .... (reason for objection) .... The time is...."

Stop the machine and seal tape. The interview should then continue in writing

Interview Recording
3.0
February 2002

POL00104765

POL00104765

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 2
INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES
3.4 IF THERE ARE NO OBJECTIONS CARRY ON AS BELOW

© State: "Will you please state your full name?"

For voice identification purposes all other persons present at the interview including the support
officer should also be asked to state their name in full

© State: Caution: "You do not have to say anything, but it may harm your defence if you do not
mention when questioned something which you later rely on in court. Anything you do say may
be given in evidence.”

© State: "Do you understand that?"

© State: “Will you explain your understanding of the caution to me”

Should the interviewee cither state they do not understand the caution or cannot demonstrate that

they do whilst explaining it, it is essential that you provide himv/her with a full explanation of its

meaning (an example of which is detailed below), testing understanding as you explain it. Should

the interviewee still not understand the caution then legal advice must be recommended.

"Firstly, you must understand that you do not have to s:
is entirely your choice and no negative inferences can be

rawn at a later date.

If however, you do choose to say nothing now when you're asked questions, and then come up

with explanations at a later date that you could have reasonably been expected to give now,
then inferences may be drawn.

Finally, you must understand that if you do choose to answer questions now those answers
may be given in evidence.

Does this explain things better?"

Show form CS001 to interviewee
© In addition, the suspect’s right to consult a Solicitor must be explained in full on tape.
© The use of the CS001 is not just a formality that just has to be got out of the way. It is the

written record showing that the suspect’s rights have been fully explained. The form is also
used to record the interviewee’s decisions.

* State: "Jam now showing you form side A which explains your legal rights. Will you please read

this form.

When interviewee has read form

© State: "Will you please answer the questions as indicated, then sign, time and date the form

When the interviewee has completed this

Policy Title Interview Recording
Version 3.0
Date February 2002

thing if you choose not to. That

POL00104765

POL00104765

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 3

INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES

3.5

3.6

© State: "M.... has now read and signed side A of the form

Allocate an item identification number to form

PROCEDURE IF SOLICITOR IS REQUESTED AT INTERVIEW

After interviewee has made the appropriate entry on the CS001.

State: "Jam going to stop the tape while you arrange for your Solicitor to attend.
The time is NOW...

Stop the machine. Do not remove tapes

¢ Investigators should offer to assist in obtaining a Solicitor, if the suspect does not have one. If
necessary, the officer should telephone the local Police Station to ascertain whether the Duty
Solicitor will attend or, failing this obtain the local Yellow Pages and telephone any Solicitor the
suspect may name.

When Solicitor arrives start machine

© State: "The time is.... M .... has entered the room. Lam... this is....We are Officers of
employed to investigate possible criminal offences. I am about to interview ...

about .... He/she has asked for you to attend as his/her legal representative. Will you please state
your full name.."

After Solicitor has replied

e State: "Do you agree that I have not put any questions to you relating to (nature of inquiries)

whilst waiting for your Sliettor t0 arrive

After the interviewee has replied he should be re-cautioned or reminded that he has previously been
cautioned. Continue interview as above.

IF A SOLICITOR IS NOT REQUIRED CARRY ON AS BELOW
¢ The suspect’s reasons for not wanting a solicitor must be recorded.

e Ifa suspect says he is unsure or does not say with certainty that he does not require a solicitor (for
example suspect says he does not think he needs a solicitor) then he should be invited to telephone a
solicitor immediately who can help explain his rights. If he declines his reasons should be recorded.

© Ifthe suspect, during the course of the interview, indicates in any way that he may need help, or is
considering using a solicitor or specifically asks for a solicitor then no further questions must be
asked, the interview must be stopped and arrangements made to obtain the services of a solicitor.

© Where the suspect changes his mind about legal advice the Officer must state on tape or make an
entry in his notebook to be signed by the suspect that the Officer has spoken to his superior officer
(to be named) and the position has been explained to the Superior Officer. In addition the Superior
Officer has authorised the continuation of the interview.

State: "During this interview you can have a friend present if you wish. Any friend you nominate must

Policy Title Interview Recording

Version.
Date

3.0
February 2002
POL00104765

POL00104765

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 4

INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES

be at least 18 years of age and not involved in the inquiry. Your friend must be a Consignia employee,

who may be the local union representative, or an official of the recognised union for your grade. This

right is in addition to your right to speak to a solicitor. Do you understand? Do you require a friend."

3.7

3.8

39

PROCEDURE IF FRIEND IS REQUESTED AT INTERVIEW

* State: "Who would you like to act as your friend at this interview?”

After the reply

Show interviewee form CS001Side B

© State: "Please complete the top half form Side B, Item No.... (refer to Item No.allocated earlier)."

e State: "Jam going to stop the tape while we arrange for....to attend. The time is now,

Stop machine. Do not remove the tapes

When the friend arrives start machine

"The time is.....M....has entered the room. L.am....This is....We are Officers of
. employed to investigate possible criminal offences. Lam about to interview ....

. He/she has called for you to attend as a friend. Your role would be to witness the
interview proceedings. You may take notes if you wish but they must be treated confidentially. You
may supply a copy of these notes to the interviewee and to his union if he so wishes. No other

communication about the interview is allowed without the permission of Consignia. Are you now
prepared to act as a friend under these conditions?"

If the Friend agrees to the conditions
© State: "Will you please state your full name, rank and office."
After reply show friend form SIDE B
© State: "Would you now complete form, side B, Item identification number....which I now produce

to you.”

e State: "Do you agree that we have not discussed ....(nature of inquiries) whilst waiting for your
friend to arrive.”

After the interviewee has replied he should again be cautioned or reminded that he has
previously been cautioned. Continue interview as above.

IF A FRIEND IS NOT REQUIRED CARRY ON AS BELOW

Show interviewee form Side B referring to the item identification number already allocated and ask

them to complete the top half

© State: "M.... has now read and signed side B of the form.
QUESTIONING

Commence questioning interviewee. The following should be noted:

Policy Title Interview Recording

Version.
Date

3.0
February 2002

POL00104765

POL00104765

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 5

INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES

3.10

3.11

3.12

3.13

© Ensure that everyone present speaks clearly and that the suspect clarifies any nods, shrugs or

gestures, i.e. “You have just nodded. Would you please answer the question verbally”

¢ All items shown to the interviewee should be described concisely and given item numbers

¢ Be careful not to say anything that could be interpreted as oppression or construed as inducement

VISITORS TO INTERVIEW ROOM

Ensure it is clear that an interview is being conducted in the interview room so that other people do not
enter the room unnecessarily. Do not lock the interview room. If someone does enter room

« State: "You have just entered the interview room. The time is.... This interview is being tape
recorded. Please state your full name and why you have come in.”

Unless it then becomes necessary to suspend the interview and the interviewee leaves the room, the
interview can carry on without the tapes being changed

BREAKS IN INTERVIEW

If interviewee leaves the interview room for any reason

© State: "We are taking a break during this interview because ....(quote reasons). Please sign this

seal before I stop the machine, the time is ....

Stop machine, remove tapes, seal master tape with CS022 and label working tape. Everyone else
present should also be asked to sign the master tape seal

WHEN INTERVIEW IS BEING STOPPED IN ORDER THAT SEARCHES CAN BE MADE.

© State: “Do you have any objection to a search being made of your person, locker, car and home in
order that I may satisfy myself you are not in unauthorised possession of Consignia property

Remind Interviewee of entitlement to the presence of a friend during search:

e When interview resumes unseal and place new tapes in the machine and start machine in normal
way

e State: "Jam resuming the interview, the time is..."

e Itis mandatory at this stage for everyone present to reintroduce themselves and for the date, time
and location of the interview to be announced. The interviewee should be reminded that he is still
under caution, (or be re-cautioned) and reminded of his legal rights and the availability of a friend.
Produce CS001, quote item number and ask interviewee to sign, date and time in appropriate place
on CS001A. The reasons why there was a break in the interview should be stated. If searches have.
been carried out a completed form CS005 must be produced and given an item identification
number

WHEN TAPE HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND NEW TAPES REQUIRED

When buzzer sounds towards the end of the tape

Policy Title Interview Recording

Version.
Date

3.0
February 2002

Investigation Policy (App 1a)

POL00104765

POL00104765

Page 6

INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES

© State: "This tape is due to end, please sign this seal before I stop the machine, the time is..

Stop the machine, remove tapes and label as above

Unseal new tapes in the presence of the interviewee place in the machine and start in the

© State: "Jam continuing this interview, the time is...."

It is advisable to remind the interviewee of the caution, legal rights and the availability of a
friend. Produce, quote item identification number and ask interviewee to sign, date and time
in appropriate place.

Each person present should reintroduce themselves to assist in voice identification

3.14. I TO END THE INTERVIEW,
When the questioning is complete
State: "I have to inform you that you may have rendered yourself liable to prosecution.
You do not have to say anything, but it may harm your defence if you do not mention now
something which you later rely on in court. Anything you do say may be given in evidence. Do you
wish to clarify anything you have said or add anything else before the end of the interview."If as a
result of the interview it is not appropriate to mention the first sentence about prosecution the
Interviewee should still be asked if he wishes to add or clarify anything that has been said
When the interviewee has answered that question hand him form CS019
State: "Here is a leaflet that explains what will happen to the tapes. Iam about to stop the tape
machine. One of the tapes will be sealed. Will you please sign the seal before I stop the machine."
Stop the machine and seal the tapes as described above, with everyone present being asked to sign the
master tape seal.
4. Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version __ Type Policy No.
5. Document details
5.1 Author : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation
5.2 Owner : Head of Corporate Security, 4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge
Road, Croydon CR9 1PJ
5.3 I Audience: Security Community
5.4 Enquiry point : Paul A Booth, Corporate Security, 4 Floor, Impact House,
2 Edridge Road, Croydon CR9 1PJ
5.5 Effective from : March 2002
5.6 Review date : March 2003
5.7 Last updated : February 2002
6. Assurance Details
61 I Name Policy Assurance Team
6.2 Business Unit Various
6.3 Assurance Date February 2002
7. Final Review
7.1 I Approved by

Policy Title

Version.
Date

Interview Recording
3.0
February 2002

POL00104765
POL00104765

Investigation Policy (App 1a) Page 7
INTERVIEW RECORDING
ENGLAND & WALES
72 Documented (Hard Copy) YES/NO Location:
73 “ (Electronic) YES/NO Location:
Policy Title Interview Recording
Version 3.0
Date February 2002
