POLO0098862
POL00098862

Message
From: Stephen Diller
on behalf of — Stephen Dilley’.
Sent: 23/01/2007
To: Pinder Brian{ ; Sewell Peter \(FELO1\) [IMCEAEX-
CH OUP1_CN=RECIPIEN
Chambers Anne O
andy Talbot
Martyn Mitchell
cc:
Subject: Judgment: Post Office -v- Lee Castleton

Attachments: eCopy scanned document.pdf

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Iam very pleased to confirm that the P.O has obtained judgment in the full amount of its claim against Mr
Castleton i.e. £25,858.95. (A copy of the judgment is attached for information). The key points arising
from the judgment are as follows:

1. The Court decided that the burden of proof lies on the sub-postmaster to show that the account was
wrong, because he produced the Cash accounts upon which the claim was based.

2. The Judge considered in detail all the assertions Mr Castleton made about Horizon. He found no flaw
with the system.

3. The Judge found that the Post Office's witnesses were reliable.

4. The Judge stated that he was satisfied that the substantial unexplained deficiencies which occurred in
weeks 42 to 51 and in week 52 and to the close of business on 22 March 2004 "are real deficiencies and

as such are irrefutable evidence that Marine Drive was not properly managed at the material time... the

losses must have been caused by his own error or that of his assistants."

5. The Judge dismissed Mr Castleton's counter claim.

6. Mr Castleton has been ordered to pay the P.O's costs (to be assessed mostly on the indemnity basis, if
not agreed).

Many thanks to all the witnesses (both those who had to attend the trial and those who didn't) and to
everyone else who has assisted by providing information for this case.

Kind regards.
Stephen Dilley

Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

POL-0098445
POLO0098862
POL00098862

www.bondpearce.com

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP
accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number OC311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce
LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

POL-0098445
