POL00069464
POL00069464

Page 1 of 2

Stephen Dilley

From: Stephen Dilley

Sent: 16 October 2006 15:01

To: "Dunks Andy’

Subject: RE: Witness Statement of Andrew Dunks: P.O -v- Castleton

Thanks Andy, If you could sign and date the clean copy and send it to me today, that would be
great.

Stephen

Sent: 16 October
To: Stephen Dilley
Subject: RE: Witness Statement of Andrew Dunks: P.O -v- Castleton

Just got your message,
Sorry for the delay I have attached the statement with the amendments that you put in the statement you sent
me. If this is ok I will sign it and post it today...

Andy Dunks
CS Security
FUJITSU

‘oad, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN

Mob: 7 H
Fax: 4

E-mail: Andy.Dut
Web: http://uk.fulitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Stephen Dilley
Sent: 04 October 20
To: Dunks Andy
Cc: Pinder Brian:.
andy.r.pearsoni _
Subject: RE: Witness Statement of Andrew Dunks: P.O -v- Castleton

fom. Beezer: Richard Morgan; mandy.talbot
GRO

Dear Andy,

I refer to my email of 27 September and to our telephone conversation this afternoon.

T attach and amended copy of your statement and marked up version showing the changes for
ease of reference. Please read it very carefully, make any changes and once you are happy

with it, sign and date it and return it to me, retaining a copy for yourself.

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible. It would be great to have this back
before next week.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

16/10/2006
POL00069464
POL00069464

Page 2 of 2

From: Stephen Dilley
Sent: 27 September 2006 0:

hard Morgan’; 'mandy.talbot¢
Subject: Witness Statement of Andrew Dunks: P.O -v- Castleton

Dear Andy,

Thank you for your e-mail of 6 September.

I attach what should hopefully be the final copy of your Witness Statement for approval and the
exhibit. Please read the Witness Statement very carefully and if you have any further changes,
please feel completely free to make them. Once you are totally happy with the Witness
Statement, please print it out, sign and date it and return it to me, retaining a copy for
yourself.

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged
and protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any
attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and
delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this
communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond
Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
00311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to
Bond Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law
Society.

16/10/2006
