IN CONFIDENCE

Paper Numbers: Investigation
3415

Jan Mullin
Retail Line Manager

An enquiry was raised on Huyton DMB after a mainstream check at Lisahally
revealed suspected pension and allowance over claims. The check revealed
discrepancies to the value of £1055.24.

To progress the enquiry 2 pouches for weeks 8 and 9 were checked locally and these
revealed discrepancies to the value of £100 in week 9. Whilst the horizon print out
showed the discrepancies where in different stocks, the common factor was that the
date stamp used all had the indicator B. Further enquiries showed that this date
stamped was allocated to a Lisa Brennan. The branch manager (Kate Rosenthal)
provided details of the stocks used by B date stamp and sick and annual leave taken
by Ms Brennan. The branch manager also found, on Friday 31 May 2002, a group 7
voucher inflated by £200 claimed in week 10, unfortunately this pouch was sent on
its normal course to Lisahally.

It was arranged to visit this office on Thursday 13 June 2002 and speak to Lisa
Brennan and have her stock checked.

The check of the cash and stock revealed no discrepancies, however when the
pensions and allowances were checked, a group 5 voucher with the value of £26.30
had been inflated by £200. No further errors were found in the remaining
transaction summaries. The stock was checked in the presence of Ms Brennan and
Ms Maureen Lynch.

Ms Brennan was then interviewed by myself and Tony Gardner. Ms Brennan
requested that her union representative Mr Steve Owens be present. The interview
concluded that Ms Brennan had been employed by the Post Office for 13 years and
had been a permanent member of staff at Huyton DMB for 7 years. Ms Brennan
demonstrated that she was a competent and knowledgeable clerk and performed
the full range of counter duties. Ms Brennan worked 30 hours per week over a 4 day
period. The occasional Saturday was worked and on Friday 31 May 2002 she
worked to repay back 7 hours due to the office being closed on one of her attendance
days. Ms Brennan was showed various horizon print outs, transactions logs and
205a’s from Lisahally appertaining to these discrepancies (copies are attached). She
was asked for an explanation to these discrepancies that bore her date stamp. Ms
Brennan could offer no reasonable explanation to how the discrepancies had
occurred. She stated that she worked at a faster pace and had made mistakes, but
had not taken the money. It was put to Ms Brennan that mistakes did not appear in
any of her other work. It was also said to her that, due to working at a faster pace, if
the error was by depressing the key twice, then the error would always be the first
number of any voucher to be paid. A number of examples were read out to her,
including 1 x group 13 voucher with a value of £35.05 and claimed as £135.05. Ms
Brennan could not explain why the first number was a 1 and not a 3. Ms Brennan
could not remember the last time that she was on annual leave. I t was in fact during

IN CONFIDENCE

POL00047324
POL00047324
IN CONFIDENCE

cash account weeks 7 and 8. No errors appeared during c/a week 8.

In conclusion, Ms Brennan made no admissions to taking any money. Ms Brennan
could offer no explanations to how these discrepancies had occurred and that they
were mistakes. She did admit that they are bore her date stamp (indicator B) . She
also said that no other clerk knew her password and therefore they could not access
her system.

Ms Brennan was suspended by yourself and left the premises in the company of her
union representative Mr Steve Owens.

A copy of the full report and tape transcript can be produced if required by yourself.

S Bradshaw

June 2002

=I 1% Floor Lyceum Building 1 Bold Street Liverpool L1 4HQetail Network Office

IN CONFIDENCE

POL00047324
POL00047324
