POL00268061

POL00268061
From: Martin Edwards[}
Sent: Fri 15/03/2019
To: Charles Brown[é_ 3}
Subject: Fwd: STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE: GLO BRIEFING
MATERIALS
Attachment: CORE BRIEF FINAL.docx
Attachment: FINAL MEDIA STATEMENT_1403_1915.docx

Hi Charles - here are the briefing materials we discussed. Obviously please don’t share with anyone until we’ve
got the green light.

Let’s grab a word later this morning to agree our approach - perhaps after the Sterling call?

Thanks

Martin

Martin Edwards
~Managine_Nirector, Identity Services

GRO I

From: Mark R Davies
Sent: Thursday, March 14, 2019 20:39
To: Alisdair Cameron; Alistair Roman; Amanda Jones; Amber Kelly; Andrew Goddard; Andrew Kingham; Angela Van-Den-
Bogerd; Barbara Brannon; Ben Cooke; Ben Foat; Catherine Hamilton; Cathy Mayor; Chrysanthy Pispinis; Colin Stuart;
Debbie.K Smith; Elizabeth Robson; Emma Springham; Henk Van Hulle; Jane Hill; Jane MacLeod; Jeff Smyth; Jenny
Ellwood; Julie Thomas; Lee Kelly; Lisa Cherry; Mark R Davies; Mark Siviter; Mark Underwood1; Martin Edwards; Martin
Kearsley; Martin Z Rouse; Martine Munby; Meredith Sharples; Michael Austin; Michael Passmore; Mohinder Kang; Owen
Woodley; Pamela J Heap; Patrick Bourke; Paula Vennells; Rob Clarkson; Rob Houghton; Russell Hancock; Somita Yogi;
Thomas P Moran; Tim White; Tracy Marshall; Roger W Gale

Subject: STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE: GLO BRIEFING MATERIALS

Dear all

As you know that the judgment in the first GLO trial will be made public on Friday at noon. This note
gives you details of the materials in the attachments and some important guidance and information.
Many of you will be briefing stakeholders, clients and others. Please read this email before you do so.

It is crucial that you do not discuss any of the attached with anyone before you receive a further email
from me tomorrow. You can inform people of the timing of the judgment but not the content. I will let
you know, after midday, when you have the go ahead to use the materials. This is to provide time for

our legal team to check the judgment against the draft received earlier.

Iam attaching for you a Core Brief on the judgment. This includes a speaking note for briefing
stakeholders and clients. You can also use this note for briefing your teams once the judgment has
been made public, though there will be internal communications activity throughout the afternoon
(see below) which will provide you with further content.

The brief also includes background to the GLO and Q&As. I will be around in the morning with
colleagues from the comms team to answer any questions or clarify any points. Don’t hesitate to get
in touch (by this email preferably).

I also attach our media statement, also not for use until I let you know. Once released, this will
provide stakeholders and clients with a useful summary of our overall position.
POL00268061
POL00268061

Our communications plan for tomorrow includes:

- Acall for the L300: an invitation will be issued early on Friday
- One emails for colleagues and postmasters
- Briefing for key teams, stakeholders and clients

Support is being provided to those Post Office colleagues who gave evidence in the trial.

I wanted to also flag that given the likely media interest in the judgment it is possible that because of
your role with Post Office Ltd you may receive attention from the media as a result. It is possible that
you might be called by media or ‘doorstepped’ at the office or elsewhere, potentially during non-
working hours.

The most likely scenario is that media may be at Post Office buildings, most likely Finsbury Dials. This
may include TV cameras or radio interviewers. Please flag the possibility of this, and the advice below
to your colleagues.

My advice should this happen is to politely say that the Post Office takes the judgment and its
criticisms very seriously and is taking urgent action as a result. Please refer journalists to our
statement. The key is to be polite but firm in saying no more.

You could provide the email address and phone number for the press office:

24 hours)
If you are approached please let me and the press office team know as soon as possible.

If you would like to discuss aoy..of this_at_all with me I am more than happy to do so: please don’t
hesitate to email me or calli GRO}

Thank you.

Mark
