POL00101978

POL00101978
PS 15/01-15/ POST OFFICE LTD
SPARROW SUB-COMMITTEE
Minutes of a meeting of the Project Sparrow Sub-Committee of the Board
held at 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ on 12 January 2014
Present: Alice Perkins (AP) Chair
Alasdair Marnoch (AM) Non-Executive Director
Richard Callard (RC) Non-Executive Director
Paula Vennells (PV) CEO
Chris Aujard (CA) General Counsel
In Attendance: Alwen Lyons (AL) Company Secretary
Belinda Crowe (BC) Programme Director, Project Sparrow
Mark Davies (MD) Communications Director
Rodric Williams (RW) Litigation Lawyer
Patrick Bourke (PB) Project Sparrow
PS 15/01 OPENING OF MEETING

A quorum being present, the Chair opened the meeting of the
Sparrow Sub-Committee (‘the Committee”) and welcomed Mark
Davies, Belinda Crowe, Rodric Williams and Patrick Bourke.

PS 15/02 INITIAL COMPLAINT REVIEW AND MEDIATION SCHEME

(a) The Committee received a paper on the current position of the Initial
Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme (the “Scheme”).

(b) The Committee discussed the immediate steps being taken by the
Business in relation to the Scheme, with Post Office investigations into all
cases now complete and 22 cases resolved.

(c) MD explained that after the recent Westminster Hall debate the Business
proposed to offer face to face meeting with each MP involved and, where
appropriate, taking them through their constituent’s case. The Committee
supported this approach and recommended that consideration be given
to making a similar offer be made to all MPs who have a case in the
scheme.

@)

CA reported that changes to business processes meant a reduction in
litigation cases. Post Office was not currently bringing prosecutions, but
in blatant cases of theft where large amounts had been stolen the police
continued to prosecute the cases. The Committee were assured that
cases were being prosecuted where appropriate.

(e)

The Committee discussed the Judicial Review (JR) advice provided by
Tom Weisselberg QC, and asked for a comparison with the Beachcroft
advice received in the summer. CA explained that the fact that Post
Office has now completed over 100 case reviews since the summer, and
the Working Group is clearly considering each individual case on a case
by case basis, this is a matter of private law — that is a dispute between
POL00101978
POL00101978

(f) Post Office and an individual applicant - thus reducing the likelihood of a
successful JR.
The Committee discussed Second Sight and their ‘Part Two’ due to be
finalised in April. The Committee agreed that the Business was unlikely to
be able to stop this report from being produced..

(g) The Committee asked the Business to produce an options paper to
analyse the most effective ways to bring the Scheme to a conclusion,
taking into consideration; time; financial implications; PR and stakeholder
management (MPs and the Minister); and JFSA.

(h) The Committee asked that the steps being taken to the end quickly to

mitigate recent activities of JFSA and the media including:
ACTION: i. Providing a robust response to allegations in the media including
MD writing to BBC lawyers where appropriate and engaging at a

senior level with Programme editors;

ii. I Writing to individual MPs who participated in the Westminster Hall
debate to offer a meeting to discuss their constituents case and
the Post Office position;

iii. I Compiling a ‘dossier’ addressing the general accusations made
against Post Office in the Westminster Hall debate and liaise with
RC about how best to handle that with the Minister.

(i) The Committee agreed that:

e The Business should continue to take a robust approach at the
Working Group focussing on the agreed TOR in an attempt to set
the Scheme back on track, but with no presumption regarding the
next steps for the Scheme;

e the Business consider the most effective options to draw a line
under the Scheme for a future Sparrow Sub-Committee; and

¢ provide a general update for the January Board

PS15/03 CLOSE

There being no further business the meeting was closed.
