POL00162224
POL00162224

From:
Sent:
To:
Ce: Belinda C!
Davies: _ i
Subject: RE: event in Parliament tomorrow - 4 to 6pm
Hi Angela

Many thanks for these details — most helpful.

Apologies once again for the short notice — tailoring POL attendance at the last minute is an occupational hazard with
these events. But we’ll ensure you have any future events in your diary.

Best wishes

Jane

Jane Hill I Head of Public Affairs

1% Floor, Banner Win:

148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent: 09 December 2014 12:01

To: Jane Hill

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Mark R Davies

Subject: RE: event in Parliament tomorrow - 4 to 6pm

Hi Jane.

Had I had advance notification of this event I would have made myself available to attend but unfortunately
I have a 2 day workshop with my team so am unable to join you. This workshop is critical as it designed to
pull together the learnings from the Mediation Scheme case investigations; the Branch User Forum and the
Branch Support Programme. The outputs from the workshop will inform the paper I am writing to address
the Thematic Issues raised by Second Sight at the conclusion of Post Office’s investigation into all the
Scheme cases.

In terms of your key messages on business improvements what you have outlined below works. Further
detail on improvements we have made and are planning to make are below:

Improvements to training and support already introduced
e The content of the training provided to new postmasters has been refreshed with more focus on

balancing and how to look for discrepancies when they occur within branch. A further review of this
is being undertaken as part of the on-line training scheduled to go live in pilot in January 2015.
POL00162224
POL00162224

e A revised balancing guide has been produced to help new postmasters balance their accounts
correctly; this is a hand-out from the initial training provided to new postmasters and assistants
where appropriate. A further best practice guide to identify discrepancies in branch has been
produced This is a hand-out at on-site training for new postmasters and follow up visits where
branches are experiencing balancing difficulties. A further review of this is being undertaken as
part of the on-line training scheduled to go live in pilot in January 2015.

e Arefreshed approach to supporting branches with discrepancy issues has been introduced by the
Branch Support Team. Where NBSC is unable to resolve a caller's query/issue the Branch Support
Team is able to provide more in depth telephone support to the branch. This team will also assess
whether on-site additional support or further training is required and will organise if appropriate.

e The volume of calls from branches is now assessed by the Network Business Support Centre
(NBSC) with the branches that have a higher than average call volume being proactively contacted
by the Branch Support team to understand the reason for the high level of calls; establish what
extra support can be offered and whether any changes need to be made to training etc. The
response has been positive from the branches contacted to date.

e Compliance testing is a precursor to new Subpostmaster training and is an annual regulatory
requirement for all branch staff. Traditionally this training and testing has been delivered by paper
workbooks. After a successful pilot, this is now being provided on-line to the branch network. User
satisfaction in the pilot scored very highly at 88%.

Training and support improvements in development

e Online training is currently being developed for new postmasters that will reduce the requirement
for classroom training and enable postmasters to complete the training when it’s convenient for
them and at their own pace

e Competency will be assessed throughout the on-line training with the requirement for additional
training assessed on completion of the initial training. The on-line training is being developed and
tested by current postmasters and branch staff and will launch in pilot in January 2015.

e The on-line training will be available to all branch staff to enable refresher training to be accessed
by experienced branch staff and as a training package for postmasters to access for new
employees.

e Anew approach has been developed to analyse the calls received by NBSC identify the root

cause of the issue; to identify the solution for the branch in the first instance and implement wider
business changes if appropriate eg content of and method of delivering new product training

I hope this information is helpful. If you are planning any further events in the future I would be happy to
attend but I would need advance notification of the dates.

Thanks,

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnerships

) Ty Brwydran House, Atlantic Close, SWANSEA SA7 9FJ
POL00162224
POL00162224

@)

>

@

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Jane Hill

Sent: 09 December 2014 11:08

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Cc: Belinda Crowe; Mark R Davies

Subject: event in Parliament tomorrow - 4 to 6pm

Hi Angela

We’re holding a drop-in event for MPs in Parliament tomorrow afternoon. It’s billed as an opportunity for MPs to
learn about Post Office modernisation in their constituency.

We've had around 50 MPs saying they’ll look in. Mostly “friends and family” — those we know us well and fans of the
Post Office. However given where we are with James Arbuthnot, who’s said he’ll look in as well as Andrew Bridgen,

there may well be some questions about Horizon. So I wondered if you were free tomorrow afternoon between 4pm
and 6pm to join us? It would be wonderful to have your expertise in the room. Many apologies for the short notice.

Also, it would be good to have some key messages for colleagues on business improvements. Starter for 10 below.
Grateful for your comments/amends:

e Following the publication of Second Sight’s Report last year, Post Office created a new Branch User Forum as
a way for subpostmasters and others to raise issues and insights around business processes, training and
support,

e This feeds directly into the organisation’s thinking at the highest level.

© One of the tasks for this forum is to review support processes and training to ensure they meet the standards
expected of the Post Office.

e — [any specific examples of improved training and support we can mention?]

Many thanks
Jane

Jane Hill I Head of Public Affairs
POL00162224
POL00162224

1° Floor, Banner Wing, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

