POL00097402
POL00097402

Message

From: lan Henderson } GRO H
Sent: 25/01/2013 10:

To: WALKER, Janeti

cc: Alwen Lyons

Subject: RE: Meeting - 25 March, 5-6pm

Janet

Ron and { have discussed this

We both think it is an excellent idea for Alan and Kay to be invited. We are now working quite closely with them and
have almost daily contact.

We note your comments about confidentiality and we will ensure that we comply with this requirement.

As far as prioritisation is concerned, in addition to dealing with cases on a “first come first served” basis we would also
like to apply some “weighting” criteria where cases which clearly have real potential to address the key issue as to
whether or not there are problems with Horizon are given priority over more general issues raised by constituents.

Perhaps we can discuss this further in the meeting on 25 March?

With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

UK Mobile
Email irk

Website: adv: cs.com
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidenti
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at irk
delete the email and any attachments.

From: WALKER, Janet
Sent: 24 January 2013 13:46
To: Ron Warmington; ‘Ian Henderson’
Cc: 'Alwen Lyons’; 'Simon Baker’

Subject: Meeting - 25 March, 5-6pm

Dear Ron and Ian,
James passes on his thanks for all your work thus far. He would be very pleased if you could come in for a

meeting on 25 March, at 5pm, which will be held in Portcullis House, Meeting Room N. We will send out
invitations to all interested MPs, and I will let you know who is attending prior to that meeting.

POL-0096985
POL00097402
POL00097402

There is one thing he particularly wanted you to know, and that is that no MP is permitted information about
another MP‘s constituent, therefore it is extremely important that at that meeting, no individual cases are
referred to by name. Can you bear this in mind please?

He also was of the mind that the prioritisation of cases ought probably be up to you, but a first-come-first-
served approach works as well as any.

He doesn’t think the meeting needs a formal agenda, and might best be approached simply as an update from
you as to how things are going, where you are with the caseload in general, and your thoughts. I would be
prepared just in case you get collared by any individual MP about his or her constituent, and it might be handy
to tell everyone in general detail if there are delays in getting started on cases, and the reasons for this. This
seems to be the general tenor of queries we are getting.

Finally, James thinks it would be a good idea to invite Alan Bates and Kay Linnell to join the meeting. Are you
both OK with this?

Kind regards and best wishes,
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

www.jamesarbuthnot.com

From: Ron Warmington
Sent: 23 January 2013 14:27
To: WALKER, Janet; ‘lan Henderson’

Cc: ‘Alwen Lyons’; 'Simon Baker’

Subject: RE: Mrs Pauline Thomson, constituent of Rt Hon Greg Knight MP

Thanks Janet. We do now have, with the cases put forward through MPs, and those now coming
in through the JFSA, more investigative work than any of us anticipated. That's a very good
thing as we are beginning to see some high quality cases... but it does raise the matter of how
that number can be handled within an acceptable timescale. It follows that we will therefore
need to discuss prioritisation of the caseload. Perhaps we can include that in the Agenda for
our next meeting.

Thanks again

Ron

POL-0096985.
POL00097402
POL00097402

From: WALKER, Janet
Sent: 23 January 2013 13:
To: 'Ron Warmington’; Ian Henderson

Cc: Alwen Lyons

Subject: Mrs Pauline Thomson, constituent of Rt Hon Greg Knight MP

Dear Ron and lan,

Please find attached a scan of a letter James has just received from the Rt Hon Greg Knight, regarding one of his
constituents. Mrs Pauline Thomson has now requested that her case be investigated, and I am passing this to you now.

Many thanks
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

POL-0096985
