POL00111196

POLO00111196

IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE AND LEGALLY PRIVILEGED

GLO COMMUNICATIONS
This note sets out our proposed approach to Communications activity during:

- The first trial (pre-judgement) in the Group Litigation Order (November-
December)

- the judgement phase (December-January)

- contingency stage

It does not cover the communications approach for the second Horizon trial, due
in March, which will be the subject of a further paper. It includes at Annex 1a
summary of the Communications activity we are undertaking during October
aimed at generating positive coverage for Post Office Ltd in order to help
mitigate the expected negative coverage around the trial.

TRIAL PERIOD COMMUNICATIONS

CONTEXT

On 11 April 2016, a High Court claim was issued on behalf of a number of
postmasters against Post Office in relation to various legal, technical and
operational matters, many of which have been the subject of significant media
coverage over the past decade (see Annex 3 for a few examples).

The litigation is being managed by the Court through a Group Litigation Order
(GLO) and will be phased: A Common Issues trial, from 5 November 2018 and
scheduled for 4 weeks, which will consider the nature and effect of the legal
relationship that existed (and exists) between sub-Postmasters and Post Office
as set out in the express terms of the contracts; and whether as the Claimants
argue, some or all of the additional 21 terms should be implied into the contract.
Atrial on matters regarding Horizon is due to take place in March 2019 although
the exact scope of this trial has not yet been determined. Neither of these trials
will address the question of liability and causation of losses there could
therefore be a further potential trial or trials to determine whether in specific
cases Post Office was in breach of contractual and other duties to postmasters,
as a result of which postmasters suffered damage or loss for which they should
POL00111196

POLO00111196

be compensated. This is as yet unscheduled and it almost impossible to predict
the precise course of any litigation.

Post Office is robustly defending the claim, which involves 561 (mainly former)
postmasters.

Since the High Court claim was issued we have not engaged with the media on
specific details, instead reactively providing a short statement welcoming the
opportunity the GLO affords to have the matters in dispute heard and resolved
and stating our confidence in the Horizon computer system.

We can expect the claimants to seek to maximise publicity around the opening
of the trial and its duration. We know from past experience and recent
developments that the freelance journalist Nick Wallis will seek to use his
network to secure coverage of the trial in the media. He has been successful in
the past in securing coverage in the Daily Mail, BBC and elsewhere. The issue
has also been closely followed by Computer Weekly magazine and Private Eye.
Nick Wallis is using crowd-funding to raise enough money to enable him to
attend the trial on a daily basis, and has set up a website to publicise his
intentions: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/nickwallis/reporting-the-
high-court-post-office-trial

Our judgement is that the opening of the trial is likely to receive prominent
coverage: significant activity will undoubtedly take place on social media and
could feature as preview material on, for instance, the BBC News main headlines
(broadcast and online), other broadcast outlets and the daily national and
regional newspapers. This will depend to an extent on how successful Nick
Wallis is in securing commissions and the attempts of the claimants and their
representatives to generate interest in the issue. The news agenda at the time
of the trial will also be a factor, but we expect coverage in any event. The very
existence of a trial where a business such as Post Office is involved guarantees a
degree of interest and it will undoubtedly be carried by Computer Weekly,
Private Eye and very likely the BBC One Show, where Nick Wallis has regularly
secured coverage in the past. The unions are likely to issue comment and may
connect it to other issues such as the future of the DMB network and ongoing
pay talks.

MPs and Peers who have previously commented in support of the claimants are
also likely to comment. These include Andrew Bridgen (Conservative), Kevan
Jones (Labour) and Lord Arbuthnott (Conservative). Other MPs with
POL00111196

POLO00111196

constituency cases are also likely to comment. A full list of MPs and
constituencies who are likely to show interest is attached at Annex [4].

Given the likelihood of negative coverage, we propose a proportionate proactive
strategy in terms of communications to our employees, agents and
stakeholders. Our aim will be to ensure that these groups are aware of the trial
and our position in advance, and kept informed of developments.

In relation to MPs and Peers, we will monitor comments, rebutting and
challenging where appropriate.

OBJECTIVES

This context informs our communications objectives in advance and during the
first GLO trial. We will:

- seek to minimize negative publicity and reputational damage for Post
Office Ltd

- take an internal communications approach which ensures colleagues are
informed and are equipped with ‘lines to take’ and Q&As

- ensure our key stakeholders and partners are aware of the trial and our
position.

STRATEGY
We will therefore:

- Develop a clear set of reactive lines to take for media. We do not
recommend a proactive approach for external media, for the reasons
set out below, though we will be prepared for rapid rebuttal where
necessary and will proactively ensure that our position is reflected in
external coverage of the trial

- engage with our stakeholders and partners in advance of the trial to
raise awareness and set out our approach

- During the trial monitor and assess coverage across all media
channels. We will also assess customer sentiment through social
media and insight channels.

- provide regular updates on media penetration and sentiment to
internal stakeholders
POL00111196

POLO00111196

- plan other communications carefully to avoid unhelpful clashes

- deploy external expertise through an agency with substantial
experience of handling disputes such as this

TACTICS

Our overall approach to external media communications will be to maintain a
reactive holding line throughout the trial.

It would not be appropriate for us to proactively comment on issues being heard
by the court: this could both cause irritation to the judge which would be
unhelpful, but also fan the flames of the coverage, with the unintended
consequence of increasing the amount of interest in the issue among external
audiences.

We will therefore not comment beyond our headline statement in detail outside
of public hearings, other than to intervene when coverage is factually incorrect.
The litigation is complex and it is important that allegations are solely addressed
in Court, from where media can report proceedings directly.

We expect the claimants to adopt a different approach and provide interviews
and/ or other information outside of the hearings. In any event it is likely that
inaccurate and misleading media coverage from the past decade will be
‘recycled’ within coverage. Unlike a jury trial there are generally no rules to
prevent this. This will not, however, influence our communications approach
which is designed to protect our legal position and prevent fuelling coverage
further. Media questions outside public hearings will all be referred to our press
office.

We will ensure that Post Office witnesses are fully briefed on our
communications approach and advised and supported accordingly (e.g. if
approached directly; social media privacy etc.).

RISKS

The principle risks in the pre-Christmas period are that the opening arguments
in the trial and subsequent content in court is sufficient to trigger substantial
media coverage, and that wider issues are drawn in to present Post Office with
significant reputational challenge. It is with this scenario in mind that we have
set out our communications approach.
POL00111196

POLO00111196

Substantial media coverage on the GLO and wider issues such as pay,
simplification, DMB strategy could impact customer sentiment and unsettle
ministers and partners/stakeholders/suppliers.

Our mitigations in relation to these points will be to:

- underline that the court has not yet handed down a judgment

- draw attention to our arguments in court

- ensure that key internal audiences, stakeholders and partners are alerted
well in advance of the trial

- provide principle stakeholders (e.g. internal leaders, UKGI, BEIS) with
regular assessments and updates

- ensure we rapidly challenge misleading coverage or comment

- monitor customer sentiment through social media and insight channels

- seek to generate positive coverage for other Post Office initiatives and
performance (see Annex 3)

COMMUNICATIONS TEAM

Our Group Communications and Corporate Affairs Director Mark Davies will lead
our communications approach. Mark has led communications on this issue
throughout his six years with Post Office, and has substantial experience of
media-handling, both as a journalist for 14 years and as communications adviser
to the government ministers between 2004 and 2010.

He will be supported by Communications Manager Mel Corfield, who manages
communications in this area, and Head of Newsdesk Ruth Barker.

Mel will lead on the creation of content and strategy for delivery of material to
all audiences, internal and external. Her link into Retail teams will be through
Martine Munby, Head of Retail Communications.

We will also deploy our external agency, xxxxx to provide support and challenge.
Their team will include xxxx with substantial experience in litigation such as this
XXXXX

Corporate Affairs Director Patrick Bourke will lead our approach to the wider
stakeholder and partner audiences, while Darren Jones will co-ordinate social
media, working with the team in Chesterfield. This will be particularly important
POL00111196

POLO00111196

in terms of assessing how far the issue is penetrating into media and also provide
a sense of sentiment.

A daily meeting of the core communications group will take place to assess
coverage and agree approaches. Our communications approach and lines will
be continually reviewed and, outside of our overall public position statement,
reactive lines will continue to be in place for certain potential questions (e.g.
particular applications to the Court; Report and Accounts). These will be
reviewed against the nature of any enquiry but our approach of reserving
specific detail to the Court process will be maintained. Lines could be non-
attributable/ off the record for journalists’ guidance.

ANNEX 1 COMMUNICATIONS PLAN FOR TRIAL PERIOD

Comms team members’ attendance at trial will be agreed in due course when
we have finalised running order for witnesses.

EXTERNAL
STANCE — REACTIVE

Our communications objectives for external media handling are to (a)minimise
reputational damage (b) minimise risk of ‘new angles’/ fuelling coverage (c)
preserve our legal positions and (d) maintain consistency of messaging.

The trial is expected to attract significant media coverage, including social
media. Our stance will remain that we will not comment outside of the hearing.
A short reactive statement on this position will be provided. This will be
continually reviewed to ensure alignment to proceedings (along with off the
record/ non attributable briefing we might want to provide, for example
explanatory factual background).

A similar reactive stance will be taken with MPs with draft briefing ready for use
as needed.

INTERNAL (PLUS CLIENTS, BEIS AND UKGI)

Our communications objectives pre-trial will be to (a) ensure awareness and
basic understanding of the context of the litigation, including possible timescales
for Judgment/ outcomes (b) provide contact points for questions/ concerns/
issues (c) ensure correct process is adhered to for media enquiries or direct
approaches. During the trial we will additionally (a) correct / provide context for

6
any significantly misleading/

POL00111196
POLO00111196

inaccurate media (b) continually review
communications to ensure alignment to proceedings.

PLAN & STAKEHOLDERS
Timing Stakeholder I Owner Pre-trial During trial
Continual Board & GE Jane M; Mark I Proactive Proactive
ongoing Davies continual continual
Continual BEIS Patrick Proactive Proactive
ongoing Bourke — and I continual continual
Rod Williams
Continual UKGI Patrick Proactive Proactive
ongoing Bourke — and I continual continual
Rod Williams
October L300 Charlotte Proactive -—I Updates as
[L300 call] Power October x I necessary
call; f/up
email — with
materials
October x NFSP Nick Beal Proactive Updates as
continual (we I necessary
will need to
understand
NFSP position
and comms
approach and
factor this
into our
comms)
October x HRSC advice I Mel Corfield I Briefing forIUpdates as
line reactive use I necessary
re enquiries
October x NBSC: Kim I Mel Corfield I Briefing for I Updates as
Abbotts reactive use I necessary
re enquiries
October x Horizon Mel Corfield I Briefing for I Updates as
Helpline = (IT reactive use I necessary
service desk): re enquiries
via Rob
Houghton/

POL00111196

POL00111196
Catherine
Hamilton
October x Client Mel Corfield I Briefing for I Updates as
Management: proactive use I necessary
Owen with clients
Woodley — plus reactive
Chrysanthy Qs and As
Pispinis, Nick
Boden, Ross
Hunter,
Meredith
Sharples, Rob
Clarkson ,
Mark _ Siviter,
Martin
Kearsley ,
Andrew
Goddard
October x Customer Mel Corfield I Briefing for I Updates as
Services: via reactive use I necessary
Kim Abbott re customer
enquiries
October x Field teams I Mel Corfield I Briefing for I Readiness for
(including reactive use I network-
multiples & re agents/ I wide comms
DMBs): via multiples/ if necessary
Julie Thomas postmasters I Reactive
tbc; Tom & DMBs material
Moran; continually
Amanda reviewed
Jones
Reactive as I Media Ruth Barker; I Reactive Continual
needed Mel Corfield; I statement review of
Darren Jones I and social I reactive
for social I media statement &
media responses social media

responses

POL00111196
POLO00111196

Reactive as I MPs Patrick Reactive Reactive
needed Bourke briefing briefing
Reactive as I Citizens Patrick Reactive Reactive
needed Advice Bourke briefing briefing
BAU Fujitsu Mel Corfield I FJ’s policy is
is liaison with I not to
FJ press office I comment on
client
matters. Any
enquiries
regarding
POL are
referred
directly to us.

FEEDBACK MECHANISM

Single email point of contact for questions/ concerns from all internal audiences
to be set up managed by Communications team.

REPUTATIONAL MONITORING/ MANAGEMENT

The insight team will use marketing communications tracking to monitor
whether people have seen, read or heard about the trial (i.e. whether it is
mentioned when people are asked what they have seen, read or heard about
Post Office). Brand metrics will be used to provide an indication of potential
reputational damage (eg in terms of trustworthiness, ‘a brand for people like
me’, ‘duty to support’). Specific mentions of the trial are expected to be low.
Marcomms research will be running in October, November and end of January.

In addition we are considering an Omnibus survey at the time of the trial with
two or three questions included. This can be commissioned at short notice with
quick turnaround so that it can be timed, for example, to co-incide with peaking
media coverage.
POL00111196

POLO00111196

Outline timetable

X October: Briefing on L300 call followed by email; Email
briefing/teleconference to relevant network managers, client managers

Court timetable — subject to change:

o Monday 5 and Tuesday 6 November 2018 — Reading Days, when
the parties will not attend court while the judge reads into the
Court’s file.

o Wednesday 7 November 2018 — Opening Statements, when each
side will have half a day to give oral submissions on the case they
will be presenting during trial.

co Thursday 8 to Monday 26 November 2018 — 10 hearing days for
cross-examination of witnesses (essentially half a day per witness).

© Fridays 8, 15 and 21 November 2018 — the Court will not sit, but
will be available to address ad hoc matters that arise during the
course of the trial.

o Tuesday 27 to Friday 30 November 2018 - the Managing Judge did
not specify any dates for Closing Submissions, but these will take
place following the conclusion of cross-examination, most likely
after a one or two day interval for drafting.

Judgment: This is unlikely to be handed down for some weeks (potentially not
until into the New Year). Our legal team expects to have several days’ notice but
the extent to which the judgment might be shared at this point internally outside
of the legal team might be restricted by the Judge. In preparing communications
in advance we will therefore have to work within parameters set which could be
very limiting and initially our statement might essentially be that we are studying
the judgment in detail before commenting.

INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STATEMENTS — DRAFT

The note below sets out both our draft statements to colleagues and partners
and our proposed media position

Managerial Internal briefing [draft copy]

As you may be aware, Post Office is defending a High Court action issued by a
number of postmasters in dispute with us about various complex contractual
and operational matters.

10
POL00111196

POLO00111196

As part of managing the litigation, the Court has scheduled a ‘common issues’
trial for four weeks, starting on 5 November 2018. This trial will hear evidence
and arguments primarily concerning the correct interpretation of the contract
between Post Office and its agents. A judgement is expected in the New Year.

Following this, other matters in dispute, including allegations about the Horizon
computer system, will be heard over 4 weeks in March 2019

We are defending this case vigorously. We welcomed the Court issuing a Group
Litigation Order (a way of managing a number of individual claims) because it
offers the best opportunity for the matters in dispute to be heard and resolved.
We will therefore continue to address the claims through the Court’s processes
only and will not be commenting on details outside of public hearings.

Below is our public statement providing this position. If you receive internal
enquiries please contact [MC] to let her know of the query before giving this
statement. Media enquiries should be referred directly to the press office
{contact details]:

We’re defending this case vigorously and welcomed the Group Litigation Order
issued by the Court as offering the best opportunity for the matters in dispute
to be heard and resolved. We will not comment on specific details outside of
public hearings whilst the litigation is continuing.

We have confidence in the Horizon system, which is robust, reliable and used
across 11,500 branches by postmasters, agents and their many thousands of
staff, to process millions of transactions successfully every day, including on
behalf of the UK’s high street banks.

Let me know if you have any questions or concerns.

[Mark Davies]

11
POL00111196

POLO00111196

JUDGMENT PHASE COMMUNICATIONS
CONTEXT

Following the High Court trial the Judge is expected to reserve his Judgment.
The timing of it being handed down is not currently known but it is likely to be
some weeks following the trial (possibly late December or early January). An
embargoed version of the Judgment will be provided to the legal team 2-7 days
in advance of it being handed down in Court (and therefore made public).
There might be provisions made by the Judge which limit the embargoed
Judgment being shared beyond the legal team, including internally (and, for
example, to UKGI).

When the Judgment is handed down either party can ask the Judge for
permission to appeal. If this is refused an application to appeal can be made
directly to the Court of Appeal. An application to appeal (and an appeal could
take around a year to be heard) does not act as a ‘stay’ on the Judgment.

Rather than providing direct orders, the Judgment is more likely to provide
statements of law (i.e. Post Office not compelled by Court to follow but
obviously consequences could flow from that e.g. breach of contract).
Therefore Post Office will need to make decisions regarding implications of the
Judgment for the contracts and operations between the business and its
agents and consider changes it might need to make.

For the purposes of contingency communications planning we are assuming
scenarios where all or parts of the Judgment mean potential changes to the
relationship/contracts with agents, with the most significant being Post Office
becoming liable to investigate and determine root cause of losses before
recovery from agents, causing delays to debt recovery and immediate impacts
on cash flow. There would also be raised costs because of additional
investigation activities.

As part of contingency planning the legal team is exploring how contract
changes might be made for various scenarios. The potential routes are (a)
termination and rehire (b) variation to existing contracts (c) amendment to
existing contracts by agreement. However route (b) is one of the contested
areas within the Group Litigation and therefore there is a dependency on the
Judgment.

12
POL00111196
POLO00111196

Contingency communications planning will continue to align with potential
operational/ contractual solutions for possible trial outcomes (e.g. self-funding;
CCTV in all branches; ‘closed cash’ technology*; increase of audits). *a project
on ‘closed cash’ is underway

COMMUNICATIONS APPROACH (if all/ parts of Judgment go against Post
Office)

Post Office is unlikely to be in a position to provide a detailed statement either
externally or internally when the Judgment is handed down given the short
timescale between receipt of embargoed copy and publication, the complex
nature of the subject matter and the importance of reserving legal positions as
the litigation continues. However it will be very important to provide
measured, factual responses for our stakeholders and agents in an
environment when there could be a large amount of negative media coverage
(which could well be sensationalised, misleading or misunderstood — most
journalists are not legal experts and do not read entire judgments before
reporting). We will produce a ‘myth buster’/ Factcheck communication to
rebut coverage that could mislead our people.

There are essentially two broad phases to communications: the immediate
aftermath of the Judgment and, later, in support of any contractual or
operational changes that need to be made.

As we move forward we will produce detailed communications plans, with
appropriate tailored messages for different audiences, for all eventualities
(including the scenario where the Judgment is in Post Office’s favour in that no
changes to status quo need to be considered or implemented).

Our tone and approach will be factual and focussed on the effects of the
Judgment, if any, on those audiences.

INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STATEMENTS

It is of course not possible at this point to draft precise copy/ messaging and
additionally, during the course of the trial, there will be points made that we
may want to draw out and underline in responses. The following is therefore
intended to be illustrative of proposed tone and potential positioning only and
should be considered very much ‘in development’:

Draft potential external Post Office statement — immediate aftermath of
Judgment

13
POL00111196

POLO00111196

Whilst Post Office welcomes [overall highlight of positives which Judgment
confirms, if appropriate] we intend to appeal aspects of this Judgment
[Andy/Rod — would we have given grounds to the Court when asking for
permission?]. We will make that appeal through the Court’s processes and will
not otherwise comment in detail whilst the litigation is continuing.

We are considering the Judgment’s implications for the agreements we have
with our current agents and when we have done so we will be talking to them
about any changes we may need to make.

Post Office is continuing to vigorously defend the High Court claim. We have
confidence in our UK-wide network of 11,500 Post Office branches and in the
Horizon system. It is robust, reliable and used by many thousands of
postmasters and their staff to successfully process millions of transactions
every day, including on behalf of the UK’s High Street banks.

Draft potential internal Post Office statement — immediate aftermath of
Judgment

The High Court has today provided a Judgment on contractual matters
concerning Post Office and its agents. This is part of continuing litigation by a
group of (mainly former) postmasters in dispute with us. We are vigorously
defending the case.

Whilst we welcome [overall highlight of positives which Judgment confirms, if
appropriate] we intend to appeal [aspects of] this Judgment.

At the same time we must consider its implications for the ways we work with
our current agents. This is a complex legal area so it will take a little time to do
this.

Until we have thoroughly examined the [x-page] Judgment we cannot
determine what operational or contractual changes we might need to make.
In the meantime all of our current arrangements and processes remain in
place.

The ways in which we operate our branches with our agents is of course
extremely important and we'll be talking with them and to the Federation
when considering potential actions that affect them.

[Regrettably there have been some misleading and inaccurate media reports
about the litigation. We’ve produced a short information sheet of key facts
which can be found here [link] but if you have any questions or concerns

14
POL00111196

POLO00111196

please contact [email account for this] and we will respond as quickly as
possible.]

Draft potential example high level eg L300 communications re change(s) to
contracts. Assumption that variation of contracts is possible.

As we outlined in previous communications [link], a High Court Judgment was
made in [month] concerning contractual matters between Post Office and its
agents.

We are appealing [aspects of] this Judgment but at the same time we have
been considering its implications for the ways we work with our current
agents.

As a result we are making a variation to our contracts with agents regarding
branch accounts. Our agents are currently able to suspend and dispute a loss
while we investigate, although we are not contractually obliged to do so. The
variation we are making means agents will not become liable to make
correcting payments for branch errors they cannot identify until Post Office
has investigated to determine the cause of discrepancies.

The ways in which agents should continue to correct known mistakes in
branches is not changing and they remain responsible, as now, for losses
caused through particular circumstances within their control. In the vast
majority of cases our agents quickly establish the causes of any discrepancies
in their accounts because of their unique knowledge of their branch,
customers and transactions. We are on hand, through our helplines and field
teams, to advise and support with this.

All of our postmasters and agents will receive a letter setting out the variation
we’re making to their contracts, [together with Q&A and contact details if they
have questions].

Everyone else affected by the change we’re making is receiving detailed
information about actions they need to take.

[More widely, the effect of this contractual change will incur additional costs to
the businesses. We are exploring potential ways in which we can minimise
these, as well as continue to reduce risks to money in branches. We will keep
you updated when there is more detail about this and we will of course be
involving agents and others working in the network as we move forward.]

15
POL00111196
POLO00111196

ANNEX 2
EXAMPLES OF PREVIOUS MEDIA COVERAGE

A small amount of the media coverage over the past few years can be found

i)

Example coverage

here, as examples of tone and media narrative.  “°1°-2°

ANNEX 3— WIDER COMMUNICATIONS INITIATIVES

POST OFFICE COMMUNICATIONS and MARKETING — AUTUMN 2018

This note summarises our communications and marketing activity planned for
the period to Christmas 2018. This is in addition to our ‘always on’ activity
which includes regular press briefings, PR campaigns on key products and
services, social media activity and engagement with MPs and other elected
representatives.

SEPTEMBER - ARA

We proactively positioned our Annual Report with key stakeholders and media,
generating positive coverage across the mainstream media. We will continue
to use the ARA as a vehicle for updating journalists and other key stakeholders
on business performance and strategy.

SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER — MORTGAGES CAMPAIGN

16
POL00111196
POLO00111196

This integrated campaign across earned media and marketing channels seeks
to highlight the Post Office as a mortgage provider. Early indications from
earned media coverage are very positive, with coverage in the Evening
Standard, BBC and Metro.

OCTOBER-NOVEMBER: OUR CHANGING BUSINESS

We have invested £1.5m in a campaign aimed at raising customer awareness
of the changing Post Office. This campaign, which will use newspaper
advertising, radio, video on demand and social media, will be piloted in the
Midlands and targeted to reach 4.3m people in our target audiences. The
working title of the campaign is THE WHEN I NEED IT MOST OFFICE.

The aim is to show the breadth of the Post Office offer, from banking to travel
money to our unique network. It will be supported by internal communications
and activity with key stakeholders.

We are measuring the campaign through a series of metrics on customer
sentiment, and will use these metrics to decide whether to extend the
campaign with further investment and activity in the new year.

OCTOBER-NOVEMBER: EVERYDAY BANKING

Two campaigns — in NW England and Scotland — which will seek to highlight
our everyday banking offer via a range of paid channels. The campaign in
Scotland will use door drops and press advertising, while in NW England it will
include outdoor and radio advertising alongside in-branch activity.

17
POL00111196

POLO00111196

OCTOBER (date to be confirmed)

To coincide with the expected announcement of the completion of the CMA
process over Payzone, we plan a proactive earned media campaign to highlight
both the planned acquisition and its place in the overall Post Office story.

We are working with the Financial Times on a feature and possible CEO
interview as part of this initiative. [Scope BBC/Sky interviews....float a Tim
Parker interview?]

We will support this approach with activity among MPs and other key
stakeholders, building on our attendance at the Conservative and Labour
conferences.

OCTOBER (LAUNCH)

We are planning a campaign to launch in October to highlight the work of our
best branches. This social media campaign will urge customers to let us know
via social media channels where they have had great service using a hashtag
(title to be agreed). This intention is to go direct to customers to highlight the
changing business.

NOVEMBER-DECEMBER: CHRISTMAS MADE EASY CAMPAIGN

Our colleagues in the marketing team are developing an advertising campaign
to support Christmas trading, aimed at showing how we are seeking to make
life easier for customers at Christmas. We are supporting this in
communications through press activity and MP visits to branches (which was
trialled last year).

18
POL00111196
POLO00111196

ANNEX 4 — LIST OF MPs WITH LIKELY INTEREST

[Mel working on this]

19
