POL00095512
POL00095512

POST OFFICE LTD IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

POLB(05)72 ‘August 2005

OPERATIONS FUNCTIONAL REPORT

NsS : : .

Service Specification Programme’ :

Revision One activity 04/05 —-Four depots carried forward into 05/06 (two depots — London
Central and Edinburgh are progressing, London East have recently voted against the duty
proposals and no progress has been made in Oxford) . .

Revision Two activity 05/06 - Two depots have beeh implemented, Swansea and
Peterborough, activity is being progressed on the.other depots however: the delay on revision
one activity is impacting .on'the 05/06 plan but remedial action is being taken to-recover this.

Fast-track Agreement = agreement has been reached to fast-track 5 depots (i.e. perform a
desk top revision) to.try to recover the impact of revision 1 activity on 05/06 plan.

Body Armour

An ergonomic ‘assessment was undertaken for both overt and covert body armour. It was
determined that the overt. vest was likely to increase the risk of injury for some. tasks. The
covert vest appears. to be less likely to increase.the risk of injury but it is highly recommended
that the effects of heat stress, comfort and hygiene are assessed fully: .

Securicor have. been repeatedly contacted to understand the findings from their trial but. they &
do not seem to be co-operating. The HR Director and MD are now aware of our desire for this By
information. A timescale of mid August.will be set after which the business will need to review .
and decide whether to trial within POL.. . >

Security Industry Association (SIA) Licensing — Approved Contractor Scheme(ACS)

A Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) has been produced for the government by the.SIA and &
will shortly go out to the public for consultation. The Impact Assessment will identify a number La
of options regarding the introduction of an ACS-and one option may not be to have a scheme -
at all. If such a scheme is not introduced this. will,increase. CIT resourcing timescales further

from a current 12 to 16 week lead time to 18 to 24.

All Embracing Pay Review -
Terms of Reference for this have been agreed with the CWU. A joint PID is being produced

with the project being managed by the HR Business Partner. Head of Reward and
Recognition is liaising with other parts of RMG to understand the likely. impact on the reward
Packages especially as a result of Road Transport Regulations (RTR). This will create a
precedent for Cash Services, which will need to be incorporated within the business planning
process.

Road Transport Regulations (RTR)

Progress so far: F .
« Comprehensive training and guidelines have been undertaken/issued to all depots.
Two RTR auditors temporarily appointed and audits are being undertaken.:
¢ Any non-compliant depots have remedial action plans put in place

Management and Support Re-structure .
The restructure of NSS Cash's Management and Support Functions remains on plan, with

appointments due to be announced week commencing the 8th August..Progress to date
includes:
POL00095512
POL00095512

POST. OFFICE LTD IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

Design of new structure

Sign-off of headcount reduction targets

Completion of preference exercise

Decision on all appointments to the revised template.

cease

VR cases have been proposed to Finance and are in the progress of being cleared. None of
these: causes a delay to the announcement of appointments on ‘the 8th. .

Following appointments being announced, NSS will move irito a 3-week period of handover
with: the new structure becoming formally live on the 1st September. Initial VR candidates
whose cases are approved will leave the business in mid November.

Overall this strand’ of the Project is Green however the net cost savings (after VR costs) for
05/06 are nearly £600k below plan. This is due to a lower number of VR candidates being
approved ‘than originally assumed and the average. cost of VR is' likely to be significantly
higher than originally assumed. The single mitigating action to bring the forecast back in line
with the business case is to speed up the rate at which surplus people are placed.

To:
Network Resilience .

“The development of a backup network ‘service continues to plan, with Horizon changes
entering the testing phase. ‘The- service introduction:-date ‘is planned as April.06; and is
expected to make.a significant impact-on the problem of long-term branch outages, and nearly
all‘outages within-our largest 2,000 branches.

~ Overall. our increased’ investment ‘in a higher’ grade ‘of service has led to quicker fault”
resolution, but more needs to be done. A telecoms service management specialist from the
retail sector is helping us'to continue to raise the performance. of our network providers, and it
is clear that we néed: to work better at improving BT's. performance through the use= of
executive" influencing and lobbying. '

Banking
The summary findings of the:external audit of EDS and JPM in rélation to the service failure of

August last year, have been reported back to DWP, and they have ‘indicated that.they are
content with the actions we and the ‘suppliers have already completed or undertaken to
complete over the coming months.

We are exploring further options and opportunities to improve our ‘service contingency plans to
address the risk of similar failures in the. future. Banking reliability and ‘service continuity
continues to receive an appropriate level of management attention, reflecting its importance to
our ‘customers and us.

Impact

The programme is progressing according to plan with a number of key milestones achieved in
preparation for the. implementation of the new finance system at.the end of August.and the
rollout of branch trading throughout September-November. Over14000 branches have been *
upgraded to the branch trading software to. date.(9"" August) and 4 cycles of E2E testing have
been completed with a further cycle planned before the Release decision on the 18th August.
The plan has no contingency and a number of risks remain, however it remains achievable.

Agreement has been reached with Prism Alliance to recover approx £1m including VAT for the
abortive work: on the new. Reference Data System terminated last year-by Post office Ltd for
failure to meet the requirement by the due date. The recovery will be. made in free of charge
POL00095512
POL00095512

POST OFFICE LTD IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE

services over the balance of this year and next year. This recovery has already been reflected
in the year-end forecasts.

Smart post
End to end testing has been compléted and Track & Trace will be implemented for Parcel

force in S80 as originally planned. However due. to the client being unable to accept a
paperless dispatch process: the: Royal Mail implementation plan is under review and as such
various options are being explored to hitthe S90 timescales.

* Sales prompts
The project is going well and on track, the soft launch is currently running with 154 branches

with calls to the helpline at an accéptable level. Go live date is on track and planned for 15th
August 2005.

$90 Release

Projects in S90 Horizon release are all on track. The pin pad upgrade product has been.
delivered and tested and accreditation plan agreed with Streamline. Work on automated out
payment functionality is progressing well and additional small changes have been agreed to
be included ‘in S90 with a further three being assessed for inclusion.

Horizon Next Generation (IT Roadmap)

Fujitsu submitted a best and final offer, which came very close to bridging the gap between
our draft business case and their previous offer (a reduction of circa £80m was achieved), but
still had unacceptable restrictions and terms. a
We are actively considering a revised approach of disaggregating the current supply and
Contracting separately for the major components (including telecoms and field’ services) with
the aid of a systems integrator. Fujitsu were invited to submit a revised proposal based on this
format. Their indicative costs show that further savings are possible and that the large.up-front =
investment inherent in their previous offers can be avoided. Discussions with Fujitsu continue.
on a non-exclusive basis. .

External Supplier costs ;
Savings of £3.7m have been identified in third party.cost.budgets and accruals and have ‘been *

reflected in the latest forecasts. This includes an IVAT refund of £0:9m from EDS on Card
Account.

A number of ongoing risks and issues remain relating to third party spend including £1.9m pre-
paid SI which is not likely to be used but must be paid for and £2.3m unbudgeted Horizon
costs if we do not proceed with HNG this year.

Ric Francis
Operations Director
August 2005
