POL00158202
POL00158202

From: Paula Vennells: _ :
Sent: Thur 05/02/2015

To: Richardson, Simon}

Subject: Re: Tuesday —

Attachment: image001 jpg

Attachment: image002.jpg

Attachment: image003.png

Simon, how kind of you to say so.

It was tough but I felt that other than the issue of withholding prosecution files, which caught us completely by
surprise, we did as you said. Though I have to say, it didn't feel as though we had achieved anything like that at
the time. I did lose momentarily my faith in democracy - partly the poor chairmanship and partly the behaviour of
Mr Binley. Atrocious.

So thank you for adding to my ability to calm down afterwards!

The positive is we now have an understanding that it is not a PO wide or current issue. Although we have known
that, it is important to have that perspective confirmed - as Paul Blomfield MP did.

The issue which I am discussing with a sub-set of the Group Exec tomorrow, is how we find a satisfactory way
through the criminal cases; and as importantly, how I lessen the impact on the business: it has been all consuming
for me and the Board at times. And that in itself is a risk.

Thanks again. It's good to hear from you - I hope all is well; and thank you for Andy's input to our rehearsal
session last week.
Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

On 4 Feb 2015, at 23:43, Richardson, Simon i

_} wrote:

Paula

I watched the proceedings, and yours and Angela's evidence. From my somewhat distant seat, if I may
say so, it went very well. It is very easy to focus on replaying what happened and one might have said
but the test is nothing really new emerged, you and Angela pushed back and challenged or corrected
where necessary. Most importantly it was a strong finish at the end of a long session.

Some of the briefing, and some grandstanding, was pretty obvious but, the group to your right, in
particular, struck me as measured even if questioning current or past practice. I think that did reflect the
respect with which the Post Office is held. It has to be said George Thomson's stance phased a number
of people there and he did well holding his ground.

I realise there is more to be done but this is just a personal note with my own reflections on what I
believe was a testing but positive session.

Regards
POL00158202
POL00158202

Simon

Simon Richardson
Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

<image002.jpg><image003.png>

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this em:

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally py
is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not paula.vennelisf
as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publi
prohibited and may be unlawful

ected by law, paulavennells
notify simon richardson

ion Or copying of this communication oF attachments Is

Any files
any loss or

ached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus di
e which may be caused by software viruses and you should

ion software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for
Ty out your own Virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it,

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number
0317661. Our registered office is St Ann's Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection.
We use the term partner to refer toa member of the LLP. or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is
GB123393627

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.

