POL00041770
POL00041770

Message
From: Patrick Bourke!
Sent: 11/05/2018 12:
To: Rodric Williams
Parsons/
cc: Mark Underwood1} “I
Subject: Re: Litigation and Appointment - next steps - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

Thanks. Diary is clear this pm, but would prefer to avoid back end of day if pos:
Think it would be good to have Andy on.

Mark - could you organise us, do you think ?

Cheers

Patrick

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: Friday, May 11, 2018 12:51:37 PM

To: Patrick Bourke; Jane MacLeod; Andrew Parsons

Cc: Mark Underwood1

Subject: RE: Litigation and Appointment - next steps - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

Yes please.

ve taken a quick look at the mark up and | don’t think it’s that far apart:
UKGI seem to think we’re refusing written updates, when so far as i’m concerned we haven't;
The distinction between confidential and privileged information is artificial. There is no basis for it in law
{privilege is founded on confidentiality}, and | see no reason why UKG! should not treat everything they receive
from us on the Group Lit as confidential (surely the need for that is obvious?)}.

Vil have a slightly better read now. What time could we speak?

From: Patrick Bourke
Sent: 11 May 2018 1.
To: Jane MacLeod ¢"
Parsons <"
Cc: Mark Underwood! <j
Subject: Re: Litigation and Appointment - next steps - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

§ Andrew

‘odric Williams f°

| have just come off the phone to Richard Callard when this came up.
Andy, Rod - shall we get on a call ?

Patrick

From: Jane MacLeod
Sent: Friday, May 11, 2018 12:04:12 PM
To: Rodric Williams; Andrew Parsons

POL-0038252
POL00041770
POL00041770

Cc: Mark Underwood1; Patrick Bourke
Subject: Fwd: Litigation and Appointment - next steps - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

Andy, Rod

lam very concerned about this, and I’m struggling to see a way through this. Paula has offered a meeting with
Alex Chisholmto explain the issues, and that may be the only way we get round this.

I’m afriad I’m at the end of my day, so any further action today U.K. time will need to come from you.

Thoughts?

Jane MacLeod
Group Director Legal, Risk & Governance

From: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI <_
Sent: Friday, May 11, 2018 8:42:32 PM

To: Rodric Williams

Cc: Lambert, Helen - UKGI; Jane MacLeod; Callard, Richard - UKGI; Cooper, Tom - UKGI; Clarke, Stephen - UKGI
Subject: Litigation and Appointment - next steps - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

Rodric,

| know you spoke to Helen Lambert yesterday who unfortunately is out ill at the moment so | am responding on her
behalf.

Thanks you for your markup of the protocol. It looks as though we are still a long way apart on this as your draft doesn’t
recognise a number of things that are essential to us in order to fulfil our function as shareholder and representative of
the SoS.

So | thought it would be helpful to provide some important background to explain the context in which we are
operating:

e Alex Chisholm is the accounting officer for POL and as such is accountable to Parliament for its actions. In order
to properly fulfil this role, he requires full and comprehensive information on the progress of this litigation. This
will not be possible if POL is not willing to provide written updates. We revised our requirements to provide for
updates following reports to the Board to reduce any administrative burden as far as possible, but we cannot
agree to a protocol which includes no obligation on POL to report progress in writing in the litigation.

e Tom Cooper’s position on the Board and sub-committee cannot be viewed as a suitable substitute for a full and
proper reporting mechanism. Tom’s role on the board is to represent the views of the shareholder, he is unable
to do so effectively if the shareholder is not properly and directly informed and Tom is himself precluded from
relaying the most relevant information to the shareholder on the basis that it is legally privileged.

e This protocol was only ever intended to apply to legally privileged information. It is not appropriate to include
provisions such as these in respect of confidential information more widely.

e While legal privilege is an exception to FOIA, it is a qualified exception. It is not necessarily the case that all

information which is designated and treated as legally privileged will fall within the exception and therefore
SoS/UKGI cannot commit never to disclose information which is treated as privileged under this Protocol. It will

POL-0038252
POL00041770
POL00041770

of course ensure that it complies with its obligations under Appendix 2 clauses 1.10 — 1.12 to inform and receive
representations from POL in respect of disclosure wherever possible.

We have redrafted the protocol to reflect these principles and a mark-up is attached. We would like to see it finalised
quickly given the litigation timetable. We hope our mark-up is acceptable but if you have comments we would propose
a meeting to get it finished.

In relation to the draft submission that we sent you for comments yesterday, this update has been requested by Alex
Chisholm to be provided this week. This highlights the practical obligations we are under to provide timely and relevant
information to Ministers and civil servants and the reasons for drafting the protocol along the lines we have

proposed. Please let us know when we can expect to receive comments.

Many thanks

Elizabeth

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 02 May 2018 11
To: Lambert, Helen - UKGI
Cc: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI Callard, Richard - UKGI GRO ~~
Cooper, Tom - UKGI “BY Clarke; Stephen - UKGI
Subject: RE: Litigation and Appointment - next steps - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

jane MacLeod ¢°

Helen,
Thank you for providing us with your comments on the draft Information Sharing Protocol.

i attach a mark up showing our further amendments, which aim to reflect the discussion had at the meeting with Tom
Cooper, Richard Callard and Stephen Clarke last week.

Can | suggest you call me to discuss the attached if you have any areas of concern?

With thanks and kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand
0 Finsbury Street

2017 Winner of the Global Postal Award for Customer |
Experience A

From: Lambert, Helen - UKGI r GRO
Sent: 20 April 2018 12:08 °
To: Rodric Williams {7
Cc: O'Neill, Elizabeth -
Cooper, Tom - UKGI <¢
Subject: RE: Litigation:
Importance: High

Rodric, Jane

Having spoken with policy leads at UKGI this morning, there is a strong desire to get this protocol agreed in advance of
meeting with the permanent secretary next week.

POL-0038252
POL00041770
POL00041770

Could you please let me know as a matter of urgency if you will not be able to provide your thoughts on the policy by
COP on Monday.

Many thanks
Helen

Helen Lambert | Legal Secondee
UK Government Investments

4 Victoria Street | London | SW1H OET

From: Lambert, Helen - UKGI
Sent: 19 April 2018 17:07

To:
Ce: Oeil, Elizabeth
Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Subject: FW: Litigation and Appointment - next steps - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

UKGT=

Rodric, Jane
Thank you for your draft protocol, a revised draft is attached.

As you indicate below, the case is being proactively managed by the Sir Peter Fraser and as such the timetable is liable to
change dramatically. Because of this, we were somewhat uncomfortable with the fact that there would be over two
months between dates on which BEIS/UKGI would receive a formal update. To alleviate this, we have suggested a
provision that allows BEIS/UKGI to be informed of any material change in the timetable.

We have also clarified somewhat the information which can be disclosed to BEIS/UKGI by Tom Cooper, to ensure that
his role on the Board and Sub-committee can be properly utilised, as well as suggesting measures to allow for more
expedient sharing of privileged information. We would consider that assessing this information on a case-by-case basis
would be disproportionate in the context of the relationship between BEIS, UKGI and POL.

Finally we have requested that legal counsel is provided with written updates to ensure that BEIS/UKGI is able to keep a
strong and accurate audit trail in respect of its oversight of the litigation.

We trust that the wording in this protocol assists with your concerns in respect of disclosure of legally privileged
information more widely.

We would be happy to discuss these points with you in person or over the phone.
Separately, we have noted that Tom Cooper has been appointed to the board. We assume that you are therefore
content with the proposed appointment attached (which | sent to you on 23 March 2018). Is it possible to arrange for

this appointment letter to be issued?

Kind regards
Helen

Helen Lambert | Legal Secondee

UK Government Investments
1 Victoria Street | London | SW1H OET

POL-0038252
POL00041770
POL00041770

From: Rodric Williams [mailto: ]

Sent: 27 March 2018 18:44

To: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI <
Cc: Jane MacLeod <7
Tom - UKGI ¢
Subject: RE: Litigation

Elizabeth,

Thank you for sending through your draft protocol identifying the touchpoints in the Post Office Group Litigation on
which you would like visibility.

Your touchpoints overlap substantially the matters on which we will be reporting to our Board of Directors as part of our
governance for managing the litigation and its risks. That governance includes the establishment of a Board
Subcommittee to receive legal advice on Post Office’s defence as the litigation proceeds. Tom Cooper, BEIS/UKGI’s
shareholder representative on the Board, is a member of the Litigation Subcommittee, which will meet shortly before
full Board meetings so as to provide the full Board with contemporaneous, focussed updates.

In addition to the updates BEIS/UKGI will receive through its Board and Litigation Subcommittee representation, we are
also happy to provide updates on the litigation to BEIS/UKGI’s legal advisors. These should be done in-person or via
telephone conference call, immediately following the full Board meetings to ensure continuity and consistency of
reporting.

The above approach is reflected in the attached revised protocol, which is designed to protect Post Office’s claims to
legal professional privilege and attaches as appendices:

*® areporting timetable prepared around key stages in the litigation and our Board’s calendar; and
e the obligations which will accompany the disclosure of confidential information.

Please note that the litigation timetable is very likely to change in response to the proactive case management being
applied by the Managing Judge Sir Peter Fraser. It is also likely to change as the parties respond to developments in the
litigation itself. We do not however propose to make any changes to scheduled update meetings unless they require
Post Office to consider materially changing its approach to the litigation.

We look forward to receiving your comments on our draft. | am very happy to discuss those in person or over the
telephone if you would find that easiest.

With kind regards, Rodric

& Rodric Williams
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand
20 Finsbury Street

London EC2Y 9AQ_

2017 Winner of the Global Postal Award for Customer |
Experience bane

From: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGIE
Sent: 01 March 20. I
To: Patrick Bourke

POL-0038252
POL00041770
POL00041770

; Rodric Williams
er, Tom - UKGI

Ce: Jane MacLeo
Richard - UKGI}
é

Subje

Callard,
Lambert, Helen - UKGI

gation and Appointment - next steps

Patrick, Helen,

Thank you for your time last week.

As discussed, | attach a standard form litigation protocol along the lines of what we would propose to submit to the
Permanent Secretary. As you will see, this sets out various touchpoints in the litigation process, and the steps we intend

to take to ensure the Permanent Secretary remains fully informed at each salient point.

If you are able to provide more detail on the litigation timetable, or indeed if you have any comments or suggestions, we
would be happy to amend the protocol bespoke to the current litigation.

Separately I’d be grateful, as | indicated in my email to Helen on Monday, if in anticipation of Tom Cooper’s
appointment, you could let me know if you intend to agree an NDA similar to the one you have with Richard, and if so,
forward me the proposed text so that Tom and | may consider.

Kind regards,

Elizabeth

From: Patrick Bourke!
Sent: 23 February 2018 15:10
To: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI <
Ce: Jane MacLeod f
Richard - UKGI ¢
Subject: Litigation Meeting

1; Callard,

‘odric Williams ¢

Dear Elizabeth

It was a pleasure to meet with you this morning.

I just wanted to confirm that we have understood the need for an appropriately structured information flow in
relation to the matters we discussed earlier, and agree that some form of protocol to govern those arrangements
makes very good sense.

While recognising that there is no set format in this regard, it would nonetheless be helpful for us to draw
inspiration from similar arrangements you have put in place with other ALBs. You kindly offered to share

something with us for that purpose.

We will come back to you with our take on how this might work best in our case, having regard to the
particularities of our governance arrangements and the litigation itself.

In the meantime, do please feel free to get in touch if there is anything you'd like to discuss.
Kind regards

Patrick

POL-0038252
POL00041770
POL00041770

“ Patrick Bourke
Corporate Affairs Director
1 Floor
20 Finsbury Street

2017 Winner of the Global
Postal Award for Customer
Experience

JESS ISIS ISI ISSO IORI IORIODIS ISS IOKIOS ISS SII SSIS SE IOEI IORI AOE IAG III I
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FECES ISE ICSI SE ORES EOCE EGGS CEO EG EEE dai iack do rack ior

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

POL-0038252
