RESP0000003

Blair McDougall MP

&
Ce) Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State

Minister for Small Business &

Economic Transformation
Department for Deparment for Business and Trade
. Old Admiralty Building
Business & Trade Admiralty Place
Whitehall
London
SW1A 2DY

Sir Wyn Williams
Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry

5th Floor W: www.gov.uk

Aldwych House, 71-91 Aldwych

London

WC2B 4HN 9 October 2025
Dear Sir Wyn,

Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry Report (Volume 1)

I am immensely grateful to you for the great care and thoughtfulness which you and your
team have put into Volume 1 of your final report. Your report has been profoundly impactful,
highlighting the traumatic experiences of so many postmasters during this terrible scandal
and providing this Government with carefully considered recommendations as to how we
can improve the Horizon redress schemes which were set up in response. I would like to
take this opportunity to affirm my commitment to ensuring that the victims of this scandal
receive full, fair and swift redress.

I have attached the Department's response to the Inquiry’s recommendations, which will be
published on gov.uk today. The Department has agreed this response with the Post Office
where recommendations have been addressed to both organisations. The Department's full
response to the report will be laid as a Command Paper, once the Inquiry has issued its final
volume.

The Department has accepted all of the Inquiry’s Horizon redress-related recommendations,
except Recommendation 13 where we believe that fairness to postmasters requires a
different approach. The annex sets out our responses in detail, together with information
about how we intend to implement the changes.

Yours sincerely,

BLAIR McDOUGALL MP
Minister for Small Business and Economic Transformation
RESP0000003

Government response to the recommendations
Recommendation 1

HM Government and/or the Department and where appropriate the Post Office and
Fujitsu shall provide written responses to my recommendations by 10 October 2025.

The Department accepts this recommendation and has fulfilled it by publishing this paper
today.

Recommendation 2

The Minister and/or the Department in conjunction with the Post Office shall make a
public announcement explaining what is meant by the phrase “full and fair financial
redress”. Such an explanation should indicate that claimants should be awarded
sums which are equivalent to those which they would receive in civil litigation
brought before a judge in England and Wales, assuming that the judge hearing the
civil claims awarded damages at the top end of the appropriate range of damages.
The explanation should also include a statement to the effect that, if fairness
demands it in a particular case, a decision maker may depart from the established
legal principles which would normally govern the assessment of damages in civil
litigation.

The Department accepts the Inquiry’s recommendation that it should publish a statement
explaining the term “full and fair redress”. A copy of this statement has been published on
the Department’s website.

Recommendation 3

The Post Office, the Department and the Minister shall ensure that all decision makers
in HSS, GLOS and OCS/HCRS apply the meaning to be given to the words “full and
fair” when assessing the amounts to be awarded to individual claimants.

The Department accepts this recommendation. Both the Department and Post Office have
agreed to this definition, and it is referenced in respective scheme guidance, ensuring that
decision makers in the different schemes uphold it. The Horizon Shortfall Scheme (HSS)
independent person will ensure that this principle is upheld through the assurance they carry
out.

Recommendation 4

All claimants in HSS shall be entitled to obtain legal advice funded by the Department
Prior to choosing between accepting the Fixed Sum Offer or seeking financial redress
which is assessed. The remuneration for such advice shall be in accordance with a
scale of fees commensurate with the scale which is operative in GLOS.

The Department broadly accepts this recommendation.
RESP0000003

The Department accepts that some HSS claimants require access to legal support on their
decision to take the Fixed Sum Offer or the full assessment route. However, claimants’ legal
advisors would not have sufficient capacity to submit claims on behalf of large numbers of
additional clients within the few months prior to scheme closure. Creating an entitlement to
up-front legal advice would run contrary to the impending closure of the scheme to new
applications, as urged in Recommendation 15.

Paragraph 6.65 of the report states: “It is also worth stressing that if funded legal advice is
made available (for those who wish to take it up) in order to choose between the Fixed Sum
Offer and assessment, the need for funded legal advice “up front” probably becomes
unnecessary.” The Department therefore interprets this recommendation as requiring the
provision of funding for legal advice not “up front” but at the point at which the postmaster
chooses between accepting the Fixed Sum Offer or seeking individually assessed redress
by seeking permission to appeal under Recommendation 9. The Department broadly
accepts the recommendation on that basis.

We have also accepted Recommendation 5, which means applicants can have their claim
assessed by the HSS Independent Panel and decide to revert to the Fixed Sum Offer (within
3 calendar months of the first fully assessed offer). This provides a further safeguard for
applicants to have their claim valued by experts without the need for upfront legal advice.

The Department notes that, because it is also accepting Recommendation 9, this
interpretation of the Inquiry’s recommendation will make legal advice available to a wider
range of postmasters than would the alternative of up-front legal advice. That would be
confined to those yet to apply, whereas the Department's approach would also encompass
people who have already settled.

The Department envisages that a postmaster will only need to be able to show a prima facie
case in order to be given permission to appeal against a Fixed Sum Offer. For instance,
there might be a head of loss with potentially significant impact which the postmaster did not
consider when accepting the Fixed Sum Offer; or the postmaster’s own assessment of their
losses might have been close to £75,000. As a result, the evidence requirements at this
stage will be light - for instance if mental health impacts had not been considered, all that
would be required would be the postmaster’s own testimony or GP notes about the effect
on their health, rather than an independent medical assessment. It will be relatively simple
for a legal advisor to identify and present such a prima facie case. Once permission to appeal
is granted, full legal advice would be needed.

Postmasters already have access to that full legal advice under the tariff for the HSS Appeals
process, which is higher than that for the GLO scheme. In response to Recommendation 4,
the Department will offer early access to part of that tariff to support the preparation of a
prima facie case for permission to appeal. If permission is granted, the full tariff will be
available.

As an alternative to legal advice, the Department has also put in place an information and
support service to help postmasters claim redress. The service will provide impartial
information and support to HSS claimants on their options with regards to submitting a claim
RESP0000003

through the FSO or full assessment route, in order to make their own choice. The service

will:

explain information regarding the scheme, processes and requirements in simple
straightforward language;

help claimants to understand the key details of their claim;

provide high-quality support and information to describe complex, technical redress
issues in a simple, user-friendly way to claimants’ which promotes understanding;

describe the heads of loss which could be included within the claim and provide
help in completing the application form;

work with the claimant to help them to understand how the redressed topic/issue
affected them and then help them set out the full information relating to their claim;

explain the sorts of information or evidence that they may be able to provide to
support the claim; and/or

explain the role of expert evidence, such as from a medical specialist or a forensic
accountant, to assist claimants to decide whether this should be requested.

The Department will share more information about this service with eligible claimants soon.

The Department has discussed this approach with the Horizon Compensation Advisory
Board. They support the Department's approach.

Recommendation 5

Any claimant who opts to have a claim assessed when the claim is submitted to the
Post Office or the Department may decide to accept the Fixed Sum Offer at any time
thereafter up to and including the date which is three calendar months following the
receipt by the claimant of a first assessed offer. For the avoidance of any doubt, (1)
this recommendation applies to all relevant schemes i.e. HSS, OCS/HCRS and GLOS
and (2) once the time period specified in the first sentence hereof has expired, the
claimant will have no right to accept the Fixed Sum Offer.

The Department accepts this recommendation.

From 9 October, claimants to the HSS and Horizon Convictions Redress Scheme (HCRS)
will have three months from receipt of their first detailed offer to revert to the Fixed Sum
Offer, should they wish. Any claimant who is already in receipt of a first offer but has not yet
accepted this will also be eligible to revert to the Fixed Sum Offer within three months of
today’s date.

The Department is working with Post Office and claimants’ representatives to ensure
claimants are appropriately notified of this.

Recommendation 6
RESP0000003

A suitably qualified senior lawyer shall be appointed to HSS as soon as is practicable
with the aim that any such appointee will take appropriate action to ensure that first
offers to claimants (a) are “full and fair” (b) made to those who have submitted claims
to the Post Office and which are to be assessed as soon as is reasonably practicable
and (c) are made to future claimants whose claims are to be assessed within a
reasonable time.

The Department accepts this recommendation.

Sir Gary Hickinbottom, currently Chair of the Independent panel on HCRS, has been
appointed to the position of HSS Senior Lawyer. We will continue to work with the Post
Office on the practical implementation of Sir Gary's appointment, and he will assume the
role shortly.

Recommendation 7

The appointed person shall be given appropriate powers to ensure that these tasks
can be performed and carried into effect. If it is considered necessary by the
appointing authority, it should consult with the Advisory Board, Dentons, Sir Gary
Hickinbottom, Sir Ross Cranston and an appropriate number of claimants’
representatives (as well as its own advisors) before determining the appropriate
powers.

The Department accepts this recommendation.

It agrees that the appropriate powers should be given to the appointed person. It will consult
Sir Ross Cranston. the Advisory Board, Dentons, claimants’ legal representatives and the
Post Office to ensure that the appointee has the relevant powers to undertake the role
successfully.

Recommendation 8

In HSS the Post Office shall be obliged to make, and the Department shall be obliged
to approve (when necessary) a first offer to a claimant which is no less than the sum
recommended by the Independent Advisory Panel.

The Department accepts this recommendation. This does not require any retrospective
changes because no first offer has ever been made which is less than the sum
recommended by the HSS Panel. The scheme documents have been amended to reflect
this.

Recommendation 9

The Department following consultation with the Advisory Board, claimants’
representatives and any other persons or bodies it thinks appropriate, shall give
urgent consideration to whether claimants who have accepted the Fixed Sum Offer in
RESP0000003

HSS should be afforded the opportunity to appeal against their acceptance of such
an offer if they are granted permission so to do. If a right of appeal with permission
is introduced, the issue of permission to pursue such an appeal must be considered
by a person who is wholly independent of the Department and the Post Office.

The Department accepts this recommendation.

People who have accepted the Fixed Sum Offer in HSS will have the opportunity to ask the
Independent Reviewer in the HSS Appeals scheme (who has yet to be appointed) for
permission to appeal.

The Department is working with the Advisory Board and the Independent Reviewer on the
practical implementation of this, including on scope and criteria for appeal, as well as
engaging with legal representatives and postmaster representative organisations before
updating affected claimants.

Recommendation 10

The Department shall issue a supplementary document/announcement clarifying the
meaning and intent of the “best offer” principle in the Horizon Shortfall Scheme
Appeal (“HSSA”) process demonstrating how it is intended to operate in practice with
appropriate examples, if thought necessary.

The Department accepts this recommendation.

The Department has updated the existing HSS Appeals guidance and principles with this
additional information.

In line with Recommendation 11, the Department will also harmonise the planned “best offer”
principle in the panel stages of HSSA with that adopted in GLO, enhancing consistency
across the schemes.

Recommendation 11

The “best offer” principle which will apply in HSSA, as explained in response to
Recommendation 10, shall be equally applicable in GLOS.

The Department accepts this recommendation.

The Minister announced on 8 July that the Department would adopt a best offer principle at
panel stage on the GLO, HSSA and HCRS schemes. The Department consulted the
Advisory Board, Sir Ross Cranston and claimants’ legal representatives and has been
implementing the policy at all panel stages, and per head of loss, since 12 August.

The Department will implement this change retrospectively. Any postmaster who received a
binding award from the second Panel that was lower than their final DBT offer will have their
redress topped up to the higher level.
RESP0000003

Recommendation 12

The scheme documents governing GLOS should be amended so that a right is
conferred upon claimants (exercisable by the claimants themselves or their
recognised legal representatives) to make oral submissions in support of their claim
at the hearing convened by an independent panel prior to that panel making a binding
determination in respect of a claimant’s claim or part thereof. The length of time
afforded to claimants to make such oral submissions at the hearing should be no less
than the time afforded to claimants for such submissions in HSSA.

The Department accepts this recommendation, which was already its practice.

All claimants in the GLO scheme already had the right to make oral submissions for up to
one hour in support of their claim at the hearing convened by the Independent Panel. The
same approach is adopted in the HSS Appeals process.

The Panel’s Terms of Reference have been amended to reflect this existing practice. They
are published on gov.uk.

Recommendation 13

The current Dispute Resolution Procedure in HSS should be closed once all claimants
currently within the Procedure have either (a) settled their claims or (b) transferred to
HSSA. No claimant who is not in the Dispute Resolution Procedure when HSSA opens
should be eligible to join the Dispute Resolution Procedure.

The Department rejects this recommendation as we believe it comes into conflict with the
principle of “full and fair” redress set out as we accepted Recommendation 2.

In the Department's view it would not be fair to postmasters to restrict their choice in this
way. Nor would it be consistent with the reasonable expectations of postmasters in the light
of the terms of the HSS. Although many postmasters are expected to decide to opt for the
HSS Appeals process if they wish to challenge their offer, in the Department's view it is
important that the choice on the best route for their individual case is determined by the
postmaster themselves, with the benefit of funded legal advice.

Recommendation 14

During the nine-month period afforded to claimants to submit an appeal to the
Department in HSSA, the Post Office shall engage in negotiations and/or mediation
with any claimants who notify the Post Office of a desire to seek a negotiated or
mediated settlement of their claim.

The Department accepts this recommendation.

Prior to the publication of the Inquiry’s report, the Department had been in discussion with
claimants’ legal representatives about the deadlines for submission of HSS Appeals. In the
light of the representatives’ concerns, the Department has agreed that, instead of a nine-
RESP0000003

month period for postmasters to submit a full appeal, there should be a three-month deadline
to notify the Department of an intention to appeal. There will then be a further deadline for
the submission of full papers.

The deadline for notification of intention to appeal will be three months from the publication
of this paper, for those who have settled or previously rejected their claim, or three months
from the date of rejection of an HSS independent panel offer.

These changes affect the context for implementation of the recommendation. The
Department intends to apply it as fully as possible in the new context. Postmasters will
therefore be able to engage in Good Faith or Escalation Meetings with the Post Office during
the three-month period whilst they decide whether to apply for HSSA.

Recommendation 15

No claims for financial redress under HSS shall be entertained after midnight 27
November 2025.

The Department broadly accepts this recommendation and agrees with the need for
finality.

However, postmasters who have yet to submit their claim will need sufficient notice of the
closure date. The Post Office will send a reminder letter to claimants who have yet to
respond, to warn them of the closure date. The Post Office will issue those letters shortly.
It will close the HSS to new claims on 31 January 2026. The Department will work with the
Post Office on the practicalities of closing the scheme, including ensuring that postmasters
are adequately notified of the closure date and receive the information and support they
need to make any outstanding claims ahead of closure.

There may be some exceptional cases that may miss the deadline of 31 January, for good
reasons. The Department will work with the Post Office to publish clear guidance on the
processes for any such cases received after the closure date, including any criteria for
these exceptions.

Recommendation 16

The Department shall make a public announcement in which (a) it clarifies whether
there will be any differences in the process for assessing financial redress, between
the merged HCRS and OCS, and the process currently operating in OCS and if so, (b)
it explains what those differences in the process will be.

The Department accepts this recommendation.

The Department confirms that the HCRS will apply the same principles as the previous
Overturned Convictions (OC) scheme, ensuring no OC claimant is disadvantaged by the
transfer to HCRS.
RESP0000003

The Department has published further guidance on GOV.UK on the roles of Dentons and
Sir Gary Hickinbottom in the HCRS scheme, as well as on the Alternative Dispute
Resolution process. This guidance can be found here:

e Horizon Convictions Redress Scheme (HCRS): alternative dispute resolution (ADR)
-GOV.UK

e Horizon Convictions Redress Scheme (HCRS): Independent Panel terms of
reference - GOV.UK

The Department's aim for the HCRS is to identify delays and move cases forward, similar
to the OC scheme, with case management processes and an independent panel. Case
management involves resolving disputes with an independent party when bilateral
agreement is not reached. Dentons and Sir Gary Hickinbottom will manage cases as
needed. Sir Gary will cover both pecuniary and non-pecuniary aspects of claims. Before
case management, the Department will engage with claimants’ legal representatives to
resolve claims early.

The Department is engaging with OC claimants’ legal representatives to offer reassurance
on the consistency of treatment between the HCRS and schemes.

Recommendation 17

As soon as is reasonably practicable, HM Government shall establish a standing
public body which shall, when called upon to do so, devise, administer and deliver
schemes for providing financial redress to persons who have been wronged by public
bodies.

The Department sees clear advantages of the recommendation but recognises that options
to improve future delivery of redress will need to be carefully considered and the feasibility
of an independent body will need to be properly explored, alongside existing mechanisms.
The Minister responsible for Postal Services will chair a ministerial group to lead this work.
While it is unlikely that an independent body could be established in time to take over
delivery of redress for existing time-limited redress schemes, the Government is actively
considering its options and will make a substantive statement on this matter by summer
2026.

Recommendation 18

The Department shall devise a process for providing financial redress to close family
members of those most adversely affected by Horizon. Such family members shall
qualify for such redress only if they themselves, have suffered serious adverse
consequences by reason of their family relationship with the person or persons
directly affected by Horizon.

The Department accepts this recommendation.
RESP0000003

Some family members of postmasters suffered gravely because of the Horizon scandal. As
set out in the Minister for Postal Affairs’ statement to the House of Commons on 8 July 2025,
the Department has committed to establishing a new redress scheme for postmasters’ close
family members who suffered personal injuries, including mental injuries, as a result of the
Horizon scandal.

The Department is engaging closely with the Lost Chances for Subpostmasters’ Children
group, claimants’ legal representatives and the Advisory Board. It will continue to seek input
from key stakeholders as it designs the scheme and process for assessing claims.

Recommendation 19

By 31 October 2025, the Department, Fujitsu and the Post Office shall publish, either
separately or together, a report outlining any agreed programme of restorative justice
and/or any actions taken by that date to produce such a programme. For the
avoidance of any doubt, the word Fujitsu in this recommendation is intended to
include both Fujitsu Services Limited and Fujitsu Limited.

The Department accepts this recommendation. The Department, Post Office and Fujitsu
have jointly embarked on a restorative justice project for postmasters, facilitated by the
Restorative Justice Council. All three parties are committed to the programme being
postmaster-led. The first phase of the programme began on 23 September 2025, with a
session in Belfast, followed by sessions in Glasgow, Cardiff and London. All sessions will
be facilitated by advanced restorative justice practitioners. The conclusions of this phase will
lead to development of the plan in the light of postmasters’ views.

A detailed plan will be published on gov.uk.
