RESP0000001

Date

Sir Wyn Williams 9 October 2025
Chair to the Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry,

Post Office
5th Floor, 100 Wood Street
Aldwych House, ce teR
71-91 Aldwych,

Classification:
London Public
WC2B 4HN
Dear Sir Wyn,

Post Office Response to Volume 1 of the Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry Final Report

As I noted in my initial public response to your recommendations on 8 July 2025, Post Office
welcomes the recommendations set out in Volume 1 of your final report. We acknowledge the
care with which you and your team have examined the human impact of the Horizon scandal
and the issue of redress and recognise the significance of this work and its importance to those
affected.

Post Office also reiterates its clear and unequivocal apology to every person affected by the
scandal. We remain acutely aware of the continuing impact on those affected and are
committed to supporting them through the redress process.

Post Office supports the Inquiry’s recommendations and is committed to working
constructively with the Department for Business and Trade (DBT) to ensure that redress is
delivered in a manner that is full, fair, and timely.

The majority of the recommendations contained within Volume 1 are directed at DBT. DBT
has prepared a response, which, as you know, will be published by government. Where
recommendations are jointly addressed to DBT and Post Office, DBT’s response has been
discussed and agreed with Post Office and vice versa.

For clarity, we consider the recommendations that are addressed to Post Office either wholly
or in collaboration with others where appropriate, are Recommendations 1, 2, 3, 8, 13, 14, 15
and 19.

Page lof 5
Post Office Limited is registered in England and Wales. Registered No. 2154540,
Registered Office 100 Wood Street, London, EC2V 7ER.

Post Office and the Post Office loge are registered trade marks of Post Office Limited postofficereesuk
RESP0000001

This letter constitutes Post Office's response under Recommendation 1. We make the following
observations in respect of the other recommendations that we have collaborated on.

Recommendation 2: The Minister and/or the Department in conjunction with the Post
Office shall make a public announcement explaining what is meant by the phrase “full
and fair financial redress”. Such an explanation should indicate that claimants should be
awarded sums which are equivalent to those which they would receive in civil litigation
brought before a judge in England and Wales, assuming that the judge hearing the civil
claims awarded damages at the top end of the appropriate range of damages. The
explanation should also include a statement to the effect that, if fairness demands it ina
particular case, a decision maker may depart from the established legal principles which
would normally govern the assessment of damages in civil litigation.

Post Office worked with DBT to produce an explanation that we believe meets your
recommendation, as we understand it, as far as practicable. In finalising this with DBT, we also
sought input from the Independent Assessment Panel for the Horizon Shortfall Scheme (HSS).
The Panel continues to play a key role in recommending full and fair outcomes under that
scheme. We understand that DBT consulted senior independent advisers. Both we and DBT
aimed to ensure that the explanation supports the Inquiry's aims and is written in accessible
language.

We understand your reference to an “appropriate range of damages” relates to non-pecuniary
loss such as personal injury or injury to feelings rather than pecuniary loss, where the goal is
to calculate a specific figure to restore the claimant to the position they would have been in
had the wrong not occurred. In non-pecuniary cases in civil claims there can occasionally be
ranges of damages (such as set out in Vento guidelines in the context of injury to feelings)
which can be very broad even within different bands. We do not understand your
recommendation to be that all claimants should receive the highest level of damages on any
particular scale regardless of the facts. That would not be fair to those whose circumstances
justify compensation at the top of the scale.

The explanation agreed between Post Office and DBT offers an alternative approach, but which
we believe addresses your intention, by expressly stating that where there is an appropriate
range, decision makers should always apply a generous approach to assessing within that
range.

Page 2 of 5

Clessfeation: Pubic postofficereesuk
RESP0000001

Post Office notes that there may also be other issues to consider such as whether scheme
applicants should systematically be put in a better position than civil litigants wherever there is
an appropriate range of damages. Post Office recognises that this question and the impact of
your recommendation on other ongoing and future government compensation schemes are
matters for DBT.

Recommendation 3: The Post Office, the Department and the Minister shall ensure that
all decision makers in HSS, GLOS and OCS/HCRS apply the meaning to be given to the
words “full and fair” when assessing the amounts to be awarded to individual claimants.

Post Office shall ensure that decision makers in the HSS that we administer, including the
Independent Assessment Panel, apply the meaning of the words “full and fair” (as set out in
our published explanation) when assessing the amounts to be awarded to individual claimants.

Recommendation 8: In HSS the Post Office shall be obliged to make, and the Department
shall be obliged to approve (when necessary) a first offer to a claimant which is no less
than the sum recommended by the Independent Advisory Panel.

Post Office has always made first offers to claimants that are no less than the sum
recommended by the Independent Advisory Panel for HSS and will continue to do so.

Recommendation 13: The current Dispute Resolution Procedure in HSS should be closed
once all claimants currently within the Procedure have either (a) settled their claims or
(b) transferred to HSSA. No claimant who is not in the Dispute Resolution Procedure
when HSSA opens should be eligible to join the Dispute Resolution Procedure.

Post Office, in consultation with DBT, has carefully considered this recommendation, but both
parties agree that it is fairer to postmasters to allow them to continue to opt to resolve their
claims within the Dispute Resolution Procedure (“DRP”), should they wish to do so, and
therefore will not adopt this recommendation. There are differences in the way in which claims
are resolved in the DRP and the government's HSSA process and we see a benefit to allowing
postmasters to continue to assert free choice in deciding how they wish to bring closure to
their claim.

Recommendation 14: During the nine-month period afforded to claimants to submit an
appeal to the Department in HSSA, the Post Office shall engage in negotiations and/or
mediation with any claimants who notify the Post Office of a desire to seek a negotiated
or mediated settlement of their claim.

Page 3 of 5

Clessfeation: Pubic postofficereesuk
RESP0000001

Prior to the publication of the Inquiry’s report, DBT agreed that instead of a nine-month period
for postmasters to submit a full appeal there should be a three-month deadline to notify the
Department of an intention to appeal. Post Office will work with postmasters and their legal
advisers to progress claims in the DRP during the three-month election window as advised by
DBT and is actively corresponding with legal advisers to ensure that where postmasters wish
to meet and try to settle their claims, we can do so in a timely manner.

Recommendation 15: No claims for financial redress under HSS shall be entertained after
midnight 27 November 2025.

Post Office agrees that closure of the scheme represents an important milestone in providing
overall closure for postmasters and we welcome the opportunity to do so. Nonetheless, we are
and have always been sensitive to the difficulties experienced by many postmasters in
formulating claims, both practical and emotional. After careful thought, and in consultation with
DBT, Post Office suggested that a slightly longer timeframe for final applications to the scheme
would be in line with good practice on other remediation schemes as well as giving more notice
to potential applicants. Taking account of the very busy Christmas period for current
postmasters and the sensitivities at this time for all who have yet to claim, we have agreed with
DBT that 31 January 2026 is an appropriate timescale for closure.

Conclusions

For recommendations directed solely at DBT, Post Office acknowledges that it is properly for
the Department to determine its response. However, given Post Office’s operational role in the
administration of the HSS and the assistance provided in relation to other schemes, we have
provided DBT with Post Office’s insights and views to inform its decision-making.

In addition, Post Office continues to work with DBT and Fujitsu to develop a programme of
restorative justice in response to your nineteenth recommendation. It is our desire and
expectation that the work led by the Restorative Justice Council will build upon the restorative
justice work Post Office itself has undertaken since May 2023. We welcome DBT and Fujitsu's
partnership in furthering this work and will respond to you more fully on our forward plans by
31 October 2025.

Page 4 of 5

Clessfeation: Pubic postofficereesuk
RESP0000001

The Post Office will continue to cooperate fully with DBT to ensure that the recommendations
are implemented in a way that delivers compensation as swiftly as possible.

Yours sincerely,

‘Nigel Railton
Chair

Page 5 of 5

Clessfeation: Pubic postofficereesuk
