POST OFFICE HORIZON IT SCANDAL - RESTORATIVE JUSTICE

Joint statement by the Department for Business and Trade, Fujitsu Services Limited
and Post Office Limited

Recommendation 19 of volume 1 of the report of the Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry said:

By 31 October 2025, the Department, Fujitsu and the Post Office shall publish,
either separately or together, a report outlining any agreed programme of
restorative justice and/or any actions taken by that date to produce sucha
programme. For the avoidance of any doubt, the word Fujitsu in this
recommendation is intended to include both Fujitsu Services Limited and Fujitsu
Limited.

The Department, Fujitsu Services Limited and the Post Office have accepted this
recommendation, and this is our joint statement in response.

Making apologies meaningful

Before going into any detail, we would all like to take this opportunity to sincerely
apologise again for the damage that our organisations have caused to every person who
has been affected by the Horizon IT scandal. We are appalled by the failures that led to
this most widespread miscarriage of justice.

However, we also recognise that a general apology such as this one is nowhere near
sufficient. We are committed to working with the Restorative Justice Council over the
coming months to continue to lay a firm foundation for direct and personal apologies
where we can; and to support a wider and longer-term programme of restorative justice
to make amends in other ways.

Being postmaster-led

The Department, Fujitsu Services Limited and the Post Office firmly believe that such a
programme must be led by the views of postmasters. To that end, we together
commissioned the Restorative Justice Council to ask postmasters to share their
thoughts and feelings about what a future restorative justice programme should
include. This project was announced on 1 September.

The Restorative Justice Council engaged 145 former and current postmasters through
five in-person listening sessions held in different parts of the UK and two online
meetings. At the Restorative Justice Council’s request, those sessions were attended
only by postmasters and their supporters — our organisations were not present. The
Restorative Justice Council’s findings are set out in their report (available here) and
summarised very briefly below.

The Department, Fujitsu Services Limited, the Post Office and the Restorative Justice
Council have also engaged with officials supporting the Inquiry’s Legacy Committee so

1

RESP0000007
RESP0000007

that we could reflect their learning from the Inquiry Legacy Project. We will coordinate
our plans with The Postal Museum, as an official partner for the Legacy Project, as they
develop their proposals to consult and collaborate with the postmasters and those
affected by the scandal.

The Restorative Justice Council’s report

The report describes what postmasters would like to see from restorative justice. The
key points included:

e The need for public acknowledgement and memorialisation of the injustices
suffered and recognition of individuals’ unjust suffering

e Demand for personalised and meaningful apologies —- whether public or private

e Opportunities for those affected to come together to share experiences and
collectively seek national recognition

e Practical actions — for instance mental health support, family counselling, and
opportunities for communal healing through leisure and therapeutic activities.

The views of postmasters set out in the report naturally go further than restorative
justice. They express:

* Frustration with the pace of the process of redress. The Department and Post
Office continue to strive to ensure that redress is full, fair and prompt. The pace
of redress has increased markedly. Over £1.2bn in redress has been paid, a five-
fold increase since July 2024. Nonetheless the Department and Post Office
recognise that more remains to be done.

e Adesire to see those responsible for the scandal held to account. The second
volume of the Inquiry’s report will provide essential underpinning for such
accountability. The Metropolitan Police already have over 100 staff engaged in its
Operation Olympos; the bodies regulating lawyers and auditors are also
undertaking investigations.

e Demands that the three organisations demonstrate that they have learned from
the scandal and taken actions to prevent anything similar happening again. The
Department, Fujitsu Services Limited and the Post Office are taking a wide range
of action to address the lessons of the scandal and will consider how to
demonstrate that in the context of this restorative justice programme. Allour
organisations hope to be able to speak directly to postmasters through the
restorative justice programme to address their concerns.

Establishing a long-term restorative justice programme

Over the coming months the Department, Fujitsu Services Limited and the Post Office
will work together with the Restorative Justice Council to continue to listen to those
harmed and ensure postmasters and their desires remain at the heart of the work to
RESP0000007

establish a practical, funded long-term programme. Plans for that programme will be
announced in spring 2026 and are likely to evolve further in the light of experience, and
of further understanding of postmasters’ views.

As well as the substance and financial structure of the programme, we will look to
develop its future governance. We hope to include postmaster representatives in that.

Continuing the pilot

Alongside developing and commissioning the long-term programme, we will continue to
work with the Restorative Justice Council on the pilot of the programme through to
March 2026. We are asking the Restorative Justice Council to continue to engage more
postmasters and hear from others harmed, including children of victims and to
postmasters from historically marginalised groups. In particular, we will work with the
Restorative Justice Council through March 2026 to pilot the following measures:

e A Restorative Listening and Well-Being service, fully funded by Fujitsu
Services Limited. This service will be staffed by trained and experienced
restorative listeners who have a deep understanding of the context of the
scandal and its impact on those harmed and their families. Further details about
this service will be made public in the coming weeks

e Group-Based Circles, where multiple affected individuals will be able to
communicate with organisational representatives either directly or indirectly to
facilitate shared narratives and collective healing

e Individual Restorative Meetings to allow affected individuals to engage
privately with the organisational representatives they wish to meet, enabling
them to discuss their experiences and expectations without the complexities of
larger group settings

e A Postmaster Support Network to create a peer-led support group, providing
essential opportunities for affected individuals to connect, share experiences,
and discuss coping strategies in a safe environment. (Northern Ireland has been
identified for the pilot, given the strong support for this initiative and the
existence of a small informal network of harmed postmasters)

e Preparing staff in the Department, Fujitsu Services Limited and the Post Office
to take part in restorative justice. This is critical for equipping staff with the
necessary skills and understanding of restorative justice principles, fostering a
shared commitment to accountability and healing while recognising the diverse
experiences of all participants involved.

Conclusion

We are conscious of the Inquiry’s work with postmasters through its Legacy Committee.
Our three organisations would welcome any further contribution which the Inquiry
RESP0000007

wishes to make on the development of the restorative justice programme, drawing on its
own extensive engagement with postmasters.

Department for Business and Trade
Fujitsu Services Limited
Post Office Limited

31 October 2025
