RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

eB
CALA

Cabinet Office

Public Bodies Handbook - Part 1

Classification Of Public Bodies:
Guidance For Departments

RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Introduction

The Importance Of Classification

Administrative classification will provide departments with the guidance and ability to create
arm's length bodies that fulfil their governance objectives within a clear, consistent and
comparable system. This system will lead to a simplified and more transparent public bodies’
landscape, promoting greater accountability. It will provide a clear and intelligible map of the
landscape and aid public and internal understanding of relationships between public bodies
and government ministers. It will also promote efficiency and effectiveness, helping to drive
strategic reform of the landscape and the development of best practice models.

The Classification Framework

The system of administrative classification comprises the ‘framework’, and the ‘process’ of
applying that framework to public bodies. This is the part of the classification system that
handles the application of the framework as public bodies are established, modified or closed.
The framework is the supporting structure to administrative classification.

The guiding principle underlying the framework is that the classification of an arm’s
length body (‘ALB’) should be determined by the degree of freedom that body needs
from ministerial control to perform its functions.

It is made up of three categories of ALBs: Executive Agency, Non Departmental Public Body,
and Non Ministerial Department. The framework establishes the differences between these
categories and the relationship each has to its home or sponsoring department if it has one.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

About This Guidance

This ‘Classification of Public Bodies’ document is departmental guidance from the Cabinet
Office. It sets out the different categories of the UK's public bodies, and:

provides a high level introduction to the early decision making process for establishing different
types of public bodies;

summarises and provides a first point of reference on the main characteristics of each of the
ALBs that the Cabinet Office focusses on, as well as those of other forms of public bodies; and

provides information on the some of the now defunct or legacy forms of public bodies that
still exist.

This document is to be read as an introduction and high-level guide for establishing public
bodies. It should be read in conjunction with the rest of the Public Bodies Guidance Handbook,
which will cover in more detail the actual steps required to setting up ALBs, and related
issues. Part 1 of the Handbook provides guidance on the classification of public bodies and
provides definitions of the categories of public bodies that operate within the public sector.
The main focus is on arm’s length bodies, though for context it also provides an overview
of public corporations, certain Parliamentary bodies, public bodies belonging to the Devolved
Assemblies, Local Government public bodies and some entities that operate within Ministerial
Departments. Whilst there may be other entities that perform a public or Government function
unless they fall into the above forms, they are out of scope, as are private sector entities. It
updates and replaces the Categories of Public Bodies: A guide for Departments issued by
the Cabinet Office in April 2012.
Introduction

Public bodies are diverse, which means classification is not always a simple process. For ease
of reference, and to help departments understand the different delivery models that exist, this
guidance sets out the main categories of public body. This guidance covers:

The ALBs that are classified.

Other non-classified central government and parliamentary entities.
Department Specific, Devolved Assembly and Local Government public bodies.

Public corporations.

The information on bodies that are not administratively classified has been included to provide
an overview of the wider UK public bodies landscape. It does this in a way that allows for
relatively easy comparison between these different types of public bodies, by looking at
the sorts of factors that impact on their design and creation, then listing the key common
characteristics that make up and differentiate each category of public body.

The Role Of The Public Bodies Reform Team

The Cabinet Office's Public Bodies Reform Team should be contacted by departments that wish
to establish new ALBs. Early involvement of all relevant parties, including the department's central
governance (or dedicated public bodies) team and the relevant HM Treasury Spending Team,
is important to ensure that a body is classified correctly and in accordance with Government
and departmental intentions for the body in question. This also allows scope for amendments
to the governance and control arrangements to be considered before the public body is formally
Classified to a particular category of public body.

RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

Introduction

The Public Sector & Its Public Bodies

Public Sector

The ‘public sector’ is defined by the Office
of National Statistics (‘ONS’) with reference
to the European System of Accounts 1995
in accordance with EU requirements for
Governments to produce accurate public
sector finances and national accounts. The
National Accounts (or Sectoral) classification
of entities as public or private depends on the
level of government control over the general
corporate policy of the entity being classified.
This can be direct or indirect and may be
evidenced by indicators that include:

The ability to appoint those in control, or those
who determine the policy of the entity; and / or

Aright to be consulted over such appointments,
or to have a veto over appointments; and / or

The provision of funding accompanied by
rights of control over how that funding is
spent; and / or

A general right to control the day-to-day
running of the body.

Once the ONS has classified a body as public
sector (its general corporate policy is controlled
by the governmentjit is classifiedto a particular
sub-sector based on its characteristics. These
sub-sectors are:

Central Government:

includes Government Departments and their
ALBs: Executive Agencies, Non-Departmental
Public Bodies, Non Ministerial Departments,
and any other non-market bodies controlled
and mainly financed by them;

Local Government:

includes those types of public administration

that only cover a specific locality and any non-
market bodies controlled and mainly financed

by them (see chapter 5); and

Public Corporations:

market bodies controlled by either Central
Government or Local Government. These
include any type of public entity that is a market
body. Market bodies are defined as entities
that gain over 50 per cent of their income from
purely commercial activities (see chapter 6).

More details on sectoral classification for the
national accounts are available from the ONS
website http://www.ons.gov.uk/ons/guide-
method/classifications/na-classifications/
the-ons-classification-process/index.
html.

Public Bodies

A ‘public body’ is a formally established

organisation that is (at least in part) publically
funded to deliver a public or government
service, though not as a ministerial department.
The term refers to a wide range of entities that
are covered as within the Public Sector. This

does not include forms of public entity that

do not require staff to carry out their functions,
such as public funds or trusts.

Arm’s Length Bodies

The main focus of this document and of
most interest to departments are ‘arm's
length bodies’ or ‘ALBs'. These are a specific
category of public body that are administratively
classified by the Cabinet Office. ALBs include:
Executive Agencies (‘EA’), Non Departmental
Public Bodies (‘NDPBs’) and Non Ministerial
Departments (‘NMDs’).

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Charities

It is worth noting that some Public Bodies are
also classified and registered as charities by
the Charities Commission. This is a separate
system of classification that applies to
institutions that are established for charitable
purposes only and subject to the control of
the High Court's charity law jurisdiction. This
is mentioned for information only, and is not
within the scope of this document. More
information about UK charities can be found
here: https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/what-makes-a-charity-cc4/
what-makes-a-charity-cc4
RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Chapter One

How To Reach The Right Category Of Public Body
RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

japter 1 I How To Reach The Right Category Of Public Body

1.1 Determinant Factors

New public bodies should only be created if
there is a clear and pressing requirement, a
clear need for the state to provide the function
or service through a public body, and no
viable alternative - effectively establishing
new public bodies as a last resort. This is
to prevent any unnecessary increase in the
number of public bodi

Departments should consider whether the
proposed functions are needed, and whether
there are any alternatives to establishing a
new public body (this requires at least a basic
understanding of the various alternatives for
delivering new services or functions). These
initial considerations form the first part of the
determinant factors that lead to the main
types of public bodies available.

1.1.1 Initial Considerations

The following decision tree sets out a range
of issues that departments should consider
when setting up new public bodies. This is
not an exhaustivelist and departmentsshould
think creatively when considering how new
services or functions should be delivered
However, as a minimum, departments should
explore the followingoptionsas a precursorto
choosing the form of delivery for that function:

Chart 1 Initial Questions On Setting Up Public Bodies

Is the proposed public or government Yes:
service or function really needed, and Required
should it be provided by the state? Function

Is there sufficient demand for this, No: Consider Waiting Yes: Consider
and does it contribute to Government Until Actual Demand Next Step
policy, committment or legal Before Setting Up.

obligation?

Is it unique or something sufficiently Similar: Link Yes: Consider
similar already being provided To Existing Next Step
elsewhere? Entity

Will this entity operate commercially, Commercial: Provided Non Commercial
covering over 50% of its cost from By Public Corporation Look To Provider
commercial activities (Chapter 6)

Should the function be provided Gov: Provided By An Parit: Provided By LG or DA: Provided
by Government (‘Gov’), Parliament Arm’s Length Body Entity Set Up By By Entity Set Up By
(‘Parlt’), Local Government (‘LG’) or (Chapter 2) Or Within & Accountable To & Accountable To LG
a Devolved Administration (‘DA’)? Department (Chapter 3) Parit (Chapter 4) Or DA (Chapter 5)

Chapter 1 I How To Reach The

1.2 Options Of Public Bodies

Once departments have considered the initial
questions contained within Chart 1, there
follow a series of options for each category
dependent on whether the entity receives over
50 per cent of its funding from commercial
activities and then which part of the state
should be accountable and administer the
body (the Government, Parliament, Local
Government or the Devolved Administrations.

The main resulting categories of public entity
are as follows:

ight Category Of Pub!

dy

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

1.2.1 Administratively Classified
Government ALBs:

These are the main recognised categories of
public bodies within the UK. They are subject
to ONS National Accounts classification,
as Central Government. These categories
are the preferred method for delivery for
department sponsored public bodies
(that do not have a majority income from
commercial activities).

Each of the categories listed below are
covered in greater detail within subsequent
sections of the Public Bodies Guidance
Handbook. See Chapter 2 for more
information on the following categories of
ALB:

Executive Agency - a public body that acts
as an arm of its home department.

Non Departmental Public Body - a
public body that operates separately from
its sponsoring department.

Non Ministerial Department - a public
body that shares many characteristics with
a full department, but without a minister
and acts separately from any sponsoring
department.

1.2.2. Non-Classified
Government Entities:

These are some of the categories of
Government public bodies that are not
covered by administrative classification.
They are included in this document to
provide a fuller description of the overall
public bodies’ landscape. See Chapter 3 for
more information on the following forms of
non-administratively classified government
entities:

Offices and Taskforces - distinct groups
within a department that are usually set up
to deliver on a specific task or project.

Working Groups - department specific
teams of advisors usually civil servants,
though can include external specialists;
advice does not need to be independent
of the department.

Expert Committees - committees of
independent specialists, administered from
within a department.

Statutory Office Holder - post created
by legislation to carry out public functions.

Department specific - public bodies
that are uniquely classified by specific
departments.

1.2.3 Non-Classified
Parliamentary Bodies:

While the majority of public bodies that
operate within the UK are established and
operated by the Government, some are set
up by and directly accountableto Parliament.
See Chapter 4 for more information on
Parliamentary bodies.

1.2.4 Non-Classified Local
Government & Devolved
Administration Bodies:

Similar to Parliamentary bodies, these
are set up by and directly accountable to
either Local Government or the Devolved
Administrations. See Chapter 5 for more
information on each.

1.2.5 Public Corporations:

Any public entity that is at least 50 per cent
funded through commercial activities will be
classified by the ONS National Accounts
system as a Public Corporation. These
are only included in this document for
illustrative purposes. See Chapter 6 for
more information on Public Corporations.

jpter 1 I How To Reach The

ight Category Of Publ

Body

1.3 Category’s Characteristics

Each of the three categories of ALB possess
certain characteristics (listed below) that are
consistent and comparable, meaning all
examples of a particularcategory will have the
same characteristics no matter what they do
or which department they are sponsored by.
The individual category spe mbination
of characteristics will form a unique list that
help define (and contrast the differences
between) the categories of ALBs and some
of the other forms of public bodies.

These comparable characteristics are:

Sources of Funding / Income:

Examines the different public and private
revenue streams available for funding public
bodies.

Relationship to the Home Department:
Covering oversight and accountability, by
listing the ability for departments to control
public bodies from a strategic, policy or
operational level, as well as addressing how
they are accountable and to whom

Setup and Position in Government:

Looks at how public bodies are established,

and where they fit within Departments.

Duration:
Covershow longa public body will operate for.

Appointments and Management:

Looks at how the public body is managed
at a senior level and how that management
structure is appointed.

Status of Staff:

Covers whether the staff are civil servants or
another category of public servants, as well
as how they are employed and their status.

Financial Accounts:
Examines where the public body's accounts
are prepared and published.

These characteristics and the options for each
of them are fully covered in Appendix A. They
are also presented in a comparative table
which lists the characteristics for most of the
categories of public body in Appendix B.

RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Chapter Two

Categories Of Government Arm’s Length Body
hapter 2 I Clas:

This chapter covers the three categories of
administratively classified arm's length public
bodies, which include Executive Agencies,
Non Departmental Public Bodies and Non
Ministerial Departments. The followingsections
will provide details on the determinant factors
that lead to each category and the unique
pattern of comparable characteristics that
typify each of these administrative categories.
The following decision tree lists the main
options for administratively classified ALBs.

2.1 Choice Of Government
Provided Public Body

Once departments have considered the initial
questions contained in the decision tree at
Chart 1, there follows a series of questions to
help determine the best option for the public
body. These cover:

The appropriate level of departmental control
which will determine whether or not it should
be delivered or administrated by a department
directly, or if independence is required; and

If independence is needed, category of ALB
is best suited for delivery of the function by
virtue of the degree of freedom it requires from
the Department in order to fulfil its function.

ied Arm’s Length Publi

Chart 2 Choices To Determine Categories Of Public Entity

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
See Chart 1

Should the service be delivered
or administered internally within
a ministerial department?

What degree of freedom from the
Department is required to fulfil the
body's function?

Administrative
Categories available:

Options, dependent on function:

Yes

RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

No: Requires External
Technical Expertise,
& Political Impartiality

Yes: Delivered
Internally Within
Ministerial Department.
See Chapter 3

Accepts Grant In Aid,
Can Levy Fund. Some
Operational Control
Over Policy

Accepts Direct
Funding. Close Dept.
Policy Alignment

Executive Agency
Arm Of Department,
No Separate Legal
Personality

Non Departmental Public
Body: Operationally
Independent Of Dept, Usually
Separate Legal Personality

Funded from Own
Estimate. Greater
Operational and
Policy Control

Non Ministerial
Department: Distinct
From Dept., Usually
Separate Legal Personality

NDPB NDPB With
Advisory Function

Independent
Monitoring Board
hapter 2 I Clas:

2.2 Executive Agency

Executive Agencies are clearly designated
(and financially viable) business units within
departments which are responsible for
undertaking the executive functions of that
department, as distinct from giving policy
advice. They have a clear focus on delivering
specified outputs within a framework of
accountability to Ministers. While they are
managerially separate, they are independently
accountable within their home department,
which also reports to Parliament on their
agency-specific targets. Due to this close
working relationship, executive agencies are
part of their department, and do not have
the same level of legal separation from their
home departments that other categories of
public bodies often possess.

Category Specific Aspects

Varying in staff and budget size, varying in
remit, though generally not wide enough to
justify NMD status, allows departments to
maintain strategic control and policy lead.
HM Courts and Tribunals Service (‘HMCTS’)
is an Executive Agency that provides courts
and tribunal functions for HM Government.
Although there are some tribunals that operate
as separate NDPBs, all new tribunal functions
must be delivered within HMCTS and not as
separate NDPBs.

ied Arm’s Length Pub

Examples

Skills Funding Agency, Planning Inspectorate,
Valuation Office Agency.

Exceptions

Trading Funds: Usually EAs that are specially
classified by ONS as public corporations.
They are a means of financing the revenue-
generating operations of a Department or
Public body which takes them outside the
supply process. They are not separate legal
entities and remain part of a Department
(or are Departments in their own right).
Trading funds are no longer an option for
EAs. Existing funds will be reviewed in the
ordinary course of business and can be
reclassified if necessary (see chapter 6).

NMDs with EA Status: For a variety of
historic reasons the previous classification
system allowed a number of EAs to be dual
Classified as NMDs. This resulted in a lack of
consistency between NMDs, and possible
conflicts of governance. In future dual EA/
NMD classification is not an option. Existing
EAs with dual NMD classification will be
reviewed in the ordinary course of business
and can be reclassified if necessary.

Comparable Characteristics

Oversight / Accountability:
Dept sets policy, minister accountable to
Parliament.

Sources Of Income:
Included in home dept estimate.

Setup & Position In Government:

Part of home dept, established by home
dept, sometimes under legislation but without
separate legal personality.

Duration:
Permanent.

Appointments:

Minister appoints CEO via a civil service
commissioners appointment, and non-exec
chair.

Staffing:
Civil servants.

Accounting:
Produce their own but consolidate with home
dept.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Determinant Factors:

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
Yes

Should the service be delivered
or administered internally within
a ministerial department?
Externally

What degree of freedom from the
Department is required to fulfil the
body's function?”

Accepts Direct Funding. Close Dept.
Policy Alignment.

Administrative Categories available:
Executive Agency

12
hapter 2 I Clas:

ied Arm’s Length Pub

2.3 Non Departmental Public Body

NDPBs have a role in the process of national
government but are not part of a government
department. They operate at arm’s length
from ministers, though a minister will be
responsible to Parliament for the NDPBs.
The category also includes NDPBs with
advisory functions, and Independent
Monitoring Boards (‘IMBs’ which are
now included as department specific
bodies). They are also set out below, as

they can possess different characteristics.

Category Specific Aspects

Previously, there was a distinction between
Executive and Tribunal NDPBs. However, as
all new tribunal functions must be established
within HMCTS, the Tribunal sub-categoryis not
an available option. Legacy Tribunal NDPBs
will remain in place, though for the purposes
of this document they are not included, which
allows for Executive NDPBs to be referred to
only as ‘NDPB’.

Examples

Arts Council England, Competition Appeals
Tribunal.

Exceptions

There are three NDPBs that are also Crown
entities, meaning they are not as separate
from the Crown as other NDPBs. This has
various effects, such as allowing them to
employ civil servants.

These are included here as an explanation
of the landscape -— but are exceptions to the
rule. As such new Crown NDPBs should not
be established in this manner.

Their sources of income: included within
home departmentestimate, usually delivered
as grant in aid (though with levy or charges),
less likely to alternative fund raising. Their
Staffing: civil servants.

Comparable Characteristics

Oversight / Accountability:
Dept. usuallysets strategic framework, minister
accountable to Parliament.

Sources Of Income:

From Dept. estimate, usually delivered as grant
in aid; other sources can include levy powers
and charitable donations.

Setup & Position In Government:
Established and sponsored by Dept. with
own separate legal personality, outside of
the Crown.

Duration:
At least three years.

Appointments:

Ministers normally appoint the chair and all
non-executive members, and are consulted
on the appointment of the CEO.

Staffing:
Public servants

Accounting:
Produce own, consolidated within home Dept.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Determinant Factors:

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
Yes

Should the service be delivered
or administered internally within
a ministerial department?
Externally

How much Independence from

the department is required?

Accepts Grant in Aid, Can Levy Fund,
Some Operational Control over Policy

Administrative Categories available:
Non Departmental Public Body

Options, dependent on function:
NDPB

13,
hapter 2 I Classified Arm’s Length Public Bodies

2.3.1 NDPBs With Advisory Functions

Category Specific Aspects

These NDPBs consist of external (non-civil
service) experts who operate in a personal
capacity to form boards or committees
to advise ministers on particular policy
areas. They are often supported by a small
secretariat from the sponsoring department,
which also provides funding. They provide
independent specialist advice (free from
political control) to departments. There are
other forms of advisory entity that exist,
such as Expert Committees, that operate
similarly but as part of their department (see
Chapter 3).

Examples

Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs,
Boundary Commission for England.

Determinant Factors:

==

Comparable Characteristics
(where different to NDPBs above)

Oversight/Accountability:

Dept. usually sets strategic framework,
advice is impartial and apolitical, with minister
accountable to Parliament.

Sources Of Income:
Included in Dept. estimate.

Setup & Position In Government:
Independent of but established by Dept.
without separate legal personality.

Appointments:
Minister appoints members.

Staffing:

Committee of Independent specialists
(supported by Dept. civil servants as a
secretariat).

Accounting:

Do not produce their own — any income
or expenditure forms part of the Dept.'s
accounts,

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

2.3.2 Independent Monitoring Boards

Category Specific Aspects

IMBs are statutory public bodies established
by the Prison Act 1952 (and the Armed
Forces Act 2006 for the sole military IMB) to
monitor the welfare of prisoners in the UK to
ensure that they are properly cared for within
Prison and Immigration Centre rules, whilst in
custody and detention. They are responsible
for the state of prisons (and some detention
centres), including their administration and
the treatment of prisoners. Given the specific
nature of IMBs they are better classed as
Department specific (see Chapter 3).

Examples

HMPs Pentonville, Long Lartin and Wormwood
Scrubs.

Determinant Factors:

mm

——

Comparable Characteristics
(where different to NDPBs above)

Sources Of Income:
Included in Dept. estimate.

Setup & Position In Government:
‘Set up alongside new prisons, without separate
legal personality.

Duration:
Dependent on their home prison.

Appointments:
Secretary of State appoints board.

Staffing:
Unpaid volunteers as board.

Accounting:

Do not produce their own — any income or
expenditure forms part of the Dept.'s accounts,

14
hapter 2 I Clas:

ied Arm’s Length Pub

2.4 Non Ministerial Department

NMDs operate similarly to normal government
Departments in the functions they perform
(though usually they are more specialised
and not as wide ranging in the policy areas
they cover). They generally cover matters
for which direct political oversight is judged
unnecessary or inappropriate. They are
usually headed by a senior civil servant as
Chief Executive, with an independent Chair
and non-executive directors for the board.
Some are headed by a permanent office
holder, such as a Permanent Secretary or
Second Permanent Secretary.

Category Specific Aspects

In some instances NMDs report directly to
Parliament, instead of having a sponsoring
Minister report on their behalf. However, as
this is relatively uncommon, the NMD option
is only rarely viewed as the best option when
setting up new ALBs. HM Treasury's Managing
Public Money guidance raises this issue of
potentially limited accountability to Parliament.
NMDs can sponsor their own public bodies
(usually NDPBs).

Examples

HM Revenue & Customs, National Crime
Agency, Competition and Markets Authority,
Serious Fraud Office.

Exceptions

There are some examples of NMDs that
also hold Executive Agency status, which
has resulted in a lack of consistency
between NMDs. Whilst in practice there is
a dominant choice of governance structure,
on paper there are conflicts between the
two categories. As such this practice is
to be avoided, and no future NMD should
be given dual NMD and Executive Agency
status. Existing multi-classifiedbodies will be
reviewed in the ordinary course of business
and have their classification reassessed if
and where necessary.

Comparable Characteristics

Oversight / Accountability:

Sets own delivery policies, though Dept. can
set the strategic framework, usually minister
accountable to Parliament.

Sources Of Income:
Usually from own estimate; other sources can
include levy powers.

Setup & Position In Government:
Usually established by the PM as a Dept. in its
own right, with separate personality.

Duration:
Permanent.

Appointments:

Sponsoring minister usually appoints board
members, though usually subject to pre-
appointment scrutiny by parliament.

Staffing:
Civil servants.

Accounting:
Produce own accounts.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Determinant Factors:

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
Yes

Should the service be delivered
or administered internally within
a ministerial department?
Externally

What degree of freedom from the
Department is required to fulfil the
body's function?

Funded from own estimate.

Greater operational and policy control.

Administrative Categories available:
Non Ministerial Department

=

I ; =
_=

—

15
RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Chapter Three

Non-Administratively Classified Government Entities
This chapter will cover the Government entities
that fall outside of the main administratively
classified categories of ALBs, (see Chapter 2).
Itis includedfor completenessand to providea
useful guide to some of the possible alternatives
to ALBs. These are entities that, whilst distinct
from regular department operations (and in
some instances even staffed by external non-
civil servants), are still administrated within a
ministerial department. As such they do not
operate at arm's length to ministers.

The following chart focuses on the questions
that lead to these non-administratively
classified government entities

3.1 Choices Of (Non-ALB)
Ministerial Entity

Once departments have considered the initial
questions contained in the decision tree at
Chart 1, the following choices will determine
the best option for the ministerial entity.

Will the function or service provided within the
department be:

By the department's civil servants (though it
can bring in external support), but as a discrete
project or taskforce; or

By external staff (public servants), as a discrete
entity though not administered at arm's length.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Chart 3 Choices To Determine (Non-ALB ) Ministerial Entity

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
See Chart 1

‘Should the service be delivered or
administered internally within
a ministerial department?

Is this function carried out as a
discrete project within the Dept. by

its staff, or by external staff (though
not administered at arm’s length)?

Resulting options, dependent on
function and staffing:

There now follows a breakdown covering each of the non-admii

Yes: Delivered
Internally Within
Ministerial
Department.

No: Requires External
Technical Expertise &
Political Impartiality.
See Chapter 2.

Project Or Taskforce

In Dept: Requires
Individual Treatment.

Attached To Dept. Though
Separate: Controlled & Funded
By Dept, Though With External
Staff/Members.

Office or Working Expert Statutory Department
Taskforce. Group. Committee. Office Specific
Holder. Public Body.

tratively classified government options available.

7
3.2 Department’s Office Or Taskforce

These are distinct entities that form part of
government departments. They are usually
set up for a specific project or initiative, with
dedicated teams with Departments.

They do not have executive agency status
(and do not have the governance structures
or the operational autonomy of an executive
agency). They are staffed by civil servants and
work within the rules and processes of their
relevant home department.

A small number of offices and taskforces
are cross-cutting (and bring together staff
and policy responsibilities from different
departments). Some offices have non-
executive Chairs and/or members who provide
strategic direction, advice and leadership.
These are usually appointed by ministers.

Category Specific Aspects

Smaller, variable duration though usually
limited to less than three years, easier to
set up (usually not requiring legislation,
Parliamentary authorisation or estimate
funding), with far more direct ministerial control
and accountability than there would be for
other types of public bodies like NDPBs.

Examples

Better Regulation Executive, Office of Tax
Simplification

Comparable Characteristics

Oversight/accountability:
Part of Dept. as such sets own policy,
minister accountable to Parliament.

Sources of Income:
Included in Dept. estimate.

Setup & Position In Government:
Part of Dept., set up at minister's discretion,
without legislation or separate legal personality.

Duration:
Varies, though usually less than three years.

Appointments:
Minister or Dept. official to appoint the head
(usually a civil servant) and board if there is one.

Staffing:
Civil servants, with external support if required.

Accounting:
Does not produce own, any income or
expenditure included in Dept. accounts.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Determinant Factors:

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
Yes

‘Should the service be delivered
or administered internally within
a ministerial department?
Internally

Is this function carried out as a discrete
project within the Dept. by its staff, or
by extemal staff?

Project or taskforce in Dept

Resulting option, dependent on
function and staffing:

Office or Taskforce

oH

18

3.3 Department’s Working Group

Working groups are part of government
departments. They are not independent
advisory entities such as Advisory NDPBs
or Expert Committees (both of which are
operationally independent in terms of the
advice they gather, analyse and present).
Working groups comprise of Stakeholder
and Public Sector groups.

Stakeholder Working Groups:

These are internal entities that advise
departments on the basis of representation
from specific sectors, industries, professions
and communities. They comprise a majority
of representatives of organisations and
(generally) not individuals appointed in a
personal capacity because of their specific
skills and experience.

Public Sector Working Groups:

These are departmental or inter-departmental
working groups comprising mainly of civil
servants and or wider public servants
that advise their departments on specific
(sometimes cross departmental) issues.
Inboth instances there can be an independent
chair and independent members, but the
majority must comprise of representatives
/ ex Officios.

Category Specific Aspects

Smaller, more specific with flexibilityon duration
{it does not have to be time limited), easier to
set up (not requiring legislation, Parliamentary
authorisation or estimate funding), far more
direct ministerial control and accountability
than there would be for other types of public
bodies like NDPBs.

Examples
Stakeholder Working Group on Unrecorded

Public Rights of Way, and the Purchases
Survey External Stakeholder Working Groups

Comparable Characteristics

Oversight / accountability:
Part of Dept. as such sets own policy,
minister accountable to Parliament.

Sources of income:
Included in home Dept. estimate.

Setup & Position In Government:
Part of Dept., set up at minister's discretion,
without legislation or separate legal personality.

Duration:
Varies, though usually less than three years.

Appointments:
Minister or Dept. official to appoint members
(and chair if there is one).

Staffing:
Civil servants, with external support if required.

Accounting:
Does not produce own, any income
or expenditure included in Dept. accounts.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Determinant Factors:

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
Yes

‘Should the service be delivered
or administered internally within
a ministerial department?
Internally

Is this function carried out as a discrete
project within the Dept. by its staff, or
by extemal staff?

Project or taskforce in Dept

Resulting option, dependent on
function and staffing:
Working Group

19
3.4 Expert Committee

These are usually non-statutory groups,
providing independent expert advice on key
issues from within the department. Like many of
the NDPBs that possess an advisory function,
Expert Committees comprise of external (non-
civil service) specialists that form committees
to advise ministers on particular policy areas.
However, they are not ALBs like NDPBs. They
are funded from within a department budget,
administrated and resourced by civil servants
from within the department, and are not subject
to the same levels of review or scrutiny that
ALBs require.

It is important to note however that they and
the advice they provide are still politically and
operationally independent. Where there is
political or operational control exercised over
advisers, the expert committee format is
unlikely to be appropriate. In such instances
Departments might instead consider
establishing an internal department advisory
team, taskforce or office, or merely engaging
external consultants on a specific contract.

Category Specific Aspects

Given the similarities in function between
Expert Committees and NDPBs with advisory
functions, the Cabinet Office has developed
six ‘indicators’ that can be used to help
differentiate between these two advisory
entities. The indicators can be found in full
at Annex C. They include: risk mitigation
(covering risks to the advisory process);
frequency and volume of the advice provided;
size of committee and secretariat; duration;
and whether or not the body has a statutory
framework.

Examples

Expert Committee on Pesticides, and
the Workplace Health Expert Committee.

Comparable Characteristics

Oversight / accountability:

Dept. usually sets strategic framework,
advice is impartial and apolitical, with
minister accountable to Parliament.

Sources of income:
Included in home Dept. estimate.

Setup & Position In Government:
Independentof, but established by and seated
within Dept. without separate legal personality.

Duration:
Varies, though usually permanent.

Appointments:
Flexibility for Minister or Dept. officials to
appoint members (and chair if there is one).

Staffing:
Independent external experts, supported by
civil servants.

Accounting:
Does not produce own, any income or
expenditure included in Dept. accounts.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Determinant Factors:

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
Yes

‘Should the service be delivered
or administered internally within
a ministerial department?
Internally

Is this function carried out as a discrete
project within the Dept. by its staff, or
by extemal staff?

Attached to Dept. though separate

Resulting option, dependent on
function and staffing:
Expert Committee

3.5 Statutory Office Holder

A statutory office is a position established
under legislation (in some instances by a
prerogative Order in Council) and sometimes
as a separate legal entity or corporation sole,
with a specific remit to conduct activities or
deliver services within the public sector but
which is an individual and not an organisation.
The statutory office is a position held by one
person, the statutory office holder, though
the office may be provided powers to request
additional resources if required (these would
usually be provided by a department or by
Parliament) or to employ staff.

Category Specific Aspects

They can be set up by a ministerial department
or on Parliament's behalf. When examining
the governance arrangements of a statutory
Office consideration needs to be given to the
individual elements of its legislative framework.

Examples

The CIC Regulator, Commissioner for Public
Appointments.

Comparable Characteristics

Oversight/accountability:

If part of Dept., acts apolitically, with minister
accountable to Parliament. If independent of
Dept., reports directly to Parliament.

Sources of income:
Depending on who establishes, may be via
grant in aid, or exceptionally own estimate.

Setup & Position In Government:

Set up either by legislation or prerogative,
to work on behalf of the Crown or not, as
appropriate. Can have separate legal
personality as a corporation sole.

Duration:
Varies, though usually permanent.

Appointments:
Minister appoints Office Holder.

Staffing:

Sole Office Holder (public servant), can be
supported by civil servants on Dept. loan or
have powers to employ staff.

Accounting:
Produces own accounts.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Determinant Factors:

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
Yes

‘Should the service be delivered
or administered internally within
a ministerial department?
Internally

Is this function carried out as a discrete
project within the Dept. by its staff, or
by extemal staff?

Attached to Dept. though separate

Resulting option, dependent on
function and staffing:
Statutory Office Holder

3.6 Department Specific Public Bodies

The Departments for Health and the Ministries
of Justice and Defence each have their own
sub-classification for two specific types of
public body. Due to the National Accounts
Classification, existing legislative requirements
and the nature of the functions or services
that they carry out they are viewed as distinct
public bodies, and not merely offices within
a Department. However, the functions they
provide and overall governance structures are
incompatible with the main categories of ALB,
precluding them from regular administrative
classification. As they are highly specialised
they are classified as Department specific
public bodies. It is important to note that this
is not the preferred model, and is reserved for
only the choices listed in this Chapter. When
establishing any new Department specific
public body, consideration should be given to
whether the function or service to be provided
could be carried out by an existing entity rather
than having to establish a new one.

3.6.1 Department of Health:
Special Health Authorities

These are a form of NHS Trust and are
administrated by NHS England (itself a
NDPB of the Department of Health). These
public bodies deliver services on behalf of the
NHS. They are established by an order of the
Secretary of State under the National Health
Service Act 2006 and have national rather
than regional effect. The Secretary of State
exercises ministerial control over their activities,
though funding is from Parliament not grant
in aid. They are bodies corporate, with a
board, and are staffed by public servants.
This form is most appropriate for handling
large operational activities relating to the NHS.

Examples

NHS Trust Development Authority, NHS Blood
and Transplant

3.6.2 Ministry Of Justice &
Ministry Of Defence: IMBS

Independent Monitoring Boards have already
been discussed in Chapter 2. These are
currently administratively classified as NDPBs,
but are very much department specific and
do not share all of the same comparable
characteristics of the NDPB category. As such
they can be viewed as Department specific
public entities, as well as NDPBs

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Determinant Factors:

Is it necessary for the Government
to provide the service or function?
Yes

‘Should the service be delivered
or administered internally within
a ministerial department?
Internally

Is this function carried out as a discrete
project within the Dept. by its staff, or
by extemal staff?

Attached to Dept. though separate

Resulting option, dependent on
function and staffing:
Specific Public Bodies

22
RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Chapter Four

Non-Administratively Classified Parliamentary Entities
4.1 Parliament

Also known as the ‘Legislature’, Parliament is
made up of three central elements: the House
of Commons, the House of Lords and the
Monarchy. The majority of its business occurs
in the two Houses. It is the highest legislative
authority in the UK, scrutinising the work of
the government and examining, debating and
approving new laws. Parliament also holds
the power to set certain taxes and debate
the important issues of the day.

Government

The Prime Minister and Ministers (who head
departments) that make up the government
are themselves drawn from Parliament. While
government and Parliament work closely
together, they are separate institutions with
separate functions. Also known as the
‘Executive’, the government has responsibility
for developing and implementing policy and
for drafting laws.

Parliament and Public Bodies

Parliament impacts on the wider public
bodies landscape in different ways. Primarily
it examines and challenges the work of the
government through questioning ministers,
debating and committee work. Part of
this scrutiny covers the activities of the
government's public bodies (as can be seen
in the Accountability characteristic covered in
Chapters 2 and 3).

In some instances parliamentary bodies

have been set up to assist in scrutinising the
government, these report directly to Parliament
(often via Parliamentary Committees).

Parliament also impacts on the funding of
certain public bodies through its powers to
check and approve Government spending.
Specifically this covers departmentalestimates
(the public money that Parliament votes to
each department from the exchequer) which
in turn funds many public bodies, and own
estimate (voted directly from the exchequer)
that funds certain public bodies such as NMDs.

4.2 Parliamentary Bodies

These are public bodies set up by, and
usually reporting directly to, Parliament
(typically via one of its Committees) and not
to a government department or minister.
They often deliver functions or services that
are viewed as of particular importance to
Parliament, or requiring even greater distance
from ministerial control. They are often set
up with similar structures and powers as
other public bodies, though their governance
processes are usually more focussed on
political independence and accountability
to Parliament. Usually they will be staffed by
public servants, with senior appointments
made by or with Parliamentary involvement
or oversight. Statutory Office Holders can be
established as parliamentary bodies as well
as by departments (see Chapter 3).

Examples

National Audit Office, Independent
Parliamentary Standards Authority

RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

Comparable Characteristics

Oversight / accountability:
Usually sets own policy and directly
accountable to parliament.

Sources of income:
Usually has own estimate.

Setup and Position In Government:
Usually established by legislation with separate
legal personality. Not part of the executive.

Duration:
Varies, though usually permanent.

Appointments:
Usually headed by statutory board, appointed
by parliament.

Staffing:
Public servants, though can be supported by

civil servants on Dept. loan.

Accounting:
Produces own accounts.

24
RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Chapter Five

Non-Administratively Classified Local Government
Entities & Devolved Administration Entities
This chapter will focus on local government
and devolved administrations’ public entities.
In order to address these, it is useful to
first look at their treatment under the ONS.
National Accounts (Sectoral) system of
classification. As outlined in the Introduction,
ONS sectorally classifies public entities into
three categories: ‘Central Government’,
‘Local Government’ and ‘Public Corporations’.
Public corporations will be covered in Chapter
6. Local government will be addressed next
and then the devolved administrations in
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland (which
are classified to Central Government).

Central Government covers all administrative
departments of the State and other central
agencies whose effect extends over the
whole economic territory (in this case the
whole of the UK).

Local government is defined in terms of the
role an entity has over only a local (static and
geographically defined) part of the economic
territory.

5.1 Local Government

The sectoral classification includes public
entities that are funded and administered
by local government and not central
government.

Local government make and carry out
decisions on local services. Many parts of
England have two tiers of local government:
county councils and district, borough or
city councils. In some parts of the country,
there's just one tier providing all the functions,
known as ‘unitary authorities’, (including
cities, boroughs or county councils). As
well as these, many areas also have parish
or town councils.

Some of these have these have established
their own public bodies: non-profit institutions
controlled by local government and whose
competence is restricted to the economic
territories of the local government.

These are out of scope for this document,
but are included here for completeness and
to provide a better understanding of the
wider public bodies landscape.

Category Specific Aspects

Local government public bodies vary widely
in terms of size, duration, function and
governance structure.

Their funding will usually come from the
local government that has established and
sponsors them, however, in some instances
they may also raise commercial funding, and
apply for central government grants.

Examples

Age Concern Wiltshire, Colchester Port,
Transport for London.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Exceptions

It is worth noting there are some central
government bodies that cover local
government issues, however, as they have
UK-wide effect, they are not classified to
local government.
5.2 Devolved Administrations

Devolution in the UK created the Scottish
Parliament, National Assembly for Wales and
Northern Ireland Assembly. Varying levels
of power have been transferred from the
UK Parliament to the devolved legislatures.

Devolved & Reserved Powers

Devolved powers are those that were
previously exercised by the UK Parliament
but are now exercised by the devolved
legislatures. These powers cover many
domestic policy issues, which are exercised
through specific law-making powers, for
areas that include: education, culture,
transport, the environment and health.

Some powers have been specifically
reserved to the UK Parliament. These include,
amongst others, defence and foreign policy.

The legislation establishing each devolved
administration determines which powers are
devolved or reserved.

Sectoral Classification

The underpinning EU legislation on sectoral
classification differentiates between
different forms of federal and state level
government. However, the UK’s system
of devolved administration does not have
the characteristics of a ‘federal’ system of
government.Also, as there is no comparable
devolved assembly or devolution of powers
in England, the countries within the UK do
not have the characteristics of separate
‘states’ as the largest areas into which the
country can be politically or administratively
divided. As such the ONS has determined
that the devolved administrations fall within
the Central Government classification.

Devolved Administrations’
Public Bodies

As a result of the devolved administrations
being sectorally classified to central
government, their public bodies can
(and generally tend to) follow similar
categorisations to those covered within
Chapters 2 and 3. However, as the powers
to establish public bodies in devolved
areas has been transferred to the devolved
administrations, their ultimate form and
governance structures will be determined
by the devolved administrations themselves.

These devolved public bodies are out of
scope for this document, but are included
here for completeness and to provide a
better understanding of the wider public
bodies landscape.

Category Specific Aspects

The public bodies that are created by the
devolved administrations should only have
scope over the specific geographical area
of their devolved administration.

They will vary in size, duration, function
and governance structure. Their funding
will come primarily from their sponsoring
devolved administration, though in some
instances they may also raise commercial
funding, and apply for central government
grants.

Some of these public bodies will have mixed
functions — functions that relate to reserved
matters and some which do not. An example
of such a body with mixed functions is a
Scottish local authority.

Examples
Scottish Further Education Unit, Belfast

Health and Social Care Trust, Sports Council
for Wales.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Exceptions

There are public bodies that have UK wide
effect carrying out functions on reserved
matters only, they are administrated by their
sponsor departmentsin the UK Government.

There are cross-border public bodies that
have UK wide effect carrying out (at least
some) functions on matters that have been
devolved in whole or in part. Whilst these are
administrated by their home UK departments,
there will be occasions when they must
consult with the devolved administrations.
Also any reports or legislative instruments
relating to the cross-border public bodies
that will be laid before the UK Parliament
will also be laid before the affected devolved
administration.

The Northern Ireland and Scotland Offices
(departments of the UK Government) have
their own ALBs which are not part of the
devolved administrations.

27
RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Chapter Six

Public Corporations
6.1 ONS Sectoral
Classification

As discussed in the Introduction, in the UK
the ONS operates the system of National
Accounts (or sectoral) classification,

which is based on the European System
of Accounts 1995 (which implements

the United Nations System of National
Accounts 1993). This sectoral classification
allows Member States to develop an
integrated, complete system of accounts
that can be used to establish (and compare)
significant economic activity.

The ONS categorises various entities that are
subject to government control, these being
central government entities, local government
entities and public corporations. The ONS
determines which public bodies are public
corporations and the criteria they adopt
has the potential to impact on any of the
administratively classified ALBs, and even
Local Governmentpublic bodies and Devolved
Administration's public bodies.

A body will be classified as a public
corporation where:

It is classified as a market body — a body
that derives more than 50 per cent of its
production cost from the sale of goods or
services at economically significant prices
(thatis, prices that have a substantial influence

on the amounts of products that producers
are willing to supply and on the amounts of
products that purchasers wish to acquire) for
all or most of the goods and services they
produce. Some charge for regulatory activities,
where these provide a significant benefit to the
person paying the fee, for example through
quality testing; and

It is controlled by central government, local
government or other public corporations; and

It has substantial day to day operating
independence so that it should be seen as
an institutional unit separate from its parent
department.

This mainly covers trading bodies, that either
operate commercially or recover some or all
of their costs from fees charged to customers.
This category of sectoral classification normally
only applies where 50 per cent or more of
costs are met from such outside income. The
50 per cent criterion should be applied by
looking over a range of years to avoid frequent
reclassifications through minor fluctuations in
one year which are not repeated or expected
to be repeated in the future.

6.2 Trading Funds

Trading Funds were established by meeting
the criteria within the Government Trading
Funds Act 1973, and only occurred when over
50 per cent of the body's revenue consisted
of receipts in respect of goods and services
provided by the Trading Fund. They also
needed to satisfy the sponsor department's
minister and HM Treasury that establishing the
fund would lead to improved efficiency and
effectiveness in management of operations.

Trading funds are sectorally classified as public
corporations. In future ALBs that should
operate commercially will instead consider
other commercial models and not apply for
trading fund status. This will not preclude other
non-ALB Trading Funds from being created,
but will avoid the discrepancy over governance
that occurs when an administratively classified
ALB (especially EAs that are part of the Crown)
are treated as public corporations due to their
Trading Fund status. Specifically this covers
HM Treasury's treatment of such bodies for
budgetary and accountancy purposes against
the administrative controls that Cabinet Office
apply (for example) to EAs on the basis that
they are part of a ministerial department and
Staffed by civil servants.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Existing ALB trading funds will be reviewed
by their departments in the ordinary
course of business. With each review also
examining whether trading fund status is
still required given actual business practices,
and any viable alternative models should
be considered. Where Trading Fund status
has been reviewed and is still required, no
changes to classification need to be made.
RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Chapter Seven

Ongoing Classification Issues
jpter 7 I Ongoing Classification Issues

7.1 Multi-Classified ALBs

There are a few ALBs that hold more than one
form of administrative classification, which
may lead to confusion over which governance

structure or funding model is most appropriate.

The most common examples are NMDs that
are also EAs. These are NMDs that were set
up along the EA model, possibly as that was
seen as a useful structure to adopt and / or as
ameans of applying for Trading Fund status.

Policy on Multiple Classified ALBs

No new multi-classified ALBs should be
established. Existing multi-classified ALBs
will be reviewed by their departments in the
ordinary course of business, however, each
review will examine if they still require more
than one classification given actual business
practices and if it causes any governance
or funding problems. Adopting a single or
alternative model will only be considered
where it is appropriate to do so and does
not significantly and adversely impact on the
ALB's ability to fulfil its functions.

7.2 Unclassified ALBs

There are various public bodies that, while
sharing many attributes and characteristics
with ALBs, are currently unclassified within
the administrative system. Also they clearly
do not fall within the other categories of
non-administratively classified: government,
parliamentary, local government or devolved
administration entities. In such instances
these public bodies should be subject
to departmental review with the aim of
administratively classifying them wherever
possible, however, there may be limited
circumstances in which formal classification
may not be possible or desirable. These are
dependent on the following criteria:

Small & Temporary

Small and temporary public bodies can
be set up to address a specific concern or
issue. These will have a set end date, which
is usually so soon after creation that formal
Classification would be a disproportionate and
costly exercise that would not result in any
clear benefit. Such bodies would still need to
show an appropriate governance structure,
and lines of accountability.

Awaiting ONS National
Accounts Classification

Some currently unclassified ALBs may be
awaiting National Accounts classification, which
will have a direct impact on any administrative
Classification. Departments will be encouraged
to notify the Public Bodies Reform Team and
HM Treasury to advise on how classification
should be addressed in the interim (while
awaiting the outcome of the ONS). Once
National Accounts classification has been
determined, administrativeclassificationshould
follow where it is appropriate to do so.

Awaiting Significant
Structural Change

Some currently unclassified ALBs may
be awaiting modification to their structure
or governance which would impact on
administrative classification. In such cases,
it would be practical to await the outcome
of the changes before formal classification,
though Departments will be encouraged to
notify the Public Bodies Reform Team to advise
on how classification should be addressed in
the interim.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Genuinely Unique
& Unclassifiable

It is possible that for reasons associated with
function or services, there may be a small
number of ALBs that cannot be classified into
one of the main categories without adversely
impacting on the body's ability to fulfil of those.
functions / deliver those services. Departments
should contact the Public Bodies Reform
Team to work with them to identify any viable
alternative delivery models, and hopefully to
ensure correct administrative classification
can take place wherever possible. If this is not
possible, then such unique and unclassifiable
entities will be allowed to remain administratively
unclassified, in exceptional circumstances, so
long as they have appropriate governanceand
accountability structures in place.

ca]
jpter 7 I Ongoing Classification Issues

7.3 Legal Form

There has been a general misconception
that companies (that are owned by the

government) and ALBs are alternatives to
one another. This is incorrect as the two are
not mutually exclusive, indeed some public
bodies are incorporated as companies. These
descriptors refer to different attributes of an
organisation. ‘Arm's length body’ or ‘public
body’ signifies that government controls the
general corporate policy of the organisation,
while ‘company’ signifies that it is incorporated
under and is subject to the Companies Act
2006. The government provides guidance for
departments about public bodies (including
set-up, governance, financial management and
sponsorship), which applies equally to those
public bodies that are companies as to those
that are not. Additionally, the Companies Act
2006, Companies House and HM Treasury's
Managing Public Money guidance all provide
departments guidance on establishing and
working with companies.

There are also other methods of incorporation,
which have sometimes led to confusion. These
include ‘Royal Charter bodies’, ‘statutory
corporations’, and ‘corporations sole’.
These are merely means of incorporating
an organisation or group of individuals, and
each have their place within providing a legal

framework for certain types of public body,
as well as other private sector organisations
that are not in government. In addition to this
are terms such as ‘GovCo’ which refers to
companies that the government owns, and
‘GOCOs' which are companies owned by the
government but operated by non-government
contractors. Neither these terms, nor the other
forms of incorporation are mutually exclusive
with ALBs.

Other concerns have been raised suggesting
that government ownership of companies is
new and novel, and that companies are less
transparent and accountable than other sorts
ofarm's length body. Successive governments
have owned a wide range of companies
throughout the post-war period for a variety
of reasons - it is not anew phenomenon. Also
companies are not inherently less transparent
and accountable than other sorts of public
body. Each has its own particular arrangements
So it is difficult to generalise, however, they
are obliged to file annual accounts and other
information at Companies House which is free
for anyone to view. Indeed if these companies
are administratively classified, the governance
structures that apply to ALBs will still apply.

ated
4 es
4
rT

RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

32
RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Annex A

Options Within The Comparable Characteristics
Annex AI Options

As discussed in the Introduction, this annex
lists each of the comparable characteristics
of the main categories of public bodies.
Included are the options for each, these
will help develop the unique combination of
characteristics that define and differentiate
the main categories.

ithin The Comparable Characte:

A.1 Oversight & Accountability

This covers the level of ministerial oversight
over the operational, strategic and policy
functions of the public entity; and it covers
the line of accounting, whether that is
to a ministerial department or directly to
Parliament.

Oversight options include:

Ministerial departmental control over
strategy, policy and / or operations.

Public body alignment with ministerial
department's strategy and / or policy,
but greater operational freedom for
public body.

Public body alignment with ministerial
department strategy, but greater policy
and operational freedom.

Greater independence for public
body and freedom from ministerial
department strategy.

Accountability options include:

The entity is directly accountable to
Officials within ministerial department;

minister in turn accountable to Parliament.

The entity is directly accountable to the
minister or secretary of state, minister
in turn accountable to Parliament.

The entity is not sponsored by a ministerial
department, though a nominated minister
or secretary of state will be accountable
for that public body to Parliament.

The entity is directly accountable
to Parliament.

The entity is not accountable to
Parliament or to a ministerial department
(though possibly accountable to
shareholders, or members, or via a
specific contractual obligation).

RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

34
A.2 Sources of funding

Where does the public entity obtain its funds,
and what can it do with those funds. Some
public entities may have multiple sources
of funding.

Options include:

Direct Funding from Department (Supply
Estimate) - occurs when a sponsoring or
home department funds the public body
directly from its own departmental estimate
(the public money that Parliament votes to
each department from the exchequer). This.
system of funding is indicative of significant
departmental control over the public body
(usually for bodies that are not separate legal
entities and are part of their department).

Grant - Payments made by departments
to outside bodies to reimburse expenditure
on agreed items or functions, and often
paid only on statutory conditions. This is
where a sponsoring or home department
funds the public body directly from its own
departmental estimate, but is delivered as a
discrete funding package for the financingof
anarrowly defined, specific and agreed (with
the department) activity - to be conducted
by a public body.

Direct Taxation - is where the provision
or delivery of services or functions is taxed,
usually with the recipient/ customersor even
beneficiaries making the payment. Often
there is a legal or regulatory requirement
for the tax to be paid, with failure or refusal
leading to possible legal sanctions. Direct
taxation may be charged for a specific
service or function, but usually any taxes
raised will be paid to HMRC (as the primary
tax authority within the UK) and not used
by the public body directly.

Commercial Funding - is where a body
charges its users a commercial rate for
the service or function provided, where
the service is discretionary and customers
have private sector commercial / market
alternatives. This open competition means
that there is no government monopoly
and the trading income received is truly
commercial in nature and not a fee for a
service or a levy.

Commercial Loans - is generally not an
available option for most public bodies, as
it causes a debt obligation to a non-public
entity.

Charitable Donations & Bequeathments-
is where a public body obtains funding from
donations made by registered charities, or
where the public body is registered as a
charity and it receives donations from any
source though it must be donated for a
‘specific charitable purpose.

Own Estimate - is where parliament
votes for the public body to receive funding
directly from the exchequer and not froma
department's estimate.

Grant in Aid - this is where a sponsoring
or home department funds the public body
directly from its own departmental estimate,
but is specifically delivered as a discrete
funding package delivered to a public body
for the financing of a range of activities

that the public body chooses within broad

parameters agreed with the department.
These are regular payments by departments
to outside bodies (usually NDPBs) to finance
their operating expenditure.

Loans from department - are financial
packages that are repayable to the
department and made on specific terms.
These “voted loans” normally require
legislation to authorise them.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Levy Funding - is where customers/ users
are charged a fee for the specific service
or function provided, but where they have
no private sector commercial / market
alternatives. This lack of market forces
defines this as a levy rather than trading
income or a fee for a service. Although
some customers may have the option not
to use the service or function, levies can
be imposed on a particular sector or class
(eg via compulsory licensing). Levies are
classified as taxation and go either to the
exchequer or are retained to fund a specific
service or function.

Fees and Charges - are where users of
government services have to pay a fee or
charge to receive that service, for example
a driving licence, instead of the service
being funded through taxation. They are
usually set on a full cost-recovery basis and
require legislation to authorise them. Unlike
levies, they are not compulsory in nature.

35
A.3 Position within
Government & process
for setting up

Where does the public entity sit within the
wider government, and how is it established
(public entities can possess more than one of
the options listed as they are not all mutually
exclusive):

Position within government,
options include:

Parliamentary - created by, directly
funded by and responsible to Parliament

Separate from but supported by
Department - receives staff on loan
(usually as secretariat)

Separate from but sponsored by
Department - only sponsored
by minister

Part of Department -
sits within ministerial department

Department -
part of and set up by Government

Independent - no direct connection
to Government, usually for certain types
of public corporation

Process for setting up,
options include:

Established by Department -
set up by ministerial fiat

Established by Parliament -
set up by Parliament

Statute -
set up and operates under legislation

Separate Legal Personality -
distinct from the Crown

A.4 Appointment
& Management

How the public entity is managed and how
that management structure is appointed:
Management options can be divided
into executive and non-executive
functions, and include:

Chief Executive

Non-Executive Board and Chair
(can be statutory)

Government Officials / Senior Civil Servant

Committee members (usually of specialists)

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Appoint options range from
the following options:

Executive appoints
Non-executive appoints.

Department official on behalf of
Minister appoints

Direct ministerial appointment

Civil Service Commissioners appoint
Department official on behalf of
Crown appoints

Parliament appoints

Committee members elect / appoint

Members elect / appoint
Annex AI Options

A.5 Status of Staff

Civil Servants - are staff employed by
the Crown (appointed by departments or
executive agencies). Their roles, grades
and salaries are broadly comparable and
whilst they usually work for one specific
department or agency, they are able to
apply for postings across most other areas
of government.

The provisions governing a civil servant's
employment relationship are influenced by
civil-service specific rules and parameters.
For some small public bodies their home
departments may loan a number of civil
servants to work for that public body,
though their contract of employment is
still with the Crown as appointed by the
home department. All are subject to the
Civil Service Code of Conduct.

Public Servants - are staff employed by
public bodies that are usually not part of the
Crown. There is some variation between
the roles, grades and salaries that public
‘servants have, as they are usually contracted
more closely to a specific public body and
not to a wider service as is the case with
civil servants. They are however still public
sector employees and usually subject to
the body's own code of conduct where
applicable.

Contractors - Generally contractors are
either self-employed or employed by a third
party, then contracted for specific services
by the public body or department. This
includes specialists hired under consultancy
agreements to perform specific tasks or
functions. Contractors are usually hired for
a limited term in order to fulfil a particular
business need. .If there is a need for long-
term hires then alternative models should
be considered.

Secondees - staff on temporary loan from
other employers to the public body, on set
secondments. Their secondments may vary
the terms of their regular employment in
relation to their role, grade and salary for the
duration of the secondment, and payment
may come from their original employer or
the public body currently hosting them.
Secondees are usually subject to many
(but not always all) of the same policies
and procedures which apply to the public
body's regular staff.

Private Sector Employees - are staff
employed on contracts with employers
outside of the public sector. Their terms
and conditions may be different to public
sector employees as their employer will have
more freedom in relation to the employment
terms which it can offer its staff. This is not
an option for public bodies, but may be
appropriate for some public corporations.

Others - unusually there may be other
types of staff (such as volunteers), however,
the options listed above are the principle
choices for staffing.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

A.6 Financial Accounts

The treatment of financial accounts can be
influenced by the relationship to funding.

Options include:

Produces and publishes own
accounts-these are not reflected elsewhere
(ie within sponsoringdepartment'saccounts)

Produces own accounts - may publish
as well, but these are consolidated within
department's accounts.

Does not produce own accounts - any

income and expenditure is part of home
department's accounts

37
RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Annex B

Table Comparing Characteristics
RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

Annex B I Table Comparing Characteristics

The following table illustrates the differences between the categories of public bodies dependent on their comparable characteristics

Entity Relationship To Department Income / Funding I Establishment Senior Staffing Issues & Structure Status of Staff Financial
Accounting
Accountability Oversight Position Setup Duration Management Appointments
Executive Agency [JEM Dept Included In Part Of Dept. ByDept.Canbe —_I Permanent CEO, & Minister appoints I Civil Servants Produce own,
accountable sets policy Dept. Estimate No separate with legislation Non-Exec Chair I CEO & Chair Consolidated within
legal personality Dept.
Non Departmental [XIINNg Dept. Usually sets I From Dept. Has separate By Dept. Various I Atleast CEO, & Minister appoints I Public Servants Produce own,
Public Body accountable strategic framework I Usually via legal personality I forms. three years Non-Exec Chair I Chair & Non-Exec Consolidated within
grant In aid Board, consulted Dept.
‘on CEO
NDPB with Minister Dept. Usually sets I Included In Within Dept. but I Independent Atleast Committee of Minister appoints I independent Do not produce
Advisory Function [eestuciay strategic framework I Dept. Estimate no separate legal I of but established I three years independent members. Specialists ‘own, Covered
advice Is impartial personality by Dept. experts.(can have (Supported By CS) I within Dept.
and apolitical. Chair)
Independent Minister Dept. usually sets I Included In Independent On creation of new I Depends Board members _I Secretary Of State I Unpaid volunteers I Do not produce
Monitoring Board [tweety strategic framework I Dept. Estimate to Dept. but no prison or detention I on prison or appoints members ‘own, Covered
separate legal centre detention centre within Dept.
personality
ROG Minister usually Sets own policy, I Usually fromown I Usually As Dept. I By Prime Minister I Permanent CEOS Minister usually Civil Servants Produces own
Department accountable Dept. can set Estimate with separate legal Non-Exec Chair I appoints Board, accounts
strategic framework Personality with Parit. scrutiny
Office of Minister Part Of Dept. Sets I Included in Dept. I Part Of Dept.No I By Dept Varies, usually less_I Usually Dept. Minister appoints I Civil Servants Do not produce
Department accountable own policy Estimate separate legal than three years —_I official as head Head (and Board if own, Covered
Personality there is one) within Dept.
Working Minister Part Of Dept. Sets I Included In Dept. I Part Of Dept.No I Established by Varies, usually less I Usually members I Minister or official I Civil Servants Do not produce
Group accountable own policy Estimate separate legal Dept. than three years I and Chair appoints members _I (supported by ‘own, Covered
personality and Chair external Non-CS) _I within Dept.
Sco Minister Dept. usually sets I Included In Dept. I Within Dept. no Independent of but I Varies, usually Committee of Minister or Dept. I Independent Do not produce
accountable strategic framework. I Estimate separate legal established by Dept. I permanent experts (Can Have I Officials appoint —_I Specialists. ‘own, Covered
Advice is impartial personality Chair) members (and (Supported By CS) _I within Dept.
and apolitical. Chair)
Statutory Minister Part of Dept. acts I From Dept. via Independent with I By Dept. via Varies, usually Office Holder Minister Or Dept. I Public Servant Produces own
Office Holder accountable apolitically grant In aid separate legal legislation permanent Officials appoint I (Supported By CS) I accounts
(Departmental) Personality Office Holder
Re Office Sets own policy _I From own Estimate I Independent with I By Parfiament, via Varies, usually Office Holder Parliament appoints I Public Servant Produces own
Holder Holder directly separate legal legislation permanent Office Holder accounts
(Parliamentary) [Eee personality
Parliamentary Usually directly Sets own policy. I Usually from Independent with I Established by Varies, usually Usually by Parliament appoints I Public Servants Produces own
Body accountable own Estimate separate legal Parfiament permanent statutory board accounts
Personality

39
RLIT0000325
RLITO000325

Annex C

Expert Committees & NDPBs With Advisory Functions
Annex C I Expert Committees And NDPBs With Advisory Functions

C.1 Comparative Indicators

Feature In e of NDPB with advisory functions’ In e of Expert Committee’

Frequency and volume Typically high frequency and volume of advice. Typically lower frequency and volume of advice.

(of advice provided) Constant requests and responses. Possibly periods of committee inactivity.

Risk Mitigation Where there is a significant reputational or operational risk to the process of ‘Where there is a reduced/negligible reputational or operational risk

commissioning, developing or using the advice, due to the perception of a loss
of independence (from a supposed increased likelihood of interference from
home departments). Specifically where there is a clear break between the advice
provided and any subsequent policy development.

This could be determined by examining whether or not Parliament would be likely
to scrutinise the advice provided or process of commissioning that advice.

to the advice associated with its commissioning, development
or use. (This does not cover or negate the risk of not appointing
independent experts)

Size of committee**

Where there could be more than 5 committee members standing at any given time.

Where more than one committee member is needed to cover the same issue under
scrutiny, and / or individual members cannot cover multiple issues (due to specialist
skills required for each issue).

Where fewer than 10 committee members could be required
to be standing at any given time.

Where only a single committee member is required to cover each issue
under scrutiny and / or multiple discrete issues can be resolved
by a single committee member.

Also where any number of temporary committee members can be
appointed on an ad hoc basis, for specific projects / commissions.

requires advice that could only be provided by a body with the characteristics of
an ANDPB. No separate legal personality.

Duration The body must be active for at least three years. There is no time limit on duration, allowing for shorter terms where
appropriate / desirable, though usually Expert Committees tend
to be permanent.

Size of the secretariat*** I Generally where the secretariat could be greater than 2 FTEs. Where the ANDPB's staff I Generally where the secretariat is usually fewer than 5 FTEs. Where the
/ secretariat do more than administration - for example, if they are involved in research, I Expert Committee does not require additional staff to conduct research,
analysis or policy development. Noting, that if additional staff are required to conduct _I analysis or policy development (such activities can be carried out by the
delivery (eg investigation work), then perhaps regular NDPB might be a better model - I home department).
such as the HSE.

Statutory framework There can be underlying legislation. This will be especially evident if the legislation Typically (though not always) there is no underlying legislation.

Alternatively, where there is legislation, it will not require advice that
could only be provided by a body with the characteristics of an ANDPB.
No separate legal personality.

RLIT0000325
RLIT0000325

*To be aware, these
features are only
indicative of which
classification may
be suitable.

* Ifthe committee has
between 5 and 10
members, the other
features should be relied
upon to indicate which
category may
be suitable.

“If the secretariat has
between 2 and 5 staff
/ secretariat, the other
features should be relied
upon to indicate which
category may
be suitable.

41
Committees And NDPBs With Ad

Annex C I Exp

C.2 Impact On Governance

Feature Impact on NDPB with advisory functions

Establishment Set up as a NDPB - therefore follows relevant Cabinet Office guidance.

RLIT0000325

RLIT0000325

Impact on Expert Committee

Set up as Expert Committee - does not need to follow guidance
on establishing NDPBs (CO collects name and information on
its advisory function)

Reviews ‘As an NDPB will be subject to a regular (at least once in each

Parliamentary cycle) Tailored Review process.

Not subject to a regular formal review (though departments can
still review as they see fit).

Commissions ‘As an NDPB will be subject to CO commissions for public bodies data

Asan expert committee is unlikely to be included in CO commissions
for public bodies data.

provide advice in the field required.

Governance Will require a Framework Document / Memorandum of Understanding —_I Does not require (though can still have) a Framework Document or MOU; wil still
Documentation and a Terms of Reference document. require a Terms of Reference document.
Board Structure of Board flexible (may not be required). Structure of Board flexible (usually not required).
Appointments Appointments by Minister (OCPA principles applying) Ministerial/Departmental appointments (details to be agreed with CO Public Appointments Team

on a case by case basis - where reciassifying from an existing NDPB with advisory function)
Relationship Committee members are independent of home department. Committee members are independent of home department.
Expertise The best suited candidates are chosen as Committee members to The best suited candidates are chosen as Committee members to provide advice in the field required.

Evidence / Advice High quality, impartial (and where needed) and expert advice, based on

relevant evidence.

High quality, impartial (and where needed) and expert advice, based on relevant evidence.

Transparency /
Openness

NDPBs with advisory functions are encouraged to be as open as
possible on process and methodology, and where approriate fully
transparent on advice.

Expert Committees are encouraged to be as open as possible
on process and methodology, and fully transparent on advice.

42
