RLIT0000613
RLITO000613

ai; GOV.UK

Press release
New appeals process to provide
independent assurance about Horizon

redress awards

Post Office Minister Gareth Thomas has announced the
launch of the new, independent, appeals process for
eligible postmasters in the Horizon Shortfall Scheme.

From: Department for Business and Trade
(/government/organisations/department-for-business-and-trade) and Gareth
Thomas MP (/government/people/gareth-thomas)

Published 8 April 2025

e New independent appeals process for Horizon Shortfall Scheme victims

e New applications for postmasters who claimed under HSS to begin this
month

e Provides assurance that those who were unjustly impacted by the
Horizon IT scandal will receive full, fair and swift redress

Post Office Minister Gareth Thomas has announced in Parliament today
[Tuesday 8 April] the launch of the new, independent, appeals process for
eligible postmasters in the Horizon Shortfall Scheme (HSS).
RLIT0000613
RLITO000613

Postmasters who feel their financial settlement did not reflect the true extent
of their losses and trauma will be able to appeal their settlement ensuring
they receive full, fair and swift redress.

Eligible postmasters and their legal representatives will be written to later
this month and applications for the new Appeals process will begin to be
accepted by the end of April.

Post Office Minister Gareth Thomas said:

“It is our priority that all those who were unjustly affected by the Horizon
IT scandal receive full, fair and swift redress and today’s measures are
the next step in providing that.”

“Since taking office, the total amount of redress paid to victims has
increased by more than three and a half times with £892 million having
now been paid to over 6,200 claimants. There is still more to do, and I
am committed to this task until every affected postmaster receives the
redress they rightly deserve.”

The Government also announced that each Directly Managed Branch
(DMBs) will be franchised so that Post Office services remain available to
local communities. We have listened to concerns and made it clear that
DMBs should not be closed as we continue to work with the Post Office as it
develops its transformation plan.

There will also be a further £276.9 million in funding for the Post Office to
help support the breadth of the network. This will enable Post Office to
deliver technology transformation and give them the resources to continue
administering redress payments to postmasters.

There will also be a scheme launched next month to provide redress to
postmasters who faced issues with Post Office products, polices or
processes.

These updates will help rebuild trust with postmasters and ensure past
failings are fully addressed.

Notes to editors

As of 31 March 2025, approximately £892 million has been paid to over
6,200 claimants across 4 schemes:

e £454 million in the Horizon Shortfall Scheme (HSS), including interim
payments

e £67 million in the Overturned Convictions (OC) scheme, including interim
payments
RLIT0000613
RLITO000613

e £150 million in the Group Litigation Order (GLO) scheme, including
interim payments

e £221 million in the Horizon Convictions Redress Scheme (HCRS),
including interim payments

Published 8 April 2025

OGL aes

All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
