RLIT0000036
RLITO000036

RE: EVIDENCE IN CRIMINAL PROC

HEARSAY AND RELATED TOPICS

Further to my lett

enclos

You

though w

aspects of

RESPONSE TO LAW COMMISSION’S CONSULTATION PAPER
ON EVIDENCE IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS: HEARSAY AND
RELATED TOPICS

A. HEARSAY
INTRODUCTION

The Department agrees with the Law Commission that the current
law is in need of reform and that option 7 is the most
appropriate option. Option 7 appears to us to resolve the
difficulties caused by the exclusion of cogent and reliable
evidence, while clarifying and extending (where appropriate) the
categories of admissible hearsay, and providing for their
automatic admission. We set out below, however, a number of
comments on points of detail.

The Department agrees with the Law Commission*s proposed
definition of hearsay, and we welcome in particular the exclusion
of implied assertions from the definition.

We have addressed one substantial issue in this response. This
concerns the proposal, which follows the Law Commission's
consideration of the relationship between the current and
proposed law on hearsay and Article 6 of the ECHR, that there
should not be a conviction where any ingredient of an offence
depends on hearsay evidence alone, including confessions. This
proposal causes us considerable concern and will have a major
effect on criminal prosecutions. This aspect is discussed further
below. In short, however, the Department is of the view that
there may be many cases where otherwise unsupported but reliable
and admissible hearsay evidence, whether oral or written, will
constitute all or part of the evidence of one or more ingredients
of an offence, and that therefore the proposal will result in
many cases not being prosecuted which under the present law could
be prosecuted. We are not persuaded that, given the case law on
the ECHR, any change needs to be as broad as is proposed. In any
event, in our view, confessions as evidence do not offend against
the provisions of Article 6, which is concerned with the
attendance of witnesses so that they can be tested in cross
examination.

OPTION 7 AND THE LAW COMMISSION’S PROPOSAL

The most notable change is that first hand oral hearsay will be
admissible for the first time (other than the old common law
exceptions) if the unavailability/fear requirements are
established and the witness is identifiable. 3(c) extends the
admissibility of evidence from those not attending through fear
to those who attend but cannot then bring themselves to
start/finish their evidence, although it is not restricted to
those in fear (see Department*s comments on this below). Although
the new proposals seem to cover most situations that have given

RLITO000036
RLIT0000036

cause for concern in past cases, the discretion is intended to
catch for example, multiple oral hearsay where its reliability
and cogency is such that the interests of justice demand its
admission.

The Department welcomes in particular these features of the
proposals.

OBSERVATIONS ON SPECIFIC POINTS RAISED IN THE CONSULTATION PAPER
Observations are made on SOME of the aspects discussed in the
Consultation Paper. As only a few matters are commented on, they

are dealt with on a topic by topic basis.

1. Dying declarations - (3.29 and 7.18)

This rule arose on the basis that those settled in the hopeless
expectation of death are unlikely to die with lies upon their
lips. It is argued that there is no rationale why this rule
should apply to murder/manslaughter cases only. The Department
has not had the time to study the authorities, but it may be
that the rule was built up around statements concerned with the
identity of the killer. It is easy to see that the relationship
in time between the identification of the killer and the act to
which it relates adds greater weight to the argument for
admissibility than it would where the declaration concerns some
matter occurring some time previously and unrelated to the cause
of death. Here time may have led to the reliability of the
statement becoming open to question. The proposals would allow
for the admission of such a Statement regardless of the charge.

2. Oral hearsay

The Law Commission is of the opinion that while oral evidence may
on occasion be less cogent than documentary evidence the law
should not make a distinction between the two types of hearsay.

The Department considers that documentary hearsay can often be
inherently more reliable than oral hearsay. For instance where
something is reduced to writing at the time the information is
received or soon thereafter, the room for error when relating
what was said later is reduced, leaving just the reliability of
the information conveyed open to question. Whereas if there is
no written record, you have the additional features that the
receiver's memory and his understanding of the information that
was conveyed to him are susceptible to error. On the other hand
striking information is likely to be remembered correctly in
whatever form it is received.

We consider that the right approach is to leave it to the jury
to weigh up the strength of the evidence and accordingly we agree
with the Law Commission's proposal. The proposal would require
the prosecution to call the witness where it is feasible to do
so in cases in which the statutory exceptions do not apply.

RLITO000036
RLIT0000036

3. Preservation of statutory exceptions

(a) S.24 CJA 1988

The Law Commission proposes to preserve section 24 but repeal
sections 25 & 26. We accept and welcome this approach. It will
mean that documentary evidence covered by s24 will therefore be
automatically admitted since the judge will no longer have a
decision to take in the absence of a submission under s78 of PACE
or under the common law. We think however that there is a strong
possibility that there will be no change of approach on the part
of counsel and judges, and that they will continue to think in
terms of there being a decision to take as to whether this type
of evidence should be admitted, and perhaps hark back to the type
of criteria which at present are found in ss25 and 26. A central
question to be addressed will be what is the proper scope of s78
and the common law in these circumstances. Presumably they ought
not to be applicable in the type of situations that are presently
covered by ss25 and 26. We think that it would be useful for
guidance to be provided in this area, either on the face of the
statute or through an early expression of judicial view, in order
to avoid inconsistency of decision making on the part of judges.

The Department agrees that amendment of s24 is required to ensure
that it is the provider of the information not the creator of the
document whose unavailability needs to be established.

We agree it is important that arguments concerning the admission
of evidence should be conducted and ruled upon at the pre trial
hearings so that the prosecution can at least attempt to fill
gaps where rulings go against them. We do not think that such
arguments are appropriate to be dealt with in the Magistrates’
Court in committal or dismissal proceedings. The prosecution may
be well justified for resource reasons in seeking to rely on
section 24 in particular.

(b) Other exceptions

No mention is made in the consultation paper of preserving s102
or sl03 of the MCA 1980, or s30 CJA 1988. For the avoidance of
doubt, we believe these should be included in any list of
statutory exceptions. We note too that video evidence under s32A
of the CJA is not included in the list of statutory exceptions.
It is not clear whether this is deliberate or not. The paper is
critical of the new law which was introduced by Part III of the
Criminal Justice Act 1991 (see paras. 13.20 - 13.24).
Nevertheless given that the law has only recently been
introduced, and after much Parliamentary debate, we believe that
there should be much fuller consideration of the issue before the
law is effectively abrogated.

4. Hostile and fearful witnesses

The Law Commission comments (para 7.24) on the apparent oddity
that section 23 allows for the admissibility as evidence of the
truth of its contents of a statement of a witness proven to be
kept out of the way through fear, while in the case of a hostile
witness the statement is only admitted for credibility purposes.

RLITO000036
RLIT0000036

We consider that the distinction is reasonable. In the latter
instance, the hostile witness has actually taken the oath and
(apparently ) lied. The other has simply not come to court through
fear which will have had to be established beyond reasonable
doubt. If a witness is prepared to lie, however fearful, they may
well be less than reliable and it may be appropriate that his/her
statement is not admitted as to the truth of its contents but
only as to credit. We do not believe that either option 7 or the
proposals concerning the admissibility of previous statements
(para 13.55) would allow for the admission as evidence of the
truth of its contents a4 previous statement which is inconsistent
with evidence that the witness gives in court. If we are wrong
in this understanding then our view is that the proposals ought
not to extend to this situation.

The Department also notes that Option 7 category 3(c) of the
proposals does not require that the refusal to give evidence is
through fear. This would therefore allow for the stubborn witness
who may have lied in his or her statement, rather than in
evidence, to have their statement read. This is 4 category of
witness whose statement the Department believes it is
inappropriate to read to establish the truth thereof. Many
witnesses come to a grinding halt when they find themselves in
a corner from which there is no escape. We consider that 4 rule
which allows for the automatic admission of their previous
evidence as evidence of the truth of its contents in these
circumstances is too generous to the witness. The case for the
categories covered by the automatic exception is based on the
fact that the balance between admitting the evidence and
protecting the accused is clearly in favour of admitting the
evidence. We do not consider that the outcome of the balancing
test is as clear in the case of hostile witnesses. Our view is
that automatic admissibility is petter left to cover those who
do not continue their evidence through fear. The previous
evidence of a hostile witness could still be admitted under the
safety valve.

We believe that the Law Commission may have unintentionally left
one further situation in this area out of their proposals. This
is the situation where 4 witness is found but refuses to come to
court through fear. Category 3 (b) (ii) does not cover this
situation, and neither does category 3 (c)-

We favour the approach of providing examples of reasonable
practicality (which would apply to all the situations in category
(b)). We agree with the examples provided in para. 11.19.

5. Further thoughts on automatic admissibility-

A major concern regarding the automatic admissibility of evidence
is the potential for fabrication. The dangers are greater in the
case of defence evidence since the judge has 4 residual power to
exclude prosecution evidence. For example, the defendant or other
defence witness asserts that someone admitted the crime with
which he is charged. He can identify them but they cannot be
found or are at some known address abroad. Given that this would
fall within the automatically admissible category, it is open to
abuse. There would appear to be two options. The first is to

RLITO000036
RLIT0000036

L
leave it to the jury to assess the weight of the evidence given
the inevitable question marks over such facts. The alternative
is to have a discretion to exclude evidence which fails to meet
some test of reliability. We believe that usually the jury should
be well able to assess the reliability of evidence such as that
in the example above by using their common sense. But juries do
need protection from misleading and confusing evidence and
because of the nature of the trial process are not in as good a
position as the judge to tell whether evidence will waste the
court's time. Accordingly we favour a limited discretion to
exclude evidence along the lines of the USA example provided in
the paper whereby evidence likely to mislead, waste the court's
time or confuse can be excluded.

The Department is against the introduction of a provision to
exclude “post charge" hearsay, where hearsay statements made
after the defendant has been charged would not be admitted, on
the basis that they are more likely to be fabricated/unreliable.
This unnecessarily fetters the judge’s discretion. The discretion
that we propose and the common sense of juries should be an
adequate safeguard.

6. The safety valve

Various cases are referred to in order to demonstrate the unfair
consequences of the strict rules currently in force: inadmissible
but potentially critical or apparently cogent exculpatory
evidence could not be put before the jury. In particular,
confessions by third parties, and other cases such as
demonstrated by the facts of R v Sparks 1964 AC 964 and the type
of anomaly that could be produced by a slight variant of the
facts in R v Carrington [1994] Crim L R 438 (see para 4.29)
should clearly be capable of admission in appropriate
circumstances. It is intended that such evidence would be
admissible under the new safety valve proposal.

First hand hearsay would become admissible under the
automatically admissible categories given the right facts, but
it is intended that in the case of multiple hearsay or other
excluded categories the safety valve would catch any evidence
clearly appropriate for admission in the interests of justice.
Implied assertions would be admissible as falling outside the
draft definition of hearsay.

We query whether the wording of the safety valve will produce the
results intended. We appreciate that the intention is to create
a limited exception, but the requirement in category 7 (c) (i)
is so strict that we fear that many meritorious cases will be
excluded. How often can it be stated with confidence that
evidence is so positively and obviously trustworthy that the
opportunity to test it by cross-examination can safely be
dispensed with? That conclusion can perhaps sometimes be reached
when it has been possible to study the demeanour of the witness
in giving the evidence, but self-evidently in the circumstances
covered by the proposed rule that opportunity does not arise.
Will not judges rightly take as their starting premise that human
understanding and powers of communication is often flawed, and
that given that fact it is almost impossible to say that any

RLITO000036
RLIT0000036

evidence is so inherently reliable that there is no need for
cross-examination?.

Further, the effect of the proposal would be to put the judge in
the place of the jury on an issue of fact. We wonder if this goes
too far. There are occasions under the present law where judges
decide issues of fact, eg whether there has been oppression under
s76, but they do not decide central issues. To continue the
confessions example, the judge does not decide whether the
confession is true. We can envisage circumstances in the future
in which the defence, having gained the admission of evidence
under the safety valve, might address the jury on the basis that
since the judge has found the evidence to be positively and
obviously trustworthy they really ought to accept it. We consider
that there is a good case for limiting the judge's role to being
a filter.

Given the problems discussed above we invite the Law Commission
to consider a wider test, perhaps limited to interests of justice
issues alone, with the aim of leaving questions of weight to be
decided by the jury.

7. Article 6 of The European Convention on Human Rights

It seems that this is considered not to be an absolute rule (X
Vv Austria Appl 4428/70 1972), and the discussion in chapter 5
helpfully draws attention to the approach taken by the Strasbourg
Court in interpreting the Convention. In the light of the caselaw
discussed in that chapter, we query whether the proposed new rule
that unsupported hearsay should not be sufficient proof of any
element of an offence needs to be in such wide terms. An
illustration of particular problem areas for us may be helpful.

a) Confessions. The Law Commission propose that the new
rule would extend to confession evidence (page 178,
footnote 91). This would mean that a defendant could not be
convicted on the basis of a confession alone. This is a
radical departure from the current accepted practice, the
effects of which are not discussed in the consultation
paper but do require further consideration. It does not
seem to us that Article 6 affects the admissibility of
confessions where the witness to the confession is
available to give evidence, since art.6(3)(d) is concerned
with the right to examine or have examined witnesses
against defendants and that right is satisfied in these
circumstances. This is the usual situation in a criminal
trial where the police or other investigators give evidence
as to what they were told by the defendant. Further, it is
arguable that where the confession is contained in a tape
recording which the jury are able to hear, or a transcript
of which they can read, or in a video recording,
art.6(3)(d) has no application since the evidence is
provided direct to the jury and not through the medium of
a witness. As to fairness generally, sections 76 and 78 of
PACE protect the interviewee. Confessions can be the very
best evidence of guilt. It may be impossible to prove
certain ingredients of crimes without the confession. To
prevent a conviction on such a premise might itself

RLITO000036
RLIT0000036

potentially offend Article 8 on the basis of the points
made in chapter 5 about the position of victims. The
Department would request that such a proposal be the
subject of further consultation as a subject in its own
right if the Law Commission maintains its view.

(b) Business records under s24. Section 24 CJA 1988 is
relied on heavily by the Department in prosecuting fraud
cases. It avoids the need to call a multitude of witnesses
to prove relatively formal albeit sometimes critical
matters. If the proposed rule concerning unsupported
hearsay were to apply, s24 would be largely undermined.

Sometimes the source will not be identifiable to call first
hand evidence and no other evidence will be available on
that aspect.In R v Foxley (1995) CLR 636 a former MOD
official was charged with receiving corrupt payments.
Evidence of payments into Swiss bank accounts were produced
as a result of a Letter of Request to the Swiss Authorities
to prove that the payments were made. No one testified as
to their creation and to the circumstances of it and the
meaning etc. The Court of Appeal relied on section 24 for
the admission of the documents and allowed for inferences
to be drawn as to the circumstances of creation. Professor
Smith argues that the documents were real evidence and not
hearsay and therefore section 24 does not to need have been
relied on. Even if he was right in that case, one can
envisage cases with similar facts arising where other
evidence to support reliable hearsay evidence would not be
available.

More often though the witness could be traced, but it would
take considerable time to deal with such evidence in court.

The Department does not consider that the admission of
evidence of this nature breaches the general principle of
unfairness in the Convention. The rule against hearsay
stems from the need to call reliable evidence which can be
tested as to its reliability by cross examination. Where
the evidence is such that its reliability is virtually
beyond question, eg certain business records, it cannot be
said to be unfair not only to admit but also to rely on it
to prove a particular ingredient of an offence. The
evidence revealed by the facts in DPP v Myers 1965 AC 1001
was highly reliable. To prevent a conviction because proof
of the vehicles in question depends on hearsay would seem
to be absurd. Yet were the recorders of the chassis numbers
identifiable?

Leaving aside issues of fairness, it seems that art.6(3)
(d) does not apply to evidence of this nature since it does
not come into being as part of the criminal investigation
process (see paras. 5.9 and 5.10)

(c) Miscellaneous. Outside these general categories it is
not difficult to imagine other situations in which it would
seem to be unfair not to admit the evidence and yet the
evidence would be excluded by the proposed rule. For

RLITO000036
RLIT0000036

instance, in a rape case the victim has since died and the
only issue in dispute is lack of consent. The victim made
a statement before she died. In addition independent
witnesses have heard her screams and there is forensic
evidence, but this evidence, while persuasive, is not
specific enough in time and place to constitute adequate
corroboration. The new proposal would seem to prevent a
conviction. Would the victim be regarded as a "witness" for
the purposes of art. 6 in these circumstances? If in this
example the defendant had confessed, would that be capable
of constituting corroboration under the proposal. In other
words, can one piece of uncorroborated hearsay corroborate
another piece of uncorroborated hearsay?

In all the above instances the effects of the proposed new rule
would be severe, and we would argue that it is by no means clear
that human rights law would be against the admission of such
evidence. We consider that if any new rule concerning unsupported
hearsay is to be introduced there is scope for making it much
narrower than the present proposal while still being within the
Convention.

8. Interruptions to prevent hearsay.

The Commission proposes a partial solution by allowing facts
already admitted in direct evidence to be given as hearsay
evidence. The Department does not believe that this will prevent
interruptions but rather it will lead to more arguments as to
what is already in evidence and what is not. Where a witness
statement contains hearsay Counsel will know what is likely to
emerge and can deal with it accordingly. Where it is unknown, the
situation will not be resolved any more easily under the proposed
law, because it will need to be established whether the proposed
hearsay remark has been adduced in evidence directly yet or not.
In addition, it may be a remark that a subsequent witness can
prove the truth of but on which evidence has not been given and
tested yet. The reality of interruptions is that Counsel often
does not know whether they are dealing with hearsay or not. Many
Counsel never consider whether evidence is intended to establish
the truth of its contents or to prove that it was said. We
believe that the new proposals will lead only to more wrangling
over what are predominantly side issues.

9. Different reforms For Prosecution and Defence?

The Department is of the opinion that the same rules on hearsay
should apply to the defence as to the prosecution. The system is
already properly weighted in favour of the defence in order to
prevent the conviction of innocent defendants through the
different burdens and standards of proof. In addition, there is
greater provision for the exclusion of prosecution evidence.

B. OTHER RELATED TOPICS

1. Previous Consistent Statements.

The Department supports the proposals, but we have a concern

RLITO000036
RLIT0000036

about the issue of discretion. It seems that the proposals for
previous statements will constitute 4 different exception under
the hearsay rule. How will this fit in with the proposals in
option 7? In particular will this category of hearsay be
automatically admitted? We consider that if judges had a
discretion they would use it sparingly, mindful that the main
concern in admitting previous statements is to avoid burdening
the jury with paper the contents of which they have to assess
when they should be concentrating on the evidence from the
witness box. Earlier in this response we have proposed that
judges have a discretion to exclude evidence which is misleading,
confusing or wastes the court's time. We think that such 4
discretion would be helpful in this context as well.

2. Computer Evidence.

The Department strongly supports the proposals to repeal section
69 of PACE.

3. Expert Evidence.

Experts often rely on assistants to do much of the ground work
for them. The Department considers that where results of base
fact finding are recorded in writing section 24 can be sought to
be relied on. under the other proposals in the paper, such
evidence would be admitted subject to the judge's discretion
under s78 or the common law. Where any opinion of an assistant
is relied on that individual should be available to cross
examine.

It may be that this will be sufficient to deal with the
difficulties that have been encountered, but it is not possible
to know at this stage how judge's will use their discretion under
$78 and the common law once $ss25 and 26 are abolished. In these
circumstances we are attracted by option 3. This would require
expert witnesses to list the assistants and the tasks performed
by each of them. Leave would have to be sought for any given
assistant to be called. The Law Commission™s concern is that this
requires the defence to disclose part of their case to secure the
leave of the judge for a given assistant to be called. However,
given that any defence expert evidence must be served in advance,
it may impinge little on that non disclosure right.

We believe that the Law Commission’ s preferred option whereby 4
further exception be introduced allowing for the admissibility
of information relied on by an expert where it is provided by a
person who cannot be expected to have any recollection of the
matters stated is already covered by its proposed reformulation
of s24.

RLITO000036
RLIT0000036

RLIT0000036
RLITO000036
