RLIT0000413
RLIT0000413

POST

OFFICE

Post Office mechs scandal
Post office operators will not all get payouts by March deadline, says minister

Gareth Thomas admits compensation date for those caught up in
Horizon IT scandal difficult to achieve

Mark Sweney
Wed 2 Oct 2024 08.51 BST

Post office operators affected by the Horizon IT scandal will not all receive payouts by the March 2025 deadline called for by the
campaigner Sir Alan Bates, the postal minister has admitted.

Gareth Thomas said it would be difficult to achieve the deadline but promised that there would be “substantial progress” toward
clearing the compensation claim backlog by next summer.

Last week, Bates said he might once again take legal action if the compensation process was not resolved more quickly.
“If we need to fundraise for a court case, we will,” said Bates, who leads the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance, last week.

Last month, Bates senta letter to hundreds of former branch owner-operators calling for a March 2025 deadline for financial
redress for those affected by the Horizon scandal, in which hundreds of post office operators were wrongly pursued through the
courts over account shortfalls that were later linked toa faulty IT system.

“{ wish I could commit to Sir Alan’s timeframe,” said Thomas, speaking to BBC Breakfast on Wednesday. “I think we will have
made substantial progress by next summer.”

The inquiry into the scandal heard testimony on Tuesday that claimed the compensation strategy had previously been focused
on saving taxpayers money, as opposed to the supposed goal of “full and fair” compensation for those affected.

The former Post Office chair Henry Staunton told the hearing that during his time in the role he formed a view that the state-
owned body had a bureaucratic, unsympathetic and adversarial approach. “With respect to remediation, the government and
Post Office were dragging their heels,” he said.

Bates said last week that financial redress schemes “can’t be allowed to drag on for years again”, adding: “There’s no reason it’s
just the bureaucracy driving them into the ground again. There are potential legal avenues we can take but it’s going to then be
another year, 18 months, for the group.

“If we can’t get these things resolved shortly, if we can’t get an affirmation from them of a March 2025 deadline, then we may as
well follow other routes”

H Sign up to Business Today

®& Free daily newsletter

RLITO000413
RLIT0000413

Get set for the working day - we'll point you to all the business news and
analysis you need every morning

Enter your email address

Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to
rotect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Last month, Bates said the Department for Business and Trade appeared to be trying to get away with paying out as little as
possible to victims while maximising the income for the legal firms involved.

Between 1999 and 2015, more than 900 post office operators were wrongly prosecuted after the faulty Horizon IT accounting
system made it look like money was missing from branch accounts.

Advertisement

More on this story

Post Office considering Post Office legal chief Post Office continued to Post Office chiefschanged Former Post
makingbranch operators _ denies saying branch use racist term for black Horizondatain branches —_ claims Hori
fund ‘losses pool’ inquiry _operators ‘guilty until workers until 2016, inquiry _lastyear without telling nofundame
told proven innocent’ told operators, inquiry hears

20 oct 2024 18 0ct 2024 18 Oct 2024 16 Oct 2024 15 Oct 2024

Most viewed

Advertisement
