RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

a; GOV.UK

He
Department for
Business & Trade

Guidance

Horizon Convictions Redress
Scheme (HCRS): assessment
framework

Updated 3 September 2024

Contents
Introduction

Non-financial damages
Financial damages
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

OGL

© Crown copyright 2024

This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where
otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-
licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9
ADU, or email: psi,

Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission
from the copyright holders concerned.

This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/horizon-convictions-
redress-scheme-hcrs-assessment-framework/horizon-convictions-redress-scheme-hcrs-assessment-
framework
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Introduction

This assessment framework provides a list of losses which you might apply for
but it may not include every scenario. The HCRS case workers will apply these
categories to your application but each assessment will be fact-specific and
depend on your individual circumstances.

Financial damages

Financial damages, sometimes referred to as ‘economic’ or ‘pecuniary’
damages, are financial losses you suffered or additional costs you experienced
due to the prosecution and conviction, or money you paid into the Horizon
system to cover Horizon shortfalls.

Non-financial damages

Non-financial damages, sometimes referred to as ‘personal’ or ‘non-pecuniary’
damages, reflect the impact the prosecution and conviction has had on your
life. These damages are typically harder to quantify in monetary terms.

The assessment framework set out here is guided by a report produced by Lord
Dyson, retired Supreme Court judge. Lord Dyson considered case law (the
amounts awarded by judges in comparable past cases) and Post Office
conviction claims, to advise on the amounts of redress a court is likely to award
in such cases. Based on this, Lord Dyson identified common factors between
claims which would lead to certain amounts of redress. The Department for
Business and Trade (DBT) has expanded the framework provided by Lord
Dyson to reflect how cases have been treated in the Horizon scandal redress
schemes to reflect a broader set of possible circumstances.

The factors set out in the framework act as indicators of the likely level of
redress you will be offered depending on your experience but are not a
minimum or maximum. These examples are not the only experiences that
would fall into a relevant payment level. Case advisers will consider the nature,
severity, frequency, duration and other relevant matters relating to the impact of
the conviction, assessing the facts and circumstances for each person as
described in their application and all accompanying supporting documents or
information, before making any determination.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Legal principles
Our assessment framework is based on ordinary legal principles:

e remoteness: the principle of remoteness, which is that the loss claimed must
be something that a reasonable person would expect to suffer at the time of
the prosecution and conviction, will not normally apply

e causation: the prosecution and conviction must have caused the damage or
loss. We have set out the ‘balance of probabilities’ test which will apply
(https://www.gov.uk/guidance/horizon-convictions-redress-scheme-hcrs-applying-for-
financial-redress)

loss: this is the financial or non-financial damage you have suffered because
of the prosecution and conviction

e mitigation: we will consider the extent to which you mitigated the financial
loss, which is the efforts you made to avoid or minimise the loss

e quantum: this is the amount of financial redress available

e double recovery: the same loss cannot be recovered twice and the
assessment of financial redress will consider if any losses overlap with
others

e counterfactual scenario: in trying to put you back in the position you would
have been if the Horizon harms had not happened, we need to consider what
lawyers call the “counterfactual scenario”. This is a hypothetical but
reasonable assessment of what would have happened if you had not
suffered due to Horizon, the prosecution and conviction

Non-financial damages

NF. 1. Personal injury

This head of loss reflects the damage you have suffered if the prosecution and
conviction caused a diagnosed medical condition. Personal injuries may be
physical or mental conditions.

Amounts will be awarded in line with the Judicial College Guidelines for
personal injury (Judicial College Guidelines, 17th Edition.). Your solicitor will be
able to access these guidelines.

This will require evidence that the personal injury was caused by the
prosecution or conviction. We will ask you in the application form to set out your
application and provide supporting evidence. You may be able to request
documents from a previous medical practitioner (for example, your GP) which
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

shows a diagnosed medical condition caused by the prosecution. You might
require expert medical evidence, which your solicitor can help you with.

We have set out the factors below which are set out in the Judicial College
Guidelines for ‘Psychiatric Damage Generally’. There may be other conditions
which have been caused by the prosecution and conviction which are not
general psychological conditions, for example the worsening of a physical
condition. Your solicitor will be able to assist you.

The factors considered for ‘Psychiatric Damage Generally’ are:

i. your ability to cope with life, education, and work

ii. the effect on your relationships with family, friends, and those with whom you
come into contact

iii. the extent to which treatment would be successful
iv. future vulnerability
v. prognosis

vi. whether medical help has been sought

Categories of severity Value
ranges
Severe: in these cases, the injured person will have marked £66,920 to

problems with respect to factors (i) to (iv) above and the prognosis £141,240
will be very poor.

Moderately severe: in these cases, there will be significant £23,270 to
problems associated with factors (i) to (iv) above, but the £66,920
prognosis will be much more optimistic than in the ‘Severe’ band.

While there are awards which support both extremes of this

bracket, the majority are somewhere near the middle of the

bracket. Cases of work-related stress resulting in a permanent or

long-standing disability preventing a return to comparable

employment would appear to come within this category.

Moderate: while there may have been the sort of problems £7,150 to
associated with factors (i) to (iv) above there will have been £23,270
marked improvement by the date of your application for redress

and the prognosis will be good. Cases of work-related stress may

fall within this category if symptoms are not prolonged.

Less severe: the level of award will take into consideration the £1,880 to
length of the period of disability and the extent to which daily £7,150
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Categories of severity Value
ranges

activities and sleep were affected. Cases falling short of a specific
phobia or disorder such as travel anxiety when associated with
minor physical symptoms may be found in the Minor Injuries
chapter.

NF. 2. Mental distress and damage to reputation

This type of non-financial loss category reflects the mental distress and damage
to reputation that you have suffered as a result of the prosecution and
conviction. This reflects mental distress above and beyond that covered by a
diagnosed mental condition, which is covered by ‘personal injury’ (NF. 1). We
recognise that the overall experience of the prosecution and conviction may
have been significantly distressing, including elements which are also covered
by other categories of loss later in this assessment framework. We will consider
your application in the round and take into account the overall impact on your
life in each category of loss.

The main factors considered when calculating the level of redress payment
are:

¢ period of time with the conviction

e media coverage of the conviction

¢ loss of a position in the community
financial distress

relationship breakdown and other mental distress which is not recognised
through a diagnosed health condition (as covered under the type of loss
referred to as ‘personal injury’, see NF. 1)

The factors listed are examples and do not cover all situations. Each case will
be unique and you do not need to demonstrate all the factors in a band to be
offered that amount. The bands are indicative and do not act as a minimum or
maximum; each case will be considered on its merits.

Loss of reputation and mental distress: examples and indicative redress

£45,000 indicative redress

* community service element of sentence was conducted in the community
and caused distress

e wide coverage of conviction in local and national media
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

long period of time between conviction and overturn (for example, 9 to 10
years)

distress such as sleep disturbance, anxiety, dark thoughts, shame,
humiliation, crying episodes, flashbacks, profound effects on self-confidence
and self-esteem

loss of a community position or role

ostracised from the community and becoming isolated and lonely
financial distress but not bankruptcy

tension in the family or in relationships but no breakdown

£50,000 indicative redress

long period of time between conviction and overturn (for example, 9 to 15
years)

lost an additional role in the community

financial distress including bankruptcy, humiliation suffered due to having to
borrow money to pay, for example, court ordered fines

some relationship breakdown (for example, business partnership or
marriage)

time spent in prison and distress suffered in prison, for example, missing life
events or witnessing violence

significant distress beyond that mentioned in Band 1, such as planning
towards suicide, significant sleep problems, weight gain or loss, depression,
giving up hobbies, significant shock

ostracised from friends, business partners, verbally abused or refused
access to public places, family members bullied or abused

£60,000 indicative redress

particularly lengthy period between conviction and overturn (i.e. 18 years)
multiple sets of court proceedings over several years

severe mental distress beyond that mentioned in Band 2, such as suicide
attempts or profound personality change

breakdown of multiple relationships with children and spouse(s)
severe distress and embarrassment arising from bankruptcy
significantly difficult prison experience

death of a close relative or the applicant themselves before the conviction
was quashed

NF. 3. Exemplary damages
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Exemplary damages are a punitive damage, this is a payment that the
wrongdoer (in this case, the Post Office) is ordered to pay the victim for their
action. For a wrongly convicted person, the amount is £75,000.

NF. 4. Loss of liberty

This type of non-financial loss reflects the restriction on your liberty caused by
the prosecution and conviction.

Redress payments for this type of loss will depend on whether you served a
prison (custodial) sentence or a sentence which did not involve prison time
(non-custodial). The amounts below would typically be added on to the offer
that you are receiving for other heads of loss outlined in this guidance.

The main factor we consider here is how severe the restriction on your liberty

was as a result of your sentence. The bands are indicative and do not act as a
minimum or maximum, each case will be considered on its merits.

Loss of liberty: examples and indicative redress

£5,000 indicative redress

* suspended prison sentence with no requirement for unpaid work, electronic
tag or probation

£10,000 indicative redress

e suspended prison sentence

¢ requirement to undertake community service, unpaid work or probation
requirements

£50,000 indicative redress

e spent time in prison, for example, 2 to 3 months
e brief period in higher security prison (for example, Category B)
¢ additional time with an electronic tag or on probation (for example, 6 months)

£55,000 indicative redress

¢ spent time in prison, for example 3 to 8 months, or shorter but in a higher
security prison (for example, Category A)
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

e additional time with an electronic tag or on probation (for example, 3 to 14
months)

£60,000 indicative redress

e spent time in prison, for example, 3 to 8 months with high restriction on liberty
(for example, Category A)

e additional time with an electronic tag or on probation

£65,000 indicative redress

e spent time in prison, for example 9 to 14 months

e various categories including higher security (for example, Cat B)

e additional time with electronic tag, curfew or probation (for example, 12
months)

£70,000 indicative redress

e spent time in prison, for example, 9 to 14 months with high restriction on
liberty

e additional time with an electronic tag or on probation
£80,000 indicative redress

* spent time in prison, for example, 14 months
e time in higher security (for example, Cat B)
e additional time with electronic tag (for example, 25 months)

NF. 5. Aggravated damages

This type of non-financial loss reflects the nature of the prosecution, for
example:

* aggressive investigations
e techniques used to prosecute
e Post Office’s failure to provide disclosure

The main factors when calculating the level of payment are:

e the charges pursued
e the length of time between the conviction and the overturn
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

e the number of proceedings initiated against the applicant

The factors listed are examples and do not cover all situations. Each case will
be unique and you may not fit all of the factors in a given band - this does not
mean you from will not receive an offer in that band. The bands are indicative

and do not act as a minimum or maximum; each case will be considered on its
merits.

Aggravated damages: examples and indicative redress

£30,000 to £35,000 indicative redress

Pursued for “lesser” charge, for example, false accounting and examples of
“common” aggravating factors:

* no proper disclosure relevant to reliability of Horizon IT data
e Post Office failed in duty as private prosecutor to assess Horizon data

e Post Office failed to investigate discrepancies in Horizon data and pursue all
reasonable lines of enquiry

e Post Office deliberately failed in its above obligations while at the same time
asserting that postmasters were liable to make good any losses and would
be terminated if they did not do so

e evidence of systemic prosecution failures by Post Office over many years
e Post Office knew consequences of a conviction would be severe

¢ Post Office’s disclosure failings directly implicated courts and damaged
confidence in criminal justice system

e arrest and prosecution were preceded by a demand for repayment of all
unexplained shortfalls

¢ postmaster guilt was effectively assumed by Post Office despite long years of
unblemished service

¢ postmasters were excluded from running their own business purely on the
basis of unexplained shortfalls

e postmasters experienced aggressive defence of the reliability of Horizon by
Post Office Limited (POL) over a number of years (for example, Group
Litigation Order (GLO))

e Post Office required an undertaking not to criticise Horizon in consideration
for accepting a guilty plea to the offence of false accounting

£40,000 indicative redress

In addition to the “common factors” listed in Band 1, there were additional
aggravating factors, for example:

¢ applicant initially defends allegations and expressly raises reliability of
Horizon (for example, in defence)
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

* applicant maintained their innocence throughout and POL proceeded with
prosecution through to a contested trial

e initiation of confiscation proceedings by Post Office

e long period between audit and sentencing pursued for more serious offences
(for example, theft)

¢ aggressive or intimidating conduct by POL in investigation or prosecution, for
example, arrested at home when told by Post Office to attend a police
station, aggressive interview techniques, search of residential property was
conducted; failure to provide further disclosure when specifically asked by
applicant's lawyers prior to trial

e POL continued its defence of Horizon in a subsequent appeal

£50,000 indicative redress

In addition to the “common factors” in Band 1 and “additional factors” in Band 2,
there was exceptionally aggressive or high-handed conduct in the prosecution,
for example:

* aggressive conduct such as multiple sets of proceedings for serious charges
over a period of years

NF. 6. Loss of congenial employment

This type of personal loss reflects the damage you suffered by losing an
employment role which you enjoyed.

The main factors under consideration are:

e the level of enjoyment in the postmaster or branch employee role and
e how many years you had until retirement, when terminated

Retirement is not necessarily the state pension age, but the age at which you
planned to stop working or would have stopped working. The bands are
indicative and do not act as a minimum or maximum; each case will be
considered on its merits.

Loss of congenial employment: examples and indicative redress

Main factors Indicative
redress
For example, regardless of years until retirement, you were £1,000

planning to leave the Post Office role soon or you were able to
Main factors

secure enjoyable employment after prosecution.

For example, 2 years until retirement. Or longer (for example, 9
to 14 years) but you were able to secure enjoyable employment
after prosecution.

For example, 5 to 8 years until retirement. Or longer (for
example, 15 years) but you were able to still run part of the
business after the prosecution.

For example, 9 years until retirement. Or longer (for example,
10 to 22 years) but you were able to still run part of the business
or find enjoyable employment after the prosecution.

For example, 9 to 23 years until retirement. Or longer (for
example, 35 years) but you were able to find enjoyable
employment after the prosecution.

For example, 23 to 30 years until retirement.

For example, 30+ years until retirement.

Financial damages

F. 1. Prosecution shortfalls

RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Indicative
redress

£8,000

£10,000

£12,000

£13,000

£14,000

£15,000

This type of loss covers where you may have made payments to make good
Horizon shortfalls for which you were prosecuted. Other shortfalls are covered

in the next section. You may have paid these shortfall amounts:

¢ following the audit which led to the prosecution (for example, if you believed
that if the shortfall was paid, you would either avoid prosecution altogether or,

if found guilty, receive a less severe sentence)

e following a criminal court order (for example, a confiscation or redress order)

to pay the shortfall amounts

The amount of redress payable will be the amount you paid to settle the

shortfall or to satisfy the court order, plus interest.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

DBT will ask the Post Office and His Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service
(HMCTS) to check its records for court-ordered prosecution-related shortfall
payments received from you.

DBT will reimburse you for any court penalties you paid at the time of your
conviction as part of your redress payment. You do not need to seek
reimbursement of these penalties through HMCTS.

There may be cases where Post Office or HMCTS no longer hold information
about the amount which was paid to settle the prosecution shortfall. In these
cases, we may need to ask you for information you hold on the amount you
paid, such as:

¢ court documents relating to confiscation and/or compensation orders,
including repayment

* any sentencing reports or submissions referring to repayment

e bank/credit card statements/cheque stubs showing payment or loan
documents as applicable

* correspondence with Post Office or HMCTS regarding payment

Interest is payable from the date the loss was incurred. DBT will pay you any
interest owing on the amount recovered.

There may be cases where payment to make good the Horizon shortfall was
financed by debt. If this applies to you then you may be compensated for your
costs of debt financing instead in accordance with category F. 13. You will not
be able to claim redress for this debt financing under both this category and
category F. 13 because you cannot be compensated for the same loss twice.

F. 2. Pre-prosecution shortfalls

This type of loss covers the payments you may have made in respect of any
“Horizon Shortfalls” prior to your prosecution.

“Horizon Shortfalls” means a shortfall recorded in the Horizon system compared
to the stock or cash at your branch. The Horizon system means any version of
the computer system known as Horizon (and sometimes referred to as Legacy
Horizon, Horizon Online or HNG-X) used by the Post Office, other than the
version referred to as HNG-A. The Horizon pilot system began to be rolled out
in Post Office branches on 23 September 1996. The HNG-A system was rolled
out in all branches by 31 December 2018. You may have made good these
shortfalls by paying money into the branch or Post Office may have made
deductions from your wages. Post Office may also have taken some of the
profits from your branch to settle a Horizon Shortfall.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

The amount of redress payable will be the amount of money you paid to cover
Horizon Shortfalls prior to your audit and prosecution.

A Horizon Shortfall will be presumed where there is both:

e evidence that the shortfall existed and was paid

* no evidence that the shortfall was caused by something else other than the
Horizon system

We will ask you in the application form to set out your claim in as much detail as
possible. You should provide any supporting evidence that is available, for
example:

e bank statements/credit cards/cheque stubs showing direct payment of
shortfalls to the Post Office Limited

« documentary evidence of any loans (including from family/friends) allegedly
taken out to pay shortfalls (including interest or fees paid)

e if shortfalls were paid out of the retail business, evidence of the losses
suffered by the retail business (for example, trade accounts)

e correspondence with the Post Office Limited regarding any shortfalls and
repayment of shortfalls (including authorisation of any deductions from your
wages)

Where required, DBT will ask Post Office, so you don’t have to, to search its
historical branch records for the information it holds about shortfalls which were
recorded in the Horizon system and any payments made during your tenure in
the branch to cover these shortfalls. In these searches, if there is no cause
found for a shortfall, it is assumed to be a Horizon shortfall and any payments
made by you to cover the shortfall will be re-paid.

Interest will generally be payable on any redress offered from the date the loss
was incurred (the date you made the relevant payment). If the date of loss
cannot be established then DBT will calculate interest from the mid-point of
your time in post.

There may be cases where payment to make good the pre-prosecution shortfall
was financed by debt. If this applies to you then you may be compensated for
your costs of debt financing instead in accordance with category F. 13. You will
not be able to claim redress for this debt financing under both this category and
category F. 13 because you cannot be compensated for the same loss twice.

F. 3. Loss of earnings and stigma damages

This type of loss covers any loss of earnings or earning capacity you may have
suffered due to your conviction.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

The application form will ask you to set out what your plan was if it weren’t for
the prosecution, for example, that you would have stayed in the role in Post
Office until retirement. Where there is no evidence to suggest that you would
have left the Post Office in any event, it will be assumed that you would have
continued in post or would have been able to secure alternative employment
earning the same amount until the date your conviction was overturned or, if
earlier, your retirement age. This is known as “pre-overturn loss of
earnings/stigma damages” and will generally be calculated from the date of
your suspension or termination to the date of conviction overturn, or date you
would have retired, whichever is earlier.

After the conviction has been overturned, it may take time for you to re-enter
the employment market or continue earning at a comparable level to before the
conviction. As a result, you might also be able to recover “post-overturn loss of
earnings/stigma damages”. These will generally be calculated from the date of
conviction overturn until a date in the future which depends on your personal
circumstances (see below section ‘time period’).

The amount of redress payable will be the loss you suffered. This usually will be
the difference between what you were earning before the prosecution and
conviction and what you have earned since. Adjustments will be made for tax,
National Insurance and inflation. A case example is set out below:

Pre-overturn loss of earnings
General approach:

(“Base figures”: pre-conviction earnings (net of tax and National Insurance) and
adjusted for inflation multiplied by years between suspension and overturn)
minus (Actual post-conviction earnings (net of tax and National Insurance) in
years between suspension and overturn) plus compound interest.

Case example

Role Postmaster

Post Office or Post Office + Retail business Post Office + Retail
Post Office gross income £35,000 per annum
Retail sales income £45,000 per annum
Business costs £50,000 per annum
Business pre-tax profit £30,000 per annum

Number of business owners / partners 1
Role

Applicant base pre-tax income (“base figures”)
Shortfalls to be added back

Other costs to be added back

Adjusted applicant base pre-tax income

Year of suspension

Year of overturn or date of state pension age
[whichever is sooner]

Number of years for loss of earnings calculation
Counterfactual earnings over the claim period

Add CPI inflation to counterfactual earnings
over the claim period

Deduction for counterfactual National Insurance
and income tax over the claim period

Net of tax and national insurance counterfactual
earnings over the claim period

Deduct actual earnings received over the claim
period

Pre-overturn loss of earnings over the claim
period

Compensatory interest to be added from the
date of suspension to the date of the offer + 30
days.

Total offer for pre-overturn loss of earnings
including compensatory interest.

Base figures

RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Postmaster
£25,356
£1,300
£860
£27,516
2010

2024

14
14 x £27,516 = £385,224

£385,224 x 2% = £7,704 pa
x 14 = £107,863

(£385,224 + £107,863 =
493,087 x 30% = £147,926)

£385,224 + £107,863 -
£147,926 = £345,161

(£75,698)

£345,161 - £75,698 =
£269,463

£269,463 x 3.45% = £9,296
pa x 14 years = £130,144

£269,463 + £130,144 =
£399,607.

Generally, the base figure to be used when calculating any redress will be
based upon the income received by you in the full tax year before your
suspension/termination. Adjustments may need to be made to the base figure,

for example:
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

* payments you made in respect of Horizon shortfalls which reduced your
profits may need to be added back into the base figures

e other sums that may have reduced from the retail profits such as business
loan repayments may need to be added back in

¢ any dividends received through the Royal Mail Colleague Share Plan, which
will need to be deducted from the Post Office renumeration base figure

The primary source DBT will use to ascertain your income at the relevant time
will be HMRC records, any available tax returns and trade accounts. Use the
HMRC request form (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/horizon-convictions-redress-
scheme-hcrs-request-your-tax-records) to request this evidence from HMRC. You
should request this evidence from HMRC and submit the return to DBT with
your claim form, for most cases this will provide all the relevant evidence for this
claim.

Adjustments

The base figures will be adjusted to be net of any tax and National Insurance
contributions you would have paid.

Inflation

We will apply inflation to your earnings (both Post Office remuneration and retail
profits) in line with the Consumer Prices Index (CPI). For branch assistants or
managers, inflation will be applied using the Office for National Statistics
Weekly Earnings Growth data (Wholesaling, Retailing, Hotels and Restaurant
sector).

You may have also lost employment outside of the Post Office due to the
prosecution and conviction. Inflation will be applied to other employment
income in line with the Office for National Statistics Weekly Earnings Growth
data.

Actual earnings

Your actual earnings since the prosecution and conviction will be deducted from
your pre-conviction earnings to calculate the amount you lost because of your
conviction. Any state benefits that you have received as part of your actual
earnings may also need to be taken into account. To calculate future actual
earnings, it may be necessary to use estimated figures.

Time period
The calculation for pre-overturn loss of earnings will generally be from the date

of suspension or termination to the date of overturn or date you would have
retired, whichever is earlier.

The application for post-overturn loss of earnings will depend on your specific
circumstances generally based on your ability to re-gain your pre-conviction
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

earning capacity. This application will generally be assessed on evidence that
your earning capacity has suffered and you will not be able to return to the
same rate of earning in the future. The calculation for post-overturn loss of
earnings will generally begin at the date of overturn. The length of time for
redress to be calculated will then depend on the facts of each case. You will be
asked to provide as much detail as possible in the claim form and we will
consider alongside your claim for personal damages which provides further
context to the impact of the conviction on your life. Relevant factors when
assessing this period may include:

e how close you are to retirement age
e your employability which will involve considering factors such as:
¢ employment history
¢ current age
¢ your qualifications
e the impact of the conviction on work experience and career opportunities

e the fact that opportunities may have been available to you at a younger
age but are no longer available to you now

e the difficulties faced in general by people of a higher age in changing or
starting a new career

¢ personal injury
¢ ongoing stigma
e likelihood of you starting a new business

e whether there has been an irretrievable loss of a one-off opportunity within
the workplace, for example, where you worked for a family business before
the prosecution and that opportunity is no longer available

¢ what steps you have taken with regard to your employment/career
prospects

e what steps you might reasonably be expected to take in the future in view
of your overturned conviction and redress received

Other circumstances and non-standard approach to
evidence

Evidence

There may be exceptional circumstances where you are not able to provide the
HMRC information to support your application, for example because the
records have been lost. In these cases, we ask you to submit your request to
HMRC and their response to us with your application, confirming records
cannot be provided. Alternative evidence we will accept in these circumstances
only will be:
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

e bank statements, if self-employed post-termination

¢ evidence of state benefits received, if relevant, for example, a letter from
local authority

e if a postmaster, then documentary evidence of Post Office remuneration (for
example, a contract, payslips, P60 or bank statements)

e ifa branch assistant, then documentary evidence of earnings (for example, a
contract, payslips or bank statements)

¢ if claiming for lost retail profits, then evidence of the profit which the retail
business was producing, for example, trading accounts

These documents should be provided for the time period: 3 years prior to
suspension until current date.

Non-standard claims

We expect the approach set out above to be the general approach to loss of
earnings claims but there may be non-standard claims. For example, you may
put a claim forward that you would not have stayed in the same role or you may
put forward a loss of opportunity claim (for example, for career progression). In
such non-standard claims, we may require other evidence than the HMRC
return. Further information can be found in category F. 8.

Alternative approach

In some circumstances, it may not be possible to bring an application for
redress on the above basis, for example if the calculation results in no loss
suffered or if there is insufficient evidence to assess the application. If you were
a postmaster, then you may still be entitled to redress because Post Office
wrongfully terminated your contract. DBT may decide to make an offer of 26
months of Post Office remuneration. This payment will cover both the loss of
earnings claim and the loss of capital value in the business.

Interest will be payable:

¢ for the pre-overturn period, from the date of suspension or termination
(depending on when your remuneration from the Post Office ceased to the
date your conviction was overturned)

e for the post-overturn period, from the date the conviction was overturned to
the current date

¢ no interest is payable on losses to be incurred in the future

F. 4. Loss of capital value of the business
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

This type of loss covers the loss suffered if you were forced to sell or close a
retail business which you operated alongside the Post Office because of the
financial difficulties caused by the prosecution. You may also be able to make
an application for redress where you continued to run the business, but its
value decreased because of the prosecution. For example, because of the
prosecution and conviction, you:

« sold the business at an undervalue at the time due to urgent financial
hardship

e sold the business at the time due to urgent financial hardship or other
circumstances caused by the prosecution and conviction (for example,
without the Post Office the retail business was not viable) but you otherwise
would have retained the business until today

e sold the business but its value was lowered due to the absence of a Post
Office

e closed the business because it was running at a loss due to lack of custom,
for example because the Post Office closed, because of reputational damage
or because you had to serve a custodial sentence

The redress payable will depend on your application:

either that you sold the business at an undervalue at a historic point in time
and, if it were not for the prosecution and conviction, you would have sold it
for a higher value at a historic point in time. In which case the amount
payable would generally be the difference between the actual alleged value
at the historic time and the amount you sold it for (subject to adjustments as
below) (The “historical valuation”). You should note that if your application is
that you would have closed the business at a historical point in time, then
there would not be a claim for lost earnings for the business following its
closure. This is an example of a “counterfactual scenario”.

¢ or that you wouldn't have sold (or lost) the business if it weren’t for the
prosecution and you would have retained the asset until today — in which
case the amount payable would generally be the difference between the
value today and the amount you sold it for (subject to adjustments as below)
(The “current date valuation’).

How the value of the business will be calculated

Particularly for the historical valuation, indicators of the market value at the time
may be available, for example open market valuations or offers made by third
parties at the time.

If indicators of market value are not available, the value of the following will
need to be determined:

e the intangible asset (goodwill) capital value
e the fixed asset capital value (the business premises, if owned freehold)
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

The key evidence to be provided is documentary evidence showing:

¢ acquisition documents which show ownership, purchase price and costs

e sale documents which show the sale price including any open market
valuations

« trading accounts from the start of tenure to the date the business was sold or
lost

e valuation documents showing the alleged value of the business, including the
premises, depending on your claim:

e historical valuation — open market valuations and/or offers made by third
parties are indicators of market value

* current day valuation — sale prices of comparable businesses from online
sources may be sufficient

e documents showing if the business property was owned by the business/you
on a freehold or leasehold basis

If a business loan or mortgage was secured against the business, you will need
to provide agreements and statements. If the loan was paid from the proceeds
of the sale then it will be deducted from the redress amount as the loan would
have been paid in the scenario that the prosecution and conviction did not
happen.

If the property was repossessed, you will need to provide any repossession
documents relating to the business property such as letters of demand,
statements, court documents in repossession proceedings, Land Registry title
documents.

Deductions would include:

* any investment growth/interest earned on the proceeds of sale
¢ capital gains tax

The amount of interest payable will depend on the type of calculation; if your
application for redress is based on the historical valuation then interest is
payable from the date of the sale based on that valuation. If your application for
redress is based on a loss of value in property by reference to a current day
valuation then no interest will be payable.

F. 5. Loss of asset: residential home

This type of loss covers where, as a result of your prosecution and conviction,
your residential home was repossessed or you were forced to sell your
residential home at an undervalue/or the asset would have been retained and
would have a higher value at a later date.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

The redress payable will depend on your application:

e either that you sold the property at an undervalue at the time — in which case
the amount payable would generally be the difference between the alleged
actual value at the time and the amount you sold it for (subject to
adjustments as below). (The “historical valuation”)

¢ or that you wouldn’t have sold (or lost) the property if it weren’t for the
prosecution and conviction and you would have retained the asset until today
— in which case the amount payable would generally be the difference
between the value today and the amount you sold it for (subject to
adjustments as below). (The “current day valuation”)

The application form will ask you to explain why you sold the property at the
time, how it related to the prosecution, and what the proceeds were used for. In
order to calculate the redress payment, you will need to provide documentary
evidence showing:

e the purchase price and any costs (for example, Stamp Duty Land Tax or
conveyancing fees)

* mortgage agreement and statements

e the sale price (alternatively, DBT can search HM Land Registry on your
behalf)

How the value of the property is calculated

Historical valuation

If your application for redress is based on you selling at an undervalue at the
time and you are applying for the actual value at the time, you will need to
provide evidence of the claimed actual value, such as:

e valuation reports from the time
* comparable property sales at the time

Current day valuation

If your application for redress is based on you retaining the property until today,
our primary approach for assessing the current value of the property will be to
use the Nationwide House Prices Index. You do not need to provide evidence
for this as we will search on your behalf.

After the sale of the property, you may have needed to rent at a higher price
than the interest on mortgage repayments. If this is the case, redress would be
payable for the difference between the interest payments and the rental costs.
You will need to provide documentary evidence of rent paid, for example:

« tenancy agreements or
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

* bank statements

If you lost the property due to repossession, you should provide repossession
documents such as:

e letters of demand
e statements
¢ court documents in repossession proceedings

If this was part of a bankruptcy process, you should request these documents
from your trustee in bankruptcy.

If you had loans secured against the property, you should provide evidence of
these, such as:

e business loan agreements or statements

If you were paying for a loan and interest secured against the property, which
was paid through the sale or repossession of the house, the value of the loan
and interest repayments will be deducted from the sale proceeds as this loan
would have been paid in the event you were not prosecuted.

Any further sums which need to be taken into account to calculate the redress
offer will be considered in each individual case.

Case examples

Example 1: Hypothetical example of a sale of the property following prosecution
due to the applicant's loss of income.

1. Evidence of house purchase in March 2005 for a price of £200,000 financed
by way of repayment mortgage of £160,000.

2. Asale of the property took place in 2012 where the house was sold for
£250,000.

3. In the time between suspension in 2010 and sale in 2012, the applicant had
managed to continue paying their mortgage out of their savings but these
had run out. There were therefore no mortgage arrears as at the date of
sale.

4. Once the outstanding mortgage of £100,000 had been redeemed, the
applicant received £150,000 sale proceeds.

5. Applicant did not purchase a further property but rather has lived in rental
accommodation since this date.

6. Value of house as at current date (based on Nationwide House Prices Index)
= £500,000.

7. Total rental accommodation costs of applicant since 2012 (as evidenced by
supporting documents) = £96,000.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

8. Total interest on mortgage repayments which would have been payable in the
counterfactual scenario = £35,000.

Calculation of net loss to an applicant:

Current value of house £500,000
Less: net sale proceeds £150,000
Less: outstanding mortgage to be paid on counterfactual £100,000

Less: interest on mortgage repayments in counterfactual scenario £35,000
Add: rent paid since 2011 in actual scenario £96,000

Net loss £311,000

Example 2: Hypothetical counterfactual of a house repossession in 2011 which
was caused by mortgage arrears after an applicant was unable to meet their
mortgage payments due to their termination and subsequent prosecution.

1. Evidence of house purchase in March 2005 for a price of £200,000 financed
by way of repayment mortgage of £160,000.

2. On the evidence, the applicant fell into arrears on their mortgage repayments
immediately after their suspension in 2010 and a repossession of the home
due to mortgage arrears took place in 2011 by the residential mortgage bank.
The property was sold by the residential mortgage bank in 2011 for £225,000
(evidenced by reference to HM Land Registry). The outstanding mortgage
(including arrears) as at this date = £120,000. Once this had been redeemed
together with payment of the bank’s costs of £5,000, the applicant received
net sale proceeds of £100,000.

3. Applicant did not purchase further property but rather has lived in rental
accommodation since this date.

4. Value of house as at current date (based on Nationwide House Prices Index)
= £500,000.

5. Total interest on mortgage repayments which would have been payable in the
counterfactual scenario = £40,000.

6. Total rental accommodation costs of applicant since 2011 (as evidenced by
supporting documents) = £100,000.

Calculation of net loss to an applicant
RLIT0000363

RLIT0000363
Current value of house £500,000
Less: net sale proceeds £100,000
Less: outstanding mortgage as at date of repossession £120,000

Less: interest on mortgage repayments in counterfactual scenario £40,000
Add: rent paid since 2011 in actual scenario £100,000

Net loss £340,000

The amount of interest payable will depend on the type of calculation; if the
assessment is based on the historical valuation then interest is payable from
the date of the sale based on that valuation. If the assessment is based ona
loss of value in property by reference to a current day valuation then no interest
will be payable.

F. 6. Loss of asset: other residential property

The type of loss covers where because of financial difficulties caused by the
prosecution you were forced to sell another residential property (not your main
home) at an undervalue and/or the property would have been retained and
would have a higher value at a later date.

The redress payable will depend on your application:

e either that you sold the property at an undervalue at the time — in which case
the amount payable would generally be the difference between the actual
value at the time and the amount you sold it for (subject to adjustments as
below)

¢ or that you wouldn’t have sold (or lost) the property if it weren’t for the
prosecution and you would have retained the asset until today — in which
case the amount payable would generally be the difference between the
value today and the amount you sold it for (subject to adjustments as below)

The approach to assessing redress for other residential property (not your main
home) will be broadly the same as that outlined under the “Loss of Asset:
residential home” category of loss (see category number F. 5). If you were
renting out the other property to bring a profit, you may also be able to apply for
any loss of rental income from that residential property. Applications for this
type of loss will be dealt with under the “Loss of Rental Profits” category of loss
(category number F. 12).
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

In the application form, you will be asked to provide evidence that the
prosecution led to the disposal of your residential property, as well as evidence
of the value of the loss suffered as a result. In order to calculate the redress
payment, you will need to provide documentary evidence showing:

e the purchase price and any costs (for example, Stamp Duty Land Tax or
conveyancing costs)

e mortgage agreement and statements

e the sale price (alternatively, DBT can search HM Land Registry on your
behalf)

How the value of the property is calculated

Historical valuation

If your application is based on you selling the property at an undervalue at the
time and you are applying for the actual value at the time, you will need to
provide evidence of the claimed actual value, such as:

e valuation reports from the time
¢ comparable property sales at the time

If this evidence is not available, it may be appropriate to use the Nationwide
House Prices Index.

Current day valuation

If your application is based on you retaining the property until today, our primary
approach for assessing the current value of the property will be to use the
Nationwide House Prices Index. You do not need to provide evidence for this as
we will search on your behalf.

Deductions will be made for the maintenance and upkeep of the property, which
you would have spent in the scenario that you retained the property as a
second home. Our general approach will be that it is reasonable to have spent
1% of the property value per year on maintenance and upkeep, unless you
provide evidence to support a different figure.

If you lost the property due to repossession, you should provide repossession
documents such as:

e letters of demand
e statements
¢ court documents in repossession proceedings

If this was part of a bankruptcy process, you should request these documents
from your trustee in bankruptcy.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

If you had loans secured against the property, you should provide evidence of
these, such as:

e business loan agreements or statements

If you were paying for a loan and interest secured against the property, which
was paid through the sale or repossession of the house, the value of the loan
and interest repayments will be deducted from the sale proceeds as this loan
would have been paid in the event you were not prosecuted.

Any further sums which need to be taken into account to calculate the redress
offer will be considered in each individual case.

Any further sums which need to be taken into account to calculate the redress
offer will be considered in each individual case.

Case example

Hypothetical example of an investment property sold by an applicant because
they required funds to pay sums they had been ordered to pay in the
prosecution to Post Office and to continue to cover their own living costs
following termination and subsequent prosecution.

1. Evidence of a property purchase in October 2005 for a price of £180,000.
The purchase was made with an £80,000 deposit together with a buy-to-let
interest only mortgage in the sum of £100,000.

2. The property was let out to tenants at a rental value which covered the
mortgage, letting costs and costs of upkeep of the property. The rental profit
following payment of these sums was £500 per month.

3. The applicant sold the property in May 2013, having put it on the market in
February 2013 following the applicant’s conviction in January 2013. The
property was put on the market for £220,000 and the estate agent had
recommended the sale price to be £235,000. The applicant accepted an offer
of £210,000 on the property in March 2013 after a number of viewings had
taken place.

4. As the mortgage was interest only, the capital sum of £100,000 was
outstanding at the point of sale and was redeemed from the sale proceeds.
The net sale proceeds retained by the applicant were £110,000.

5. Value of the property as at the current date is £300,000 (per Nationwide
House Prices Index).

6. No evidence that the investment property was to be retained for a fixed
period only.

Calculation of net loss to applicant:
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Current value of house £300,000
Less: net sale proceeds £110,000
Less: outstanding mortgage to be paid on counterfactual £100,000

Net loss £90,000

F. 7. Loss of asset: personal property

This type of loss covers where because of financial difficulties caused by the
prosecution you were forced to sell personal property (for example, jewellery or
a car) at an undervalue and/or the property would have been retained and
would have a higher value at a later date, a claim for consequential loss may be
available.

The redress payable will depend on your application:

e either that you sold the property at an undervalue at the time — in which case
the amount payable would generally be the difference between the actual
value at the time and the amount you sold it for (subject to adjustments as
below). (The “historical valuation”)

¢ or that you wouldn’t have sold the property if it weren’t for the prosecution
and you would have retained the asset until today — in which case the
amount payable would generally be the difference between the value today
and the amount you sold it for (subject to adjustments as below). (The
“current day valuation”)

In the application form, you will be asked to provide evidence that the
prosecution led to the disposal of your personal property, as well as evidence of
the value of the loss suffered as a result. In order to calculate the redress
payment, you will need to provide documentary evidence showing:

e evidence of acquisition cost or value
e evidence of sale price

e evidence of market valuation at current time/time of sale/time of hypothetical
sale

Approximate but sufficiently accurate valuations may be available using
comparisons derived from online sources, either historical or by way of current
comparator sale prices. For complex valuations, you may require an expert
valuation.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Any sale proceeds will be taken into account when calculating the amount lost.
Any further sums which need to be taken into account to calculate the redress
offer will be considered in each individual case.

Case examples

Example 1: Hypothetical scenario of applicant’s car sold at a reduced ‘fire sale’
price in order to raise funds to pay an order relating to an alleged shortfall.

1. The applicant states that they purchased a second-hand car in July 2010
which they estimate was for a price of £30,000, paid in cash.

2. The applicant was suspended and prosecuted in 2011. On the evidence, the
applicant was ordered to pay a significant sum to POL in respect of an
alleged shortfall of £67,000.

3. The car was sold for £22,000 in 2011 to webuyanycar.com. The applicant has
supplied an invoice evidencing this. The applicant states that the car was
sold at short notice in order to raise funds towards paying the order made in
the prosecution in respect of the alleged shortfall.

4. The applicant states that they would have been able to obtain a sale price for
the car of £27,000 if they had not had to use the fastest route available to
them for selling it. No evidence is supplied to support this.

5. An online valuation is undertaken but this only shows the current value of the
car as £10,000. Online evidence of estimated depreciation on cars year on
year is also obtained. A calculation using estimated depreciation rates
estimates the value of the car in 2011 as approximately £25,000.

Calculation of net loss to the applicant using online valuation sources:

Estimated value of the car at the time of a hypothetical £25,000
counterfactual sale in around 2011:

Less: price received for the car when sold: £22,000
Net loss based on online valuation sources: £3,000

The amount of interest payable will depend on the type of calculation; if your
application is based on the historical valuation then interest is payable from the
date of the sale based on that valuation. If your application is based on the
current day valuation then no interest will be payable.

F. 8. Loss of opportunity
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

This type of loss covers where the prosecution caused you to lose an
opportunity to pursue a course of action which could have resulted in financial
gain.

For example:

e purchasing a property

¢ opening a new branch

e developing a plot of land

e securing a promotion at the Post Office branch where you worked
e securing more lucrative employment

The application for a loss of opportunity might be within your application for any
of the other types of loss rather than a standalone claim, for example you may
state that you missed the opportunity for promotion within your loss of earnings
application.

For these applications you will need to show that (1) you were aware of a
specific opportunity or course of action at the time, (2) that you intended to
pursue that opportunity or course of action, and (3) that you were prevented
from doing do because of the prosecution.

Your application should be accompanied by evidence. What evidence is
required will depend on the nature of the specific opportunity said to have been
lost, but this may include:

e evidence that the investment opportunity was being actively considered and
likely to be pursued (for example, correspondence with banks concerning
financial arrangements)

e evidence that the inability to invest or pursue the opportunity was caused by
the prosecution rather than other intervening events

e evidence of what your financial position would have been if you hadn’t been
prosecuted and the opportunity had been realised

* expected costs and timeframe for the investment or opportunity

e evidence of progress (if any) on the investment

We will assess your application by forming a view on the likelihood of success.
For example, if you claim £50k for a lost investment and upon review of the
evidence it is determined that there would have been a 20% likelihood of a
successful investment outcome, you may be offered £10k. Each case will
depend on the specific circumstances and supporting evidence.

Interest will depend on the specific type of loss claimed.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

F. 9. Claims in respect of pensions

You may be able to apply for redress for pension rights and/or investments that
you lost (or lost the opportunity to accrue) as a result of the prosecution.

Your pension contributions are generally not payable as these would have been
paid from your earnings, which are covered by the Loss of Earnings category of
loss, see F. 3. You may however be able to apply for redress for the increased
value of a pension fund which you lost due to the prosecution, for example:

e if you were paying into a pension scheme but were unable to continue
contributing to that scheme due to financial hardship caused by the
prosecution

« if you were intending to join a pension scheme and can show that you would
likely have joined and contributed to a pension scheme but were unable to do
so because of financial difficulties caused by the prosecution

e you had a pension which you were forced to “cash in” early due to financial
difficulties caused by the prosecution

Redress will be paid if you can show that the prosecution caused you to incur
an overall loss in the value of a pension fund.

The types of evidence you should provide with your claim include:

e other employer contributory pension scheme documents, such as
membership documents, investment reports and annual statements, before
and after your termination and prosecution

e private pension scheme documents such as membership documents,
investment reports and annual statements, before and after your termination
and prosecution

* wage and salary slips and tax documents, taken from before and after your
termination and prosecution, which contain information such as deductions
from salary and matching employer contributions paid to a pension scheme

e any other documentary evidence of a pension scheme participation and
contributions such as correspondence with a financial advisor, or a pensions
and investment advisor

e any documents showing your entitlement to auto-enrolment in a mandatory
workplace pension scheme and details of any opt-out

e documents showing your intention to join and contribute to a pension
scheme, such as retirement planning documents

Expert evidence may be needed to help assess the value of these claims to
ascertain the likely value of a pension fund today.

Whether interest is paid on any redress award will be decided in each individual
case.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

This category of loss does not cover cases involving Post Office Limited
employees (for example, Crown Office employees) who may have been eligible
to participate in a Royal Mail pension scheme. These cases should be
highlighted to your solicitor and discussed with DBT.

F. 10. Bankruptcy or insolvency related losses

This type of loss covers losses suffered if you underwent bankruptcy or
insolvency proceedings which were caused by the prosecution proceedings
against you. This category of loss focuses on individual bankruptcies, but
losses relating to corporate insolvencies may also be recoverable.

You will be asked in the application form to provide evidence that you were
bankrupt/declared insolvent (as appropriate), the value of the loss you are
applying for, and that the bankruptcy/insolvency was due to the prosecution
(rather than other intervening events/general financial hardship/other factors).

The types of documents you should provide with your application, if possible,
include the following:

¢ copy of bankruptcy petition and Order

e details of any fees and costs incurred by you in relation to the bankruptcy
process

e documents evidencing other debts which you would have been expected to
pay if you had not been declared bankrupt

e trustee in bankruptcy records/correspondence
e bankruptcy discharge certificate (where available)
e statement of affairs

e individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) supervisor/report and account to
creditors

e full summary of debts in IVA

e details of the fee incurred by you when making a “DRO” (Debt Relief Order)
application

If you were made bankrupt as a result of the prosecution, you may be able to
apply for redress for:

¢ diminution in value of your estate or assets because of the insolvency

e other consequential pecuniary losses, for example, if you suffered a financial
loss as a result of harm to your credit and reputation

e general (non-financial) damages. For example, where your credit and
reputation has been harmed as a result of the insolvency

* costs or expenses incurred
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

e the statutory interest payable to your creditors

Some of the losses you suffered as a result of the bankruptcy/insolvency may in
substance be the same as those covered by other categories of loss in this
document. These applications will be assessed primarily in line with the
relevant framework governing assessment of the relevant loss. For example, an
application for loss of property will be assessed under categories F. 5 and F. 6.

Deductions will be made from the amount of redress payable for any debts that
you would have had to pay if you had not been declared bankrupt/insolvent.

The amount of interest payable will depend upon the type of loss being
assessed but typically it will be payable from the date the relevant loss was
incurred.

F. 11. Out of pocket expenses

This type of loss covers various “out of pocket expenses” that have been
incurred because of the prosecution.

There is no exhaustive list of the type of expenses you can apply for, some
examples include:

e prosecution costs (your own costs and any costs paid to the Post Office)
e travel expenses (for example, to court for the original trial)
e time spent campaigning for justice (including travel costs)

* accountant fees for assisting you prepare your tax return in the tax year that
the redress is paid. (This should be proportionate in view of the tax exempt
status of the redress)

e miscellaneous increased costs due to criminal conviction (for example
relating to insurance premiums if they were increased as a result of your
conviction)

e legal costs of a transaction which was aborted as a direct result of the fact
the Post Office Limited held a restraint order over your property

The application form will ask you to set out how the prosecution caused you to
incur the relevant cost. We understand you may not hold documentary
evidence from the time. You should provide in the application form as much
information as you can on why the cost was incurred, how much it was, and
how you paid it. Below sets out examples of evidence which may be available.

Costs relating to the original criminal prosecution
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

* court orders regarding orders for costs and/or receipts of any costs payments
made through the court system

¢ letter or other records (bank/credit card statements/cheque stubs) showing
payment made to the Post Office Limited

e invoices from solicitors. You should ask your former solicitor for copies of
these if you haven't retained these

¢ other records (bank/credit card statements/cheque stubs) showing payment
made to solicitors

* correspondence from the Legal Services Commission regarding contributions
to Legal Aid sought and paid. You should enquire with the Legal Aid Agency
(which replaced the Legal Services Commission in April 2013) if no other
evidence is available

Travel/parking costs

¢ details of journeys made (locations, frequency, purpose) and any other
evidence where available.

Increase in insurance premiums (other consequential increased costs)

¢ confirmation by letter or email from the insurance company of the increased
premium payable as a result of the conviction

e if this is unavailable, copies of insurance renewal documents showing the
premium before your conviction and after your conviction (or the length of
time the premium remained higher due to your conviction)

e details of any other quotes obtained by you at the point of renewal

e if the increased costs relate to other consequential increased costs,

correspondence with the relevant body should be provided, including details
as to how long the increased costs continued for following your conviction

Accountant’s fees

¢ a quote provided by an accountant for providing the assistance you think is
needed

Interest will be payable from the date the out-of-pocket expense was incurred.

Interest will not be payable on any future costs, such as the cost of
accountant’s fees.

F. 12. Loss of investment income: rental profits
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

This loss covers the loss of investment income through rental profits from a
property that you owned and rented out. For example, the prosecution caused
you to stop renting out your property and lost the investment income you would
have otherwise continued to receive, for example:

e you lived at the Post Office and retail business premises but were forced to
move into your rental property following the loss of your business

e you were forced to sell your rental property due to financial difficulties
following prosecution and conviction and the need to access the equity held
in the rental property for immediate use

Generally, the redress payable will be the amount of profit you would have
continued to earn if the prosecution had not happened and you continued to
rent out the property.

Examples of evidence you may wish to provide to support your application
include:

e tax returns providing details showing the income received by you at the
relevant time

e evidence of ownership of the property
¢ mortgage documentation including mortgage statements

e tenancy agreements showing rent paid and the cessation of the relevant
tenancy

« accounts if prepared or bank statements
« management company statements
e letting agent statements

¢ other expenses documentation (for example, invoices showing routine
maintenance of property as payable by you as the landlord)

You will need to provide valuation documents indicating the rental value of the
property. You may wish to provide expert evidence to support your claim, or
instead it may be possible to obtain evidence of historical rental prices from
websites such as Zoopla, Rightmove or local property websites, or the Office
for National Statistics Index for Private Housing Rental Prices.

Regarding any application for future loss of rental profits, the general approach
will be that once you have received your financial redress, you will have been
placed in the position you would have been in had the prosecution not
happened. For example, in theory, you will be able to invest in a new buy-to-let
property. DBT accepts that it may take time after the date you receive your
financial redress for you to, for example, purchase a new buy-to-let property.
For this reason, redress for loss of rental of profits may include an amount for
this transition period.

Deductions may be made from any redress offered to account for items such
as:
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

* any sale proceeds from the sale of a previous rental property
¢ any investment growth or interest earned on the proceeds from the sale of
your home

* any outstanding mortgage where, for example, part of the rent received on
the property was being used to pay for a mortgage

e letting related costs

Any redress will be paid net of tax. You are not expected to undertake this tax
calculation when submitting your claim.

Interest will be payable from the date the loss was incurred.

F. 13. Cost of debt financing/financing related penalties

This type of loss covers penalties or general/increased costs of financing, due
to the prosecution.

For example:

e you were forced to incur overdraft penalties/charges and/or had to seek
credit at short notice with high interest rates to pay for your defence in the
criminal proceedings

e you were forced to borrow additional money to pay for your defence in the
criminal proceedings

e the prosecution put you in a desperate financial position which harmed your
credit score, and you could only borrow money at high interest rates

e repaying the sums demanded under confiscatory or redress orders meant
that you were unable to make credit card or loan repayments on time and
then suffered further charges or penalties as a result

¢ you have incurred several sources of debt and not all of them can be said to
have been caused by your prosecution. The different sources of debt may
have different interest rates, penalties or charges. Assessing this type of
claim may be more complicated than in other circumstances

Any redress awarded will aim to put you in the position you would have been in
if you had not been forced to borrow or default on obligations due to the
prosecution. Only the cost/penalties of any loan will be recoverable, the loan
sum itself will be assessed under the relevant category framework, to avoid
double recovery. For example, if a loan was taken out to pay for any shortfall
paid to the Post Office Limited, the loan amount will be assessed under
category numbers F. 1 and F. 2 and the cost of the interest on that loan would
be assessed under this category.
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

In the application form, you will be asked to explain the purpose of the
financing, following your prosecution. In order to calculate the loss, the types of
evidence you should provide with your claim could be include:

e loan agreements which show the term of the loan, applicable interest rates
and fees

¢ loan repayment statements

¢ for any re-mortgages, documents evidencing the mortgage before and after
your conviction

e bank/credit card statements showing applicable rates of interest and any
fees

Interest is generally payable and the appropriate start date for accrual of
interest will be considered in each case.

Case examples

Example 1: Hypothetical scenario of an applicant taking out a personal loan in
order to finance the sum claimed by POL in respect of the shortfall which was
the subject of the prosecution.

1. The applicant was prosecuted in March 2012 and was ordered by the court to
repay POL £14,000 on account of the shortfall identified at audit.

2. The applicant did not have £14,000 in savings and had no regular income
following suspension/termination/prosecution.

3. The applicant attempted to obtain a loan for £14,000 from their usual bank
but were declined on the basis of lack of affordability, despite having a good
credit score. The applicant was able to obtain a loan in this sum from another
lender. The interest rate was 8% over a 5-year term and repayments were
due monthly. The interest rate was a higher rate than that which would have
been offered by the applicant's own bank.

4. In 2012, the applicant had intermittent employment only, and therefore
missed several repayments. They were charged £25 per missed repayment
and in total missed 3 repayments over the course of 2012.

5. After this point, the applicant was able to make regular repayments and fulfil
their obligations on the loan, eventually repaying it in full.

6. The total interest on the loan which was payable = £1,120.

Calculation of net loss to an applicant

Interest on the loan £1,120
Repayment fees (3 x £25) £75

Total loss £1,195
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Example 2: The same circumstances as outlined in example 1 apart from:

1. The applicant struggled to secure alternative employment for a number of
years after their prosecution.

2. In 2012-2013, the applicant had intermittent employment only, and therefore
missed several repayments. They were charged £25 per missed repayment
and only made 5 repayments over the course of 2012. The bank then issued
the applicant with a default notice.

3. The position was resolved in 2013 when the applicant was able to repay the
missed repayments and from thereon was able to continue to service the
loan.

4. However, the default notice negatively impacted the applicant’s credit score.

5. The total interest on the personal loan which was payable = £1,350. Note this
is higher than in example 1 due to the increased missed repayments.

6. In 2016, the applicant applied to purchase a car at a price of £8,000 via
finance. As a result of their poor credit score, the applicant incurred an
interest rate of 7% (the rate which would have otherwise been available to
the applicant was 4%).

7. The total interest on the car financing which was payable = £560. The
interest that the applicant would have paid had it not been for the poor credit
score was £320.

Calculation of net loss to an applicant

Interest on the personal loan £1,350
Repayment fees (7 x £25) £175
Interest that the applicant paid on the car £560
Less: Interest that the applicant would have paid on a lower interest £320

rate on car financing

Net loss £1,765

F. 14. Loss related to Royal Mail Colleague Share Plan

This loss relates to stakeholder dividends which were paid via the Royal Mail
Colleague Share Plan. These payments were paid to postmasters who held a
contract with the Post Office — branch managers and assistants were not
eligible. You will be eligible to apply for redress if you were a member of the
Royal Mail Colleague Share Plan or would have been eligible to join the Royal
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

Mail Colleague Share Plan but for the fact that you were removed from post on
or before 30 June 2011. The application will be for the loss of dividends and/or
cash bonuses that you would likely have received but for the prosecution.

The actual dividends paid per eligible individual are set out in the table below.

Date Dividend paid Multiplier for part-time workers
30 May 2008 £800 Hours/42
29 May 2009 £400 Hours/46
28 May 2010 £400 Hours/46
30 June 2011 £600 Hours/46

If you had continued to be a full-time postmaster for the full qualifying year
before the dates in that table, you would have received the full amount of
dividend (hence the maximum claim is £2,200 before adjustments). The
dividends were pro-rated for full months in tenure in the qualifying year and pro-
rated for part-time postmasters. The dividends were paid via payroll and so tax
and National Insurance Contributions were deducted. The redress payment will
pay you the actual amount you would have received if the prosecution and
conviction did not happen, so:

e the payments you qualify for based on the dates you would have been in
role

¢ pro-rated for partial tenure in qualifying years and pro-rated for part-time
employment (if relevant)

e tax and national insurance contributions deducted

You do not need to provide any evidence to support this claim. DBT will confirm
your eligibility for the scheme and that you did not opt out with the Post Office.

Interest will be paid on any redress offered from the date any payment would
have been made to you if you had still been in post.

F. 15. Special damages or personal injury

This type of loss covers financial losses for personal injury suffered as a result
of the prosecution. A personal injury includes a diagnosed psychiatric injury and
distress related physical injury — the impact of this on your life is covered in your
RLIT0000363
RLITO000363

claim for non-financial damages, but you may have also suffered financial
damages due to your personal injury, for example:

¢ costs paid for medical treatment or any medical treatments that you expect to
pay for in the future

e incidental expenses, such as travel expenses to medical appointments

Your application for these losses will be linked to your claim for personal
damages for personal injury (see category NF. 1), where you will be asked to
provide evidence to support your application for personal injury. If that is
established, you should provide as much detail as possible in the claim form
about the financial losses you suffered, and provide supporting evidence such
as:

* areceipt or invoice from a medical provider
e a quote or estimate if claiming for future treatments

Interest will depend on the losses applied for. Interest is generally paid for past

losses from the date the loss was incurred but is not payable for future losses,
such as medical expenses in the future.

OGL

All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright

