RLIT0000283
RLIT0000283

Kevin Hollinrake MP
do Parliamentary Under Secretary of State

Department for Business and Trade
Old Admiralty Building

Department for Admiralty Place

. Whitehall
Business & Trade tondon
SW1A 2DY

23 March 2023

Dear GLO Postmaster,

POST OFFICE HORIZON: GLO COMPENSATION SCHEME

In my letter of 7 December 2022, I provided details of how the GLO ex-gratia compensation
scheme would work. I am delighted to inform you that the scheme is now open to receive
claims.

I strongly encourage you to get help with your application from a lawyer if you have
not already done so. The Government will meet your reasonable legal costs, within a publicly
available, agreed tariff. Three firms — Freeths, Howe & Co and Hudgells Solicitors —- have
agreed to this tariff for legal costs and will not make any additional charges to you. The same
tariff is available to other firms. I strongly advise you not to engage any lawyer who asks
you to pay them, either now or when you receive compensation, as this may mean your
eventual compensation would be reduced by legal costs which you would not be able to
recover.

Development of the scheme since December has reflected helpful input from the Justice for
Subpostmasters Alliance and claimants’ legal representatives as well as utilising lessons
learned from other compensation schemes. It has also drawn on guidance from our
independent Advisory Board on the scheme, which is chaired by Professor Christopher
Hodges and includes Lord Arbuthnot, Professor Moorhead and the and the Rt Hon Member
for North Durham (Kevan Jones MP), who are all long distinguished campaigners for
postmasters. The Advisory Board has met three times: reports of its meetings are on our
website’.

All the scheme information can be found on the Gov.uk website*. We look forward to
receiving your claim as part of our work to correct the injustices of this terrible scandal.

Yours sincerely,

KEVIN HOLLINRAKE MP
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State - Department for Business and Trade

1 https://www.gov.uk/government/groups/group-litigation-order-glo-compensation-scheme-advisory-board
? https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compensationscheme-for-group-litigation-order-case-postmasters

