RLIT0000035
RLIT0000035

1 November 1995

Stephen Silber Q¢

Law Commission
Conquest House
37/38 John Street
Theobalds Road
LONDON WCIN 2BQ SR/L219/95

17-19-02

iV, Kibet

~— 4INAL PROCEEDINGS: HEARSAY AND RELATED TOPICS

I refer to I etter of 9 October and now have pleasure in enclosing the Crown
sponse to Consultation Paper No. 138.

for the
ion that you may

of the respot
. My direc

further infor line i

Prosecution Policy Division
Policy Group
RLITO000035
RLIT0000035

LAW COMMISSION CONSULTATION PAPER

EVIDENCE IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS: HEARSAY AND RELATED TOPICS

CROWN PROSECUTION SERVICE RESPONSE

Our main conclusions are summarised below and the remainder of this document

is an explanation of how and why we have arrived at those conclusions.

HEARSAY EVIDENCE

e We most favour Option 7 modified to make all hearsay evidence admissible if it

is both relevant and probative.

e One statute should define " hearsay evidence "and contain all the law relating
to it.
e Evidence should be admissible for both prosecution and defence according to the

same test - that it is both relevant and probative.

THE RULE AGAINST PREVIOUS CONSISTENT STATEMENTS
e We agree broadly with Option 3.

COMPUTER EVIDENCE
e We believe s.69 Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 should be repealed.

EXPERT EVIDENCE

e We are not aware of major problems but have no objections to Option 5.

1. LIMITATIONS ON REFORM

1.1. The CPS agrees with the Commission that any reform of domestic law should be
compatible with the ECHR. [cP 9.4]
Q

2.1

2.2

2.4

2.5

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

PRELIMINARY ISSUES

The CPS also agrees with the Commission that the hearsay rule is excessively
complex and leads to confusion and anomalous results. The rule could sensibly

be reformed for those reasons alone. [CP 9.2}

The CPS agrees that if the only evidence against a person is hearsay evidence that
should not amount even to a case to answer. We are surprised that this should
amount to a proposed reform. The CPS is required to apply the Code for Crown
Prosecutors. Section 5.3 a of the Code requires Crown Prosecutors to consider
whether evidence may be excluded because it is hearsay. If it is hearsay the
Crown Prosecutor must be satisfied that there is enough other evidence for a
realistic prospect of conviction. In practice, if the only evidence against a person

was unsupported hearsay, the CPS would not continue with the case.

We have assumed that, in paragraph 2.2 we have correctly understood the
Commission’s proposal that "unsupported hearsay should not be sufficient proof
of any element of an offence." An alternative interpretation of paragraph 9.5 of
the Consultation Paper isa literal one - and for the sake of completeness we must
deal with it.

It is, that however much other evidence there may be against a person, if the
only evidence in relation to one element of the offence is hearsay then no case

to answer is made out.

We are unable to agree with that interpretation. It may help to explain why with

examples:

(1) At midnight a security guard sees X break into a building and enter
a computer room. Two minutes later X emerges, is later arrested
by the police and makes no comment when interviewed. The
computer, which belongs to Z, produces a printout indicating that

at 0001 hours on the night in question a large amount of money
3.1

3.2

was transferred out of Z’s account without his authority.

Assuming that the computer printout is hearsay, and that the
requirements of s.24 Criminal Justice Act 1988 and s.69 Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984 are satisfied is justice done if the
printout cannot be used to prove an essential element of an offence
- ie charges against X of burglary, theft, false accounting or under
the Computer Misuse Act 1990 ?

(2) S.32A Criminal Justice Act 1988 allows video recordings of child
witnesses to be given in evidence in certain circumstances. $.33A of
the same Act provides for a child’s evidence to be given unsworn
and s.34(2) of the Act removes the need for corroboration of
childrens’ evidence. Currently a video interview of a child can
amount to the sum total of the evidence against a person and a jury
could, in strict law, convict on it. Applying the proposal
"unsupported hearsay should not be sufficient proof of any element
of an offence" to this example would involve repeal of s.32A
Criminal Justice Act 1988. We query whether this would command
any public support. (What if the prosecution case amounted to
several video interviews of different children all relating to the
same incident ?)

{cP 9.5]

JUDICIAL DISCRETION

The CPS view is that judicial discretion is such an inherent part of the criminal
justice system that any attempt to operate without it would be generally
unacceptable. Even if a category based regime were to be implemented, judicial
discretion either at common law or under s.78(1) Police and Criminal Evidence
Act 1984 could not be excluded.

We recognise the benefits of judicial discretion in allowing evidence to be

RLITO000035
RLIT0000035
3.4

4.1

4.2

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

assessed on a case by case basis. We agree with the Commission that a clear
comprehensible structure for the exercise of judicial discretion in relation to
evidence is lacking. If, as mentioned in paragraph 4.41 of the Consultation Paper,
the Court of Appeal has difficulty in arriving at a definitive decision as to how
ss.25 and 26 Criminal Justice Act 1988 relate to one another, similar problems

will afflict judges, magistrates and lawyers in the lower courts.

We appreciate that judicial discretion leads to less certainty. In the CPS’s
response to the Commission’s Questionnaire we highlighted some of the practical
problems we had encountered. Our view was that, whilst we accepted the need
for a defendant to receive a fair trial, judicial discretion to admit evidence was
normally likely to be exercised in favour of the prosecution when the evidence
was subordinate or peripheral to the case. We accepted that the courts must be
less ready to admit decisive evidence which cannot be challenged by the defence.
We remain of that view but feel that the problems of uncertainty are compounded

by the complexity of the law in this area.

We did tentatively consider a two tier system with judicial discretion being
severely limited or even excluded in the magistrates’ courts but retained in the
higher courts. We felt that the idea had little to recommend it. It might improve

certainty but at the expense of justice. [CP 9.6 - 9.25]

"HEARSAY" A DEFINITION

The Commission’s suggested definition of hearsay is: "an assertion other than one
made by a person while giving oral evidence in the proceedings is inadmissible

as evidence of any fact or opinion that the person intended to assert."

We would wish to have as simple a definition as possible. We have to say that we
are more attracted to Professor Cross’s definition of hearsay as "anassertion other
than one made by a person while giving oral evidence in the proceedings is

inadmissible as evidence of any fact or opinion asserted."
4.3

4.4

4.5

5.1

5.2

6.1

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

The difficulty we see with the Commission’s definition is that the court will have
to determine the intention of the person concerned, All the difficulties inherent
in identifying what is an implied assertion remain. Professor Cross’s definition
omits any reference to intention but that still would mean that implied assertions

were inadmissible in the light of the ruling in Kearley.

We would prefer an alternative approach of having a statutory definition of
hearsay evidence coupled with a framework defining tightly the scope of judicial
discretion on its admissibility.

As mentioned above, we favour Professor Cross’s definition and further suggest

that all of what is currently hearsay evidence should be admissible provided that

the court finds that it is both relevant and probative. [CP 9.26 - 9.36]

OPTIONS FOR REFORM

We start with two premises:

1) that the present law is in need of reform to make it more readily

understandable

2) that any new law must realistically allow for the exercise of some degree

of judicial discretion.

We refer to the various options for reform as they appear in the Consultation

Paper (Options 2 to 6 - there being no Option 1).

OPTION 2

Our view is that this would be impractical. The criminal justice system in England
and Wales is adversarial and based on the calling of live witnesses. The Royal

Commission on Criminal Justice did not recommend any fundamental alteration
6.2

7A

7.2

7.3

74

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

to that.

This option would permit either prosecution or defence to base a case wholly on
hearsay evidence unfettered as to either quality or quantity. If it were to become
law, Crown Prosecutors would have to take decisions on whether to prosecute on
the basis of potentially poorer quality evidence than at present. It would be
impossible to make a meaningful judgment on what evidence the court might rely
upon in reaching its decision. An increase in the number of wrongful convictions
and in the workload of the appellate courts would be a virtually certain result.
Equally those lowered evidential standards would apply to the defence - for
example by using evidence that could not be challenged, and could potentially be
fabricated, to attack the character of a live prosecution witness or to support an

alibi. [CP 10.3 - 10.27]

OPTION 3

This option, to begin with, is readily understandable. Unlike Option 2 it compels
the parties to seek the best evidence available and to that extent would preserve

current standards.

This option, which works in the German inquisitorial system, would have to have
in built safeguards, applying to both prosecution and defence, if it were to work
satisfactorily in England and Wales.

Unless there was a limit to the types of evidence admissible in this option it
would amount to Option 2 by another name. The quality of the evidence might
not be so adversely affected but the potential for quantity would remain
uncontrolled.

We would envisage having a statutory definition of hearsay evidence and, in the
absence of better evidence, it would not be admissible unless it was both relevant

and probative.
75

7.6

7.7

8.1

9.1

10.

10.1

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

A further necessary control would be to require both prosecution and defence to
give advance notice to each other and the court of details of any hearsay evidence

it was proposed to rely on and the reason for not relying on first hand evidence.

This would encourage thorough and timely preparation of the case and curb any

temptation not to seek the best available evidence from the outset.

In paragraph 10.33 of the Consultation Paper the question is raised of the accused
present in court who declines to give evidence. We believe that s.35 Criminal

Justice and Public Order Act 1994 covers this situation.

Paragraph 10.32 of the Consultation Paper deals with the danger of increased
fabricated evidence. We question whether this is likely. Witnesses on occasions
now make false statements in the knowledge of a future court hearing - relaxation

of the hearsay rule will not, we suspect, encourage others to do likewise. [CP 10.28 -
10.35]

OPTION 4

We agree with the Commission that this option has twin disadvantages over even
the current system. It would be even more difficult to understand and even less

certain in its practical application. [CP 10.36 -10.55]

OPTION 5

We agree with the Commission that this option, though laudable in its intended

object, simply adds a further layer of uncertainty on to the existing ones. [CP 10.56 -
10.64]

OPTION 6

This option is for a category based system. The first problem is to define all the
relevant categories of evidence. The Commission recognise that it is a difficult

one to overcome. We agree, not least because the law lags behind rather than
RLITO000035
RLIT0000035

leads developments in the outside world. Computers, telecommunications and

medical science are but three of many fields.

10.2 A category based system would be comprehensible but not necessarily certain.
The categories would require systematic review and revision and failure to do so

could result in injustice either to prosecution or defence.

10.3. We note that in paragraph 10.68 of the Consultation Paper that the Commission
favours a category based system because it is not aware of any miscarriage of
justice arising from the operation of the Criminal Justice Act 1988. We cannot
help wondering whether that bears out our impression that this kind evidence

tends to be admitted only when it is of a subordinate or peripheral nature.

10.4 The fundamental drawbacks of a category system are that it carries an inbuilt
obsolescence as well as excluding any form of judicial discretion to correct its
faults. We do not view it as being either workable or generally acceptable. [CP10.65

~ 10.72]

11 OPTION 7

11.1 This is option 6 with a limited judicial discretion added to act as a "safety valve"
and we will deal with the various proposals in the order that they appear in the
Consultation Paper.

11.2 Proposal 1

11.3. We agree with this but would commend Professor Cross’s definition of hearsay.

11.4 Proposal 2

11.5 We broadly agree but question the need to limit the proposal to first hand

hearsay. We accept that hearsay evidence should in the ordinary course of events
RLITO000035

RLITO000035

be given less weight than live evidence, but we question whether in all
circumstances multiple hearsay should be given no weight whatever. The “safety
valve" provision is designed to allow for multiple hearsay in any event and we
wonder whether, even if evidence is multiple hearsay, it should not be admissible

anyway (provided that it is both relevant and probative).

Proposal 3

There is nothing objectionable in this proposal but we have the following

comments:

Proposal 3(b)(i)
Is it realistic to use the fact that a witness is outside the United Kingdom as a
basis for reading his or her statement ? It may cost more and take longer to get

from Edinburgh to London than it does from Paris.

We suggest that the Commission consider firstly the merits of expanding the
categories of evidence that may be admitted both in England and Wales and
elsewhere via live television link. A second consideration is whether to extend
this facility to the magistrates’ courts. The witness could then be cross examined
and the court would almost certainly be able to make a better assessment of the

witness than simply having his or her statement read.

Proposal 3 (c)

Witnesses may refuse to give evidence for all manner of reasons. Frequently it
happens that one party in a relationship assaults the other, but as time passes
they become reconciled. The aggrieved may no longer wish to support the
prosecution. Proposal 3(c) would permit a prosecutor to go ahead with such a
case against the aggrieved’s wishes. (A witness may now be compelled to attend

court if it is felt in the public interest to do so).

Another type of case is where a witness makes a false statement. If, knowing that,

the witness refuses to testify can it be right to admit the witness’s statement ?
11.8

11.9

11.10

11.11

11.12

11.13

11.14

11.15

11.16

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

Finally, defendants are witnesses. Does proposal 3(c) not remove the right to

remain silent ?

Given that for the purposes of Proposal 3(c) there is a witness in court refusing
to testify, or to continue to testify, would it not be wiser to let the court conduct
its own enquiry as to the reasons and act accordingly rather than making the

witness’s statement automatically admissible ?

Proposal 4

We agree

Proposal 5

We agree, but given the need to make the law as simple and comprehensible as
possible we suggest that, rather than preserving or re-enacting these various
statutes, they should all be incorporated into one homogenous piece of legislation
allowing any person interested to refer to the statute law on hearsay evidence at
as a whole.

Proposal 6

We agree

Proposal 7

We fully understand the thinking behind the need for a "safety valve" provision.
Our concern is that, given that the magistrates’ courts deal with the bulk of
criminal cases in England and Wales it is there that the "safety valve" is likely to

be used most often.

We considered the idea of a two tier system with very limited discretion in the

magistrates’ court and rejected it. Paragraph 11.38 of the Consultation Paper
11.17

11.18

12

12.1

12.2

12,3

12.4

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

invites views as to the circumstances in which the safety valve should be available.

Unfortunately we cannot envisage any practical way to limit its use.

Every case, no matter how minor, is individual. We operate in an adversarial
system. If there is to be a safety valve it must be available as and when required.
The price for that is that some unmeritorious attempts to use it, particularly in the

magistrates’ courts, will be inevitable.

We refer to paragraph 11.80f the Consultation Document. The safety valve caters
amongst other things for multiple hearsay. Given that the magistrates are judges
of fact and law we imagine that, like a jury, they may be misled or distracted.
They may also spend time listening not only to the evidence but the attendant
submissions. Our view is that the objectives of simplifying and speeding up the

judicial process are unlikely to be achieved. [CP 10.73 - 11.61]

SHOULD REFORMS TO THE HEARSAY RULE APPLY EQUALLY TO
PROSECUTION AND DEFENCE IN CRIMINAL CASES ?

(We did not look at Courts - Martial, Professional Tribunals or Coroners’ Courts
as we have do not have sufficient expertise of their various operations for us to

be able to make meaningful comments).

We favour the level playing field approach that rules on admissibility of evidence
should apply equally to prosecution and defence. As regards hearsay evidence, it

has greater potential for unreliability than live evidence.

We consider it would be wrong to make it more difficult to prove cases by
introducing more liberal evidential standards for the defence. Other
considerations apart, it would do nothing to simplify the system and would be

unlikely to improve public confidence that justice was being done.

We recognise that under ss.23 and 24 Criminal Justice Act 1988 the law currently
12.5

12.6

13

13.1

13.2

imposes a higher standard of proof of establishing the foundation requirements

on the prosecution than it does on the defence. [CP p.180 footnote 6].

We wonder whether this does not confuse the overall standard of proof with the
standard by which a particular piece of evidence ought or ought not to be
admitted. We recommend that the same test should apply to both parties and it
should be simply that the evidence sought to be admitted is both relevant and
probative. The weight to be attached to it should be a matter for the magistrates

or jury as the case may be.

This solution has the advantage of being simpler, and fairer than the present law.
It would in no way affect the overall standard of proof applicable to the
prosecution nor curtail judicial discretion to exclude evidence at common law or

under s.78 Police and Criminal Evidence 1984. [cP 12.2 - 12.15]

THE RULE AGAINST PREVIOUS CONSISTENT STATEMENTS

We agree with the Commission that this area of the law needs reform. The area
in which the current law causes greatest practical problems is the inability for a
witness to refresh his or her memory from a previous statement when giving
evidence. In our view Option 3 solves that main problem, and others, in a
common sense manner and brings legal practice into line with what actually

happens in daily life.

We wonder whether the test in Option 3(d) "reasonably be expected" is intended

to be an objective or subjective test.

It might not be reasonable, for example, to expect a witness with Alzheimer’s
disease or with particular memory problems to remember very much at all. On
the other hand a person with a particular interest and knowledge of some topic
could reasonably be expected to remember more about details concerning it than

the man or woman in the street.

RLITO000035
RLIT0000035
14

14.1

14.2

15

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

A second consideration is the nature of the details that the witness could not
recall. Were they routine or out of the ordinary; were they of great quantity or

otherwise ?

A possible way out of becoming entangled in objective and subjective tests would
simply be to delete from Option 3(d) the words "and the details are such that the
witness cannot reasonably be expected to remember them." In effect this is a
subjective test but, memory being in its own right subjective, we cannot conceive

of any more practical alternative. {CP 13.1 - 13.55]

COMPUTER EVIDENCE

We agree that the main problem with computer evidence is probably incorrect
entry of data. Experience shows, though, that the other problems of software
faults, hardware faults and unauthorised tampering with computer systems are not

without significance.

S.69 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is, frankly, a source of
difficulty to us. We are all too familiar with problems in complying with it, which
are increasing as computer systems develop. We note with interest that the

Internet is not mentioned in the Consultation Paper.

We agree with the Commission that s.69 Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984
is becoming increasingly out of touch with developments in technology and it

should be repealed. {CP 14.1 - 14.32]

EXPERT EVIDENCE

The Royal Commission on Criminal Justice asked the Commission to look at this
topic because of particular concern that the system might be exploited by defence

practitioners not only seeking to cross examine the prosecution expert but also the
15.2

15.3

15.4

16

16.1

16.2

16.3

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

various assistants who may have helped in carrying out tests.

The Crown Prosecution Service was alive to the problem and considered it in

1992 with particular reference to statements from the Forensic Science Service.

Forensic scientists’ witness statements now contain details of those who have
assisted in the various tests and their role in those tests. If the defence wish to
have more details of the part played by an assistant we would normally obtain a
witness statement and serve it on the defence. In a case where the expert relied
on information provided by an assistant which he was not in a position to fully
explain, then we would normally call the assistant to give evidence so that the

court was in possession of all relevant facts.

In practice we are not aware of any widespread attempts to exploit the system by
defence practitioners but we would no objection to Option 5 as suggested by the

Commission in this part of the Consultation Paper. {CP 15.1 - 15.26]
CONCLUSIONS

Hearsay Evidence

We most favour Option 7 BUT modified so that:

Proposal 2 was replaced with a provision that, subject to common law and s.78
Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, all hearsay evidence be admissible if
relevant and probative.

We would wish to see all the statute law on hearsay evidence incorporated into
one piece of legislation also containing Professor Cross’s definition of hearsay

evidence.

We recommend that the same standard should apply to both prosecution and

defence in seeking to have any evidence admitted namely that it be both relevant
16.4

16.5

16.6

16.7

16.8

16.9

16.10

RLITO000035

RLITO000035

and probative.

As a less satisfactory alternative we would choose Option 3 - the best available
evidence approach.

To use hearsay evidence prior notice would be required and reasons given for the

unavailability of better evidence.

Hearsay evidence would be as defined by Professor Cross and this definition

included in a statute.

Subject to the foregoing all hearsay evidence would be admissible provided the

court found it both relevant and probative.

The same standard should apply to prosecution and defence in seeking to have

evidence admitted namely that it be relevant and probative.

The Rule against Previous Consistent Statements

Weagree with Option 3 in the Consultation Paper. We have minor misgivings on

the interpretation of the wording in Option 3(d).

Computer Evidence

In our view s.69 and Schedule 3 Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 serve no

useful purpose and should be repealed.
Expert Evidence
We are not aware of major practical problems over the use of Expert Evidence

in court. We would not object, though, to Option 5 as proposed by the

Commission.
RLIT0000035
RLIT0000035
