RLIT0000250
RLIT0000250

A
#8

Department for
Business & Trade

Horizon Compensation Advisory Board

Report of fifth meeting held on 14 June 2023

Members present: Prof. Christopher Hodges (Chair); Lord Arbuthnot; Kevan Jones MP;
Prof. Richard Moorhead.

Also present: Carl Creswell; Rob Brightwell; Eleanor Brooks; Beth White; Eleri Wones (first
part of meeting) (all DBT).

Fairness of the HSS

1. The Advisory Board agreed that

¢ Fair compensation should be delivered that puts victims in the position that they would have
been in if the scandal had not occurred and properly reflects the significant harms that had
been visited on their lives and reputations.

e Legal or other related costs should be reimbursed in full, so that compensation payments
were fully compensatory.

2. It recognised that Government already subscribed to those principles. Its concern was that they
should be effectively implemented, and that postmasters and others should have confidence
that they were being applied fairly. Officials informed the Board that Ministers would shortly be
announcing their intention to fund top -ups to HSS payments to address the issue relating to
tax. [Post-meeting note: announcement to Parliament is here].

3. The Board noted that offers had been made to 99.3% of postmasters who had originally
claimed under the HSS, and that 82% of these offers had been accepted. However there had
been public comment about the outcomes and handling of a number of cases perceived to
have been unfair. Some of these had not yet completed the dispute resolution process within
the HSS.

4. The Board have had a discussion with KCs from the HSS Independent Panel. The KCs had
explained that the Panel had adopted a practice of ‘acting as advocates for claimants’ where it
could see matters within a claim that were not addressed in the options pre sented by HSF,
rather than as wholly disinterested arbiters, and had adopted a presumption in favour of
applicants if there was a shortfall and no other explanation.

5. The Advisory Board believed that the Panel had been guided by principles of independence
and professionalism, and by legal precedent so as to seek consistency between awards, in
reaching decisions in individual cases.

6. The Board noted the difference in process between the HSS and GLO schemes. Under the
HSS, the independent Panel recommended an offer. If the offer was not accepted there was a
dispute resolution process managed by the Post Office, including referral back t o the
Independent Panel and then with independent mediation as a final stage. By contrast in the
GLO scheme an initial offer was made by DBT followed, if necessary, by independently
facilitated discussions. Only if these did not produce agreement was a case referred to an
independent Panel. There was provision for review by a senior legal figure in the event of
manifest error or irregularity. A broadly similar sequence was being envisaged for the new
arrangements for compensation for overturned convictions.

7. The Board also noted the different remuneration arrangements for representation and the very
high levels of cases without representation in the HSS scheme.
8.

RLIT0000250
RLIT0000250

In the Board’s view, having an independent Panel (and, if necessary, the Reviewer) in place at
the end of the process to make final decisions on individual claims increased the trust which
could be placed in the final settlement.

. The Board noted that given the history of mistrust in the Horizon scandal born of adversarial

litigation, many postmasters would lack confidence in the fairness of any compensation
delivered under the auspices of the Post Office or its legal advisors. They also noted concerns
about the administration of HSS, including issues in respect of the application form .

10. They concluded that if the Scheme was to be seen to be fair, individuals who were unhappy

1

12.

about the settlements which they had received needed to have recourse to an assessment
which was wholly independent of the Post Office. This should come at the end of the process,
on similar lines to the role of the GLO Independent Panel. They recommended that the
Minister should consider how such an appeal process could be introduced . It should
focus on assessing whether settlements were fair based on the evidence pro vided,
whilst allowing consideration of elements of a claim which had been missed or not
included on the original form.

- The Panel discussed the differences in the extent and timing of legal advice in the schemes,

which tended to suggest there may be merit in the concerns that unrepresented claimants have
been disadvantaged under the HSS scheme. The Board noted that the HSS had been
established under schedule 6 of the agreement between the Post Office and JFSA which had
settled the GLO case. DBT’s understanding was that, in the light of their members’ difficult
experiences in the High Court and el sewhere, the JFSA had argued for a process which did not
expect postmasters to take legal advice in making applications. The Post Office had, however,
provided support with the costs of legal advice to help claimants consider compensation offers.
The HSS Panellists had also explained that they took the approach of scrutinising HSS.
applications with a view to identifying any heads of loss that had not been explicitly included.
Nonetheless, claimants’ lawyers had suggested that claimants who were unrepresented may
have received smaller awards than those who had engaged legal advice.

The Board noted that many of the concerns about the fairness of settlements related to the
overall treatment of individual postmasters by the Post Office over many years. They noted that
the HSS had paid careful attention to legal principles and precedents in respect of loss of
reputation, stigma, distress and inconvenience and related heads of loss, but that this had led
to potential differences between different claimant groups. However they believed that the facts
of some Horizon cases went beyond those of precedents, for instance in respect of damage to
reputation irrespective of prosecution given the impact of any branch intervention or civil action,
the prominence within the community of many postmasters, the length of time during which the
individual suffered damage, and the consequences for family members and family unity. If such
cases were decided by the Courts, there were good reasons for thinking that judges may well
create new, more generous precedents, especially given the egregious and bullying behaviour
of the Post Office during the course of the scandal — behaviour whose impact was increased by
virtue of the Post Office's credibility as a Government -owned organisation. They were also
concerned that the operation of some rules of thumb in the scheme (such as the 26 month
guideline on termination and the starting points for assessing reputational harm) risked
unfairness to some claimants.

13.The Board was therefore not convinced that the application of existing principles and

precedents would lead to consistently fair results. They noted that postmasters who had been
prosecuted by the Post Office would receive exemplary damages. Whilst such da mages were
intended to punish the Post Office, they also had the effect of acknowledging the sustained
personal impact which its actions had had on individuals. They recommended that the
appeal process recommended above should put particular weight on secu ring a fair
outcome in respect of the issues described in the preceding paragraphs.
RLIT0000250
RLIT0000250

Overturned convictions

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

The Board noted that of about 900 people prosecuted by the Post Office in 2000-2015, to date
only 86 convictions had been overturned. More were in the process of appealing and the Post
Office had recently written to a further group to indicate that it would not oppose their appeals.

In the Board’s view, postmasters would inevitably distrust any action of the Post Office or its
advisors in reviewing cases, even if this were done with the utmost professionalism.

The Board believed that the criteria set by the Court of Appeal for Horizon cases were too tight,
and that a significant number of miscarriages of justice could be outstanding. They also
believed that the Court of Appeal’s judgment was based on a limited u nderstanding of the
extent of problems with financial systems in the Post Office and with the extent of wrongdoing
lying behind the “affront to public justice” finding. This led to a much wider and higher level of
concern about Post Office prosecutions (an d their review) with a number of critical documents
not apparently disclosed and available to the Court.

The Board recognised that Government cannot challenge the decisions of the Courts. They
agreed that their Chair should write to the CCRC and its equivalents in other nations to
strongly encourage it to propose a wider set of criteria in the light of the full range of
cases prosecuted by or on behalf of the Post Office.

They also agreed to recommend that the Minister should

a. consider whether the Government or Post Office could do more to encourage
postmasters to appeal their convictions;

b. arrange that a review of all Horizon prosecutions be undertaken, by a team
independent of the Post Office and without any prior involvement, to identify
appeals that should be reviewed as unsafe, based on a presumption of
innocence; and

c. encourage the Post Office, when considering which potential appeals meet the
Court of Appeal’s criteria, to only resist appeals in which there remained
substantial evidence wholly free of taint.

They agreed to look further at the issue of cases not yet appealed.
