RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

a; GOV.UK

le

us

Department for
Business & Trade

Correspondence

DBT response to the Post
Office Horizon IT inquiry's
first interim report:
compensation

Published 26 October 2023

Contents

Introduction

Recommendations 1 and 3

Recommendation 2

Recommendation 4

Recommendation 5

Recommendation 6

Recommendation 7

Recommendation 8

Annex A: comparison between Horizon compensation schemes on tax

Annex B: summary of tax approach by scheme
RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

OGL

© Crown copyright 2023

This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where
otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-
licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9
ADU, or email: psi

Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission
from the copyright holders concerned.

This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/response-to-post-
office-horizon-it-inquiry-interim-report-compensation/dbt-response-to-the-post-office-horizon-it-
inquirys-first-interim-report-compensation
RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

Introduction

1. The department welcomes the inquiry’s interim report of 17 July 2023. It
reiterates the intention, recognised in the report, that all postmasters affected
by the Horizon scandal should receive full, fair and prompt compensation.

2. The following paragraphs set out the department’s response to the report's
specific recommendations.

Recommendations 1 and 3

The Horizon Compensation Advisory Board should not be prevented from
monitoring individual cases in which compensation has been or is to be
determined by paragraph 4 of its Terms of Reference. It must be one of the core
duties of the board that it monitors whether compensation payments are full and
fair.

The Horizon Compensation Advisory Board shall, as part of its advisory role,
consider whether, in its view, full and fair compensation is being paid out to
applicants under the 3 schemes. It shall advise the minister and the Post Office
accordingly at 3-monthly intervals.

3. Recommendations accepted in part

The advisory board’s aim is to help the department to ensure fair and prompt
compensation to postmasters affected by the Horizon scandal and related
issues. The department agrees that, in delivering this aim, it may be helpful for
the advisory board to be given anonymised information about individual cases.

However, the department endorses the view expressed by the board, in the
report of its 31 July meeting and in its letter of 15 August 2023 to the inquiry,
that it would not be “possible or advisable for us to intervene in the
determination or outcomes of individual cases, nor to give an opinion on
individual outcomes, or an opinion that full and fair compensation is being paid
out to individuals”.

4. The Terms of Reference allow the advisory board to advise the minister
whenever it sees fit. Reports of its 6-weekly meetings are communicated to the
minister and published.
RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

Recommendation 2

The Horizon Compensation Advisory Board shall produce written reports in
respect of each of their meetings in relation to each of the 3 schemes and
publish the same within 21 days of the date of each meeting.

5. Recommendation accepted

Written reports of board discussions are already published at the Horizon
Compensation Advisory Board page
(https://www.gov.uk/government/groups/horizon-compensation-advisory-board).

Reports of earlier meetings are available at the Group Litigation Order
Compensation Scheme Advisory Board page
(https://www.gov.uk/government/groups/group-litigation-order-glo-compensation-

scheme-advisory-board).

They are issued within a week unless the board agrees otherwise.

Recommendation 4

If the Horizon Compensation Advisory board as constituted consider it
necessary, the number of persons appointed to the board should be increased
so as to ensure that the board has sufficient capacity to perform the functions
set out above.

6. Recommendation accepted

The department will keep under review the case for expanding the board, in
discussion with its current members.

Recommendation 5

The Department for Business and Trade (DBT) shall take such steps as are
necessary within 28 days of the date hereof, to seek appropriate directions
under section 306 of the Insolvency Act 1986.
RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

This is to enable a court to resolve the difference of view between DBT and
Moore UK and/or it shall take all appropriate steps, including providing
appropriate legal funding, so as to enable a sub-postmaster to seek appropriate
directions under that section.

7. Recommendation accepted

The department and the inquiry share the view that none of the group litigation
order (GLO) compensation payable to bankrupt claimants should be diverted to
insolvency practitioners to meet their costs and creditors. Most insolvency
practitioners have accepted this, but Moore UK, which is the trustee in
bankruptcy in respect of 9 GLO bankrupt claimants, have not.

1. The department has instructed counsel to submit an application on its behalf
for a direction from the court and has asked for this to be expedited. The
department will be asking one postmaster affected by Moore’s stance to be
named as an interested party without the need to participate in proceedings
themselves.

The department has written to affected postmasters to inform them about the
actions it is taking and reassure them that they will be fully compensated.

Recommendation 6

DBT shall publish in as much detail as it reasonably can and as soon as it
reasonably can, its proposals for ensuring that applicants to all schemes are
treated equally and fairly. This is as far as their liability to or exemption from
Income Tax (IT), Capital Gains Tax (CGT) and Inheritance Tax (IHT) is
concerned as the same relates to compensation payments under each scheme.

9. Recommendation accepted

Payments under the GLO scheme and the compensation for overturned
convictions (OC) are exempt from IT, National Insurance contributions (NICs)
and CGT. On 19 June, the government announced arrangements for ensuring
fair treatment in respect of IT, NICs and CGT for Horizon Shortfall Scheme
(HSS) claimants.
RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

Initial offers under HSS did not account for the tax on compensation when paid
as a lump sum, which means that postmasters were not necessarily restored to
the position they would otherwise have been in. Top-up payments are the
quickest and most efficient way to address this issue and will be exempt from
tax.

Details are set out in Annex A. Payments from all 3 schemes are exempt from
IHT.

Recommendation 7

HM Government shall bring forward and use its best endeavours to ensure that
legislation is enacted so as to allow payments of compensation under GLOs to
be made to applicants after midnight on 7 August 2024 if that proves to be
necessary.

10. Recommendation accepted in principle

The department is determined to deliver the GLO scheme by August 2024. If it
were to appear nearer the time that the deadline was likely to be missed, the
government would of course consider whether legislation was necessary.

Recommendation 8

No applications for compensation to HSS shall be entertained after such date
as shall be agreed by the Minister/ DBT, the Post Office and the Horizon
Compensation Advisory Board.

11. Recommendation accepted in part.

The department will discuss and agree an appropriate closing date with the
Post Office. Advice will be sought from the advisory board and the department
will notify the inquiry and potential claimants of the decision when made.
RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

Annex A: comparison between Horizon
compensation schemes on tax

1. This note provides further explanation of the tax treatment across the 3
compensation streams: OC, HSS and the GLO scheme.

2. Across all compensation streams, no claimants will pay more tax than they
would have at the time of the shortfalls. The intervention on HSS is designed
to put claimants in the fairest possible position as to their counterparts in
GLO and OC.

There will be some HSS claimants with no or litle current income who receive
more generous awards due to the assumptions made but we think that the
pragmatic solution that we have announced is the fairest, simplest and fastest
way to resolve the issue and ensure that postmasters receive full compensation
as soon as possible.

In summary:

¢ postmasters with OC or participants in the GLO scheme will not be required
to pay any IT, NICs, or CGT. This is because the award is calculated net of
tax, that is, an amount in respect of tax is deducted in the calculation of the
compensation award. The payments are not then subject to IT, CGT and
NICs

* postmasters participating in the HSS will be required to pay IT and NICs on
some elements of the compensation they receive. They will also be required
to pay CGT where relevant, but it is unlikely that any compensation would
attract CGT

e HSS claimants will receive an additional payment on top of their
compensation. This additional payment will compensate the postmaster for
any tax that they are liable to pay on their compensation above the basic rate
(20%). In practice, it will be more generous for postmasters with little or no
other income, who are less likely to pay tax at the higher or additional rates
as a result of the compensation payment

e the additional payment to HSS claimants will be tax exempt so there will be
no further tax or NICs to pay on this amount, making the top up
straightforward and final

e the government will not collect any IHT that may arise in relation to payments
made under the HSS, the GLO scheme, and the OC scheme to victims of the
Post Office Horizon scandal

1. For each of the schemes, there are taxable and non-taxable elements. For
example, where the loss relates to what would have otherwise been
employment income, it is taxable. The Post Office and DBT seek to follow the
“Gourley principle”, which states that a person should not be placed ina
better or worse position than if the contract had been carried out.
RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

2. The distinction between the schemes is the point when IT is applied to
relevant heads of loss. For postmasters with OC and those who were part of
the GLO, an amount in respect of IT is deducted as part of the calculation of
the award in the year in which it would have been earned to provide a net
figure. For example, gross earnings in each year are identified and then tax
deducted at the appropriate rate for that year.

Interest is then applied to the net figure. Combined these payments constitute
the compensation award. This award is tax exempt, meaning there is no liability
for the claimant to pay tax on the award received.

1. The methodology used to calculate payments is in adherence with the
Gourley principle. For example, if the claimant receives an award for loss of
earnings, this should reflect the amount they would have received if they had

continued to work as a postmaster and paid tax on their earnings over the
years.

This is consistent with the objective to put claimants back in the financial
position that they would otherwise have been in.

1. On the HSS, loss of earnings awards are based on the gross remuneration
that the postmaster would have expected to have received from the Post
Office. IT is then due to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) in the year the
compensation is paid.

Post Office has rightly withheld IT from the award, although this may not match
the postmaster’s actual liability. This approach allowed the Post Office to make
awards under the scheme without requiring detailed tax information from the
claimant.

However, Post Office and government recognise this regrettably did not fulfil the
Gourley principle for some claimants because the lump sum payment means
they are in higher tax brackets than they might otherwise have been if they had
received the earnings over a number of years.

1. This would have created a discrepancy between the HSS and the GLO/OC
schemes whereby, if tax arrangements were left as they were originally
designed, HSS claimants would have been subject to higher tax bills than if
the HSS scheme was designed in the same way as the other schemes.

2. Addressing this discrepancy is difficult given the large number of
compensation awards that have already been made under the HSS.

Whilst including HSS in the regulations to exempt GLO and OC from IT, NICs
and CGT, would have created parity of tax treatment in theory, it would not have
created parity in outcomes between the schemes because of the different way
in which awards are calculated.

Introducing an exemption for the HSS would mean HSS claimants receive a
gross award which is subject to no IT, putting them in a better position than their
RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

counterparts in the other schemes.

1. This is why the top-up solution was favoured, to make sure that whilst HSS
claimants are still liable to pay some tax on their gross compensation awards
this top-up will make this commensurate with what they are likely to have
paid at the time of employment, an application closer to the Gourley principle.

An explanation was previously provided by the department on how the top-ups
would be calculated and the rationale behind it. This is repeated below for ease:
Top-up payments will therefore be calculated so that no postmaster pays more
than the basic rate of tax on their compensation.

This is in line with the intention to restore the postmaster to the position they
would have been in if they had kept their jobs and received remuneration and
paid tax in the normal way.

It will be assumed that the taxable elements of the compensation will be subject
to the additional rate of tax (45% in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, 47%
in Scotland). The top up payment will then be for the difference between the
compensation taxed at the additional rate and the compensation taxed at the
basic rate. These additional payments will be exempt from IT, CGT and NICs.

For example, if the taxable amount of compensation was £100,000, Post Office
will assume that, due to the postmaster’s other earnings, this will be taxed at
45%. Our intention is for the recipient to be treated as if they were taxed at the
basic rate (20%).

The top up would therefore be for £25,000 — the difference between £45,000 of
assumed IT and £20,000 of IT. This example is for illustrative purposes and
does not account for any allowances that the postmaster may have, including
the termination allowance.

Further to this, for taxable interest applied to non-taxable heads of loss (for
example, Horizon shortfalls), a different approach will be taken. We don’t think it
is right that this element of compensation should be taxed and therefore we will
issue a top up payment which will cover any subsequent tax bill to the
postmaster.

Top ups will be calculated to account for the difference between the additional
rate of tax and 0% to mitigate the impact of tax entirely.

In the above example, this would mean a £45,000 top-up, assuming all the
£100,000 is interest on non-taxable heads of loss. This is consistent with the
OHC and GLO, where the tax exemption means that interest applied to non-
taxable heads of loss is also exempt from IT, CGT and NICs.

1. There are a small number of sub-postmasters who have structured their
business through a corporate entity, these businesses are within the GLO
and HSS compensation frameworks.
RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

The government announced draft legislation at legislation day on 18 July 2023,
which sets out the proposed remedy for corporate entities, which aims to create
a similar level of taxation as if the compensation had been paid directly to the

directors, employees or shareholders of the corporate in an individual capacity.

1. Compensation for postmasters with OC and the members of the GLO, are
also exempt from CGT. This exemption does not extend to HSS but as CGT
is primarily applied to profit from the sale of an asset, compensation
payments are unlikely to be subject to CGT.

2. There is consistency of treatment between all 3 schemes on IHT. The
government has already legislated to exempt payments made to claimants
under OC from IHT and has announced its intention to legislate to exempt
from IHT payments made under the HSS and the GLO scheme.

To ensure that HSS and GLO claimants have certainty over their tax position
prior to legislation being introduced, HMRC will not collect any IHT in relation to
payments made up to the date the legislation comes into force.

Any IHT paid by the personal representatives of estates who did not previously
qualify for relief from IHT on HSS and GLO scheme payments are entitled to a
refund from HMRC.

Annex B: summary of tax approach by
scheme

Overturned Group Horizon shortfall
convictions litigation scheme
order

Calculation of Net Net Gross

awards

Shortfalls Not taxable Not taxable Not taxable

Personal losses (for Not taxable Not taxable Not taxable

example, personal

injury)

Loss of earnings Taxable Taxable Taxable (taxed on
(deducted in (deducted in final award)
calculation) calculation)

Compensatory Not taxable Not taxable Taxable (interest

interest (3.45% (interest added (interest added to gross
Overturned

convictions
compound) to net award)
Income Tax and Not payable

National Insurance (exempt)
contributions on
final award

Inheritance Tax Not payable
(exempt)

Capital Gains Tax Not payable
(exempt)

Top-up payments Not payable
(exempt from IT,
NICs, IHT and CGT)

Group
litigation
order

added to net
award)

Not payable
(exempt)

Not payable
(exempt)

Not payable
(exempt)

Not payable

RLIT0000359
RLITO000359

Horizon shortfall
scheme

award, taxed on
final award)

Payable

Not payable
(exempt)

Not exempt but
compensation is

unlikely to attract
CGT

Payable

OGL

All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0,

except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright
