RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

Henry Staunton claims pressure was put on him to help the government
navigate the Horizon scandal

ILLUSTRATION BY PETE BAKER

Wc EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW,
Post Office boss: I was told to stall
compensation to help Tories

Henry Staunton had only been in post since 2022. But when he
was sacked he says Kemi Badenoch told him: ‘Someone’ got to
take the rap’

Oliver Shah, Associate Editor

Sunday February 18 2024, 12.04am, The Sunday Times

Share

xX f & Save +

The first Henry Staunton knew of his imminent ousting as Post
Office chairman was when he received a call from Sky News on
a Saturday afternoon last month. He hadn’t even met Kemi
Badenoch, the business secretary, but she phoned him shortly
afterwards to confirm the government was sacking him.

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 113,
RLIT0000256
RLITO000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

the Horizon scandal, which saw more than 900 sub-postmasters
and others wrongly prosecuted between 1999 and 2015 based on
flaws in the Post Office’s accounting software, and said: “Well,
someone’s got to take the rap for this.”

Staunton had been chairman only since December 2022. He said
he replied: “Fine. We’re turning the business round. We’ve got a
strategy to move forward. The culture’s dire, in terms of how
the postmasters are perceived in particular ... But you've clearly
made your decision.”

Badenoch’s department said Staunton’s characterisation of their
conversation was “simply incorrect”.

According to Staunton, Badenoch did not apologise for the way he discovered that
he had been sacked

DAN KITWOOD/GETTY IMAGES

Staunton, a corporate veteran who previously chaired the
retailer WH Smith and the property company Capital &
Counties, said he now felt “fairly philosophical” about his
treatment. But in an interview with The Sunday Times this
weekend he claims that:

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 2113
RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

* He was instructed by a senior civil servant to stall on
compensation payments to Horizon victims so the government
could “limp into the election” with the lowest possible financial
liability.

¢ The government body that manages taxpayers’ ownership of
the Post Office told its chief executive to write to the lord
chancellor stating the reason so few sub-postmasters had come
forward to have their convictions overturned was because they
were “guilty as charged”.

* The Post Office remains a “mess”, plagued by a “toxic” culture
where executives continue to mistrust sub-postmasters, despite
exposure of the scandal, and where suspicion they are “digging

into the [till] drawers is rife”.

¢ It still employs more than 40 investigators involved in the
wrongful prosecution of sub-postmasters. These investigators
are known as “the untouchables” inside the organisation
because of the power they wield.

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 3/13
RLIT0000256
RLITO000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

Kwasi Kwarteng, the business secretary in 2022, thought Staunton would be able
to resolve the Post Office crisis

AFP

Staunton, 75, was due to retire from WH Smith and was looking
forward to spending “more time on the golf course, on the
tennis court and at our place in Cornwall” when he was
approached by headhunters about the Post Office chairmanship
in 2022. They convinced him it was “time to give something
back, because you’ve just trousered all this money”. Staunton
met Kwasi Kwarteng, then the business secretary, who told him:
“It’s full of problems, but it’s not something that you couldn’t
sort out.”

By the time Staunton joined, Kwarteng was gone, having been
promoted to chancellor and then fired. Staunton said he walked

TAEDA WI ASAARTAR HAW SOL REA DAR EAIA TR URE REAR AA RBA

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 43
RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

accounting for shortfalls at their branches caused by glitches in
the Fujitsu-supplied Horizon IT system. Until Kevin Hollinrake,
the postal affairs minister, intervened last September and
offered £600,000 upfront to those wrongly convicted, the Post
Office operated three separate compensation schemes. The
main one, the Horizon Shortfall Scheme, had paid an average of
£36,000 to more than 2,400 people by the end of last year.

Staunton said the schemes struck him as “terribly
bureaucratic”, “terribly pedantic”, “terribly unhelpful” and
“terribly unsympathetic”. “I thought, we haven’t got this right,
we're trying to make it difficult [to claim compensation],” he

said.

ADVERTISEMENT

He was more shocked by the attitude he encountered in
Whitehall. “Early on, I was told by a fairly senior person to stall
on spending on compensation and on the replacement of
Horizon, and to limp, in quotation marks — I did a file note on it
— limp into the election,” he said. “It was not an anti-
postmaster thing, it was just straight financials. I didn’t ask,
because I said, ‘I’m having no part of it - I’m not here to limp
into the election, it’s not the right thing to do by postmasters.’
The word ‘limp’ gives you a snapshot of where they were.”

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 5/13
18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

consistently encouraged postmasters to come forward with
their claims. To suggest any actions or conversations happened
to the contrary is incorrect. In fact, upon appointment, Mr
Staunton was set concrete objectives, in writing, to focus on
reaching settlements with claimants - clear evidence of the
government's intent. The secretary of state asked Henry
Staunton to step down as chairman of the Post Office because a
change in leadership was needed.”

Another priority was the exoneration of those wrongly
convicted. Only about 100 convictions have been overturned so
far. Staunton said sub-postmasters told him the reason more
former colleagues had not come forward was “because they
don’t trust the British justice system”. But he said the sentiment
voiced by Richard Taylor, the Post Office communications
director, who was suspended after a recording emerged of him
saying that some sub-postmasters “downright stole”, was widely
shared in the Post Office’s upper echelons. The Post Office is
understood to dispute this.

*Pi 1: the Post Office victi ho died without justi

The ITV drama Mr Bates vs The Post Office unleashed a tidal
wave of public anger, prompting Rishi Sunak and Hollinrake to
promise unprecedented legislation to overturn all convictions
related to the Horizon scandal. Before then, efforts to help sub-
postmasters were “getting absolutely nowhere”, Staunton said.
“And then the dam broke.”

Staunton said UK Government Investments (UKGD), the body
staffed by former investment bankers that manages taxpayers’
stakes in assets such as the Post Office, appeared to oppose
blanket exoneration. Last month — after the drama’s airing —
Nick Read, chief executive of the Post Office, wrote to the
justice secretary, Alex Chalk, with a legal opinion from the Post
Office’s solicitors at Peters & Peters attached. The message said
that in more than 300 cases. non-Horizon evidence supported

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p

RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

613
RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories
News

charged’ - ie think very carefully about exoneration. I said to
Nick [Read], ‘This is not right - this goes to the heart of how we
as an organisation feel. You’ve sent that letter as if that’s our
view, and that is not my view, and it is not the view of at least
half of the board ... If this got out, we’d be crucified, and rightly
so’.”

Post Office scandal: The false prosecution that ruined my family’s lives

According to Staunton, Read said he sent the letter at UKGI’s
behest. Staunton believes UKGI was trying to undermine
Hollinrake’s stance on exoneration. “It seems to me astonishing
to prevail upon the Post Office to write a letter to Chalk which
was undermining their own minister — because to be fair to
Hollinrake, he said, ‘We’ve got to sort this’,” Staunton said. “It
was terrible, terrible governance ... I picked it up with the UKGI
director, who didn’t deny it but didn’t really want to talk about
it. And I thought it was not my job to work out what the politics
is behind all this.”

ADVERTISEMENT

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 713
RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

UKGI said: “We strongly refute the claims levelled by Mr
Staunton, both in the facts presented and the suggestions made
as to UKGI'’s overall role. UKGI did not commission the letter as
Mr Staunton has claimed and only became aware of it once it
had been shared with ministers. It is not UKGI’s role to set
[government] policy on these issues, which is rightly the role of
the relevant departments.”

A source close to the Post Office said Read’s January letter was
in no way seeking to influence the government’s plans for mass
exoneration and denied that it was sent at UKGI’s behest.

Shortly before he was ousted, Staunton was copied into an
email sent by Elliot Jacobs, a sub-postmaster board director who
runs eight branches in London and Hertfordshire. It said that a
“culture that [postmasters] are ‘guilty’ and ‘on the take’ is
embedded in this company” and warned that “while we
continue to [employ] 40+ people who ensured innocent people
were found guilty and who continue to believe that mantra, this
will never change”.

This was a reference to the Post Office’s investigations team,
which reports to Ben Foat, the general counsel, and still
includes individuals such as Stephen Bradshaw, who denied
allegations that he and his colleagues “behaved like mafia
gangsters” when they appeared before the Horizon IT inquiry
last month.

Staunton agrees with Jacobs’ assessment. He said Read often
described the investigations team as “the untouchables”. “I said,
‘That’s terrible governance — you can’t have people who are

untouchable, particularly if they’ve done wrong’,” Staunton
said. “And he said, ‘Well, it would be terrible publicity [to get rid

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 8/13
RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

going to be awful for us, and it’s going to make postmasters feel
as if we haven’t got the message ...’ We’ve even rehired people in
investigations who were in it, left and came back and we took
them on. You couldn’t make it up.”

The plight of the wrongly accused sub-postmasters was given extra prominence
thanks to the ITV drama Mr Bates vs The Post Office

PA

A source close to the Post Office said it was not true that it
continued to employ 40 investigators involved in the Horizon
scandal and that it did not recognise the “untouchables” tag.

The trigger for Staunton’s ousting was a row over the
appointment of a new senior independent director. The
government wanted a Whitehall insider but the Post Office
board voted for Andrew Darfoor, a financial services veteran
who was already a director. “That was a big part of it,” Staunton
said. “I feel that I was acting as the servant of the board, and I
wouldn’t change one jot of it. There was frustration, ‘He’s too

yo

postmaster-centric and he doesn’t do what we tell him’.

ADVERTISEMENT

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 9/13
18/02/2024, 11:00

RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

Staunton is now fulfilling his long-held wish to spend more
time in Cornwall. For the Post Office and the people who
manage its 11,500 branches, the story grinds on.

Staunton thinks the government should offer wronged sub-
postmasters £1 million each in compensation and get on with
quashing convictions. “The public believes this is terrible — and
frankly, if we paid more than we might do in a hard-bitten law
case, I don’t think the public would mind one jot,” he said. “And
in respect of exoneration, if ten out of several hundred were
guilty, I don’t think the public would actually feel that was a big
deal. [Otherwise], this is just going to fester, and actually we asa
business can’t move forward if all of this is there in the ether...
Society has let down the postmasters, so therefore society
needs to dig into its pockets to make up a fair and decent
contribution.”

A business department source said: “This blame-passing was a
feature of Mr Staunton’s time in the Post Office and emblematic
of his lack of control over the organisation and why the board
needed new leadership. As well as his poor judgment, Staunton
was dismissed for blocking an investigation into his conduct.
Given [that the business department] is the department
responsible for whistleblowing, Kemi Badenoch was not
prepared to allow Staunton to remain in position, yet said his
dismissal was by mutual consent to avoid damage to his
reputation, which he has now invited by speaking to the media,
when previously saying he would not.”

Tha Dact Offiea caids “Dact Offiea ic varw aurara af tha tarrihla

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 10/13
RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

government's plans for faster justice and redress for victims. No
one within Post Office is out of reach of the inquiry.”

Law UK politics Post Office

Related articles

Royal Mail hopes to save £650m by delaying delivery of
NHS letters

February 18 2024, 12.04am

Oliver Gill

WK VIDEO
Pictured: Post Office victims who died without justice
January.20.2024,.6.30pm.

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 11/13
RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories

ANCau WIV

FIRST PERSON

Chris Evans on Steve Wright: He even made the
weather magical

February 17 2024, 6.00pm

Chris Evans

DISPATCH FROM THE ALPS

No snow and 16C winters — but skiing has a plan to
save itself
February 17 2024, 6.00pm

Katie Gatens in Megeve

The most popular Michelin ingredients — truffle isn’t
top
February 17 2024, 6.00pm

Dominic Hauschild

Get in touch

About us Cont
Help The

The Sunday Times Editorial Complaints Plac
Classified advertising Disp
The Times corrections The

Careers

More from The Times and The Sunday Times

The Times e-paper

The Sunday Times Wine Club

https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-wsSk6sh9p 12/13
RLITO000256
RLIT0000256

18/02/2024, 11:00 Post Office boss: I was told to stall compensation to help Tories
News
The Sunday Times Rich List
Good University Guide
Newsletters
Best Places to Stay
Podcasts
Times Luxury

Best Places to Work

© Times Media Limited 2024.
Registered in England No. 894646.
Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.

Privacy & cookie policy Licensing
Site map Topics
Authors Commissioning terms

Terms and conditions

NEXT ARTICLE

https://www.thetimes.co. uk/article/post-office-chairman-interview-henry-staunton-ws5k6sh9p 13/13,
