RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

Horizon Shortfall Scheme
Application to join the Scheme

Please read this information before completing the application form

Please only complete one application form. If your claim relates to multiple branches and/or shortfalls, please include
these in the same form. If you contracted with Post Office as various legal entities, you will need to complete a separate
application for each legal entity. You may use separate sheets of paper to complete the application form if necessary.

When submitting your application, you should submit relevant supporting material that will enable your application to be
properly considered. Failing to provide this information with your application may result in unnecessary delays.

Please apply by email to minimise any potential delays with processing applications. If you don’t have an email address
yourself, a family member or friend is welcome to email on your behalf.

If you do not have any access to an email address to submit all or part of your application, in those circumstances
applications can be sent by post. Please note postal applications and queries may not be processed immediately given the
current circumstances.

If any additional information is required to help progress your application, you will be contacted about this.

This application form, the Eligibility Criteria and the Terms of Reference contain formal legal information and language that
is necessary for the integrity of the scheme. Where possible, such as in the questions and answers to help you complete
your application, we have kept the information as clear and straightforward as possible.

Applications and other communications should be sent:

* by email to horizonshortfallscheme._

* or by post to Post Office Horizon Shortfall Scheme, PO Box 76882, London E1W 9RR. Please use Royal Mail as
PO Box addresses can only accept post from Royal Mail and not from other carriers or couriers. If you do need to apply
by post, please only provide copies of the supporting documents/material rather than original documents, which should
be retained for your own records, and we advise using a trackable service such as Royal Mail Special Delivery if sending
documents by post. Postal applications should only be submitted if the applicant has no access to an email address they
can use.

Please note these are Post Office addresses as this is a Post Office scheme — please be assured eligible claims will be
assessed by an independent advisory panel.

In order to be eligible for the Horizon Shortfall Scheme, you must meet all of the criteria set out below:

1. You must have, or have previously had, a contract directly with Post Office. If you are applying to the scheme on
behalf of another person or a company, they must have, or have previously had, a contract directly with Post Office.

2. Your application must relate to shortfalls which arose in respect of previous versions of Horizon (sometimes
referred to as Legacy Horizon, Horizon Online or HNG-X). Please note that the High Court has held that the
current version of Horizon (HNG-A — sometimes referred to as the ‘Branch Technology Upgrade’) is robust relative
to comparable systems. If you have a concern you believe is related to the current version of Horizon, please contact
casereviewteam@_ “Jand if you experience an operational issue when using the current version of
Horizon please report it to the Branch Support Centre.

3. If you are making an application on behalf of another person, you must be a legally appointed assignee, personal
representative, attorney or deputy of the person you are making the application on behalf of. Please note that you
must provide proof of this legal relationship when you submit your application.

4. You must agree to be bound by the Terms of Reference for the scheme. A copy of the Terms of Reference is available
on the scheme website and is also contained below within the application form.

5. Your application and time with Post Office must not involve or relate to any criminal conviction(s). Only the criminal
appeal courts can consider past convictions. Please note a caution is not a criminal conviction and will not affect
eligibility for the scheme.

6. You must not have been part of the group litigation against Post Office that settled in December 2019.
The settlement reached by the parties was full and final. You must also not have entered into a settlement agreement
with Post Office after the High Court's judgment on Horizon Issues dated 16 December 2019.
RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

If you are unsure whether you are eligible for the scheme, please contact horizonshortfallschemel

For further information about how Post Office will process your information, please see the privacy policy at
www.onepostoffice.co.uk/scheme

Horizon Shortfall Scheme Terms of Reference

In order to enter the Horizon Shortfall Scheme, you must agree to these terms of reference.

1. Post Office intends to establish the Horizon Shortfall Scheme (the “Scheme”) to address past issues regarding its
point-of-sale accounting system, Horizon.

2. The purpose of the Scheme is to resolve past issues with current and former postmasters who, in good faith, believe
they may have been affected by shortfalls which relate to previous versions of Horizon (sometimes referred to as
Legacy Horizon, Horizon Online or HNG-X) (“Horizon Shortfalls”). The Scheme will not deal with issues arising with
the current version of Horizon (HNG-A, sometimes referred to as the ‘Branch Technology Upgrade’).

3. Applications and other communications should be sent:

3.1 by email to horizonshortfallscheme,

3.2 or by post to Post Office Horizon Shortfall Scheme, PO Box 76882, London E1W 9RR. Please use Royal Mail as
PO Box addresses can only accept post from Royal Mail and not from other carriers or couriers.

Please apply by email; postal applications should only be submitted if the applicant has no access to an email
address they can use.

Please note these are Post Office addresses as this is a Post Office scheme — please be assured eligible applications
will be assessed by an independent advisory panel.

4. Applicants to the Scheme are required to agree to these Terms of Reference. Applicants who do not agree to the Terms
of Reference will not be eligible to participate in the Scheme.

5. Once an application has been made, either party may write to the other to request relevant information. The parties
shall co-operate with one another in providing any information which the other party may reasonably request.
Information obtained and provided in relation to each application should be proportionate to the circumstances of
that application.

6. Eligible applications made under the Scheme will be individually investigated and the outcomes assessed by an
independent advisory panel. Following assessment of the claim, Post Office will write to the Applicant setting out the
outcome of his or her application.

7. Inthe event the Applicant is dissatisfied with the outcome of his or her application, the following Dispute Resolution
Procedure shall apply:

a. The Applicant must notify Post Office by email or post within 28 days that he or she wishes to engage the dispute
resolution procedure. Please see the previous advice around using email wherever possible in light of the ongoing
Coronavirus situation.

b. As soon as is practicable, at least one Post Office representative shall meet with the Applicant by telephone and
endeavour to resolve all issues regarding any outstanding shortfalls in good faith and in a manner that takes into
account the legitimate interests of Post Office and the Applicant (the “Good Faith Meeting”).

c. If the dispute is not resolved as a result of the Good Faith Meeting, either party may within 28 days escalate
the dispute to a member of Post Office’s senior management (the “Escalation Meeting”) in writing by email or by
post. Please see the previous advice around using email wherever possible.

d. Ifthe dispute is not resolved as a result of the Escalation Meeting, either party may refer the matter to Wandsworth
Mediation Service (“WMS") within 28 days for mediation (the “Mediation”). WMS is a charity chaired by Stephen
Ruttle KC, one of the two independent mediators who assisted the parties to reach agreement between Post Office
and the claimants in the group litigation. Alll income generated by WMS is used to support the services it provides
in the community. WMS will carry out the Mediation in accordance with standard terms. The Applicant will not be
required to contribute towards the costs of Mediation but the Mediation will be limited to four hours in duration.

e. All Good Faith Meetings, Escalation Meetings and Mediations shall be carried out on a confidential and “without
prejudice” basis, to ensure each party is able to engage in an open and meaningful fashion.

f. Any settlements reached shall be on a full and final basis and shall not be capable of being re-opened save in the
event of fraud. The terms of each settlement will be recorded in writing and signed by both parties.
g.

RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

In relation to disputes which are not resolved at, or as a result of any Mediation:

i, disputes for sums totalling not more than £10,000 shall be resolved by recourse to civil proceedings in the
County Court pursuant to the Small Claims Track and shall be subject to the fee scale applicable thereto.
The parties agree not to seek reallocation of the proceedings to the Fast Track or the Multi Track; and

i. disputes for sums totalling in excess of £10,000 shall be referred to and finally determined by arbitration under
the Arbitration Act 1996. The appointing authority shall be either Charles Flint KC or Stephen Ruttle KC, the
number of arbitrators shall be one, the seat of arbitration shall be London, England and the language of the
arbitration shall be English,

8. These dispute resolution procedures may be varied by agreement between Post Office and the Applicant or, if it
becomes apparent that amendments to these terms would allow the Scheme to operate more effectively without

causing any material disadvantage to the Applicants, by agreement between Post Office and Charles Flint KC or
Stephen Ruttle KC.

9. Post Office will deal with all Applicants in good faith and in light of the lessons learned from Mr Justice Fraser’s
judgments in the group litigation. However:

a.

b.

entry into the Scheme does not guarantee that a relevant shortfall will be repaid or written off; and

by creating the Scheme, Post Office does not waive any of its own legal rights. The duty of good faith is reciprocal
and, if it appears from the investigation of any application made that the Applicant has not acted consistently with

his or her own duties of good faith, Post Office shall not be precluded from taking such steps as may be open to it as
a matter of law.
RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

Application on behalf of a postmaster

potential delays.

al

Are you applying on behalf of a postmaster? If yes,
please set out (i) their details, and (ii) your relationship
with them. Please see the guidance set out at the start of
this application form as to who can bring an application on
behalf of another person. As part of this application, you
must provide proof as to your legal capacity to make an
application on their behalf.

1 Full name

2 Previous name(s) (if any)

3 Postal address

4 I Email address

5 Contact telephone number
Preferred method of communication about

6 your application O Email
We advise using email wherever possible to minimise any O Post

ited company

Are you applying on behalf of a limited company?
If yes, please provide:

(i), Company name

(ii) Company number

may use separate sheets of paper if necessary.

Post Office branch name(s) and address(es)

inch and role details — Please provide details of all branches you have been associated with.

9 I (including the postcode)
Post Office branch or FAD code(s)
10 5
(if known)
Post Office customer account number(s)
11 I.
(if known)
12 I Are you currently in post?
If no, please give details, e.g. resigned, terminated.
13 I Start date of appointment

RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

End date of appointment

14 I if applicable)

Remuneration number/PAY number

15 (if known)

Have you ever been suspended from your position?
16 I If yes, please provide the dates of your suspension and the
reasons for the suspension.

Please provide the full name of the individual(s) or
17 I company which has or has had a direct contract with
Post Office.

What is/was your role (e.g. postmaster, directly managed
branch employee, absent postmaster, temporary
postmaster)? If your role has changed over time, please list
the different roles and the relevant dates for each.

18

Did you employ assistants/staff at the branch?
19 I If yes, please provide details, including full names and dates
of appointment (if known).

Shortfall(s) — Please note that this scheme will only deal with shortfalls allegedly caused
by previous versions of Horizon. It will not deal with issues arising with the current

version of Horizon. Concerns related to the current version of Horizon should be raised via
casereviewteam@<MMMAnd any operational issues experienced when using the
current version of Horizon should be reported to the Branch Support Centre.

For each shortfall in respect of which you are applying,
please speci

1. The amount;

2. The relevant dates (please specify when any
shortfall was first noticed and when it was settled
[if applicable]);

3. Whether the shortfall amount was paid to Post Office
(along with the date and value of any payment);

4. How the shortfall was treated (or settled, if
applicable) in the relevant accounts, and why;
20
5. Whether Post Office was notified of any shortfall
and, if so, how and when it was notified.
In particular, please provide details of:

— Any relevant reference numbers;

— Any advice given by Post Office to deal with any
shortfalls; and

— Who within Post Office advised you (if known);

6. Any other relevant information in relation to any
shortfall — e.g. please detail whether shortfalls arose
as a consequence of any specific transaction or type
of transaction.

RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

21

Please explain what you would like Post Office to do in
respect of the alleged shortfall(s). For example, please
specify whether you are applying for the shortfall(s) to
be repaid or written off. If you are making a claim for
repayment, please specify the precise amount claimed.

22

Did Post Office conduct an audit into the relevant branch?
If yes, for each audit, please provide details including:

— What prompted the audit (if known):
— The date(s) of the audit; and

— The outcome(s).

23

Was there any other investigation into the alleged
shortfall(s) by either Post Office or any other organisation/
individual? If yes, please provide details, including:

— Whether any such shortfalls were reported to
Post Office as part of any investigation and, if so,
what happened;

— Whether any intervention support visits were carried
out; and

— Whether any further training was provided following
the reporting of a shortfall(s).

24

Was any action taken by Post Office as a result of the
alleged shortfall(s) (e.g. suspension or termination)? If yes,
please provide details including relevant dates and what
steps were taken in respect of the branch (e.g. it was closed,
a temporary postmaster was appointed, etc).

25

Mi

26

Have you experienced any other losses that are directly
related to the alleged shortfall(s) in respect of which you
would like to claim? If yes, please provide the following
details for each alleged loss:

— The nature of the alleged loss;
— The dates of the alleged loss;

— How the loss arose as a result of the alleged shortfall;
and

— The value/size of the loss.

Before completing this question, for further guidance
please refer to Appendix 1 (‘Consequential loss principles
and guidance’).

iscellaneous matters

Have you or anyone who works/worked in the branch ever
been the subject of civil or criminal proceedings relating
to shortfalls? If yes, please give brief details.

Please note that applicants who have a criminal
conviction related to shortfalls are not eligible for the
Scheme. Please note a caution is not a criminal conviction
and will not affect eligibility for the scheme.

RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

27

Did you participate in the Initial Complaint Review
and Mediation Scheme commenced in 2013 in which
complaints were reviewed by Second Sight? If yes,
was a settlement agreed? Please provide details of any
settlement amount received.

28

Have you participated in a settlement/restructure as a
result of Network Transformation or other scheme? If yes,
on what terms did you settle? Please provide details of
any settlement amount received.

29

Have you or your company been placed into any
bankruptcy or insolvency processes or been the
subject of any arrangements with creditors (including
through a debt relief order, IVA or CVA) since 2000?
If so, please confirm:

= which processes or arrangements have been
undertaken; and

— the start and, if applicable, end dates of any such
processes or arrangement.

30

Please provide an explanation as to why you believe you
have not been treated fairly by Post Office. In doing so,
you should set out what you would like Post Office to do

to remedy the situation, and why. Please provide a clear
and detailed explanation. As much detail as you are able to
provide here will assist in resolving this matter. Please use a
separate sheet if necessary.

31

What documents/material do you have to support your
application? Please provide this scanned (or photographed)
material at the same time you submit your application. This
will allow your application to be investigated and considered
more efficiently.

For postal applications, please use Royal Mail as PO Box
addresses can only accept post from Royal Mail and not
from other carriers or couriers. Please send in copies of
the documents/material rather than original documents,
which should be retained for your own records. We advise
using a trackable service such as Royal Mail Special
Delivery when sending documents by post.

If any additional information is required to help progress
your application, you will be contacted about this.

RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

Is there any further information you would like Post Office
32 I to consider when assessing your application? Please use
an additional sheet if necessary.

Statement of truth

By signing this document I confirm that:

1. All of the information provided in this application form is
true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief; and

2. Ihave read and understood the eligibility criteria for the
Horizon Shortfall Scheme and believe I am eligible for the
Scheme; and

3. Ihave read and understood the terms of reference for
the Horizon Shortfall Scheme and I agree to be bound
by them.

As we are advising applicants to submit this form by email
rather than post, if you are unable to print and scan this form
we will accept an electronic signature — this can include simply
typing in your name. Please tick this box if you are submitting
an electronic signature. If you do tick this box to submit an
electronic signature, please also type your name in the ‘Signed’
box below.

1am submitting an electronic signature

Signed

Name

Date

RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

Appendix 1
Horizon Shortfall Scheme
Consequential Loss Principles and Guidance

1. Scope and Background

11.

1.2.

1.3.

1.4.

Post Office launched the Horizon Shortfall Scheme (the “Scheme”) on 1 May 2020 with the objective of resolving
past issues for current and former postmasters who believe they have experienced shortfalls related to previous
versions of Horizon.

The application form for the Scheme asks postmasters to identify any alleged Shortfall Losses as well as any other
losses that are caused by a Horizon Shortfall, namely Consequential Losses. This document sets out the underlying
principles that will govern the assessment of any claims for Consequential Loss under the Scheme.

A claim for Consequential Loss will only be considered for Eligible Claims where the shortfall underlying the
Consequential Loss is found by the Scheme to be a Horizon Shortfall. Where several shortfalls are alleged and not all
of these are found to be Horizon Shortfalls, claims for Consequential Loss will only be considered if they are caused
by a Horizon Shortfall.

In the interests of ensuring that the process operates as swiftly as possible and is accessible for all postmasters, the
Scheme process will be of a summary nature. This means that, while the process will involve the consideration of
documentary evidence held by Post Office and provided by the postmaster, there will be no requirement for detailed
written arguments from postmasters or oral evidence.

2. Definitions

2.1.
2.2.

2.3.

24.

2.5.

26

Consequential Loss means financial or non-financial loss that is not a Shortfall Loss.

Eligible Claim means an application that has been determined to be eligible for the Scheme in line with the Scheme’s
eligibility criteria’ and is identified to the postmaster as such in an eligibility letter.

Horizon Shortfall means a shortfall in stock or cash at a postmaster’s branch compared with the amount of stock or
cash indicated on Horizon for that branch, where the shortfall may have been caused by previous versions of Horizon
or a breach of duty related to such a shortfall by Post Office.

Shortfall Loss means the amount of a Horizon Shortfall that the postmaster has repaid or is regarded by
Post Office as still owing.

Common Issues Judgment means the judgment handed down by Fraser J in Bates v Post Office Ltd
(No.3: Common Issues) [2019] EWHC 606 (QB).

Horizon Issues Judgment means the judgment handed down by Fraser J in Bates v Post Office Ltd
(No.6: Horizon Issues) [2019] EWHC 3408 (QB).

3. Key Principles

3.1.

3.2.

Burden of proof in relation to proof of Consequential Loss

3.1.1. The burden of proof is on the postmaster to provide sufficient evidence in support of their claim to
demonstrate that on the balance of probabilities (ie. a greater than 50% likelihood) (a) such losses have been
suffered and (b) as a consequence of a Horizon Shortfall (as such are found in the Common Issues Judgment
or the Horizon Issues Judgment). This means evidencing the fact that a loss was incurred, the amount of that
loss and that the cause of the loss was due to a Horizon Shortfall.

3.1.2. Where the postmaster is unable to satisfy the burden of proof in relation to their claim, their claim may
nonetheless be accepted in whole or in part if the Scheme considers it to be fair in all the circumstances.

Evidence

3.2.1. Claims which are supported by evidence are more likely to be successful. Guidance on how best to evidence
any potential claims for Consequential Loss is set out further below.

https://onepostoffice.co.uk/scheme
3.3.

3.4.

3.2.2.

3.2.3.

RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

Greater weight will be attached to;
a) contemporaneous evidence; and
b) factual evidence that is undisputed and/or verifiable.

The need to provide evidence is particularly important where a postmaster’s claim relates to matters which
are known only to the postmaster. While the burden is on postmasters to provide sufficient evidence

to demonstrate their claim for Consequential Loss, the Scheme will also consider any relevant evidence
Post Office holds when assessing the claim. Any key supporting documentation relied upon will be shared
with postmasters when they receive the outcome of their claims to enable them to consider whether they
wish to accept the offers made to them.

Established legal principles

3.3.1.

In considering a claim for Consequential Loss, the Scheme will apply the findings in the Common Issues
Judgment and the Horizon Issues Judgment relevant to the claim and any relevant legal and accounting
principles applicable to the assessment of damages for breach of a legal duty when determining whether, on
a balance of probabilities, the loss claimed is attributable to a Horizon Shortfall. In making that assessment
the Scheme will consider:

a) Causation

The Horizon Shortfall must have caused the Consequential Loss (i.e. the Consequential Loss would not have
happened but for the Horizon Shortfall).

If the postmaster would have found themselves in the same position in any event, irrespective of the Horizon
Shortfall, the Scheme will not be able to conclude that the Horizon Shortfall caused the Consequential Losses
the postmaster may have suffered.

b) Remoteness

The Consequential Loss must not be too remote (i.e. the Consequential Loss must have been reasonably
foreseeable at the time of the Horizon Shortfall).

c) Mitigation

Assuming that causation is established (and the Consequential Loss is not too remote), the Scheme will
consider the extent to which the Consequential Loss was or could reasonably have been mitigated by the
postmaster, or conversely was aggravated by reasonable attempts by the postmaster to avoid or reduce the
Consequential Loss

d) Quantum

The object of the assessment will be, so far as the award of a sum of money can do so, to put the postmaster
into the position that the postmaster would have been in but for the Horizon Shortfall.

Please note that the above is intended as a guide only; it is not an exhaustive list of the legal principles
that may be applicable to any particular claim for Consequential Loss. The application of the above
principles will be fact-specific and will depend on the circumstances of the postmaster bringing the
Consequential Loss claim.

Limitation

3.4.1.

3.4.2.

3.4.3.

Many Eligible Claims will relate to Shortfall Losses and Consequential Losses suffered a significant number
of years ago. In order to draw a line under the issues caused by previous versions of Horizon and treat
postmasters who have been affected fairly, the Scheme will not apply the laws of limitation or time bar in its
assessment of the Shortfall Losses or Consequential Losses.

Post Office’s rights to rely on the laws of limitation or time bar outside the Scheme (including in any
subsequent court or arbitration proceedings under the Scheme’s Dispute Resolution Process) are, however,
strictly reserved.

Given the large number of applicants to the Scheme, claims may take some time to investigate and assess.
Post Office is therefore willing to agree, in respect of each applicant, that time will not run for limitation
purposes from the date the applicant joined the Scheme to the date on which the applicant receives their
offer letter.
RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

3.5. Presentation of the Consequential Loss outcome

3.5.1.

The Scheme will present its Consequential Loss outcome to the postmaster in a clear, succinct manner,
setting out information sufficient to allow the postmaster to understand the basis for the conclusion reached
by the Scheme in respect of each type of loss comprising the Consequential Loss claim. It will also provide
copies of the key supporting documentation relied upon.

4. The High Level Process

4.1. Submission of a Consequential Loss claim

4.1.1.

It is for the postmaster to present any Consequential Loss claim, which involves sending all relevant
information and evidence to the Scheme either at the same time as submitting their application form or
following a request from Post Office setting out in detail, the evidence required for each head of loss.

What is capable of being claimed as a Consequential Loss, along with the level of evidence required to meet
the applicable legal tests, will depend on the facts of each case. The postmaster should explain in as much
detail as possible:

a) the particular loss being claimed;
b) the specific amount of loss being claimed;
c) how this loss was caused by a Horizon Shortfall; and

d) the reasonable steps the postmaster took to reduce this loss, and the impact these steps had.

4.2. Assessment of a Consequential Loss claim

4.2.1.
4.2.2.

4.2.3.

4.2.4.

4.2.5.

Consequential Loss claims will be assessed against the established legal principles set out at paragraph 3.3.

In addition to the application of these principles the Panel will also consider what is fair in all
the circumstances.

If the Scheme considers that information may be available to the postmaster which would help the
assessment of their claim for Consequential Loss, the Scheme will proactively contact the postmaster and
request that this information be provided within 28 days.

Where new documentation relevant to a claim cannot be obtained without a fee, for example where current
property valuations or forensic accountancy analysis is required, the postmaster may request that Post Office
reimburse the reasonable costs of the postmaster obtaining that new documentation. Post Office will not
reimburse costs that are not pre-approved.

Where the Panel considers that it requires expert assistance in order to make a recommendation, the
Panel may recommend to Post Office that an expert be appointed as contemplated by the Panel Terms
of Reference.

4.3. Dispute Resolution Process

4.3.1. If postmasters are dissatisfied with the outcome of their claims following the assessment process, the
Scheme's Dispute Resolution Process shall apply, as set out in the Scheme's Terms of Reference’.
5. Types of Loss

5.1. There is no exhaustive list of the types of loss that can be claimed as Consequential Loss (assuming they meet the
applicable legal tests and noting that additional losses claimed must be clearly linked back to a Horizon Shortfall);
however, certain examples are detailed below along with examples of the types of evidence that postmasters should
provide to support their claims for Consequential Loss.

5.2. Loss of earnings

5.2.1.

5.2.2.

This may relate to loss of earnings during a period when the postmaster was suspended or where the
postmaster's contract with Post Office was wrongfully terminated because of a Horizon Shortfall.

This will require evidence, preferably contemporaneous, that the postmaster was suspended or had their
contract terminated without sufficient notice because of a Horizon Shortfall. Post Office will take reasonable
steps to identify any relevant information from its own records but the postmaster should provide any
documentation they hold evidencing their suspension or termination related losses, for example:

a) suspension letter;

2https:/lonepostoffice.co.uk/scheme
5.3.

5.4.

5.5.

RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

b)

reinstatement letter;

¢

termination letter;
d) remuneration information for the period of suspension and the period before/after the suspension;
e

f]

contemporaneous correspondence between the postmaster and Post Office;

an explanation or other evidence as to why the postmaster's contract was wrongfully terminated and
that otherwise they would have continued as a postmaster;

in respect of termination, an explanation as to why the notice given to the postmaster by Post Office
was insufficient;

g

h) average monthly expenses in running the Post Office branch for the period before the suspension or
termination; and

i) if the postmaster was subsequently re-engaged or obtained employment or otherwise earned an
income following their suspension and/or termination, confirmation of the date on which the postmaster
was so re-engaged or obtained employment and details of the remuneration received or income
earned thereafter.

Loss of profits

5.3.1. This may relate to loss of profits from the Post Office branch or any retail shop owned by the postmaster
associated with the Post Office branch.

5.3.2. This will require evidence, preferably contemporaneous, to show how the profits of the business
were impacted by the Horizon Shortfall. The postmaster should provide all documentation they hold
demonstrating the profits made by the business prior to and following the Horizon Shortfall, taking into
account the cost of any additional measures that had to be put in place because of the Horizon Shortfall,
for example:

a) bank statements;

b) accounts;

c) tax returns;

d) cash flows (historical and forecast);

e) business plans (historical and forecast);

f) management information (historical and forecast); and
g) relevant correspondence.

5.3.3. The postmaster needs to provide a calculation showing how the amount being claimed has been quantified.

Loss of property

5.4.1. If, as the result of a Horizon Shortfall, the postmaster is forced to dispose of an asset (e.g. a property) at a loss
which they otherwise would have retained, a claim for Consequential Loss may be available.

5.4.2. In order for such a claim to be successful, the postmaster will need to provide evidence, preferably
contemporaneous, that the Horizon Shortfall (as opposed to other factors) caused the disposal, as well as
evidence of the value of the loss suffered as a result, for example:

a) an explanation as to why the asset was sold;
b) relevant correspondence and documents relating to the purchase and sale of the asset;
c) evidence of the value of the asset (historic and current); and
d) any relevant accounting documentation.
5.4.3. The postmaster needs to provide a calculation showing how the amount being claimed has been quantified.

Loss of opportunity/loss of chance

5.5.1.

5.5.2.

The loss of an opportunity to pursue a course of action that could have resulted in financial gain, such as
expanding the business, which the postmaster would have pursued if not for the Horizon Shortfall may be
claimed as a Consequential Loss.

For these claims, it will be necessary to submit evidence to demonstrate a specific opportunity or course of
action that the postmaster was aware of at the time and had intended to pursue but was prevented from
doing so due to the Horizon Shortfall.
RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

5.5.3. This will require evidence, preferably contemporaneous, that the postmaster was aware of the opportunity at
the time it arose, and intended to pursue it. Claims that speculate (without supporting evidence) how money
put towards repaying a Horizon Shortfall could have been invested or what may have been done but for the
Horizon Shortfall are unlikely to succeed. Any claims should therefore be accompanied by evidence such as
the following:

a) evidence that an opportunity to invest existed;

b)

evidence that the investment opportunity was being actively considered and was likely to be pursued;

¢

evidence demonstrating that the inability to invest was caused by the Horizon Shortfall (rather than
by other intervening events or the fact that they would not have had the funds to avail themselves of
the opportunity);

d

evidence of what the postmaster's financial position would have been but for the Horizon Shortfall;

e)

expected costs and timeframe for investment; and
f) evidence of progress (if any) on the investment.
5.5.4. The postmaster needs to provide a calculation showing how the amount being claimed has been quantified.
5.6. Penalties/general or increased costs of financing

5.6.1. Penalties or general/increased costs of financing, as a result of the Horizon Shortfall, may be recoverable
(e.g. additional interest or loan arrangement fees) if the postmaster can provide evidence to show that the
Horizon Shortfall caused the penalty or increased cost of financing.

5.6.2. This will require evidence, preferably contemporaneous, of the purpose of the financing and what the
postmaster’s financial position would have been but for the Horizon Shortfall. f the postmaster alleges that
the finance was taken out at less advantageous rates than it would otherwise have been as a result of the
Horizon Shortfall they will need to provide evidence of when the finance was taken out and that they had
been turned down for other products at more favourable rates.

5.6.3. The postmaster needs to provide a calculation showing how the amount being claimed has been quantified.
5.7. Bankruptcy/insolvency

5.7.1. Losses suffered if the postmaster underwent bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings as a result of a Horizon
Shortfall may be claimed as a Consequential Loss.

5.7.2. For such a claim to be successful the postmaster will have to provide evidence, preferably contemporaneous,
that they were bankrupted/declared insolvent (as appropriate), the value of the loss claimed and that the
bankruptcy/insolvency was due to the Horizon Shortfall (rather than other intervening events/general financial
hardship/other factors).

5.7.3. The types of document that the postmaster should provide with their claim is as follows:
a) copy of bankruptcy order or \VA documentation;
b) copy of notice of bankruptcy in appropriate newspaper;

c) financial/accounting evidence to demonstrate that the Horizon Shortfall was the reason for the
bankruptcy/insolvency e.g.:

i. bank statements;
li. accounts;
ili. cash flows (historical and forecast);
iv. business plans (historical and forecast);
v. management information (historical and forecast); and
vi. details of all creditors at the time of bankruptcy/insolvency; and
d) if the bankruptcy/insolvency process has concluded, details of payments made to creditors.
5.7.4. The postmaster needs to provide a calculation showing how the amount being claimed has been quantified.
5.8. Legal and professional fees

5.8.1. Fees incurred in relation to dealing with a Horizon Shortfall at the time (e.g. the cost of defending legal
proceedings or professional advice about restructuring the postmaster’s business) may be recoverable.
Please note that this is separate to any legal and professional fees incurred by a postmaster in bringing
an application to the Scheme.
5.9.

5.10.

RLITO000315
RLIT0000315

5.8.2. In order to claim these fees postmasters should provide evidence, preferably contemporaneous, of
the following:

a) why and when the professional was engaged (noting that postmasters should avoid providing any legal
advice they have received unless they confirm they are happy to waive privilege over that legal advice);

b) details of the engagement (including whether the engagement was by the postmaster or a third party);
and

¢) the professional's fees being incurred and paid by the postmaster (e.g. invoice/receipt).
5.8.3. The postmaster needs to provide a calculation showing how the amount being claimed has been quantified.
Stigma/damage to reputation

5.9.1, Where a postmaster has incurred a financial loss as a result of damage to their reputation as a result of a
Horizon Shortfall, they may be able to claim Consequential Loss.

5.9.2. The postmaster would need to explain what action taken by Post Office in light of the Horizon Shortfall
damaged their reputation, how those matters became known to others and why the damage to the
postmaster's reputation caused financial loss.

5.9.3. The types of financial loss caused by damage to reputation could include:

a) evidence that prospective employers would not hire the postmaster as a result of the Horizon Shortfall;
and

b) evidence that customers stopped supporting the postmaster’s business as a result of the
Horizon Shortfall.

5.9.4. If the postmaster claims that their business suffered a downturn in revenue as a result of the damage to their
reputation, they should provide copies of business accounts before and after the Horizon Shortfall became
known to others in the community.

5.9.5. The postmaster needs to provide a calculation showing how the amount being claimed has been quantified.
Personal injury/harassment

5.10.1. Postmasters who themselves held a direct contract with Post Office (rather than through a company) may
be able to claim Consequential Losses for personal injury or harassment they have suffered as a result of a
Horizon Shortfall. Personal injury can include physical injuries as well as psychiatric harm.

5.10.2. This will require evidence, preferably contemporaneous, that the personal injury/harassment was caused
by the Horizon Shortfall. Postmasters should provide the following information when making a claim for
personal injury/harassment:

a) a detailed description of their injury including (i) the symptoms they have experienced; (ii) medical
treatment they have received: (iii) any expenses/financial losses they have suffered; and (iv) the effect of
their injury;

b)

a letter from their GP (or from another medical professional who has treated them) setting out details of
matters including the nature and potential cause(s) of the injury;

¢)

medical notes and records including copies of the notes and records kept by the postmaster’s GP,
any other medical professional who has treated them and any hospital to which they have been
admitted. Postmasters should only provide the records that are relevant to the injury for which they
are bringing a claim;

d

evidence of the harassment, how often it occurred and what constituted the harassment; and

e)

other relevant information, for example where the postmaster is seeking to recover for financial losses
(e.g. medical expenses and/or loss of earnings) the postmaster should include documents in support of
those claims.

5.10.3. The postmaster needs to provide a calculation showing how the amount being claimed has been quantified.
