RMG00000329
RMG00000329

Code of
Business Standards

A guide for employees of
Post Office, Royal Mail and
Parcelforce Worldwide

RMG00000329
RMG00000329

Introducing the Code

Why Trust is Good Business

Trust is fundamental to our business, and this Code is
all about putting it into practice at work. But why is it
so important?

When customers put their letters, packets or money in
our hands, they expect us to provide them with a fast,
reliable, safe and courteous service. They are putting
their trust in us. If we expect to stay in business, we
have to show them, every day, that we deserve that
trust. We all know how let down customers feel if at
any time we fail to live up to their expectations. And
there are other firms they can go to if we let them down.

Winning and keeping the trust of our customers and
giving them great value for money is the way to turn our
business around and make it great again. By rebuilding
trust, we can draw on the best traditions of the postal
service in past centuries.

Trust too is what can make ours a worthwhile company
to work in — trust between colleagues, trust between
managers and their teams. Working hard as a team
towards common goals, with common standards of
behaviour, will be the key to our future efficiency and
survival. It also makes for a happier and better way of
working for everyone.

Just words? Not if all of us show that we are serious
about putting this Code into practice. Let’s give changing
things for the better a try.
RMG00000329

RMG00000329
Contents
Page

Th ABGUTTHISTEOGS). gins sire sie wired card came see anad 4
2. Who should read this Code? .............. 4
8. Observing this Code ...............004 4-5
4, SOMO TO CUSLOMENS. cin ieee sire van ste ow 5
5. Concern for the community

SNC SOVIFOMIMEM sais sccntens asta mavarnin smo 6
6. (Personal CONAUCH was cain ta wor ces Paw me oye 6
7. Courtesy and personal appearance ......... i
8. Behaviour towards colleagues .

©. Health and safety 2... 0 cswad swe tena owd
10; EqUal GPPORUNINSS! cs cms semos aes comsne owed
TI Séeunty eel (St « cus rome ces oes Paw

12. Misuse of computers or the Internet ....... ai
13. Political and pressure group activity ........ 12
14. Conflicts of interest
TS. AGUS ies seem ses raeg sme som aes om
16. Hospitality and entertainment
17. Preventing and reporting crime ......... 14-15
(EAPURMCRISS icine cop cone nos ee oR a 15

RMG00000329
RMG00000329

1. About this Code

This Code sets out the standards of behaviour which

all of us should show in our dealings with our customers
and colleagues. So it’s important for all everyone to
read the Code and to think about how we can put it into
practice at work — even if that means changing our own
behaviour and trying to change that of our colleagues.

This Code replaces the one published in 1998. The
company may publish changes to it from time to time,
or replace it with a new version, without having to notify
you. It does not form part of your contract of employment.

2. Who should read this Code?

This Code is for everyone who works for the company,
whether you are an employee, consultant or agent.
Please keep your copy for future reference.

This is the short version of the Code, summarising what
every employee needs to know. There is a full version,
which contains some additional sections which are
chiefly of interest to managers. The full version also
contains references to more detailed policy documents,
which are available on the Intranet. If you need to see
these, please ask your manager.

8. Observing this Code

All employees and agents have a duty to uphold the
standards set out in this Code, and managers have a
responsibility to ensure that their teams know about it
and observe it. It forms part of the company rules which
you must follow as part of your employment. So you
need to be aware that any breach of this Code may

be dealt with under the Conduct Code, and that gross
misconduct could result in your dismissal.

The Code is also meant as guidance when difficult
situations arise. Of course, no set of rules can cover
every possibility. We all, at some time in our working
lives, confront dilemmas about whether an action is right.
If you are faced with a dilemma:

e read this Code;

© ask yourself whether you could justify your action to
your manager, your workmates, people outside, and
your Own conscience; and
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

¢ think through the likely results of your action for
yourself and others.

If you are still unsure what is the right thing to do,
talk to your manager.

If you discover that the company’s standards and
reputation are being put at risk by unethical or even
criminal behaviour, you should report the facts to a
manager. Ignoring bad behaviour is wrong and will
damage the reputation not only of the company but of
everyone else who works for it. If you feel that you can’t
talk to your own manager, you should talk to a senior
manager, or your personnel manager.

If you think that you may suffer intimidation at work

because you have made a report, you have a right to ask
your Personnel Manager to take steps to ensure that you
can work without harassment or intimidation of any kind.

(See also section 8 about bullying and harassment and
the helpline number).

4. Service to customers

Our customers are our first priority. We exist to serve
their needs by giving them:

¢ value for money services and products;

¢ timely, reliable and secure performance of services
nation-wide;

* accurate and accessible information about all our
services and products;

* helpful and courteous service at all times; and
¢ prompt and ready redress if things go wrong.

Everybody in the organisation has an important part to
play in living up to these standards. Our customers now
have more opportunity than ever to go elsewhere.

Our external regulator, Postcomm, can impose penalties
or even withdraw our licence to operate if we fail to
deliver on our obligations. We also have an active
consumer watchdog, Postwatch, which monitors the
service we give to customers. Mistakes and service
failures not only damage our reputation, they cost us
money and customers, and we can no longer afford that.
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

5. Concern for the community
and the environment

We do an important job in the community and have the
opportunity to be a force for good in it. The company
encourages employees to become involved. Of course,
any charitable activity in work time or in uniform must
always be approved first by your line manager and must
be in line with company policy.

Showing concern and giving help to customers when
needed are all part of our job, particularly for elderly
people for whom we are often an important point of
contact with the outside world.

We can all play an important part in protecting the
environment by not wasting resources such as fuel,
electricity and paper.

We can also make sure that we keep our premises
clean and tidy and dispose of waste properly.

We must show respect for our customers’ property
when we enter their premises and ensure that we do
not damage the countryside when we work in it.

6. Personal conduct

High standards of personal conduct at work are
expected of everybody who works for the company.
We should all show:

© efficiency and reliability
© integrity
© punctuality and good attendance.

Conduct which damages service to customers or the
reputation or efficiency of the company is unacceptable,
including for example lateness, poor attendance,
dishonesty, drunkenness, use of illegal substances, and
violent or disorderly behaviour. Please remember that
gambling is not permitted on duty or on company
premises, and that staff clubs can exist only if they
comply with company rules. If still in doubt about the
standards required of you after reading this Code,
consult your line manager or your personnel department.
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

7. Courtesy and personal appearance

As acourtesy to our customers and colleagues, everyone
who works for the company is expected to show high
standards of behaviour and to present a smart and clean
appearance. If you are issued with work clothing, please
wear it in a way that presents a creditable image to the
public, in line with business dress codes. Please never,
by act or appearance, bring the company or any of its
brands into disrepute.

It follows that any marks, badges, ribbons, tattoos or
ornaments (including items used in body-piercing) that
are either

© offensive;

© indecent;

* ahealth and safety risk; or

© otherwise incompatible with the standards in this Code

should not be displayed on duty or on company
premises or property. Managers have the right to require
badges, ribbons or other items to be removed if the
cause in question or the manner of display of the items
might embarrass the company.*

* Membership badges of recognised trade unions are
authorised.
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

8. Behaviour towards colleagues

High standards must apply to our behaviour towards
each other, as well as to the way we do business. We
can all help to create an atmosphere at work in which
every individual is enabled to give his or her best.
Dealings with all colleagues should be based on mutual
respect, and everyone must uphold company policies
relating to equal opportunities and health and safety.

To put these values into action it is important that we
show good manners in everything we say, do and write.
Therefore:

© we should always be open, honest and courteous
with each other;

® we must not abuse others in speech or writing;

® we must not behave in any way that suggests
prejudice or favouritism;

® we must not engage in, encourage or condone
bullying, intimidation, harassment, unlawful
discrimination, or abuse of any kind;

*® we must challenge any instances we encounter of
bullying, intimidation, harassment, unfair discrimination
or abuse in the workplace, and show that such
behaviour is not acceptable in our organisation.

The company is determined to act against
bullying and harassment and the misery

they cause to the victim. Anyone experiencing
bullying or harassment at work can call the
helpline number:

RMG00000329
RMG00000329

9. Health and safety

Everybody has the right to work in a safe and healthy
way. All of us can help in protecting ourselves and our
colleagues from accidents by:

¢ always working safely, so that we don’t endanger
ourselves or others by thoughtless action;

® taking the initiative personally to remove or report
promptly any hazards;

¢ challenging unsafe practices;

© being familiar with the rules that apply in our
workplace for health and safety and fire safety; and

© taking steps to ensure the safety of customers who
use our premises.

10. Equal opportunities

Equality is about treating other people the way we want
to be treated ourselves. The company is committed to
maintaining its equal opportunities policy and to being a
just and caring employer. This means that:

© we don’t discriminate on grounds of race, colour,
nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, creed,
sex, sexual orientation, marital status or disability;

© we provide equal facilities for disabled customers and
staff, in line with our policy;

® we respect the legal rights of individuals to be
members of recognised trades unions.

Everybody in the organisation is expected to share in
and support these principles at work, and failure to do
so may open the organisation and individuals to legal
action. Managers are expected to set an example in
the workplace.
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

11. Security and trust

In doing business every day we handle millions of items
entrusted to us by our customers. We handle large
volumes of cash and valuable items. We gain information
in the course of our business that is confidential.

It follows that we must win and keep the absolute trust
of our customers and others we come in contact with.
The strength of the company rests on the integrity of
individual employees, and maintaining our standards
means:

© honesty in handling all items, cash and valuables
entrusted to us;

® correct accounting in all financial transactions and
claims, and observance of established business
control procedures;

© safeguarding of company property and assets,
ensuring that they are not stolen, abused, damaged,
or appropriated for personal use;

® making economic use of resources, avoiding waste
and extravagance;

® ensuring that company funds and property are never
used for private purposes;

® ensuring that company premises and facilities are not
abused for unauthorised commercial transactions;
and

© safeguarding confidential information against abuse
or unauthorised disclosure, and complying with laws
protecting personal data.

We each have a duty to ensure that these standards are
maintained in our work. This includes being watchful
against abuse in matters like claiming expenses and
proper use of official stationery and telephones.

Remember that:

© toclaim money from the company for hours you did
not work, a journey you did not make, or an expense
you did not legitimately incur is a criminal offence and
could lead to prosecution and/or dismissal;

® using pre-paid envelopes or other official stationery for
private purposes is a disciplinary offence which could
result in your dismissal. It is also theft and will be
treated as a criminal offence;

10
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

 =making personal phone calls in work time is a privilege,
not a right, and is one that must not be abused.
Because unnecessary, frequent or prolonged personal
phone calls waste time and money they are not
acceptable and may be treated as gross misconduct;

© unauthorised use of fax machines is not permitted;

You should be clear that departure from established
standards of integrity may expose you to action under
the conduct code, which in cases of gross misconduct
could result in your dismissal, and in serious cases may
also amount to a criminal offence. If theft or fraud is
involved, the company will normally prosecute.

Please remember that as an employee you have a duty
to declare any criminal conviction, and you must inform
your manager if you are arrested and charged with any
criminal offence.

12. Misuse of computer equipment or
the Internet

The company provides computers as work tools for

many employees. Whilst company policy allows some

limited and reasonable personal use of them in your own
time, it does not permit:

* use of unauthorised software;
® unauthorised modification of computer components;

® access to pornography or other indecent, illegal or
offensive material;

® sending colleagues or others pornographic, indecent,
illegal, offensive, threatening or insulting material, or
chain or ‘spam’ e-mails;

© import or onward transmission of documents or e-
mails that breach security rules concerning protection
from computer viruses;

® an unreasonable amount of working time spent
sending personal emails;

© removal of a computer from company premises
without permission.

All the above are unacceptable and may be treated as
gross misconduct, which could result in your dismissal.

1
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

13. Political and pressure group activity

The interests of the company, and those of its customers,
must not be compromised by any party political interest
or activity. Electoral material, which we are obliged by
law to deliver must be treated correctly and with the
same respect as other mail entrusted to us by customers.
It must not be delayed, defaced or destroyed.

If you are involved in political activities in your own time,
you must ensure that they are kept completely separate
from your work. There are a few simple rules to remember
and keep to:

© Political activity by employees is not permitted at
work. This includes any active support of parties,
pressure groups, religious sects or other causes.

*® Badges, slogans or notices advertising parties or
causes must not be displayed while on duty or in
uniform, or on company premises, notice boards
or vehicles.

¢ You must not distribute or deliver unauthorised
material while you are on duty or in uniform, or allow
anyone else to use business services free of charge.

* Take care not to make any statement or comment
to the media on behalf of the company unless you
are authorised to do so and have cleared the
statement first with your area communications
manager. This applies whether or not party political
issues are involved.

14. Conflicts of inteest

Open behaviour and frankness can often avoid difficult
situations in this area. The essential principles of conduct
are:

® you must not do anything which conflicts with your
duty as an employee or agent of the company, or
use your official position for private advantage;

® you must declare any outside employment,
directorship or material shareholding and these
must not be contrary to the company’s commercial
interests or bring it into disrepute;

12
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

® your actions as an employee or agent must not be
improperly influenced by any relationship (e.g. by
blood, marriage, partnership or membership of any
social, religious or political association) or by any
personal or financial consideration;

® you must not make any statement to the media that
brings the company into disrepute;

© if you receive a fee from an outside source for
performing a service which forms part of your
official duties or takes place in business time
(e.g. giving an interview or lecture) you must report it
to your manager. You will normally be expected to pay
the money to the company or to a charity connected
with it. If the service arises from your work but is not
directly connected with it and is given in your own
time, you must still report it to your manager.

Make sure you inform your line manager and personnel
manager of any circumstances which create a conflict of
interest with your duties as an employee or agent, and
seek their advice if you are unsure.

15. Gifts

You must not accept any gift, payment, bribe, favour or
inducement that might influence (or appear to influence)
your action as an employee. Nor must you offer any
bribe or inducement to anyone else. If any such offer is
made to you, you must report it to your manager.

You must also report to your manager any gifts (except
low value promotional items) that are sent or given to you.
If in doubt about whether it is proper to accept a ‘gift’

offered to you, discuss the matter with your manager first.

Private arrangements for gifts, discounts or concessions
must not be solicited or accepted in connection with any
contract for goods or services to which the company is
a party.

You must not ask for or accept sporting or charitable
sponsorship from an organisation that has (or is seeking)
a contract to supply the company, or is in competition
with it. You must declare any plan to accept sponsorship
to your manager and ask if there is any conflict with
company interests.

13
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

16. Hospitality and entertainment

© Hospitality, given or received, must be moderate, not
lavish or excessive. It must have a legitimate
connection with a business purpose and be no more
than is appropriate to that purpose;

© tell your manager about offers of hospitality made to you;

* acceptance of hospitality or entertainment must not
prejudice the commercial interests of the company or
lead to disregard of proper tendering or purchasing
procedures;

© do not provide or accept hospitality or entertainment
which, because of its expense or nature, may cause
the company embarrassment or bring it into
disrepute;

® modest hospitality to other company employees
on business occasions is sometimes justifiable,
but extravagance must be avoided;

® alcoholic drinks are not permitted at business meetings
or on company premises except for authorised social
functions out of the working hours of those present.

Always follow the rules that apply in your business. Use
judgement and restraint, and consult your manager if in
doubt.

17. Preventing and reporting crime

We all have a duty to guard against crime, and to take
care that we do not expose colleagues or company
property to criminal activity by relaxing proper procedures.
We also have a duty to take action to prevent crime against
the company, whether by terrorists, computer hackers,
outsiders or by employees, and to report it whenever
necessary. Nobody, however, should risk death or injury
in circumstances of extreme danger such as a criminal
attack or hostage situation.

If you are asked by an unauthorised person to disclose
confidential information or to do something that you
know to be against business rules, you must report the
facts to your manager.

If you become the victim of threats or intimidation and
are asked to take part in, or to keep quiet about, any
criminal activity against the company or its employees,
your duty and best course is to report the facts as soon

14
RMG00000329
RMG00000329

as possible so that action can be taken to prevent the
crime and to give you support and protection. Be familiar
with your business’ policy on hostage situations.

If you see any crime being committed against the
company, or become aware of criminal activity being
planned against it either by a member of the public or
by employees, please telephone the Corporate Security
Helpdesk.

You can contact the helpdesk between the hours of

18. Further help

If you have any queries arising from this Code please
discuss them with your line manager or your personnel
manager. See also sections 2, 3 and 8.

To get more copies

This item may be re-ordered using your normal
procurement procedure quoting item code POL1001
(Rev.03). For copies of the full version of the Code, quote
item code POL1000 (Rev.03).

15
The Company Secretary's Office
Sth Floor

148 Old Street

London

EC1V 9HQ

This publication is protected by copyrigh
‘eproduction, editing, copying, resellin
whole or pa uiblication in whatever form
h i ‘ion
only within Royal Mail Grou
et be obtained before
any outside person or organisation

POL1001 (Rev. 03).

RMG00000329
RMG00000329

Any unauthorised
rental or distrioution of the

iuding electronic
intended for

