RMG00000091

RMGo00000091

an

Royal Mail
I

Royal Mail Group
Data Protection and

Privacy Policy

Protecting our people and brand
Respecting privacy rights
Knowing how to do the right thing

Policy Owner: Director of Information Governance and DPO Date: June 2020

Overview and Policy Statement

RMG00000091
RMG00000091

At Royal Mail Group (RMG) we are committed to protecting the confidential and personal details of our colleagues,
customers and other individuals who trust us to handle their personal data safely and securely. We have a set of
privacy principles which are based on data protection laws and everyone in RMG has a responsibility to handle data
in line with these principles.

RMG respects the privacy of all its colleagues and customers and the confidentiality of any personal data it holds
about them. This policy sets out what steps employees must take to ensure personal data is correctly handled.
When handling personal data, the following Privacy Principles should be followed:

Our Privacy Principles
We must:

Only collect personal data that is relevant and
used solely for the purpose in which it was
collected and ensure that the data is
processed under the right lawful basis.

Only use personal data fairly and in
accordance with the relevant published Privacy
Notice and/or Employee Privacy Notice.
Complete a Privacy Impact Assessment when
undertaking a project for a new system,
process or product that will involve processing
personal data or when processing personal
data for a new purpose.

Keep personal data accurate and up to date
and maintain a record of any changes.

Make sure we keep personal data confidential
and secure, and limit the people who can
access it in line with the RMG Information
Security Policy.

Follow approved destruction and disposal
processes as stipulated in the RMG
Information Security Policy.

Complete data security training promptly when
requested.

Report personal data breaches to the 24-hour
IT Helpdesk on as soon as
possible.

We must not:

.

Retain personal data for longer than necessary
to achieve the business purpose or to meet
minimum legal requirements. Check our
Corporate Retention Schedule for guidance.
Dispose of personal data carelessly.

Discuss or disclose personal data to colleagues
or anyone outside RMG unless there is a
business reason to do so and this is relevant to
the purpose for why it was collected.

Transfer data outside the country in which it
is collected, even within RMG, without advice
from the legal team as there may be
restrictions/requirements relating to the
transfer.

Use a third-party supplier to process personal
data on our behalf without undertaking the
necessary due diligence and ensuring there is
a contract with an appropriate data processing
and security clause in place. Seek guidance
from Procurement if necessary.

Deal with data protection issues and
complaints without the proper advice. Pass
data protection enquires to

irgt@

Policy Owner: Director of Information Governance and DPO 2
Further information

What is ‘personal data’?

Personal data is any information that can be used to
directly or indirectly identify a living individual. This
can include name, email address, phone number,
location data, financial data such as bank account or
credit card information, CCTV footage, photographs
or factors more specific to the physical or social
identity of a person. It includes data held on our
systems, in paper documents, emails, call recordings,
mobiles or other storage media. It should be noted
that information which doesn’t immediately identify
someone (e.g. address data) could still be considered
personal data in Royal Mail's hands if it could identify
a person when combined with other information we
hold.

Certain data is especially sensitive and is known as
“special category” data. Examples include
information about someone's health, race, religious
beliefs, political opinions, trade union membership,
criminal offence or sexuality, and biometric or
genetic data. There are extra requirements to
ensure this data is handled in compliance with law,
so if your job involves working with this information
and you need advice please refer to our Guidance
and ask the Information Rights and Governance
team.

Further guidance and documents

Corporate Retention Schedule

Privacy Notice

Privacy Impact Assessment

RMG Information Security Policy

RMG Information Security Classification Policy
Authority to Procure, Requisition and Pay Policy
Special Category Data - Appropriate Policy Document
ISSO3 — Information Security— Data Backup and
Restoration Standard

1SS04 - Information Security - Asset Management
Standard

ISSO5 - Information Security - Classification Standard

ISSO06 - Information Security - Incident Management
Standard

Reporting Concerns
If you see something, say something

Everyone should be able to raise concerns without fear
of retaliation.

You can talk to your line manager or you can Speak

RMG00000091
RMG00000091

Up by calling the confidential helpline on
r using the on-line web-based service at

.intouchfeedback.com/royalmail. We will take
action.

Scope of Policy

This Policy applies to Royal Mail Limited and its wholly
or majority owned subsidiary companies registered in
the United Kingdom. Individuals include employees,
casuals, agents, professional interims, agency
workers, contract staff, consultants, officers and any
other representative. This Policy does not form part
of any employee's contract of employment and we
may amend this policy at any time.

Breach of this Policy

The Privacy Principles are mandatory. Any employee
that fails to comply with this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.

You may also commit a criminal offence if you
deliberately access, disclose, or misuse personal data.
This includes obtaining stolen marketing lists or taking
customer or colleagues data for your own use.

RMG employees have a legal obligation to formally
report data incidents which have led to the accidental
or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised
disclosure of, or access to, personal data. These could
include:

e Loss or theft of devices or data, including on
USB drives or paper.

e Hacking or other forms of unauthorised access
to a device, email account, or the network.

e Disclosing personal data to the wrong person,
through wrongly addressed emails.

e Alteration or destruction of personal data
without permission.

Where an employee discovers or suspects a personal
data breach, this should be reported to the 24-hour
IT Helpdesk oni_ GRO __}as soon as possible.

Getting help with this Policy

Please discuss any questions with your ling
alternatively contact information.rights@

GRO

Look at the security guidance from the Think Secure
section on Royal Mail or contact
ThinkSecure@royalmail.com, alternatively contact
the Group Data Protection Officer.

For advice on this document or applicable standards,
contact Group Compliance and Ethics.

Policy Owner: Director of Information Governance and DPO 3
RMG00000091
RMG00000091

Policy Governance
Policy Reference number: POD/COMP/POL/016
Version Number: 006.1

Policy Owner: Director of Information
Governance and DPO

Policy Effective from: June 2020

Last Review Date: May 2020

Next Review Date: May 2021

Approved by: Chief Risk and Governance
Officer

Approval date: June 2020

To request changes or updates to this document,
e-mail: policy.governance’

Please note this document is classified:
RMG - CONFIDENTIAL

Policy Owner: Director of Information Governance and DPO 4
