SUBS0000037

Michael,

I wonder if you could confirm with Ben Tidswell what stage the Post Office are in replacing Declan Salter
as it has been some months since his departure?

The NFSP's understanding is that since the Historical Shortfall Scheme closed to new applicants in August
last year, there are presently over 100 outstanding cases awaiting a decision to be included, with the
appointment being given as the reason for the delay.

I cannot stress enough the significance of the public perception against the Post Office in relation to its
actions prior to and during the GLO court cases and therefore any further delays in these matters only
damages the brand further. Added to this, there is significant political interest on this subject with the
recent questions submitted to BEIS by Peter Grant MP, an example of such.

Whilst the NFSP is unaware of the reasons why Declan Salter's contract was not extended, it is imperative
that an appointment is made as a matter of urgency to ensure the ongoing work of redressing the
Historical Shortfalls continues.

Despite all the efforts of the Post Office and the press coverage of the Horizon trials, it is clear that there
are still former colleagues, whether Postmaster, assistant or employee of Post Office Ltd who are not
aware of the Historical Shortfall Scheme and how to apply. Therefore, Post Office have to be open to new
applicants coming forward in the future and giving these individuals the same due regard as their other
colleagues currently being processed via the Historical Shortfall Scheme.

Ina recent survey of Postmasters conducted by the NFSP, only 29% believe they are being listened to by
Post Office today, and only 41% have confidence in Horizon. In terms of re-setting the relationship
between Post Office and the network, Postmasters gave Post Office a score of 5 out of 10 for their
progress so far.

The culture of the Post Office of today and tomorrow must be significantly different to that of the past.
True evidence of the resetting of the relationship will not just be with the Post Office network but with
the general public who are our customers, without whom, we don't have a business. It is on this basis,
that the NFSP seeks to understand what stage the Post Office are in replacing Declan Salter and their
strategy in relation to historical matters going forward.

Yours

Calum

Calum Greenhow

Chief Executive Officer

The National Federation of SubPostmasters

Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex BN43 5AZ

E:
W: www-nfsp.org.u

SUBS0000037_0001
SUBS0000037

This email (and any attachment) is confidential, may be legally privileged and is intended
for the addressee only. If you have received it in error please inform us immediately by
email responding to the sender and then delete this message. Please do not copy it,
disclose its contents to any other person or use it for any purpose. Thank you for your
cooperation.

We have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this email and any attachments
have been scanned for software viruses. We cannot accept liability for any damage
sustained as a result of software viruses and would advise you to carry out your own virus
checks before opening any attachment.

You can view our privacy policy online at www.nfsp.org.uk/privacy,

National Federation of SubPostmasters is a company limited by guarantee (incorporated
in England, company number 9771284)

SUBS0000037_0002
