UKG100018879
UKGI00018879

From: Munby, Sarah (BEIS)
Sent: Wed, I Jul 2020 17:54:37 +0000
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI;Scott, Joshua - UKGI;Permanent Secretary

Ce: Brooks-White (Jobshare);Creswell, Carl (Professional Business Services, Retail
& Post Directorate);Patel, Vanisha (Finance & Portfolio);Corera, Jane (Legal);Vandini, Cecilia
(Advanced Manufacturing and Services);Wilson, William (BEIS);Mckay, Jessica (BEIS);McInnes, Tim -
UKGI; Watson, Richard - UKGI;Adegun, Oluwatosin - UKGI;Cole, Alex - UKGI

Subject: RE: FOR COMMENT CLOSE TUE 30 JUNE - POL Convicted Postmasters
Compensation Scheme

Very helpful thanks Tom — I understand. Seems a sensible approach to me.

iS)

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Sent: 01 July 2020 09:21
To: Munby, Sarah (BEIS

Cc: Brooks-White (Jobshare
Business Services, Ret il & Pe
(Finance & Portfolio) <.

‘ole, Alex - UKGI

IMENT CLOSE TUE 30 JUNE - POL Convicted Postmasters
Compensation Scheme

Sarah

The scheme won't prevent claimants from pursuing a malicious prosecution claim — we have no
ability to do that. The scheme value will therefore need to be pitched at a realistic level — not
least to recognise that most of the claimants will have a certain civil case (based on the previous
case and settlement) in any event, even if malicious prosecution fails.

The point is to provide a quicker and cheaper route to redress/compensation than having to go
through the courts again. This is in the interests of all parties of course — claimants, POL and
HMG.

To your last point, we would always expect claimants to take some discount to the full potential
value of a malicious prosecution claim because:
e The outcome will be inherently uncertain as in any litigation
e It will take a very long time (particularly if there are appeals)
e it will involve substantial costs which some/all claimants may have to fund externally and
for which they will end up having to give up a large share of the proceeds if they win (this
UKG100018879
UKGI00018879

is exactly what happened with the settlement last year and for which we have all been
criticised)

Tom
From: Munby, Sarah (BEIS) <

Sent: 30 June 2020 23:38 I.
To: Scott, Joshua - UKGI <

Permanent Secretary

Cc: Brooks-White (Jobshare)
Business Services, Retail & Post
(Finance & Portf

Professional
Patel, Vanisha

: FOR COMMENT CLOSE TUE 30 JUNE - POL!
Compensation Scheme

One point of clarification from me. Does the establishment of the compensation scheme prevent
the malicious prosecution claims? (le can it actually close off the risk of the larger sums
materialising in any case).

Is it that we expect claimants to prefer a cheaper/less risky route even if for lower benefit? If so
how sure are we that will be true?

Thanks!
Ss
Sarah Munby

Director General, Business Sectors
siness, Energy & Industrial Strategy

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI <J
Sent: Tuesday, June 30, 2020;
; Permanent Secretary
Ce: Brooks-White (Jobsharey < E
Business Services, Retail & Po
(Finance & Portfolio) <

Creswell, Carl (Professional
Patel, Vanisha

; Corera, Jane (Legal)
UKG100018879
UKGI00018879

‘andini, Cecilia (Advanced I
Wilson, William (BEIS) <.

su j
Compensation Scheme

Hi Sarah, Oliver,
Just following up on the below.

Would it be possible to get feedback on the attached by close today? We would like to get the advice into
Ministers/SpAds this week re the emerging thinking especially as prep for the SR picks up.

Any questions please do let me know.
Cheers,
Josh

Joshua Scott I Analyst

UK Government Investments

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Sent: 26 June 2020 10:00 _
T

; Permanent Secretary

Cc: Brooks-White (Jobshare) <
Business Services, Retail & P
(Finance & Portfoli
GRO.

Creswell, Carl (Professional

>; Patel, Vanisha

: Corera, Jé Jane (Legal)
andini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)
; Wilson William (BEIS) < +; Mckay,

Subject: FOR COMMENT CLOSE TUE 30 YUNE - POL Convicted Postmasters Compensation
Scheme

Sarah, Oliver,

Hope you are well.
UKGI00018879
UKGI00018879

With thanks to Carl and other for their comments and clearance, please see attached a “for info”
submission that we would like yours and the Perm Sec’s views on regarding Post Office Ltd. (POL) anda
potential compensation scheme for convicted postmasters who have their convictions overturned.

This advice flowed out of the meeting Ministers had with BEIS/UKGI officials at the end of May at the
request of SoS to considers options for how POL could fund and be on the front foot with regard to further
claims from postmasters who were previously prosecuted by POL and have their convictions overturned.
As you know, the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) has decided to refer, as at 3 June, 47
cases to the Court of Appeal and the department was informed on 29 April that POL is reviewing in total
959 cases.

The outlines some of our emerging thinking which we have discussed initially with BEIS, UKGI and HMT
Officials. In principle, this would be like the Historical Shortfalls Scheme, but just for postmasters who
have their convictions overturned, and would not only be a way for postmasters for avoid another lengthy
legal process but also for POL to demonstrate it is being proactive in helping postmasters get
recompense.

We would like to use this as a marker for Ministers following the request from SoS so we can come back
in due course when the idea is more developed.

I would be very grateful if this could be considered over the weekend/early next week by close Tuesday
30 June so I can include your feedback and submit to Ministers and SpAds.

Any questions please do let me know.
Cheers,
Josh

Joshua Scott I Analyst
UK Government Investments

on, SWLH OET

www.ukgi.org.uk

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and
delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the
secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for
malware and viruses.

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and
delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the
secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for
malware and viruses.
