UKGI00000916
UKGI00000916

Message
From: Swinson MPST [/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=B5EA160380D24B92930A52D175C14178-WILLOTT M]
Sent: 12/16/2014 10:09:00 AM
To: Callard Richard (ShExf
ce: Hancock MPST.! “y Clark MPST
Perm Sec (BISf” SPAD Cable MPST
SPAD Hancock MPS:
Murphy Christina (Communications)
3 Fletcher Joanna (Communica
Subject: Jo's comments on Westminster Hall Debate on Post Office & Horizon

Importance: High
Hi Richard,

To be aware ahead of this morning’s briefing session. I put the submission, speech, Q&A and Hooper letter to Jo
overnight and she had some comments/ questions.

Submission

- Of the 24 cases POL proposed for mediation, the breakdown only adds up to 20 cases, what has happened with
the other 4?
She’d like a rough idea of the amount of money POL has invested in the scheme

- Can we get lines from POL on the 2 cases they did refuse to mediate?
She'd like to discuss the issue I flagged last week where POL will not mediate cases where a subpostmaster has
pleaded guilty
When you say the working group has come under pressure to widen its remit, what would the widened remit
be?

See attached for track changes

QRA

Please could you do a table of contents sheet
Why did Post Office agree to incorporate convicted cases in to the scheme if it knew it
wasn’t going to mediate?
Post Office is, however, under an absolute duty to immediately disclose any information which might undermine the
Prosecution’s case or support the case of the defendant and Post Office has done so where appropriate. There is no
doubt in my mind that it is being particularly vigilant in this regard as it carries out its investigations
- Jo feels like she needs a bit of clarity on this element of the legal process, another one to chat about today.

Hooper Letter
She would like to lay this in the house, can we check with Hooper that this is ok?

ve the team blackberry this morning as Tracy has it so any problems call my personal mobile
fll be leaving BIS at 10:45. If you're going straight from BIS we can walk over together?

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Sent: 15 December 2014 13:37

To: Swinson MPST

Cc: Cable MPST; Hancock MPST.; Clark MPST; Perm Sec (BIS); SPAD Cable MPST; SPAD Hancock MPST.; McInnes Tim
(ShEx); Murphy Christina (Communications); Baugh James (ShEx); Fletcher Joanna (Communications)

Subject: Westminster Hall Debate on Post Office & Horizon

Importance: High
UKGI00000916
UKGI00000916

Alysa

With thanks to Peter and with significant help from POL, please find attached the pack for the Westminster Hall debate
on Wednesday. Also thanks to Re for the postal regulation lines.

A few points to note:

e We have provided a briefing note, with a number of annexes including a modular speech and Q&A

e Depending on how quickly Jo speaks, the speech could be around 15 minutes long. It does however address
many of the points we expect MPs to raise, and given that we have a 90 minute debate to cover, I would
imagine that such a length would be ok.

e [have also attached Sir Anthony Hooper’s letter (which itself has an annex). If Jo is to lay it, we need to ask
permission. I would be happy to ask on her behalf, otherwise there is an email address on the letter itself
(please cc me).

e I will let you know who from POL is attending tomorrow.

¢ On the basis that this debate has been triggered by the Horizon issue specifically, I have not incorporated
matters related to postal regulation etc in to the main speech, but it is here in an annex if required.

Kind regards

Richard

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth
