UKGI00020455
UKGI00020455

Message
From: French Claire (Communications)
Sent: 31/01/2017 14:24:24
To: Thompson, Laura - UKGI
cc: i i
Callard, Richard - UKGI
Subject:

Super, thanks Laura.

ae Claire French
Senior Media Officer — Labour Markets and Corporate Governance

Department for
Business, Energy I I
& Industrial Strategy 7 Floor, 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: Thompson, Laura - UKGI [mailto:
Sent: 31 January 2017 14:19

To: French Claire (Communications)
Cc: Pettitt Josh (Communications); Russell Philippa (Communications); Callard Richard (UKGI)
Subject: RE: Post Office litigation

Hi Claire
Thanks, Josh and I spoke on this a short while ago. I hadn’t seen the press notice but was not surprised to — the JFSA now
have a period (6 months, it appears) to add any other individuals onto their claim, and so a press notice to seek this is

not unexpected.

We’re content with the suggested lines — pass to Post Office in the first instance, “operational matter / legal
proceedings” if needed.

Let me know if you need anything else, and helpful to know if you are getting any other press enquiries on it.
Thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director
UK Government Investments
UKGI00020455
UKGI00020455

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: French Claire (Communications) [mailt¢__
Sent: 31 January 2017 13:51
To: Thompson, Laura - UKGI ¢

Russell Philippa (Communications)
GRO }

Subject: RE: Post Office litigation

Hi Laura, did you know about the below Horizon development? Suggested lines follow what we agreed previously.

Thanks,
Claire
ae Claire French
Senior Media Officer - Labour Markets and Corporate Governance

Department for
Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

7* Floor, 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET
www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: Pettitt Josh (Communications)
Sent: 31 January 2017 13:18

To: French Claire (Communications)
Cc: Russell Philippa (Communications)
Subject: FW: Post Office litigation

Hi Claire,

V'll get the ball rolling on this, but essentially a group of subpostmasters have been permission to pursue a joint litigation
order — collective action — against Post Office Ltd over the IT system Horizon problems.

As yet there is no court date and we don’t know which court it would be either. Michael Pooler has said the claimants
who issued the press release below said there were 100s of subpostmasters involved.

Previously in Horizon cases we have said:
“This is a matter for Post Office Ltd. Please call their press office.”

If pushed:
UKG1I00020455
UKGI00020455

“As this legal case is open, it is not appropriate for us to comment at this stage.”

V'll see what officials think.
Ta

Josh

From: Michael Pooler [mailto:
Sent: 31 January 2017 12:
To: Pettitt Josh (Communications)
Subject: Post Office litigation

Court gives go ahead for litigation against the Post Office

31 January 2017 - A Group Litigation Order has been granted by the High Court in London in respect of claims
being brought against Post Office Limited by several hundred current and former sub postmasters.

All of the claimants were required to use the Horizon computer system to record day-to-day financial
transactions in the branches.

The claim is that the claimants were wrongly required to pay financial shortfalls (ranging from hundreds to
many thousands of pounds) as a result of discrepancies erroneously showing on the Horizon system. It is also
that these demands have caused significant financial loss and hardship, bankruptcy, and in some cases gaol for
the sub-postmasters.

James Hartley, the partner at Freeths who is leading the case, commented: “This is a very good day for

the sub-postmasters who have suffered real hardship. The process has begun to get justice for them and to
hold the Post Office accountable for their actions. We urge any sub-postmasters who have not yet come
forward to do so before the deadline of 26 July 2017 imposed yesterday by the court.”

Alan Bates of the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance (JFSA) said: “With Post Office Limited continuing to deny
its responsibilities despite overwhelming evidence of its failures, and successive governments hiding behind a
hands-off approach to its ownership of the business, JFSA has been left with no other option than to seek
redress through the courts.
UKG1I00020455
UKGI00020455

“It seems that if a corporation is determined to keep covered up its years of mismanagement and
maltreatment of those involved with it, it does not care how much money it has to spend to stop the truth
coming out, especially when it is public money.”

The claimants are asking the court for fair redress. They want the Post Office to accept responsibility for their
computer system and their refusal to properly investigate alleged shortfalls. The claimants are asking

for Post Office accountability for the way they have been treated, as well as financial compensation to put
them back to where they should have been financially if Post Office had acted properly.

Any sub postmaster that worked for the Post Office since 1999 and who experienced issues with the Horizon
computer software, is eligible to join the Either go to the website, www.poclaims.co.uk,
contactpoclain{~ jorcallt GRO

ENDS

email {

Michael Pooler
Industry reporter

Number One Southwark Bridge, London SEI] 9HL

UKGI00020455
UKGI00020455

This email was sent by a company owned by Financial Times Group Limited ("FT Group"), registered office at Number One
Southwark Bridge, London SE1 9HL. Registered in England and Wales with company number 879531. This e-mail may contain
confidential information. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender immediately, delete all copies and do not
distribute it further. It could also contain personal views which are not necessarily those of the FT Group. We may monitor
outgoing or incoming emails as permitted by law.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.
