UKGI00042027
UKGI00042027

Message

From: Gibson Will (ShEx) [/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WGIBSON]
Sent: 20/09/2013 10:35:58

To: McInnes Tim (ShEx)

Subject: RE: RM prospectus

She has fed back to Jon Milledge and Neil Harmby - they get the point. I told him earlier that we'd let him know when we
heard anything. I think you should tell him POL should pick this up with Jon direct. We have fed our views in to FF and
made clear to RM our concerns on the Horizon point in particular. RM are being slippery because their directors are
responsible for this, not us. But they appreciate the need to avoid political problems.

Did POL also send their comments to RM or did they simply forward them to you to deal with? I would hope they also fed
those comments in themselves rather than leaving us to do their dirty work.

Will Gibson I Executive Director I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I H
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: McInnes Tim (ShEx)
Sent: 20 September 2013 11:32
To: Gibson Will (ShEx)
Subject: Fw: RM prospectus

Ill take a look when I come up but most of his comments should have been addressed. The wording is possibly
more nuanced than he would want but in terms of how prospectuses are drafted we have made ground.

As we've discussed I understand on the horizon point this is with Rachel. Have you had any update from her on
this?

Tim

From: Martin Edwards [mailto}
Sent: Friday, September 20, 2013 11:25 AM
To: McInnes Tim (ShEx); Gibson Will (ShEx)
Subject: FW: RM prospectus

Linking to my previous email — for reference, the comments in the attached set out our areas of concern. Thanks

From: Martin Edwards
Sent: 11 September 2013 10:27
UKGI00042027
UKGI00042027

To: McInnes Tim (ShEx)
Subject: RM prospectus

Hi Tim

As discussed yesterday, I’ve tracked some comments into the POL elements of the RM prospects to highlight
where we have specific concerns. I suspect they’re the same concerns you have — the sensitivities are as much
political as commercial. If you were able to push these with Slaughters and your RM counterparts within Shex
that would be much appreciated.

Also, if you were able to find out whether there are any POL references in the wider comms/marketing materials
associated with privatisation that would also be very helpful — as well as the specific points noted in my tracked
changes, it’s the overall negative tone of the references to the Post Office which worries us. Important this is
balanced out in the overall messaging.

Give me a call if useful to discuss further.

Many thanks,
Martin

Martin Edwards I chief of Staff to the Chief Executive

postoffice.co.uk
@postofficenews

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Job rid ienio io iio naa IIA IO IIIS IED IINIO BITE IO IIA IIA IO IIIA IA IIA IIA

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
