UKG100008606
UKGI00008606

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=1B473B274AA644839198B72B47DB1BE8-
ALDRED, TOM (TALDRED]

Sent: Fri 02/11/2018 12:19:42 PM (UTC)

To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI Watson, Richard -
Ce: Fox, Joshua -
Subject: RE: Post Office Litigation Meeting readout (17 October)

Tom C

I spoke with Richard. I think his draft addresses all the questions in the email: how the meeting went, views
on next week, preparation for settlement, receipt of legal advice.
Was there anything specific you’d like us to mention?

We can always offer to follow up with more detail if the minister would like it.
Curiously the email seems to have been addressed to me and I’m happy to respond
TomA

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Sent: 02 November 2018 11:43

To: Watson, Richard - UKGI
Cc: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI ¢
s

; Aldred, Tom - UKGI 4
; Adegun, Oluwatosin - UKGI
; Fox, Joshua - UKGI

Parker, Nick - UKGI ¢.

Subject: RE: Post Office Litigation Meeting readout (17 October)

Not all the questions answered eg have you received the legal advice.

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI
Sent: 02 November 2018 11:30
To: Aldred, Tom - UKGI

ob: Adegun,
Fox, Joshua -

Clarke, Stephen - UKG i GRO
$; Parker, Nick - UKGI

Subject: RE: Post Office Litigation Meeting readout (17 October)

Tom

I think we should to reply to the below email from the Ministers PS along the following lines:
Sam

In order to update the Minister please let her know that we were pleased with how the meeting went and POL were
also glad to have had the opportunity to provide their perspective of the litigation. The first trial starts next week
(Wednesday). This will determine the proper meaning of the contract between POL and its agents. The trial is likely to
last a few weeks and our best estimate is that the court’s judgement would not be expected until the new year. POL
have shared their legal advice with UKGI. Our lawyers will be leading the internal Whitehall work that will be
necessary to ensure that the Minister has advice on settlement options in due course. They are already liaising closely
UKG100008606
UKGI00008606

with BEIS Legal. The legal arguments in the first trial are complex and our lawyers will be keeping close to
developments as the case progresses.

Grateful for thoughts/comments. Given the Minister is asking for view on how the meeting went perhaps any reply
should come from you. I’m happy to send the email if you would prefer.

Kind regards

Richard

Richard WatsonIGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) (.
Sent: 31 October 2018 16:56

Clark Spad, Mpst (BEIS)
; Aldred, Tom - UKGI

To: Permanent Secretary <,

; Clark, Mpst (BEIS) <

Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGI >; Watson, Richard - UKGI
Stephen - UKGI Adegun, Oluwatosin - UKGI
Parker, Nick - UKGI <_ >; Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) +
Subject: Post Office Litigation Meeting readout (17 October)

Hi all,

With thanks to Richard for putting this together, please find attached a readout on the recent Post Office litigation
meeting.

One of the actions from the meeting was for POL to share its legal advice with the BEIS legal team in order for the
Department to reach its own conclusions on any potential settlement. Kelly has since raised this with me again and
has asked for an update from UKGI officials on their perspective on the progress of the litigation and how the meeting
went.

Tom — would your team be able to provide an update/views on the litigation for next week? I presume the legal team
will have to consider the settlement in slower time? Can you confirm whether POL have shared their legal advice yet?

Many thanks,
Sam
Samantha Rice
Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
Business, Energy ue don, SWI OEE — -

& Industrial Strategy www.gov.uk/beis I @beisgovuk —
UKGI00008606
UKGI00008606

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

