UKG1I00005157
UKGI00005157

From: Paula Vennells:.
Sent: Thur 30/07/2015 9:

02 AM (UTC)

To:

Ce: Alwen Lyons}.
virginia.hol
timfranklin4¢
Alasdair Marnochf
Kevin Gillilan

Subject: Re: BBC 2 Documentary

Thanks Alice.

The team will really appreciate this.

Ihave only been able to see the trailer that showed Caroline having such a hard time. Probably only those of us
who were involved in the last closure programmes do realise just how much we ask of Network colleagues and
this reminded me firstly how proud I am of Kevin and his team, and secondly that it can be very tough. I have
asked Kevin and Neil to make sure we have good debriefing support in place for such instances, which Kevin has
agreed and helpfully already confirmed are few and far between.

I'm looking forward to viewing the programme and echo your note of thanks especially this time to Alana and Al
who are doing a fantastic job whilst Mark and I are away.

Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

On 30 Jul 2015, at 10:44, Alice Perkins

wrote:

I have just watched the first episode courtesy of my [Player (I was out last night).

I'd like to say two things.

First, if you haven't watched it, I recommend it. I think it gives a very fair reflection of what we
are doing, why, and the strong feelings involved on all sides of the argument. If the following
episodes capture that balance, it will be great.

Second, enormous thanks go to the people who agreed to be filmed and who came across so well.
Caroline, Adrian, Neil and their colleagues were human, genuine and did the Post Office proud.
And it was excellent to have the clips of Paula setting the context so clearly. It made me stop and
think about just how much we are expecting of colleagues working on NTP and Crown
transformation. Thank you to all of them for handling these sensitive issues with such care,
common sense and humanity.

And well done Mark and team for managing this and helping the programme makers get the
balance right.

All the best
Alice

Sent from my iPhone

On 24 Jul 2015, at 18:03, "Alwen Lyons"!

Dear All

Please see below an update from Alana on the BBC 2 documentary next week.

Thanks

Alwen

<image002.png> Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary

Finsbury Dials
20 Finsbury Street

London
EC2Y 9AQ

Hello all,

The BBC have now confirmed the schedule for the first broadcast of the three part
documentary which they have called “Signed, sealed, delivered: Inside the Post Office”.
This is scheduled for next Wednesday 29 July at 9pm on BBC2. We believe that the next
two episodes will follow over the next two weeks but have not had absolute confirmation
as yet.

We have seen all three shows and we are continuing to work through changes with the
production team to ensure as balanced a view as possible.

The programmes underline the imperative for change and some of the tough choices and
opportunities involved as we seek to deliver a vibrant Post Office network with reduced
reliance on the taxpayer.

There are elements which will make uncomfortable viewing (particularly where the
community or postmaster does not want change) and there are a number of balancing

stories that show successful, thriving branches and very happy customers too.

Overall we believe that our overall objective - underlining the scale and necessity of our

UKG1I00005157
UKGI00005157
UKG1I00005157
UKGI00005157

change - will be achieved.

For note, Horizon and Sparrow is NOT mentioned in this or any of the programmes.

We will be confident, proactive and robust in response to any comment or questions and
have a full customer and stakeholder communications strategy in place (including a Social
Media team in place for the hour the shows are broadcast) that will allow us to amplify the
positives from the programmes.

If you have any questions please let me know.

Kind Regards

Alana

<image001.png>

Alana Renner
Deputy Communications Director
ondon, EC2Y 9AQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are
solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street,
London EC2Y 9AQ.
UKG1I00005157
UKGI00005157

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
