November 2014

Strictly Confidential

POST OFFICE LIMITED MATTERS — DISPUTE RESOLUTION
PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL — CLAIMS OVER £500K OR THOSE OF A SENSITIVE NATURE

PART (A) - CIVIL LITIGATION

Horizon claims POL/RW Belinda
(aka “Project Angela
Sparrow") Bogerd

Crowe
van

/

den

POL has received various claims from
subpostmasters (SPMs) alleging defects in the
Horizon system and POL’s internal processes.

These allegations were initially made in 5
claims brought through solicitors Shoosmiths.
Similar allegations have been made by the
“Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance” UFSA)
and advanced through SPMs’ MPs.

Following discussions with James Arbuthnot
MP and JFSA, independent investigator Second
Sight Support Services Ltd (Second Sight) was
appointed in July 2012 to carry out a review
into these allegations.

On 08.07.13, Second Sight published a Report
finding shortcomings in POL’s internal training
and support to SPMs on the Horizon system,
but no systemic problems with Horizon itself.

Following the Second Sight Report, on
27.08.13 POL launched a Mediation Scheme
(Scheme) aimed at resolving _ individual
complaints made about Horizon.

This matter will be the subject of a separate
update to ExCo.

The Scheme received 150 applications,
which are being progressed under the
direction of a Working Group comprising
retired Court of Appeal Judge Sir Anthony
Hooper (as Chair), POL. Second Sight, and
JFSA. 127 cases are still being progressed
through the Scheme or are being scheduled
for mediation.

Mediations have been held for the first 4
applications. A further 8 mediations are
currently being scheduled. The POL project
team continue to handle the applications in
line with the Board’s direction to take a
firmer position, informed by its legal position
and tighter control over timescales and costs.

To date, no claim has been made against
POL in the civil courts, and no appeal has
been made against any conviction in the
criminal courts, following Second Sight's
Report.

UKGI00018250
UKGI00018250

Bond Dickinson

Significant Litigation Report
November 2014

Page 1 of 3
UKGI00018250
UKGI00018250

Strictly Confidential

Significant Litigation Report
November 2014 Page 2 of 3
UKGI00018250
UKGI00018250

Strictly Confidential

PART (B) - CRIMINAL LITIGATION

PROSECUTION CASES

There are number of cases which could have been prosecuted (e.g. those with full and frank admissions to theft /fraud), but prosecutions were not
commenced to avoid adverse judicial comment.

Several cases have also been terminated while POL obtains an independent expert report on the Horizon branch accounting system (see below).

There are currently 14 cases which are being kept under review as to whether a prosecution (supported by an expert report) can be commenced.

EXPERT REPORT

New experts from Imperial College London have prepared a scope of work on which formal instructions and a protocol for requesting and receiving
information will be based

Appropriate individual confidentiality agreements will be prepared for both for the experts and POL employees involved in preparing the report.

Meetings to progress the report are taking place between the experts, POL and Fujitsu in September and October 2014.

PROSECUTION POLICY
Former First Senior Treasury Counsel Brian Altman QC has drafted a proposed prosecution policy for POL.
Comments from POL stakeholders will now be sent to Brian Altman for review.

Significant Litigation Report
November 2014 Page 3 of 3
