UKGI00019383
UKGI00019383

RESTRICTED — POLICY AND COMMERCIAL

To: Vince Cable,
From: Tim McInnes
Date: 10 July 2013
1. Purpose

Discuss POL’s commercial and network strategy for 2015/16 to 2019/20, and the
funding requirement associated with this. POL is keen to focus this meeting on its
Network Transformation Programme (“NTP”) and wants to seek your approval to
continue discussions with the National Federation of SubPostmasters (“NFSP”) in
relation to agreeing a new approach to implementation. This is likely to include a
move away from a voluntary approach to scheduled, or mandated, delivery.

Note: POL understand that you might want to talk about the Second Sight report into
POL’s Horizon computer system, and the impact that this has had on a small number
of subpostmasters. This remains a key focus area for POL however they would like to
focus this meeting on their new strategy and plans for transforming the post office
network. Should you want to talk to POL about the Second Sight report POL will be
more than happy to meet at a time that is convenient to cover this with you in detail

2. Attendees

= Alice Perkins (POL Chair)

= Paula Vennells (POL Chief Executive)

= Sue Barton (POL Strategy Director)

= Martin Edwards (POL Chief of Staff to Paula Vennells)
= Will Gibson (ShEx)

= Tim McInnes (ShEx)

3. Your objectives

= To make clear your support for POL’s new strategy which seeks to put the
business on a financially sustainable footing that can support: (i) a significant
reduction in the need for HMG funding; (ii) opportunities to grow the post office
network for the first time in many years; and (iii) a mutualisation of POL. I { Commented [pi]: You obviously won't want ogo te tal ]
To express caution around the changes that POL is planning to make to NTP and oe Te A network re Was © eed 990 LS

in particular any move away from voluntary implementation that does not have the

support of key stakeholders (e.g. the NFSP). This includes POL's ability to

manage the NFSP’s (and its members’) concerns both nationally and locally.

To seek POL’s views around whether it could be possible to put in place time

limited compensation as a mechanism for encouraging post office conversions,

while retaining a voluntary approach to implementation.

To encourage POL to continue to work closely with the NFSP in order to agree a

‘strategy that not only meets the objectives of POL, the NFSP, HMG and POL’s

customers but also delivers Value for Money for the taxpayer.

cal

POL objectives
RESTRICTED — POLICY AND COMMERCIAL

= To explain the context to POL’s new strategy — this defines the approach
management are taking to a number of key strategic initiatives. POL will want to
introduce the approach it is taking }) transforming, investing in and growing its
network; (ii) launching new products; (iii) becoming a more customer focused and
commercially responsive organisation; and (iv) working with stakeholders.

= To make it clear that while NTP is central to its “vision”, based on the current
voluntary approach to implementation it will not be able to transform its network
quickly enough. POL believes this will make it both financially and competitively
vulnerable (e.g. less able to grow the network or mutualise), unable to meet the
needs of customers and increasingly reliant on HMG funding.

= To explain why POL is seeking to change NTP implementation from a voluntary to
a scheduled, or mandated, approach. To support to this change POL will want to
explain the different levers that were considered in the development of its strategy
and also the alternative “menus” of levers that were considered (and why these
are not considered to deliver a sustainable and fit-for-purpose network).

= To update you on and to seek approval to continue the work that is ongoing with
the NFSP to agree a new approach to implementation. POL is working within
parameters set by HMG and stakeholders to ensure a high level of support. At the
same time with the NFSP it is developing an implementation strategy that delivers
conversions while minimising customer and subpostmaster concerns.

5. Background

5.1. New Strategic Plan

The meeting gives POL management their first opportunity to talk to you about their
new strategy which covers the period from 2015/16 to 2019/20. The plan is a
continuation of POL’s existing strategy — it builds on the platform that management
has established since POL became independent in April 2012 and seeks to maintain
the downward trajectory of HMG funding required by the business.

The strategy delivers a number of key milestones, These include:

= Delivering a financially sustainable POL that is less reliant on HMG funding, is
more competitive and which is a strong long term partner for Royal Mail;

= Growing the post office network for the first time since 1964. j
increasing the number of post offices by >10% to 0.13,500;

= Establishing a platform that could enable a mutualisation of POL, and more
collaborative working relationships with all stakeholder groups;

"= Transforming a significant majority of the network to new models, making
branches more viable, competitive and responsive to customer and client needs:

= Establishing POL as a credible challenger in the UK banking market through the
launch of new financial services products;

= Making HMG services more accessible to vulnerable and working age people and
supporting HMG’s ambitions to make services digital-by-default; and

= Taking a more strategic approach to supporting customers, including launching
new services and developing an integrated offer to support SMEs.

5.2. Network Transformation Programme

In order to meet these milestones POL needs a fit-for-purpose network, and the
successful delivery of NTP is crucial to achieving this. There is wide-ranging public
support for the need for a transformed network, including from the NFSP, the BIS

UKGI00019383
UKGI00019383

(Commented [p2]: My cater comment sandsconssedl +)

RESTRICTED - POLICY AND COMMERCIAL
Committee and customers, however the original NTP was developed with an
economic backdrop that differs materially to the current climate. This means that in its

UKGI00019383
UKGI00019383

_—-(Commented [p3]: Should this be forecast rather than backdrop?)

current form POL does not believe that it will be able to deliver the transformation
successfully (e.g. subpostmasters are unwilling to volunteer to convert branches
given uncertainties related to the broader economic environment, challenging retail
markets and slow to emerge sales growth in new post office services including
Government Services).

POL management has therefore proposed a move away from a wholly voluntary
process to one that requires all subpostmasters to enter a business planning stage
and schedules national “waves” of conversions. No post offices would be able to
close under this strategy unless replacement subpostmasters (or alternative host
retailers) have been identified and continuity of service in a community can be
ensured.

This strategy also enables POL to identify those branches that are not financially
viable and where a conversion — either onsite or offsite - is not possible. Such
branches, which are expected to number c.3,500, would be deemed “Community” or
“Outreach” branches — a new £20m fund would be made available for investment in
these post offices.

POL is aware that it needs the support of key stakeholders, and in particular the
NFSP, to deliver NTP successfully and that it needs to manage the concerns of
customers and subpostmasters effectively. Management is therefore working with the
NFSP to shape a strategy that meets its objectives, and one that the NFSP is able to
publicly support (and in certain instances also work alongside POL to ensure its
successful implementation). Any such strategy would also be structured in such a
way that it is able to meet the objectives of HMG and POL’s other stakeholders.

These discussions are ongoing and POL and the NFSP are moving forward towards
reaching a mutually acceptable outcome (the most recent meetings were held on 8th
and 10th July). An agreed strategy is likely to be based around the NTP plan that
management has proposed, albeit with some changes. These changes, which are
likely to increase the overall cost of NTP, could include:

= identifying “winners” from NTP and “Community” branches through a desktop
assessment,

= restricting “mandated” conversions to exiting subpostmasters only, with “winners”
managed in such a way that they are more likely to willingly convert;

"offering time-limited, phased or increased compensation to converting
subpostmasters;

"bringing forward the opening of some new post offices to improve service
provision sooner; and

= giving support to subpostmasters with a “retail support fund” to improve non-POL.
retail income.

5.3. Funding

POL believes that it can deliver NTP successfully within the £210m funding “ask” for
2015/16 that formed part of BIS's recent Spending Review settlement with HMT.
However in order to secure the support of the NFSP itis likely that changes will be
made to the strategy that increase the cost of implementation.
RESTRICTED — POLICY AND COMMERCIAL
Some of these costs can be absorbed by POL (e.g. by reprioritizing strategic
initiatives, or by driving efficiencies elsewhere in the business) while it might be
possible to phase others in such a way that they are incurred in later years (e.g. by
increasing the funding “ask” for 2016/17). However some changes (e.g. changes to
compensation paid to converting subpostmasters) are likely to increase POL’s
funding “ask” for 2015/16.

Discussions with the NFSP are ongoing and both POL and the NFSP are acutely
aware of the funding pressures on HMG and BIS. Both parties are therefore working
to reach an agreement around a plan that delivers Value for Money for the taxpayer
while ensuring the commercial benefits of NTP can be delivered and national and
local concerns around the continuity of service provision can be minimised.

5.4 Update on NTP

As at the end of June POL had achieved {e}-1,600 contract signatures and [e}.821
open converted branches (of which [¢]-270 formed part of the 2012 piloting exercise).
This compares to a target of [e}-1,800 contract signatures by this time, and a target of
{*}3,600 signatures for the end of the current financial year in March 2014. Of the
converted branches that are currently open, {e}409 are Main post offices and fe}412
are Local post offices.

At the end of the last financial year POL had managed to secure {}-1,450 contract
signatures, against a target of [}.1,200 and [e}.507 open branches._However, this
out-performance in contract signatures has completely unwound in the first quarter of
2013/14, and the company is not expected to catch-up under voluntary NTP.

The pace of conversions has been slower than expected by POL, primarily for the
reasons listed above in subsection 5.42. POL has however learned a number of
lessons over the past year and the implementation process is now more controlled,
streamlined, flexible and efficient —(these lessons are being carried through to the
new strategic plan) however, the current approach is not producing enough
volunteers to achieve the 2010 target of 6,000 conversions by 2015.

CC List: Swinson MPST; Donnelly MPST; SPADs; ShEx POL team

UKGI00019383
UKGI00019383
UKGI00019383
UKGI00019383

RESTRICTED — POLICY AND COMMERCIAL

Points to Make/Questions to Ask:

Opening
Remarks:

Possible
Questions:

Points to Draw From:

POL’s new strategy is ambitious and I support what management is
trying to achieve — we all want to see a sustainable and growing POL
which is less reliant on HMG funding. However I understand that
there are a number of risks in the plan that will make it challenging
for management to deliver its objectives successfully.

I would like to understand what you see as being the key risks in the
plan and how you plan to address these. In particular I have
questions around management's proposed change to NTP and the
extent to which POL will both be able to secure the support of
stakeholders and manage the national and local concerns of
customers and subpostmasters.

Why does POL feel there is a need to move away from the current
voluntary approach to implementing NTP — POL met its targets for
2012/13 and I believe the business is also on track to meet targets
set out for 2013/14?

What other strategies did POL consider before landing on the
proposed move away from a voluntary NTP? Why were these
alternatives not seen to be able to deliver a fit-for-purpose network
as effectively as the strategy that is being proposed?

What is the risk to POL and other stakeholders from not successfully
delivering NTP and why does POL need to put in place this change
now? What is the benefit compared to implementing such a change
after the end of the current funding agreement in 2015?

When do you believe you will be able to reach agreement with the
NFSP in relation to a new approach to implementing NTP? What do
you think the incremental cost of this will be? How can you be
confident that it will address national and local concerns around
continuity of service provision?
