UKGI00018426
UKGI00018426

Kelly Tolhurst MP

aoe Department for Business, Energy &
Industrial Strategy

Department for {Micra Stet

Business, Energy SW1H OT

& Industrial Strategy

E
Alan Bates w

j 2 <& June 2019

enquiries
www.gov.uk

(hor [ne Gatos,

Thank you for your letters dated 30 April addressed to the Prime Minister and myself regarding
the group litigation Alan Bates and Others v Post Office Limited and the first judgment handed
down in the “Common Issues” trial. I am replying as this matter falls within my ministerial
portfolio.

I agree with you on the crucial importance of post offices and the postmasters that run them.
Postmasters are the backbone of the Post Office, and their branches are the backbone of
communities across the country, which is why the Government committed to safeguarding the
Post Office network and protecting existing rural services. The overall number of post offices
across the UK remains at its most stable in decades thanks to significant Government
investment of over £2 billion.

I can also reassure you that both the Government and the Post Office have taken seriously the
judge's criticisms of Post Office's handling of the case and indeed its wider dealings with
Postmasters, and Post Office has undertaken to take appropriate action where necessary.
Post Office has said that it will continue its programme of improving how it works with
postmasters and is considering how to accelerate this and address the criticisms about its
operations raised in the judgment.

However, much of what you raise in your letter is relevant to ongoing legal proceedings and for
that reason I am unable to comment on it. There are a further three trials scheduled until
March 2020, and the overall outcome of this litigation will only become clear once the whole
trial process has concluded. In addition, Post Office has announced its intention to appeal the
judgment from the first “Common Issues” trial. While this dispute rests with the courts it is
clearly not appropriate for Government to comment further on these legal proceedings or to
intervene in any way in these proceedings, including seeking additional independent legal and
IT expert advice in the way that you are advocating.

The courts remain the right place to hear and resolve these long-standing issues between
some postmasters and the Post Office so that postmasters with claims can obtain a remedy if
the court finds there is validity to those claims. It is important that the court process be allowed
to run its course in order to finally resolve those issues.
UKGI00018426
UKGI00018426

The matters encompassed by this litigation fall under the operational responsibility of the Post
Office and, as such, it is the Post Office that is handling the defence of this litigation and is
responsible for appointing appropriate legal advisors to enable this defence. While publicly
owned, Post Office Ltd operates as an independent commercial business.

Y ws.

KELLY Tl
Minister for Small Business, Consumers & Coyporate Responsibility
