UKG100002441
UKG100002441

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=EFOFAS7983304064B518D3B87774A899-
RCALLARD]

Sent: Wed 20/08/2014 10:47:13 AM (UTC)

To: Russell Mark (ShEx)I

Subject: Jo Swinson Meeting

Attachment: Confidential Document.docx

Mark

I have attached the note I have been preparing in readiness for our meeting with Jo on Friday. It is with Alice for a
second review (it incorporates her points from an initial review). To be clear this is not a speaking note, it is too long
for that, it really a way of getting our arguments in some order and agreed with Alice, plus it’ll serve as an aide
memoire. We are basically saying that, aside from the arguments for appointing a CFO in their own right, we need to
have a strong CFO in place with their feet under the table prior to acting on the CEO in due course.

Lhave booked a half hour with you tomorrow at 1400 on this — we should probably talk about who takes the
lead etc and make sure you are happy with the arguments.

Having talked to Jo’s PS, her main concerns are:
1. We should have approached her on this earlier — so I’ve added some mea culpa in here
2. We she is concerned about the 12 months pay off for the current CFO — I will have to emphasise the legal
position that POL is in on this (i.e. Chris has done nothing wrong, but the role has moved on)
3. She is worried about using her political capital with the CST on this — it might be worthwhile you reciting
Danny’s changing perspective in this area

Incidentally I also talked to Will Gibson to get some handling tips!

Jo’s PS is going to warm her up to the specifics of the conversation i.e. Paula, so that Jo is more aware of why we are
coming to see her (otherwise she starts it wondering why we are covering the CFO topic once again). I think she may
well be sympathetic to our view of Paula, which might help.

R

Richard Callard I Executive Director I Post Office Limited and Green Investment Bank Shareholder Teams I
Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET [F

www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-sharehoider-executive

PA: Karen Smith I/

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth
