UKG100001638
UKGI00001638

From: Whitehead Mike (ShEx)[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MJWHITEH]
Sent: Wed 19/06/2013 9:30:42 AM (UTC)
To: Gibson Will (SHEXx}..

(ShEx} GRO

Nathan Jai (SREX$
Ce: Batten Peter (ShEx), I
Subject: FW: Google Alert - post office

Pretty slow news day. BEM for working 48 years in a Coventry post office and report on Horizon by
forensic accountants scheduled for 8 July according to CW .

Mike Whitehead
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills
Shareholder Executive
Royal Mail and Postal Services
1 Victoria Street

SW1H OET

From: Google Alerts:
Sent: 18 June 2013 1
To: Whitehead Mike (ShEx)

Subject: Google Alert - post office

it)

News 8 new results for post office

Post Office responds: ‘The future looks bright!

Johannesburg Sunday World

Nkululeko Ncana's "Post Office on brink of disaster" article conjured up a few thoughts regarding the
power of the media. Needless to state, the media can make or break institutions and people. Therefore,
such power presupposes a huge responsibility.

See all stories on this topic »

Investigation into Post Office accounting system to drill down on strongest cases
ComputerWeekly.com

The independent investigation into the Post Office's allegedly faulty accounting system used by
subpostmasters, will focus its efforts on a select few of the 47 claims it is working on because the
complexity of the work is slowing down progress. The ...

See all stories on this topic »

Union Bay post office has stood for a century

Comox Vallety Record

The Union Bay Historical Society is gearing up to celebrate the local post office's 100 years of serving
the public. The tall, stately wooden building was built in 1912, and opened in 1913. Since then, it has
been open six days a week to serve citizens ...

See all stories on this topic »

Long-serving Post Office worker honoured by the Queen

Coventry Observer

A GRANDMOTHER who worked at a Post Office in Binley for almost 50 years and never took a day off
through illness has been recognised in the Queen's Birthday Honours list. Kathleen Brough has spent 48

years serving the local community behind the ...

See all stories on this topic »

Post Office Buildings for Sale

Salem-News.Com

(SACRAMENTO, CA) - The US has entered into a contract with a real estate firm to sell 56 buildings that
currently house U.S. Post Offices. The government has decided it no longer needs these buildings,
many of which are located on prime land in towns ...

See all stories on this topic »

Misuse or Misunderstanding: Old Wailuku Post Office Demolition Probed

Maui Now

A council committee today recommended a formal investigation into the potential misuse of county funds
for the demolition of the Old Wailuku Post Office. During Monday's meeting, committee members
discussed how they should go about determining if there ...

See all stories on this topic »

Postal Service establishing Village Post Office location in Limestone, NY
Bradford Era

On Monday afternoon, Karen Mazurkiewicz of the Postal Service said the federal agency will introduce
the Limestone Village Post Office at the Western Steer Mini-Mart on Bailey Drive as part of a ribbon-
cutting ceremony slated for 1 p.m. Wednesday at...

See all stories on this topic »

Silent raid on Athy post office

Kildare Nationalist

SAFF and customers at the post office in Athy were terrorised by a gun-wielding raider last Friday
afternoon as he and his accomplice carried out an armed robbery without uttering a single word. A
substantial amount of cash was taken during the robbery ...

See all stories on this topic »

This once a day Google Alert is brought to you by Google.

Remove this alert.
Create another alert.
Manage your alerts.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

UKGI00001638
UKGI00001638

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
