UKG100009445
UKGI00009445

Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)[____
Sent: Wed 03/04/2019 6:04:55 PM (UTC)

To: Clarke, Stephen - UKG!
Manufacturing and Services)
Ce: Watson, Craia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services} ~~ Aldred,

Tom - UKGIi.- nnn! ...4; Cooper, Tom - U
Lambert, Gavin (Advanced ‘Manufacturing and Si eal,
Eleanor (Advanced Manufacturing and Services);
Subject: RE: Official Sensitive: Meeting with Tim Parker Deadline: 10am Wednesday 27 March
Hi All,

I just wanted to quickly summarise the actions from the meeting this afternoon:
© Tim asked whether it was possible for the Head-hunters to start the recruitment process with the previous
CEOs salary and confirm the new salary once we have HMT clearance. Kelly agreed that this would get the
process going. UKGI - please could you confirm if this is possible, if there will be any implications or additional
costs.
© Tim fed back his reassurances that Al Cameron was doing a good job as interim CEO. Kelly and Tim agreed to
setting up regular meetings, of which Al would also come along. Private Office to action.
* Kelly suggested having a meeting with CWU, POL and Ministers regularly where MPs can drop in. Private
Office will check with Kelly exactly how she would like this meeting to take place.
* Kelly mentioned having better communication on key stages in the litigation trails with officials. If there are
any key updates on the progress of the trails, please let me know and I can text a short update to Kelly if
needed. A good example of this is the recusal update Tom A emailed over earlier.

Please let me know if there’s anything I missed!

Thanks,
Jess
Rt Jessica Tysoe
pe Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP
Department for Parliamentary Under Secretary of State

. Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
Business, Energy 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H
& Industrial Strategy

www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI
Sent: 27 March 2019 10:01

To: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) Vandini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)

1} Aldred, Tom - UKGI
Lambert, Gavin (Advanced
Beal, Eleanor (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)

Subject Official Sensitive: Meeting with Tim Parker Deadline: 10am Wednesday 27 March

Official Sensitive and Subject to Legal Privilege — do not forward
UKG100009445
UKGI00009445

Hi Jess,

Please find attached the briefing for this meeting, as requested. Please note that we've also attached two recent
letters (from Kelly to Tim and the Chair’s Letter from the Perm Sec), which form the backdrop for this meeting.

Tom Cooper will attend from UKGI and either Gavin Lambert or Craig Watson from BEIS.
Let me know if you have any questions.

Stephen Clarke I Post Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments
Corporate finance and governance in government.

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) [mailto}
Sent: 21 March 2019 16:39

To: Vandini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)
Cc: Watson, Craig (Advanced Manufacturing and Servi
4 ; Clarke, Stephen - UKGI

S ; Aldred, Tom - UKGI
inane Forkuo, Wendy (Advanced
Manufacturing and

>; Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)
Lambert, Gavin (Advanced Manufacturing and Services) <
ing with Tim Parker Deadline: 10am Wednesday 27 March

Services)

Hi Cecilia,

Kelly is due to be meeting Tim Parker, Chair of POL on the 2" April 14:30-15:00 in Portcullis House, Interview Room 2.

This will be the first time they have met in person, they have only spoken on the phone before. Grateful if you could
prepare briefing for the meeting by 10am on Wednesday 27 March including the below:

* Attendees (External and Internal)

* Purpose of the meeting and handling

* Points to make on franchising, the litigation and leadership within POL.

* Relevant Context, including latest updates on the litigation.

Please let me know who from BEIS/UKGI will be attending, grateful if we could have maximum 2 officials.

Many thanks,
Jess
aw Jessica Tysoe
Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP
Department for Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
‘ Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
Business, Energy yo ctreet Lond

SW1H OET

& Industrial Strategy GRO

UKG100009445
UKGI00009445

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

