UKG1I00005002
UKGI00005002

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=73D8709345C441479FOD7E2ADCE207C9-

LATHOMPS]
Sent: Mon 13/07/2015 10:56:54 AM (UTC)
To: O'Driscoll, Katie[,
Ce: Freeman MPST{-
(ShEx) a -
Dollin Michael (Shareholder Executive
Subject: RE: Post Office Horizon System

Hi Katie
Thanks for passing this on.

As you say, BNR is meeting George Thomson tomorrow (Tuesday) ~ this is for an introductory meeting, rather than
specifically to talk about this issue, although I am sure it will come up in the discussion. As you’re also aware, BNR is
hosting the meeting between MPs (Andrew Bridgen) and Post Office on Wednesday this week.

I think, given that we can expect there to be further interest / pressure once that meeting has taken place, particularly
in the Commons, it would be worthwhile for your Minister to meet George Thomson to understand a bit more about
this issue. This doesn’t need to take place urgently but if it could happen before Parliament returns in September (if
that’s at all possible) that would probably be very helpful for the Minister.

Copying to BNR’s office for info.

If you’d like any more information at all on this do just let me know.
Thanks
Laura

‘tor I Shareholder Executive

From: O'Driscoll, Katie: === GRO
Sent: 10 July 2015 11:35

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Cc: Freeman MPST

Subject: FW: Post Office Horizon System

Hi Laura,

We have been approached by George Thomson’s office. I understand he is meeting with BNR next week but it would
be good to have your views on whether or not we should accept?

Thanks,

Katie

Katie O'Driscoll

Diary Manager to George Freeman MP — Minister for Life Sciences

From: mb-freeman
UKG100005002
UKGI00005002

Sent: 10 July 2015 11:29

To: Call Centre - Public Enquiries
Ce: Freeman.MPS
Subject: FW: Post Office Horizon System

O'Driscoll, Katie

Please log as poc2

From: FREEMAN, George [mailto
Sent: 10 July 2015 11:06

To: mb-freeman

Subject: FW: Post Office Horizon System

Hannah Rowley

Senior Caseworker to George Freeman MP
Member of Parliament for Mid-Norfolk
Minister for Life Sciences

House of Commons I London I SW1A OAA

www.georgefreeman.co.uk
Grollow George on Twitter: @Freeman_George

From: Sharon Merryweather.
Sent: 08 July 2015 12:23

To: FREEMAN, George

Cc: George Thomson

Subject: Post Office Horizon System

Dear Mr Freeman

I write on behalf of George Thomson, leader of the organisation representing the subpostmasters in the UK. He
would very much like to meet with you to explain exactly why, as an organisation, we believe the Post Office Horizon
computer system is robust, secure and accurate.

If this is possible, could I ask you to make contact to arrange a mutually convenient diary slot please?
Many thanks

Regards
Sharon

Sharon Merryweather
PA to General Secretary

National Federation of Subpostmasters
Evelyn House

22 Windlesham Gardens

Shoreham by Sea

West Sussex, BN43 SAZ
Phone: I

UKG100005002
UKGI00005002

UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail.

This email was scanned by the Symantec anti-virus service

In case of problems, please call your IT support helpdesk.

This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are confidential. If you are not the intended recipient, any reading,
printing, storage, disclosure, copying or any other action taken in respect of this e-mail is prohibited and may
be unlawful. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender immediately by using the reply
function and then permanently delete what you have received.

Incoming and outgoing e-mail messages are routinely monitored for compliance with the Department of
Health's policy on the use of electronic communications. For more information on the Department of Health's
e-mail policy click here http://www.dh.gov.uk/terms

This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are confidential. If you are not the intended recipient, any reading,
printing, storage, disclosure, copying or any other action taken in respect of this e-mail is prohibited and may
be unlawful. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender immediately by using the reply
function and then permanently delete what you have received.

Incoming and outgoing e-mail messages are routinely monitored for compliance with the Department of
Health's policy on the use of electronic communications. For more information on the Department of Health's
e-mail policy click here http://www.dh

This email was scanned by the Symantec virus scanning service and was certified virus free.
Communications may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
