UKGI00044325
UKG100044325

FINANCIAL REPORTING COUNCIL

THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE

JuNeE 2010

UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

UKG100044325
CONTENTS
Pages
The UK Corporate Governance Code
Governance and the Code 1
Preface 2-3
Comply or Explain 4-5
The Main Principles of the Code 6-7
Section A: Leadership 9-11
Section B: Effectiveness 12-17
Section C: Accountability 18-21
Section D: Remuneration 22-24
Section E: Relations with Shareholders 25-26
Schedule A: The design of performance-related remuneration
for executive directors 27
Schedule B: Disclosure of corporate governance arrangements 28-35

Schedule C: Engagement principles for institutional shareholders 36-37
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

GOVERNANCE AND THE CODE

The purpose of corporate governance is to facilitate effective,
entrepreneurial and prudent management that can deliver the long-term
success of the company.

The first version of the UK Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) was
produced in 1992 by the Cadbury Committee. Its paragraph 2.5 is still the
classic definition of the context of the Code:

Corporate governance is the system by which companies are directed and
controlled. Boards of directors are responsible for the governance of their
companies. The shareholders’ role in governance is to appoint the
directors and the auditors and to satisfy themselves that an appropriate
governance structure is in place. The responsibilities of the board include
setting the company’s strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them
into effect, supervising the management of the business and reporting to
shareholders on their stewardship. The board’s actions are subject to
laws, regulations and the shareholders in general meeting.

Corporate governance is therefore about what the board of a company
does and how it sets the values of the company, and is to be distinguished
from the day to day operational management of the company by full-time
executives.

The Code is a guide to a number of key components of effective board
practice. It is based on the underlying principles of all good governance:
accountability, transparency, probity and focus on the sustainable success
of an entity over the longer term.

The Code has been enduring, but it is not immutable. Its fitness for
purpose in a permanently changing economic and social business
environment requires its evaluation at appropriate intervals. The reviews
preceding this one were in 2005 and 2007. The Preface, which should be
regarded as an integral part of the Code, introduces the changes made in
the current review.

The new Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29
June 2010 and, as a result of the new Listing Regime introduced in April
2010, applies to all companies with a Premium Listing of equity shares
regardless of whether they are incorporated in the UK or elsewhere.
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

PREFACE

The financial crisis which came to a head in 2008-09 triggered widespread
reappraisal, locally and internationally, of the governance systems which
might have alleviated it. In the UK, Sir David Walker was asked to review
the governance of banks and other financial institutions, and the FRC
decided to bring forward the Code review scheduled for 2010 so that
corporate governance in other listed companies could be assessed at the
same time.

Two principal conclusions were drawn by the FRC from its review. First,
that much more attention needed to be paid to following the spirit of the
Code as well as its letter. Secondly, that the impact of shareholders in
monitoring the Code could and should be enhanced by better interaction
between the boards of listed companies and their shareholders. To this
end, the FRC has assumed responsibility for a stewardship code that will
provide guidance on good practice for investors.

Nearly two decades of constructive usage have enhanced the prestige of
the Code. Indeed, it seems that there is almost a belief that complying with
the Code in itself constitutes good governance. The Code, however, is of
necessity limited to being a guide only in general terms to principles,
structure and processes. It cannot guarantee effective board behaviour
because the range of situations in which it is applicable is much too great
for it to attempt to mandate behaviour more specifically than it does.
Boards therefore have a lot of room within the framework of the Code to
decide for themselves how they should act.

To follow the spirit of the Code to good effect, boards must think deeply,
thoroughly and on a continuing basis, about their overall tasks and the
implications of these for the roles of their individual members. Absolutely
key in this endeavour are the leadership of the chairman of a board, the
support given to and by the CEO, and the frankness and openness of
mind with which issues are discussed and tackled by all directors.

The challenge should not be underrated. To run a corporate board
successfully is extremely demanding. Constraints on time and knowledge
combine with the need to maintain mutual respect and openness between
a cast of strong, able and busy directors dealing with each other across
the different demands of executive and non-executive roles. To achieve
good governance requires continuing and high quality effort.
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

6. The Code’s function should be to help boards discharge their duties in the
best interests of their companies. The FRC in this review has focussed on
changing the “tone” of the Code by making limited but significant changes
to signal the importance of the general principles which should guide
board behaviours. It is to be hoped that these changes will promote
greater clarity and understanding with regard to the tasks of a board and
that communication with shareholders will be more effective as a result.

7. Chairmen are encouraged to report personally in their annual statements
how the principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the board (in
Sections A and B of the new Code) have been applied. Not only will this
give investors a clearer picture of the steps taken by boards to operate
effectively but also, by providing fuller context, it may make investors more
willing to accept explanations when a company chooses to explain rather
than to comply with one or more provisions. Above all, the personal
reporting on governance by chairmen as the leaders of boards might be a
turning point in attacking the fungus of “boiler-plate” which is so often the
preferred and easy option in sensitive areas but which is dead
communication.

8. The new Code recommends that, in the interests of greater accountability,
all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-
election. As with all other provisions of the Code, companies are free to
explain rather than comply if they believe that their existing arrangements
ensure proper accountability and underpin board effectiveness, or that a
transitional period is needed before they introduce annual re-election. The
boards of smaller companies are also encouraged to consider their policy
on director re-election.

Financial Reporting Council
June 2010
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

COMPLY OR EXPLAIN

1. The “comply or explain” approach is the trademark of corporate
governance in the UK. It has been in operation since the Code’s
beginnings and is the foundation of the Code’s flexibility. It is strongly
supported by both companies and shareholders and has been widely
admired and imitated internationally.

2. The Code is not a rigid set of rules. It consists of principles (main and
supporting) and provisions. The Listing Rules require companies to apply
the Main Principles and report to shareholders on how they have done so.
The principles are the core of the Code and the way in which they are
applied should be the central question for a board as it determines how it
is to operate according to the Code.

3. It is recognised that an alternative to following a provision may be justified
in particular circumstances if good governance can be achieved by other
means. A condition of doing so is that the reasons for it should be
explained clearly and carefully to shareholders', who may wish to discuss
the position with the company and whose voting intentions may be
influenced as a result. In providing an explanation, the company should
aim to illustrate how its actual practices are both consistent with the
principle to which the particular provision relates and contribute to good
governance.

4. In their responses to explanations, shareholders should pay due regard to
companies’ individual circumstances and bear in mind, in particular, the
size and complexity of the company and the nature of the risks and
challenges it faces. Whilst shareholders have every right to challenge
companies’ explanations if they are unconvincing, they should not be
evaluated in a mechanistic way and departures from the Code should not
be automatically treated as breaches. Shareholders should be careful to
respond to the statements from companies in a manner that supports the
“comply or explain” process and bearing in mind the purpose of good
corporate governance. They should put their views to the company and
both parties should be prepared to discuss the position.

* References to shareholders also apply to intermediaries and agents employed to assist shareholders in
scrutinising governance arrangements.
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

5. Smaller listed companies, in particular those new to listing, may judge that
some of the provisions are disproportionate or less relevant in their case.
Some of the provisions do not apply to companies below the FTSE 350.
Such companies may nonetheless consider that it would be appropriate to
adopt the approach in the Code and they are encouraged to do so.
Externally managed investment companies typically have a different board
structure which may affect the relevance of particular provisions; the
Association of Investment Companies’ Corporate Governance Code and
Guide can assist them in meeting their obligations under the Code.

6. Satisfactory engagement between company boards and investors is
crucial to the health of the UK’s corporate governance regime. Companies
and shareholders both have responsibility for ensuring that “comply or
explain” remains an effective alternative to a rules-based system. There
are practical and administrative obstacles to improved interaction between
boards and shareholders. But certainly there is also scope for an increase
in trust which could generate a virtuous upward spiral in attitudes to the
Code and in its constructive use.
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

THE MAIN PRINCIPLES OF THE CODE

Section A: Leadership

Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively
responsible for the long-term success of the company.

There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company
between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the
running of the company’s business. No one individual should have unfettered
powers of decision.

The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its
effectiveness on all aspects of its role.

As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors
should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.

Section B: Effectiveness

The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills,
experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to
discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.

There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the
appointment of new directors to the board.

All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to
discharge their responsibilities effectively.

All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly
update and refresh their skills and knowledge.

The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and
of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.

The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own
performance and that of its committees and individual directors.

All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to
continued satisfactory performance.
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

Section C: Accountability

The board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the
company’s position and prospects.

The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant
risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. The board should
maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.

The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for
considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk
management and internal control principles and for maintaining an
appropriate relationship with the company’s auditor.

Section D: Remuneration

Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate
directors of the quality required to run the company successfully, but a company
should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose. A significant
proportion of executive directors’ remuneration should be structured so as to
link rewards to corporate and individual performance.

There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on
executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual
directors. No director should be involved in deciding his or her own
remuneration.

Section E: Relations with Shareholders

There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual
understanding of objectives. The board as a whole has responsibility for
ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.

The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to
encourage their participation.
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

SECTION A: LEADERSHIP

A.

The Role of the Board

Main Principle

Every company should be headed by an effective board which is
collectively responsible for the longterm success of the company.

Supporting Principles

The board's role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company
within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to
be assessed and managed. The board should set the company’s
strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human resources
are in place for the company to meet its objectives and review
management performance. The board should set the company’s values
and standards and ensure that its obligations to its shareholders and
others are understood and met.

All directors must act in what they consider to be the best interests of the
company, consistent with their statutory duties’.

Code Provisions

A114

A.1.2

A.1.3

The board should meet sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties
effectively. There should be a formal schedule of matters specifically
reserved for its decision. The annual report should include a statement of
how the board operates, including a high level statement of which types
of decisions are to be taken by the board and which are to be delegated
to management.

The annual report should identify the chairman, the deputy chairman
(where there is one), the chief executive, the senior independent director
and the chairmen and members of the board committees’. It should also
set out the number of meetings of the board and its committees and
individual attendance by directors.

The company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of
legal action against its directors.

? For directors of UK incorporated companies, these duties are set out in the Sections 170 to 177 of the
Companies Act 2006.

* Provisions A.1.1 and A.1.2 overlap with FSA Rule DTR 7.2.7 R; Provision A.1.2 also overlaps with DTR
7.1.5 R (see Schedule B).
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

A.2__ Division of Responsibilities
Main Principle

There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the
company between the running of the board and the executive
responsibility for the running of the company’s business. No one
individual should have unfettered powers of decision.

Code Provision

A.2.1_ The roles of chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by the
same individual. The division of responsibilities between the chairman
and chief executive should be clearly established, set out in writing and
agreed by the board.

A.3 The Chairman
Main Principle

The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring
its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.

Supporting Principle

The chairman is responsible for setting the board’s agenda and ensuring
that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in
particular strategic issues. The chairman should also promote a culture of
openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of non-
executive directors in particular and ensuring constructive relations
between executive and non-executive directors.

The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive
accurate, timely and clear information. The chairman should ensure
effective communication with shareholders.

Code Provision

A.3.1_ The chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set
out in B.1.1 below. A chief executive should not go on to be chairman of
the same company. If, exceptionally, a board decides that a chief
executive should become chairman, the board should consult major
shareholders in advance and should set out its reasons to shareholders
at the time of the appointment and in the next annual report’.

* Compliance or otherwise with this provision need only be reported for the year in which the appointment
is made.

10
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

A4

Nonexecutive Directors

Main Principle

As part of their role as members of a unitary board, nonexecutive
directors should constructively challenge and help develop
proposals on strategy.

Supporting Principle

Non-executive directors should scrutinise the performance of
management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the
reporting of performance. They should satisfy themselves on the integrity
of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk
management are robust and defensible. They are responsible for
determining appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors
and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing
executive directors, and in succession planning.

Code Provisions

A41

A4.2

A4.3

The board should appoint one of the independent non-executive
directors to be the senior independent director to provide a sounding
board for the chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other
directors when necessary. The senior independent director should be
available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the
normal channels of chairman, chief executive or other executive directors
has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.

The chairman should hold meetings with the non-executive directors
without the executives present. Led by the senior independent director,
the non-executive directors should meet without the chairman present at
least annually to appraise the chairman’s performance and on such other
occasions as are deemed appropriate.

Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the
running of the company or a proposed action, they should ensure that
their concerns are recorded in the board minutes. On resignation, a non-
executive director should provide a written statement to the chairman, for
circulation to the board, if they have any such concerns.

1
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

SECTION B: EFFECTIVENESS
B.1 The Composition of the Board
Main Principle

The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of
skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to
enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities
effectively.

Supporting Principles

The board should be of sufficient size that the requirements of the
business can be met and that changes to the board’s composition and
that of its committees can be managed without undue disruption, and
should not be so large as to be unwieldy.

The board should include an appropriate combination of executive and
non-executive directors (and, in particular, independent non-executive
directors) such that no individual or small group of individuals can
dominate the board's decision taking.

The value of ensuring that committee membership is refreshed and that
undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals should be taken into
account in deciding chairmanship and membership of committees.

No one other than the committee chairman and members is entitled to be
present at a meeting of the nomination, audit or remuneration committee,
but others may attend at the invitation of the committee.

Code Provisions

B.1.1. The board should identify in the annual report each non-executive
director it considers to be independent’. The board should determine
whether the director is independent in character and judgement and
whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to
affect, or could appear to affect, the director's judgement. The board
should state its reasons if it determines that a director is independent
notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which
may appear relevant to its determination, including if the director:

e has been an employee of the company or group within the last five
years;

® A.3.1 states that the chairman should, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in this
provision, but thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the chairman.

12
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

B.1.2

B.2

e has, or has had within the last three years, a material business
relationship with the company either directly, or as a partner,
shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a
relationship with the company;

e has received or receives additional remuneration from the company
apart from a director's fee, participates in the company’s share
option or a performance-related pay scheme, or is a member of the
company’s pension scheme;

e has close family ties with any of the company’s advisers, directors or
senior employees;

e holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other directors
through involvement in other companies or bodies;

° represents a significant shareholder; or
e has served on the board for more than nine years from the date of
their first election.

Except for smaller companies®, at least half the board, excluding the
chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the
board to be independent. A smaller company should have at least two
independent non-executive directors.

Appointments to the Board

Main Principle

There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the
appointment of new directors to the board.

Supporting Principles

The search for board candidates should be conducted, and
appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria and with due
regard for the benefits of diversity on the board, including gender.

The board should satisfy itself that plans are in place for orderly
succession for appointments to the board and to senior management, so
as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the
company and on the board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the
board.

* A smaller company is one that is below the FTSE 350 throughout the year immediately prior to the
reporting year.

13
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

Code Provisions

B.2.1

B.2.2

B.2.3

B.2.4

B.3

There should be a nomination committee which should lead the process
for board appointments and make recommendations to the board. A
majority of members of the nomination committee should be independent
non-executive directors. The chairman or an independent non-executive
director should chair the committee, but the chairman should not chair
the nomination committee when it is dealing with the appointment of a
successor to the chairmanship. The nomination committee should make
available its terms of reference, explaining its role and the authority
delegated to it by the board’.

The nomination committee should evaluate the balance of skills,
experience, independence and knowledge on the board and, in the
light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities
required for a particular appointment.

Non-executive directors should be appointed for specified terms subject
to re-election and to statutory provisions relating to the removal of a
director. Any term beyond six years for a non-executive director should
be subject to particularly rigorous review, and should take into account
the need for progressive refreshing of the board.

A separate section of the annual report should describe the work of the
nomination committee®, including the process it has used in relation to
board appointments. An explanation should be given if neither an
external search consultancy nor open advertising has been used in the
appointment of a chairman or a non-executive director.

Commitment

Main Principle

All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company
to discharge their responsibilities effectively.

Code Provisions

B.3.1

For the appointment of a chairman, the nomination committee should
prepare a job specification, including an assessment of the time
commitment expected, recognising the need for availability in the event
of crises. A chairman’s other significant commitments should be
disclosed to the board before appointment and included in the annual

’ The requirement to make the information available would be met by including the information on a
website that is maintained by or on behalf of the company.
* This provision overlaps with FSA Rule DTR 7.2.7 R (see Schedule B).

14
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

report. Changes to such commitments should be reported to the board
as they arise, and their impact explained in the next annual report.

B.3.2 The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors
should be made available for inspection®. The letter of appointment
should set out the expected time commitment. Non-executive directors
should undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is
expected of them. Their other significant commitments should be
disclosed to the board before appointment, with a broad indication of
the time involved and the board should be informed of subsequent
changes.

B.3.3 The board should not agree to a full time executive director taking on
more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor
the chairmanship of such a company.

B.4 Development
Main Principle

All directors should receive induction on joining the board and
should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.

Supporting Principles

The chairman should ensure that the directors continually update their
skills and the knowledge and familiarity with the company required to fulfil
their role both on the board and on board committees. The company
should provide the necessary resources for developing and updating its
directors’ knowledge and capabilities.

To function effectively, all directors need appropriate knowledge of the
company and access to its operations and staff.

Code Provisions
B.4.1. The chairman should ensure that new directors receive a full, formal and
tailored induction on joining the board. As part of this, directors should

avail themselves of opportunities to meet major shareholders.

B.4.2 The chairman should regularly review and agree with each director their
training and development needs.

* The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors should be made available for
inspection by any person at the company’s registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM
(for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting).

15
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

B.5 Information and Support
Main Principle

The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a
form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.

Supporting Principles

The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive
accurate, timely and clear information. Management has an obligation to
provide such information but directors should seek clarification or
amplification where necessary.

Under the direction of the chairman, the company secretary's
responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the
board and its committees and between senior management and non-
executive directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with
professional development as required.

The company secretary should be responsible for advising the board
through the chairman on all governance matters.

Code Provisions

B.5.1 The board should ensure that directors, especially non-executive
directors, have access to independent professional advice at the
company’s expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their
responsibilities as directors. Committees should be provided with
sufficient resources to undertake their duties.

B.5.2 All directors should have access to the advice and services of the
company secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring that
board procedures are complied with. Both the appointment and removal
of the company secretary should be a matter for the board as a whole.

B.6 Evaluation

Main Principle
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation
of its own performance and that of its committees and individual
directors.

Supporting Principles

The chairman should act on the results of the performance evaluation by
recognising the strengths and addressing the weaknesses of the board

16
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

and, where appropriate, proposing new members be appointed to the
board or seeking the resignation of directors.

Individual evaluation should aim to show whether each director continues
to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role
(including commitment of time for board and committee meetings and
any other duties).

Code Provisions

B.6.1

B.6.2

B.6.3

B.7

The board should state in the annual report how performance evaluation
of the board, its committees and its individual directors has been
conducted.

Evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally
facilitated at least every three years. A statement should be made
available of whether an external facilitator has any other connection with
the company”.

The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director,
should be responsible for performance evaluation of the chairman, taking
into account the views of executive directors.

Reelection

Main Principle

All directors should be submitted for reelection at regular intervals,
subject to continued satisfactory performance.

Code Provisions

B.7.1

B.7.2

All directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election
by shareholders. All other directors should be subject to election by
shareholders at the first annual general meeting after their appointment,
and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years. Non-
executive directors who have served longer than nine years should be
subject to annual re-election. The names of directors submitted for
election or re-election should be accompanied by sufficient biographical
details and any other relevant information to enable shareholders to take
an informed decision on their election.

The board should set out to shareholders in the papers accompanying a
resolution to elect a non-executive director why they believe an individual
should be elected. The chairman should confirm to shareholders when
proposing re-election that, following formal performance evaluation, the
individual’s performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate
commitment to the role.

*° See footnote 7

17
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

SECTION C: ACCOUNTABILITY
C.1 Financial And Business Reporting
Main Principle

The board should present a balanced and understandable
assessment of the company’s position and prospects.

Supporting Principle

The board’s responsibility to present a balanced and understandable
assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports
and reports to regulators as well as to information required to be
presented by statutory requirements.

Code Provisions

C.1.1 The directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for
preparing the annual report and accounts, and there should be a
statement by the auditor about their reporting responsibilities".

C.1.2 The directors should include in the annual report an explanation of the
basis on which the company generates or preserves value over the
longer term (the business model) and the strategy for delivering the
objectives of the company”.

C.1.3 The directors should report in annual and half-yearly financial statements
that the business is a going concern, with supporting assumptions or
qualifications as necessary’®.

"! The requirement may be met by the disclosures about the audit scope and the responsibilities of the
auditor included, or referred to, in the auditor's report pursuant to the requirements in paragraph 16 of ISA
(UK and Ireland) 700, “The Auditor's Report on Financial Statements". Copies are available at:_http://
www.frc.org.uk/apb/publications/pub2102.htm.

” It would be desirable if the explanation were located in the same part of the annual report as the
Business Review required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006. Guidance as to the matters that
should be considered in an explanation of a business model is provided in paragraphs 30 to 32 of the
Accounting Standard Board’s Reporting Statement: Operating And Financial Review. Copies are available
at:_http://www.frc.org.uk/asb/publications/documents.cfm?cat=7.

*8 "Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009’ suggests means of
applying this part of the Code. Copies are available at: www.frc.org.uk/corporate/goingconcern.cim.

18
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

C.2 Risk Management and Internal Control’
Main Principle

The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the
significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic
objectives. The board should maintain sound risk management and
internal control systems.

Code Provision

C.2.1 The board should, at least annually, conduct a review of the effectiveness
of the company’s risk management and internal control systems and
should report to shareholders that they have done so'®. The review
should cover all material controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls.

C.3 Audit Committee and Auditors'®
Main Principle

The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for
considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk
management and internal control principles and for maintaining an
appropriate relationship with the company’s auditor.

Code Provisions

C.3.1_ The board should establish an audit committee of at least three, or in the
case of smaller companies” two, independent non-executive directors. In
smaller companies the company chairman may be a member of, but not
chair, the committee in addition to the independent non-executive
directors, provided he or she was considered independent on
appointment as chairman. The board should satisfy itself that at least
one member of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial
experience’®.

C.3.2 The main role and responsibilities of the audit committee should be set
out in written terms of reference’® and should include:

“ The Turnbull guidance suggests means of applying this part of the Code. Copies are available at
www.frc.org.uk/corporate/internalcontrol.cfm.

"© In addition FSA Rule DTR 7.2.5 R requires companies to describe the main features of the internal control
and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process.

*© The FRC Guidance on Audit Committees suggests means of applying this part of the Code. Copies are
available at: http://www. frc.org.uk/corporate/auditcommittees.cfm.

” See footnote 6.

*® This provision overlaps with FSA Rule DTR 7.1.1 R (see Schedule B).

*® This provision overlaps with FSA Rules DTR 7.1.3 R (see Schedule C).

19
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

e to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the company
and any formal announcements relating to the company’s financial
performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements
contained in them;

e to review the company’s internal financial controls and, unless
expressly addressed by a separate board risk committee composed
of independent directors, or by the board itself, to review the
company’s internal control and risk management systems;

e to monitor and review the effectiveness of the company’s internal
audit function;

e to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and
to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the
external auditor;

e — to review and monitor the external auditor’s independence and
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;

e to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external
auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant
ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the
external audit firm, and to report to the board, identifying any matters
in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed
and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

C.3.3 The terms of reference of the audit committee, including its role and the
authority delegated to it by the board, should be made available’. A
separate section of the annual report should describe the work of the
committee in discharging those responsibilities’.

C.3.4 The audit committee should review arrangements by which staff of the
company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. The
audit committee’s objective should be to ensure that arrangements are in
place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters
and for appropriate follow-up action.

C.3.5 The audit committee should monitor and review the effectiveness of the
internal audit activities. Where there is no internal audit function, the audit
committee should consider annually whether there is a need for an
internal audit function and make a recommendation to the board, and the
reasons for the absence of such a function should be explained in the
relevant section of the annual report.

*° See footnote 7.
*! This provision overlaps with FSA Rules DTR 7.1.5 R and 7.2.7 R (see Schedule B).

20
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

C.3.6 The audit committee should have primary responsibility for making a
recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the
external auditor. If the board does not accept the audit committee’s
recommendation, it should include in the annual report, and in any
papers recommending appointment or re-appointment, a statement from
the audit committee explaining the recommendation and should set out
reasons why the board has taken a different position.

C.3.7 The annual report should explain to shareholders how, if the auditor

provides non-audit services, auditor objectivity and independence is
safeguarded.

21
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

SECTION D: REMUNERATION

D1

The Level and Components of Remuneration

Main Principle

Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and
motivate directors of the quality required to run the company
successfully, but a company should avoid paying more than is
necessary for this purpose. A significant proportion of executive
directors’ remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to
corporate and individual performance.

Supporting Principle

The performance-related elements of executive directors’ remuneration
should be stretching and designed to promote the long-term success of
the company.

The remuneration committee should judge where to position their
company relative to other companies. But they should use such
comparisons with caution in view of the risk of an upward ratchet of
remuneration levels with no corresponding improvement in performance.

They should also be sensitive to pay and employment conditions
elsewhere in the group, especially when determining annual salary
increases.

Code Provisions

D.1.1

In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration for executive
directors, the remuneration committee should follow the provisions in
Schedule A to this Code.

Where a company releases an executive director to serve as a non-
executive director elsewhere, the remuneration report” should include a
statement as to whether or not the director will retain such earnings and, if
so, what the remuneration is.

Levels of remuneration for non-executive directors should reflect the time
commitment and responsibilities of the role. Remuneration for non-
executive directors should not include share options or other
performance-related elements. If, exceptionally, options are granted,
shareholder approval should be sought in advance and any shares
acquired by exercise of the options should be held until at least one year

® As required for UK incorporated companies under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008.

22
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

D.1.4

D.1.5

D.2

after the non-executive director leaves the board. Holding of share
options could be relevant to the determination of a non-executive
director's independence (as set out in provision B.1.1).

The remuneration committee should carefully consider what
compensation commitments (including pension contributions and all
other elements) their directors’ terms of appointment would entail in the
event of early termination. The aim should be to avoid rewarding poor
performance. They should take a robust line on reducing compensation
to reflect departing directors’ obligations to mitigate loss.

Notice or contract periods should be set at one year or less. If it is
necessary to offer longer notice or contract periods to new directors
recruited from outside, such periods should reduce to one year or less
after the initial period.

Procedure

Main Principle

There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing
policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration
packages of individual directors. No director should be involved in
deciding his or her own remuneration.

Supporting Principles

The remuneration committee should consult the chairman and/or chief
executive about their proposals relating to the remuneration of other
executive directors. The remuneration committee should also be
responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive
director remuneration. Where executive directors or senior
management are involved in advising or supporting the remuneration
committee, care should be taken to recognise and avoid conflicts of
interest.

The chairman of the board should ensure that the company maintains
contact as required with its principal shareholders about remuneration.

Code Provisions

D.2.1

The board should establish a remuneration committee of at least three, or
in the case of smaller companies* two, independent non-executive
directors. In addition the company chairman may also be a member of,
but not chair, the committee if he or she was considered independent on
appointment as chairman. The remuneration committee should make

*° See footnote 6.

23
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

D.2.2

D.2.3

D.2.4

available its terms of reference, explaining its role and the authority
delegated to it by the board’. Where remuneration consultants are
appointed, a statement should be made available*> of whether they have
any other connection with the company.

The remuneration committee should have delegated responsibility for
setting remuneration for all executive directors and the chairman,
including pension rights and any compensation payments. The
committee should also recommend and monitor the level and structure
of remuneration for senior management. The definition of ‘senior
management’ for this purpose should be determined by the board but
should normally include the first layer of management below board level.

The board itself or, where required by the Articles of Association, the
shareholders should determine the remuneration of the non-executive
directors within the limits set in the Articles of Association. Where
permitted by the Articles, the board may however delegate this
responsibility to a committee, which might include the chief executive.

Shareholders should be invited specifically to approve all new long-term
incentive schemes (as defined in the Listing Rules”*) and significant
changes to existing schemes, save in the circumstances permitted by the
Listing Rules.

* This provision overlaps with FSA Rule DTR 7.2.7 R (see Schedule B).
*° See footnote 7.
*° Listing Rules LR 9.4; available at_http://fsahandbook.info/FSA/html/handbook/LR/9/4.

24
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

SECTION E: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
E.1 Dialogue with Shareholders
Main Principle

There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual
understanding of objectives. The board as a whole has responsibility
for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes
place”.

Supporting Principles

Whilst recognising that most shareholder contact is with the chief
executive and finance director, the chairman should ensure that all
directors are made aware of their major shareholders’ issues and
concerns.

The board should keep in touch with shareholder opinion in whatever
ways are most practical and efficient.

Code Provisions

E.1.1. The chairman should ensure that the views of shareholders are
communicated to the board as a whole. The chairman should discuss
governance and strategy with major shareholders. Non-executive
directors should be offered the opportunity to attend scheduled
meetings with major shareholders and should expect to attend
meetings if requested by major shareholders. The senior independent
director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major
shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a
balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major
shareholders.

E.1.2 The board should state in the annual report the steps they have taken to
ensure that the members of the board, and, in particular, the non-
executive directors, develop an understanding of the views of major
shareholders about the company, for example through direct face-to-face
contact, analysts’ or brokers’ briefings and surveys of shareholder
opinion.

® Nothing in these principles or provisions should be taken to override the general requirements of law to
treat shareholders equally in access to information.

25
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

E.2

Constructive Use of the AGM

Main Principle

The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to
encourage their participation.

Code Provisions

E.2.1

E.2.2

E.2.3

E.2.4

At any general meeting, the company should propose a separate
resolution on each substantially separate issue, and should, in particular,
propose a resolution at the AGM relating to the report and accounts. For
each resolution, proxy appointment forms should provide shareholders
with the option to direct their proxy to vote either for or against the
resolution or to withhold their vote. The proxy form and any
announcement of the results of a vote should make it clear that a ‘vote
withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of
the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.

The company should ensure that all valid proxy appointments received
for general meetings are properly recorded and counted. For each
resolution, where a vote has been taken on a show of hands, the
company should ensure that the following information is given at the
meeting and made available as soon as reasonably practicable on a
website which is maintained by or on behalf of the company:

e the number of shares in respect of which proxy appointments have
been validly made;

e the number of votes for the resolution;

e the number of votes against the resolution; and

e the number of shares in respect of which the vote was directed to be
withheld.

The chairman should arrange for the chairmen of the audit, remuneration
and nomination committees to be available to answer questions at the
AGM and for all directors to attend.

The company should arrange for the Notice of the AGM and related

papers to be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the
meeting.

26
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

SCHEDULE A THE DESIGN OF PERFORMANCERELATED
REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

The remuneration committee should consider whether the directors should be
eligible for annual bonuses. If so, performance conditions should be relevant,
stretching and designed to promote the long-term success of the company.
Upper limits should be set and disclosed. There may be a case for part payment
in shares to be held for a significant period.

The remuneration committee should consider whether the directors should be
eligible for benefits under long-term incentive schemes. Traditional share option
schemes should be weighed against other kinds of long-term incentive scheme.
Executive share options should not be offered at a discount save as permitted
by the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules.

In normal circumstances, shares granted or other forms of deferred
remuneration should not vest, and options should not be exercisable, in less
than three years. Directors should be encouraged to hold their shares for a
further period after vesting or exercise, subject to the need to finance any costs
of acquisition and associated tax liabilities.

Any new long-term incentive schemes which are proposed should be approved
by shareholders and should preferably replace any existing schemes or, at
least, form part of a well considered overall plan incorporating existing schemes.
The total potentially available rewards should not be excessive.

Payouts or grants under all incentive schemes, including new grants under
existing share option schemes, should be subject to challenging performance
criteria reflecting the company’s objectives, including non-financial performance
metrics where appropriate. Remuneration incentives should be compatible with
risk policies and systems.

Grants under executive share option and other long-term incentive schemes
should normally be phased rather than awarded in one large block.

Consideration should be given to the use of provisions that permit the company
to reclaim variable components in exceptional circumstances of misstatement or
misconduct.

In general, only basic salary should be pensionable. The remuneration
committee should consider the pension consequences and associated costs
to the company of basic salary increases and any other changes in pensionable
remuneration, especially for directors close to retirement.

27
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

SCHEDULE B DISCLOSURE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ARRANGEMENTS

Corporate governance disclosure requirements are set out in three places:

e FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules sub-chapters 7.1 and 7.2
(which set out certain mandatory disclosures);

e FSA Listing Rules 9.8.6 R, 9.8.7 R, and 9.8.7A R (which includes the
‘comply or explain’ requirement); and

e The UK Corporate Governance Code (in addition to providing an
explanation where they choose not to comply with a provision,
companies must disclose specified information in order to comply
with certain provisions).

These requirements are summarised below. The full text of Disclosure and
Transparency Rules 7.1 and 7.2 and Listing Rules 9.8.6 R, 9.8.7 R and 9.8.7A R
are contained in the relevant chapters of the FSA Handbook, which can be
found at_http://fsahandbook.info/FSA/html/handbook/.

The Disclosure and Transparency Rules sub-chapters 7.1 and 7.2 apply to
issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market (this
includes all issuers with a Premium or Standard listing). The Listing Rules 9.8.6
R, 9.8.7 R and 9.8.7A R and UK Corporate Governance Code apply to issuers of
Premium listed equity shares only.

There is some overlap between the mandatory disclosures required under the
Disclosure and Transparency Rules and those expected under the UK
Corporate Governance Code. Areas of overlap are summarised in the
Appendix to this Schedule. In respect of disclosures relating to the audit
committee and the composition and operation of the board and its committees,
compliance with the relevant provisions of the Code will result in compliance
with the relevant Rules.

Disclosure and Transparency Rules

Sub-chapter 7.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules concerns audit
committees or bodies carrying out equivalent functions.

DTR 7.1.1 R to 7.1.3 R set out requirements relating to the composition and
functions of the committee or equivalent body:

e DTR 7.1.1 R states than an issuer must have a body which is
responsible for performing the functions set out in DTR 7.1.3 R, and
that at least one member of that body must be independent and at
least one member must have competence in accounting and/or
auditing.

28
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

e DTR 7.1.2 G states that the requirements for independence and
competence in accounting and/or auditing may be satisfied by the
same member or by different members of the relevant body.

e DTR 7.1.3 R states that an issuer must ensure that, as a minimum,
the relevant body must:

(1) monitor the financial reporting process;

(2) monitor the effectiveness of the issuer's internal control,
internal audit where applicable, and risk management
systems;

(3) monitor the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated
accounts;

(4) review and monitor the independence of the statutory auditor,
and in particular the provision of additional services to the
issuer.

DTR 7.1.5 R to DTR 7.1.7 G set out what disclosure is required. Specifically:

e DTR7.1.5 R states that the issuer must make a statement available to
the public disclosing which body carries out the functions required
by DTR 7.1.3 R and how it is composed.

e DTR 7.1.6 G states that this can be included in the corporate
governance statement required under sub-chapter DTR 7.2 (see
below).

e DTR 7.1.7 G states that compliance with the relevant provisions of
the UK Corporate Governance Code (as set out in the Appendix to
this Schedule) will result in compliance with DTR 7.1.1 R to 7.1.5 R.

Sub-chapter 7.2 concerns corporate governance statements. Issuers are
required to produce a corporate governance statement that must be either
included in the directors’ report (DTR 7.2.1 R); or in a separate report published
together with the annual report; or on the issuer's website, in which case there
must be a cross-reference in the directors’ report (DTR 7.2.9 R).

DTR 7.2.2 R requires that the corporate governance statements must contain a
reference to the corporate governance code to which the company is subject
(for companies with a Premium listing this is the UK Corporate Governance
Code). DTR 7.2.3 R requires that, to the extent that it departs from that code, the
company must explain which parts of the code it departs from and the reasons
for doing so. DTR 7.2.4 G states that compliance with LR 9.8.6 R (6) (the ‘comply
or explain’ rule in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code) will also
satisfy these requirements.

29
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

DTR 7.2.5 R to DTR 7.2.10 R set out certain information that must be disclosed
in the corporate governance statement:

e DTR 7.2.5 R states that the corporate governance statement must
contain a description of the main features of the company’s internal
control and risk management systems in relation to the financial
reporting process. DTR 7.2.10 R states that an issuer which is
required to prepare a group directors’ report within the meaning of
Section 415(2) of the Companies Act 2006 must include in that report
a description of the main features of the group’s internal control and
risk management systems in relation to the process for preparing
consolidated accounts.

e DTR 7.2.6 R states that the corporate governance statement must
contain the information required by paragraph 13(2)(c), (d), (f), (h)
and (i) of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 where the issuer
is subject to the requirements of that paragraph.

e DTR 7.2.7 R states that the corporate governance statement must
contain a description of the composition and operation of the issuer's
administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their
committees. DTR 7.2.8 G states that compliance with the relevant
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (as set out in the
Appendix to this Schedule) will satisfy these requirements.

Listing Rules

Listing Rules 9.8.6 R (for UK incorporated companies) and 9.8.7 R (for overseas
incorporated companies) state that in the case of a company that has a
Premium listing of equity shares, the following items must be included in its
annual report and accounts:

* astatement of how the listed company has applied the Main
Principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, in a
manner that would enable shareholders to evaluate how the
principles have been applied;

e astatement as to whether the listed company has:

* complied throughout the accounting period with all relevant
provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code; or

* not complied throughout the accounting period with all relevant
provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, and if
so, setting out:

(i) those provisions, if any, it has not complied with;

30
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

(ii) in the case of provisions whose requirements are of a
continuing nature, the period within which, if any, it did not
comply with some or all of those provisions; and

(iii) the company’s reasons for non-compliance.
The UK Corporate Governance Code

In addition to the ‘comply or explain’ requirement in the Listing Rules, the Code
includes specific requirements for disclosure which must be provided in order to
comply. These are summarised below.

The annual report should include:

* astatement of how the board operates, including a high level
statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the board
and which are to be delegated to management (A.1.1);

e the names of the chairman, the deputy chairman (where there is
one), the chief executive, the senior independent director and the
chairmen and members of the board committees (A.1.2);

e the number of meetings of the board and those committees and
individual attendance by directors (A.1.2);

e where a chief executive is appointed chairman, the reasons for their
appointment (this only needs to be done in the annual report
following the appointment) (A.3.1);

e the names of the non-executive directors whom the board
determines to be independent, with reasons where necessary
(B.1.1);

*° aseparate section describing the work of the nomination committee,
including the process it has used in relation to board appointments
and an explanation if neither external search consultancy nor open
advertising has been used in the appointment of a chairman or a
non-executive director (B.2.4);

° any changes to the other significant commitments of the chairman
during the year (B.3.1);

*° astatement of how performance evaluation of the board, its
committees and its directors has been conducted (B.6.1);

e an explanation from the directors of their responsibility for preparing
the accounts and a statement by the auditors about their reporting
responsibilities (C.1.1);

e an explanation from the directors of the basis on which the company
generates or preserves value over the longer term (the business
model) and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the company
(C.1.2);

31
June 2010

UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

The UK Corporate Governance Code

a statement from the directors that the business is a going concern,
with supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary (C.1.3);

a report that the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of
the company’s risk management and internal controls systems
(C.2.1);

a separate section describing the work of the audit committee in
discharging its responsibilities (C.3.3);

where there is no internal audit function, the reasons for the absence
of such a function (C.3.5);

where the board does not accept the audit committee’s
recommendation on the appointment, reappointment or removal of
an external auditor, a statement from the audit committee explaining
the recommendation and the reasons why the board has taken a
different position (C.3.6);

an explanation of how, if the auditor provides non-audit services,
auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded (C.3.7);

a description of the work of the remuneration committee as required
under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 including, where an
executive director serves as a non-executive director elsewhere,
whether or not the director will retain such earnings and, if so, what
the remuneration is (D.1.2);

the steps the board has taken to ensure that members of the board,
in particular the non-executive directors, develop an understanding
of the views of major shareholders about their company (E.1.2).

The following information should be made available (which may be met by
placing the information on a website that is maintained by or on behalf of the

company):

the terms of reference of the nomination, audit and remuneration
committees, explaining their role and the authority delegated to them
by the board (B.2.1, C.3.3 and D.2.1);

the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors
(B.3.2) (see footnote 9);

where performance evaluation has been externally facilitated, a
statement of whether the facilitator has any other connection with the
company (B.6.2); and

where remuneration consultants are appointed, a statement of
whether they have any other connection with the company (D.2.1).

32
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

The board should set out to shareholders in the papers accompanying a
resolution to elect or re-elect directors:

° — sufficient biographical details to enable shareholders to take an
informed decision on their election or re-election (B.7.1);

° — why they believe an individual should be elected to a non-executive
role (B.7.2); and

e on re-election of a non-executive director, confirmation from the
chairman that, following formal performance evaluation, the
individual's performance continues to be effective and to
demonstrate commitment to the role (B.7.2).

The board should set out to shareholders in the papers recommending
appointment or reappointment of an external auditor:

e _ ifthe board does not accept the audit committee’s recommendation,
a statement from the audit committee explaining the
recommendation and from the board setting out reasons why they
have taken a different position (C.3.6).

Additional guidance

The Turnbull Guidance and FRC Guidance on Audit Committees contain further
suggestions as to information that might usefully be disclosed in the internal
control statement and the report of the audit committee respectively. Both sets
of guidance are available on the FRC website at:

http://www.frc.org.uk/corporate/ukcgcode.cfm

33
June 2010

UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

The UK Corporate Governance Code

APPENDIX

OVERLAP BETWEEN THE DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY
RULES AND THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE

DISCLOSURE AND
TRANSPARENCY RULES

UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CODE

D.T.R 7.1.1R

Sets out minimum requirements on
composition of the audit committee
or equivalent body.

Provision C.3.1

Sets out recommended composition
of the audit committee.

D.T.R 7.1.3 R

Sets out minimum functions of the
audit committee or equivalent body.

Provision C.3.2

Sets out the recommended minimum
terms of reference for the audit
committee.

D.T.R 7.1.5 R

The composition and function of the
audit committee or equivalent body
must be disclosed in the annual
report

DTR 7.1.7 R states that compliance
with Code provisions A.1.2, C.3.1,
C.3.2 and C.3.3 will result in
compliance with DTR 7.1.1 R to DTR
7.1.5 R.

Provision A.1.2

The annual report should identify
members of the board committees.

Provision C.3.3

The annual report should describe
the work of the audit committee.
Further recommendations on the
content of the audit committee report
are set out in the FRC Guidance on
Audit Committees.

D.T.R 7.2.5 R

The corporate governance statement
must include a description of the
main features of the company’s.
internal control and risk
management systems in relation to
the financial reporting process.

While this requirement differs from
the requirement in the UK Corporate
Governance Code, it is envisaged
that both could be met by a single
internal control statement.

Provision C.2.1

The Board must report that a review
of the effectiveness of the risk
management and internal control
systems has been carried out.
Further recommendations on the
content of the internal control
statement are set out in the Turnbull
Guidance.

34
June 2010

UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

The UK Corporate Governance Code

DTR 7.2.7 R

The corporate governance statement
must include a description of the
composition and operation of the
administrative, management and
supervisory bodies and their
committees.

DTR 7.2.8 R states that compliance
with Code provisions A.1.1, A.1.2,
A.4.6, B.2.1 and C.3.3 will result in
compliance with DTR 7.2.7 R.

This requirement overlaps with a
number of different provisions of the
Code:

A.1.1: the annual report should
include a statement of how the board
operates.

A.1.2: the annual report should
identify members of the board and
board committees.

B.2.4: the annual report should
describe the work of the nomination
committee.

C.3.3: the annual report should
describe the work of the audit
committee.

D.2.1: a description of the work of
the remuneration committee should
be made available. [Note: in order to
comply with DTR 7.2.7 R this
information will need to be included
in the corporate governance
statement].

35
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

SCHEDULE C ENGAGEMENT PRINCIPLES FOR
INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS”

Principle 1: Dialogue with companies
Main Principle

Institutional shareholders”? should enter into a dialogue with companies based
on the mutual understanding of objectives.

Supporting Principles

Institutional shareholders should apply the principles set out in the Institutional
Shareholders’ Committee’s “Code On The Responsibilities Of Institutional
Investors”, which should be reflected in fund manager contracts.

Principle 2: Evaluation of Governance Disclosures
Main Principle

When evaluating companies’ governance arrangements, particularly those
relating to board structure and composition, institutional shareholders should
give due weight to all relevant factors drawn to their attention.

Supporting Principle

Institutional shareholders should consider carefully explanations given for
departure from the UK Corporate Governance Code and make reasoned
judgements in each case. They should give an explanation to the company, in
writing where appropriate, and be prepared to enter a dialogue if they do not
accept the company’s position. They should avoid a box-ticking approach to
assessing a company’s corporate governance. They should bear in mind, in
particular, the size and complexity of the company and the nature of the risks
and challenges it faces.

2. This schedule will cease to apply when the Stewardship Code for institutional investors being developed
by the FRC comes into effect.

*8 Agents such as investment managers, or voting services, are frequently appointed by institutional
shareholders to act on their behalf and these principles should accordingly be read as applying where
appropriate to the agents of institutional shareholders.

36
UKGI00044325

UKGI00044325

June 2010 The UK Corporate Governance Code

Principle 3: Shareholder Voting
Main Principle

Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make considered use of their
votes.

Supporting Principles

Institutional shareholders should take steps to ensure their voting intentions are
being translated into practice. Institutional shareholders should, on request,
make available to their clients information on the proportion of resolutions on
which votes were cast and non-discretionary proxies lodged. Major
shareholders should attend AGMs where appropriate and practicable.
Companies and registrars should facilitate this.

37
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325
UKGI00044325
UKG100044325

FINANCIAL REPORTING CoUNCIL
5TH Floor

Atowycu House

71-91 ALpwycH

Lonpon WC2B 4HN

Fax

Wessite: www.frc.org.uk

ISBN 978-1-84798-323-7

81847"°983237
UP/FRC-BI10007

(© The Financial Reporting Council Limited 2010

‘The Financial Reporting Council Limited is a company limited by guarantee, Registered in England number 2486368,
Registered Office: Sth Floor, Aldwych House, 77-91 Aldwych, London W028 4HN,
