UKG100027113
UKGI00027113

Message

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGIE

Sent: 02/03/2020 19:13:34

To: Scott, Joshua 5s Swales, Shanice (BEI: Watson,
Richard - UKGt. GRO _5 Creswell, Carl (Professional Business Services, Retail & Post

Subject: RE: Debate pack

Josh

A few comments:

- Inthe speech shouldn’t the Minister say somewhere that the information on the CCRC and status of the
investigation has been provided by MoJ?

- Q&A. The ‘real possibility’ test needs some explanation

- P10 should refer to previous management as well given that Horizon was introduced in [year] and the claims in
the GLO relate to events going back to the late 1990s in some cases. The claims predate Paula Vennells’
involvement in the company — we should not mention her by name except in response to a specific
question. Should also mention that POL was part of RMG when Horizon was introduced.

- P12 should say that the settlement amount had to be approved by HMG

- P16. References to change/culture improvement are well underway is premature (couple of similar references
elsewhere). Better to use the language about Nick Read being committed to an overhaul

- P21 mentions an independent review of the facts. That isn’t what’s proposed

- P24. Do we want to say this? “On the litigation, following the critical Common Issues Judgment, UKGI challenged
the Post Office Board’s strategy and approach and supported on activities to enable the successful mediation to
take place in December 2019.” Nothing wrong with it but it rather begs the question about what happened
before

- P26. Haven’t we said that POL will inform BEIS if they are going to mount any private prosecutions in future? I
think we’ve also said something about the current number of prosecutions being handled by CPS about
postmasters

- Do we want to include the Alan Bates letter received today?

Q&A is a bit repetitive and similar topics appear in different places. Could it be organised differently?

Tom

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Sent: 02 March 2020 18:30

To: Swales, Shanice (BEIS) <!_ GRO
Cooper, Tom - UKGI +
Subject: RE: Debate pack

Hi Shanice,
Thanks for sending this over and appreciate the tight turnaround.

Tom/Richard — if you send me your comments/amendments I will collate with mine and issue to Shanice later this
evening.

Cheers,

Josh
UKG100027113
UKG100027113

Joshua Scott I Analyst

Post Office Shareholder Team
National Air Traffic Services Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET.
T: i

From: Swales, Shanice (BEIS)
Sent: 02 March 2020 17:06
To: Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Tom - UKGI

Subject: RE: Debate pack

Hi All,

Please find attached the following documents for review ahead of the debate on Thursday — apologies for the delay. I
have also attached the full pack and speech sent by MoJ (which I have incorporated) if useful for reference

Due to the very tight turnaround I would appreciate comments back as soon as possible. Carl will be reviewing in the
morning at 8am tomorrow morning so we can meet our lunchtime deadline.

Do please let me know if you have any questions in the meantime as I will be available for a while.

Thanks,
Shanice

ww Shanice Swales
Polic: i
Department for

‘i ms
Business, Energy Floor 4, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET
& Industrial Strategy www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGl___.._______ GF
Sent: 02 March 2020 15:44

To: Swales, Shanice (BEIS) +
Subject: RE: Debate pack

Smashing thanks Shanice.

Joshua Scott I Analyst

Post Office Shareholder Team

National Air Traffic Services Shareholder Team

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria. Street. L.London I
iIM

W: www.ukgi.org.uk/
UKG100027113
UKG100027113

From: Swales, Shanice (BEIS)
Sent: 02 March 2020 15:
To: Scott, Joshua - UKG
Subject: Debate pack

Hi both,
I know that it has been planned that I send the debate pack across to you by 4pm but to let you know I only received the
pack and speech on CCRC from MoJ about 40 mins ago. I am rapidly incorporating their lines into he briefing pack and

speech and will get these across as soon as possible.

Should be before 5 — hopefully half 4.

Cheers,
ww Shanice Swales
Policy Adviser, Post Offi » Policy
Department for
Business, Energy Floor 4, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET
& Industrial Strategy www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also
confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other
lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.
