UKGI00026905

UKGI00026905

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE: COMMERCIAL ae

Date: XX June 2019

Department

for

Business, Energy

Director General: Gavin Lambert

Lead Official Telephone:

GRO

& Industrial Strategy

Recipient To Note / Comment To Approve / Decide
Greg Clark x

Kelly Tolhurst Xx
Permanent Secretary Xx

Special Advisers x

Post Office Limited litigation

Summary

1. At the industry meeting on 4 June, you (SoS) asked for advice on how the ongoing
Post Office Limited (POL) litigation could be brought to a swift and satisfactory
conclusion, ensuring postmasters who had been treated unfairly were
appropriately compensated.

Timing

2. Routine. To note following the recent exchange of correspondence Kelly Tolhurst
is due to meet Tim Parker (POL Chair) and the board’s new legal advisors to
discuss POL’s litigation strategy in the coming weeks (date TBC).

Recommendations
3. That you note the advice and our recommendation that you pursue the following
options:

Advice

1: Challenge the POL Chair and Board to change their litigation strategy

2: BEIS Ministers to state publicly that they want to see justice resulting from
litigation for claimants with valid claims

3: Challenge Post Office to announce that it believes some of the claims have
merit and intends to seek to settle a fair settlement of such cases
expeditiously

4: Commission POL to carry out a project on how to structure and operate a
settlement — including a fund which would subsequently assess claims and
award compensation according to pre-agreed criteria

5: Put UKGI lead legal counsel (or other legal adviser) on the POL litigation
sub committee as director or observer

6: Invite Nigel Boardman, chair of the BEIS Audit and Risk Committee, to
carry out some independent due diligence on POL’s litigation strategy

Latest position of the current litigation and current POL strategy

4. The

litigation has been broken down into four trials scheduled between November

2018 and March 2020. The current status of the litigation is that at a hearing on 23

1
UKGI00026905
UKGI00026905

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE: COMMERCIAL Be
Department for

Business, Energy
May the judge denied POL permission to appeal his judgment in the I & Industrial Strategy
first “Common Issues” Trial and awarded the Claimants their costs of the Common
Issues Trial rather than reserving this judgment until later in the litigation. Setting
out his reasons in a written judgment of 4 June, the Judge criticised POL’s conduct
again, namely POL’s “veiled or implied threat that mirrors the approach adopted by
Post Office on the recusal application, namely that in adopting a course of action in
the face of opposition by the Post Office ... runs the risk that the Post Office will
say that the overall outcome of the litigation ... has already been decided”. The
Judge also expressed concern about the escalating costs of the litigation overall —
he puts the figure at over £13m for POL, including £500k for the failed attempt to
get the judge recused.

5. POL will now apply directly to the Court of Appeal by its 13 June deadline and,
after reviewing its approach under the new legal team, will narrow its focus onto
the most material legal issues affecting its contract with Postmasters. If the Court
grants permission, the appeal will likely be heard within the next 12 months while a
refusal will mean that the original judgment stands. The part-heard second
“Horizon Issues” Trial concerning the function and reliability of the electronic
accounting system (Horizon) used by Postmasters resumed on 4 June with expert
evidence and is expected to conclude on 2 July, with the judgment expected
several months later.

6. The Board has a litigation sub-committee to oversee its litigation strategy, which is
chaired by Tim Parker and attended by Shareholder NED Tom Cooper. Following
the adverse and unexpected judgment in the first trial on the “Common Issues”
POL took additional external legal advice prior to pursuing the recusal, which
subsequently failed. POL’s Board decided that new legal leadership and a wider
review of its strategy was required; they replaced the company’s General Counsel
and appointed new legal advisors (Herbert Smith Freehills) to advise them directly
on their litigation strategy. A new QC has also been appointed.

7. The Claimant group involved in the litigation is large, with 561 Claimants involved.
While POL has information on some of the cases from a previous mediation
process, the Claimants have never properly quantified their claim making it difficult
to estimate potential liabilities accurately but POL’s new legal team are reviewing
settlement and likely outcomes from the litigation, including potential costs, and will
discuss these with the Minister when they meet. We will ensure POL provide clear
written briefing, including on settlement strategy, in advance of that meeting.

8. Should POL settle the existing case there is a chance that additional Claimants
may come forward so there may be a further and ongoing liability. We will ask POL
to provide an assessment of this risk in their briefing.

9. In addition, some of the Claimants may not have valid claims; for example, some
have pleaded guilty to criminal charges in the past. Therefore, in considering
options, including settlement, to resolve the litigation POL will need to consider a
process to determine which cases are genuine.
UKGI00026905
UKGI00026905

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE: COMMERCIAL Be
Department for
Business, Energy
Powers available to the SoS as sole shareholder & Industrial Strategy

10.As sole shareholder, Government sets the strategic framework for the Post Office,
in particular providing a minimum, accessible, branch network in a way that is
sustainable for the taxpayer. POL is given the operational freedom to deliver this
as a commercial business. Under the Articles of Association, SoS approval is
required for a number of reserved matters including board appointments and
remuneration and expenditure over £50m. This does not include explicit powers to
direct the board to take a specific course of action, though ultimately Ministers
have the right to appoint or remove any member of the board, including the two
executive members of the Board (CEO and CFO), which could effectively be used
as a lever to steer the board in a particular direction.

11.As you are aware, a competition is currently underway to recruit a permanent CEO
and panel interviews are due to take place this week [i.e. w/c 11 June].

12.While it is perfectly proper for the shareholder to express views and ensure the
Board understand their position, care needs to be taken that Ministers do not risk
being regarded as shadow directors. A shadow director is someone in accordance
with whose directions or instructions the board are accustomed to act. A shadow
director effectively has the same legal duties as a normal director and can
potentially incur personal liability for their actions.

Potential options available

13. The table at Annex A sets out the advantages and risks of a range of options
Ministers could take to address concerns over the management of the ongoing
litigation. These range from challenging the existing POL Board to change their
litigation strategy to more fundamental changes such as replacing the POL Board
or BEIS assuming control of the litigation strategy.

14. More vigorous action carries greater risks, as flagged in Annex A. Forcing further
changes to the leadership team will risk disrupting the progress POL have been
making in other areas of the operation of the business, including transforming the
business from loss making to returning a profit for the first time in 16 years.
Making public statements or directing POL to take certain action could weaken
their negotiating position in relation to settlement and make it harder to stick to the
existing BEIS line that this is an operational matter for POL.

15.We recommend that you consider options 1-6 as the most appropriate
actions to take at this stage, either individually or as a package. Taking these
actions would send a clear signal to POL on the direction Government would like
the litigation to take, without exposing Ministers to significant legal risk of becoming
shadow Directors and without opening the department up to additional financial
exposure. We recommend a final decision on the more fundamental options
(options 7 — 9) should await the outcome of the Ministerial meeting with POL on its
litigation strategy.
UKGI00026905
UKGI00026905

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE: COMMERCIAL Be
Department for
Business, Energy
Timing and potential settlement windows & Industrial Strategy

16.Should you decide you wish to encourage POL to settle the case at the earliest
opportunity, they will need to identify the most appropriate time to begin settlement
discussions with the Claimants. Again, we will ask POL to cover this in the briefing
they provide for the forthcoming meeting.

Communications handling

17. The Daily Mail has recently taken on a campaign to ‘Save our local Post Offices’,
which has included one story on the impact of the trial. However, the litigation does
not feature as one of the paper's five demands. There has also been low level
reporting mainly in the trade media, specifically Computer Weekly, of the Post
Office litigation.

18. There is pressure from the Daily Mail campaign for the government to be seen to
be sympathetic to the plight of postmasters generally. and a carefully worded
statement would be a good opportunity to convey Ministerial support for them,
without showing public conflict with the Post Office.

19. If considered appropriate, we could inform the Daily Mail if options 1, 3, 4, 5 or 6
were taken as this would demonstrate that BEIS was taking an active role in the
matter and is sympathetic to the claimants. However, any failure to then
significantly alter the Post Office’s approach to this litigation risks BEIS being seen
as complicit or powerless.

20. Option 2 would require careful wording, which we can advise on. Again, should the
litigation fail to change course significantly, the SoS could be left open to further
questions and criticism.

21.We agree with policy colleagues in advising against options 7, 8 and 9. SoS going
public with a view against the Post Office could lead to coverage of an outright
conflict between the two organisations. This could also add fuel to the Daily Mail's
campaign, which we are working hard with Special Advisors and the Post Office
communications team to bring to address, working with their key correspondent.

22. Once a decision is reached, we will work on the necessary communications with
policy colleagues and Special Advisors.

Accounting Officer considerations

23.POL have previously advised both Ministers and the Permanent Secretary that
they could fund any settlement or compensation awarded of between £30m-£50m
from their own resources. Anything above this they are likely to need support from
BEIS with (on the assumption that their social purpose targets remain the same).
The department does not currently have any spare budget available to support
such a funding requirement.
UKGI00026905
UKGI00026905

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE: COMMERCIAL Be
Department for

Business, Energy
24. There are a number of Accounting Officer considerations across the I & Industrial Strategy
range of options that we have presented. These are included in the attached
annex and include risks around the legal, affordability and value for money of any
option. We will develop full Accounting Officer advice once you have indicated
your preferred option going forward.

Contributors
25. This advice contains financial considerations, as agreed with Richard Beckett.

26.Legal Richard Watson (UKGI) and Jane Corera (BEIS) have been consulted and
agreed the content of this advice.

27.Communications considerations have been taken into account and agreed with
Annabelle Miles.

28. This advice does not have parliamentary handling implications at this time, as
agreed with Craig Watson.

Annexes
A. Options for Ministers to consider
B. Summary of changes in personnel in POL over last three years
