Justice For Subpostmasters Alliance

Mr Edward Davey MP

Minister for Postal Affairs j
Department for Business, Innovation & Skills i
1 Victoria Street !
LONDON '
SW1H OET L

8" july 2010

Dear Mr Davey

though there are new politicians in post, the Government has not changed. The letter you

they inflict.

You can listen to your civil servants telling you these issues are really an operational matter for
POL to deal with. You can even listen to POL telling you Horizon is wonderful, that there has

Your civil servants and POL will not tell you about POL staff harassing sick ex-subpostmasters
demanding written promises of money or they'l send the Police around. They wont tell you
that POL watches post offices heading into trouble, fails to Provide any help, and then waits

ground. You won't hear about subpostmasters endlessly requesting audits of their offices and
having to wait for up to five years for someone to turn up, in offices turning over £5m a year.
Neither will they tell you of the cases where POL have run an audit, closed a post office
bankrupting the owner who loses his business, house and family, holds a pending court case
Over him for 18 months, then drops the charges and walks away. Nor will they tell all about
how they are stopping subpostmasters selling on the post office side of their business in order

rr

UKGI00016099
UKGI00016099
UKGI00016099
UKGI00016099

et

to recover their original investment. They won't even tell you that the Horizon system is
designed to entrap subpostmasters so that they can easily nish Up in prison, just by trying to
Open up the day after a trading period balance.

‘Tis is just a taste of some of the practices your company is carrying out in your name, day
after day. They brandish a big legal stick, fal to provide evidence count and rely on the

‘The whole of this scandal is teetering on the edge of a Precipice at this point in time, but it is
still not too late for you to reconsider convening a meeting to discuss the issues involved, if
You are prepared to keep an open mind,

_—-YOUIS sincerely.

ry
Oo

“Alan Bates

Chairman
Justice For Subpostmasters Alliance

jfsaorguk

DO eee
