UKGI00045859
UKGI00045859

UKGI-BP-7

Company No. 9774296
UK Government Investments Limited

(the “Company”)

27-28 Eastcastle Street, London W1W 8DH

Paper for the Board of Directors.

Topic: UKGI Values
Date: 14 January 2015
Author: Elizabeth Perelman
Ref: UKGI-BP-7

Category: Paper circulated, for approval

Recommendation / Decision

That the Board approves the following UKGI Values:
e Professional and act with integrity
e Collegiate and committed to improvement
e Open and honest in our communications

« Focused on outcomes

Summary:

Values are a core set of convictions which are shared across an organisation and define how
everyone in that organisation behaves. The Values will be the centrepiece for defining and
driving the culture within UKGI and accordingly will also feed into staff appraisals.

To develop the proposed UKGI Values we have engaged with all staff across ShEx and UKFI.
The aim of the process has not only been to seek input, but to get staff buy-in and begin
embedding the concept across UKGI. Specifically we have:

e Put together a panel of 10 people from across UKFI and ShEx, who developed the
value framework that was used as a tool to engage staff more widely;

e Facilitated a workshop with all-staff at the last UKGI away day. This included giving all
staff an opportunity to feed in and vote on their favourite values;

IM_046305}

UKGI00045859
UKG100045859

e Shared the final proposed set of UKGI Values with Mark Russell and then with
UKFI/ShEx ExCo for further endorsement.

The results of the voting from the all-staff workshop are shown in Annex A. A central topic was
“trust”. However underpinning this, the following value themes emerged as popular:

e Open and honest

e Succeeding as a team and valuing each other (i.e. collegiate)
e Solving problems and delivery focused

e Impartiality (or objective) and integrity

¢ Professional

From these themes we developed the following UKGI Values, which have been endorsed by the
senior team.

Collegiate and
committed to
improvement

Professional and
act with integrity

Open and
honest in our
communications

Focused on
outcomes

We believe that each value is clear and meaningful. Together, they cover all aspects of our work
(how we work, working with each other, working with others), they underpin the central topic of
“trust” and are consistent with the feedback from staff. Therefore we are recommending that
they are endorsed by the UKGI Board.

(« 046305)

@ Open and Honest

m Succeeding asa team

'& Valuing others’ diverse contributions
Solve problems and deliver

m Impartiality and integrity

mt High quality advice and delivery focused

outcomes
1 Objective advice from experienced

professionals
Trusted, professional adviser
® Understand out client needs and business
1 Anticipating, prioritising and adopting
'= Best of private and public sector expertise

1m Support and challenge each other

= Other

ANNEX A

Results of Workshop

UKGI00045859
UKGI00045859

