UKG100002288
UKG100002288

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RCALLARD]
Sent: Wed 30/04/2014 5:22:33 PM (UTC)
To: Batten Peter!

Ce:
Subject: Fw: Jo Swinson transition from maternity leave - plus commission to directorates
Attachment: Forward Look of milestones - November 2013 - July 2014.doc

Peter (cc team). See below, please can you start putting some thought in to this. Clearly we will have our priorities to
discuss, but you will have a better idea of what her priorities might be than I will, as we will have to address those as

well. We might want to also think about how many sessions we might need - eg I want to get her in the right place on
sparrow!

From: Willott MPST

Sent: Wednesday, April 30, 2014 12:31 PM GMT Standard Time

To: CCP Deputy Directors; Labour Market - Deputy Directors; BE SMT; Judge Richard (); Willcocks Anne (); Horne

Graham (BIS CCC); Odgers Anthony (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx); 'REARDON-BOND, Helene’.
{e}

HENDERSON,

Harries Rhiannon (BIS)
Cc: Willott MPST; ST; Hassan Matthew (MPST MIN); Perm Sec
(BIS); Boughen Aileen (Communications); Hamilton Alexander (Communications); Tanner Henr
Sneha (Communications); White Sandra (Communications); Willott MPST Correspondence; 7
<Tracy.Leei
Subject: Jo Swinson transition rom maternity leave - plus commission to directorates

Dear All

An update on some plans in train to support Jo Swinson's return from maternity leave. We expect Jo
to return to BIS / GEO around the end of June - but will confirm this once definitive. Jenny will
continue as Minister, taking all decisions, until Jo's return.

Briefing Jo

We are starting to brief Jo more regularly on some of the developments since her maternity leave.
We will begin this in May through catch ups between Jo and Jenny, as well as with private office.

We then propose to do some high level one-hour briefing sessions between Jo and each of her main
directorates in early June: for Labour Market; Business Environment; Post Office; Insolvency Service;
CCP and GEO. Jenny will not attend these sessions. It will be an opportunity for you to brief Jo
directly on the main developments in your areas since her maternity leave, as well as look ahead to
the rest of 2014 (including particular decisions Jo may need to make shortly after her return). The
recent strategy sessions you've had with Jenny may be a good starting point for this briefing. Jo is
currently free on Monday 2nd and Tuesday 3rd June. Lauren (our new diary secretary) will send
some provisional briefing slots to each directorate. If you have any particular timing requests, please
do let Lauren know and we'll try to accommodate this. For any sessions we do not manage to fit into
these days, we will look to do them shortly after.

Following this, we are working with Jo to see what dates she has for the rest of June for further
briefing sessions as necessary. Please do highlight to the relevant PS in our office if you feel
additional briefing sessions after these high-level ones would be particularly valuable. For example,
Jo will certainly need some briefing on the Small Business Bill.
UKG100002288
UKG100002288

Additional written briefing - commission to directorates

Alongside briefing for these overview sessions, we'd also like to provide Jo with an updated version
of the six-month forward look of milestones across directorates. Both Jo and Jenny found this
document really valuable in the past to see in one place what's coming up across all their portfolio
areas, particularly where there are highpoints in milestones / activity. (For info, we often also present
this document to Ministers with activity divided month-by-month). I attach our latest version of this
document, last updated by each directorate in November 2013. Grateful if each directorate could

please submit their updated contribution to us no later than Tuesday 13 May, covering milestones for
May - December 2014.

<<Forward Look of milestones - November 2013 - July 2014.doc>>
Very happy to discuss.

Thanks
Emily

Emily Cloke I Senior Private Secretary to Jenny Willott MP I Department f
t GRO

, Innovation & Skills
www.bis.gov.ukI

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and higher skills across the economy. BIS:
working together for growth
