UKG100009163
UKGI00009163

From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=8A261230540B454 1883BC1E75B94ESE7-
CLARKE, STEPHEN (SCL]

Sent: Tue 12/03/2019 3:47:47 PM (UTC)

To: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEI: if Permanent
Secretary[F"~

Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGIE

Vandini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing an
Craig (Advanced Manufacturing and Services
(Advanced. Manufacturing and Services) i

;, Lambert, Gavin
/atson. Righard -

UKGIL Miles,
Annabt
(BEIS)

Subject: Official Sensitive: Post Office Update on Horizon Trial Day 1

Attachment: Horizon Trial Day 1 Media Coverage - POL Summary 12 March 2019.docx

Official Sensitive with Legally Privileged Info (pertaining to Post Office’s defence of ongoing litigation)

Jess and Sophie,

Please find below an email summary from POL’s legal team of day 1 of the Horizon Trial. As with the first trial, POL will
provide updates at appropriate junctures, which we will forward to you. UKGI’s sub yesterday gave a high-level
overview of the trial and issues at stake.

In addition, POL have summarised media coverage from day 1 of the trial (see attached).

Let me know if you have any questions.

Stephen

From: rodric.williams!_
Sent: 12 March 2019 3:10.am.
To: Richard.Watso)

Cc: jane.macleod¢
Subject: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Richard, Josh,

The “Horizon Issues” trial, which will determine 15 issues concerning technical aspects of the Horizon computer
system, commenced today before His Honour Mr Justice Fraser with Opening Submissions from each party.

Patrick Green QC for the Claimants went first, focussing on:

- Areas of agreement between the parties’ experts, including that:

o they have identified between 12 and 29 bugs which could have a financial impact on Post Office branch
accounts;

o the effectiveness of Horizon’s countermeasures have changed over time;
© Horizon could be remotely accessed by various tools at various times; and
o Horizon was relatively robust overall.

- The different approaches taken by the parties’ experts, where:
© Post Office’s expert Dr Worden had adopted Post Office’s description of Horizon as “robust”, and then
UKG100009163
UKGI00009163

worked backwards through its countermeasures to demonstrate robustness by both the absence of
bugs and also their detection; but

o Mr Coyne had identified what “actually happened”, supporting the Claimants’ case that their individual
experiences are consistent with occasional errors arising in a robust system which deals with large
volumes.

- The “remote access” issue, on which Post Office’s case had changed over time and which would undermine
Horizon’s robustness if not properly controlled.

- A “worked example” of the “Dalmellington” bug, which showed the difficulty in identifying bugs from
Fujitsu’s documents (suggesting there may be more which had not been identified in the time available), and
for which Mr Green criticised Post Office for not disclosing in early correspondence (suggesting there may be
more bugs which have been hidden).

Tony Robinson QC then opened for Post Office by submitting that:
- There is no dispute on Horizon’s architecture and capabilities, or that it has performed without systemic
problems.
- The experts agree that Horizon is robust relative to similar systems, e.g. to those used by large financial
institutions.
- Of the experts:
o Dr Worden identified more bugs, and considered them in greater detail, than Mr Coyne. He could not
therefore be said to be taking a blinkered view of Horizon;
© Mr Coyne did not provide any analysis of the extent of the bugs he identified (e.g. of the financial value
or number of branches affected). The Claimants instead criticise Dr Worden for attempting to provide
this analysis, even though it is essential to their case that the level of bugs is consistent with their
experiences.
-  Onremote access:
© Itis a “second order” issue, i.e. it compounds the small likelihood of needing to use remote access with
the equally small likelihood of that access being used incorrectly.
o It is therefore extremely unlikely to have had any effect on branch accounts.
o Post Office had to consider unclear, theoretical propositions about a decommissioned system, based on
old design documents and memory when responding to allegations about remote access on
Legacy/pre-2010 Horizon (which used differed tools to Online/post-2010 Horizon).

Overall, the Claimants opened strongly. They played heavily on their “conspiracy” narrative of Post Office having a
blinkered, protect-at-all-costs view on Horizon, which they suggested had been adopted by our expert Dr Worden and
reinforced by incomplete disclosure. Tony Robinson QC was however able to temper that in the afternoon by
focussing on the content of the experts’ reports.

Tomorrow, our counsel team will cross-examine four of the Claimants’ former postmaster witnesses, who will give
evidence about their experiences as Horizon users.

Kind regards, Rodric
Rodric Williams
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

2017 Winner of the Global

Postal Award for Customer

Experience
UKG100009163
UKGI00009163

FESS SHES HES ES ES EEG Ea ra ao agi dai igor dciidciicdaciiccok

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

ret tet iret itt t ett ttt ttt treet ett tet Teer e tert eter eee tet tte tere tree eres
“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our

website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

