UKG1I00008701
UKGI00008701

From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=8A261230540B454 1883BC1E75B94ESE7-
CLARKE, STEPHEN (SCL]

Sent: Tue 27/11/2018 11:09:07 AM (UTC)

To: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS),
Cc:
Nios, Duncan (Communications &
Watson, Richard -
Goel (BEISy, SnAd Clack MPS’
Permanent Seciéta ambert, Gavin (Advanced
Manufacturing and Services} GRO i
Subject: Official Sensitive & subject to legal privileg POL Litigation Update
Attachment: POL Media Summary_20181126.docx
Attachment: Fwd: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD
Attachment: Private Eye Article 16 November 2018.pdf
Hi Sam,

Further to last week’s ministerial meeting on POL, I attach POL’s summary of media coverage since the Trial started
(5 November) to bring the Minister and others up to speed. Thereafter, we'll forward a weekly media update (is
Friday or Monday best?).

As regards POL’s legal updates, their legal team is submitting these in accordance with the trial timetable, which I
think makes sense. The different phases of the first trial (Common Issues Trial) conclude as follows:

14/11/18: cross-examination of claimants’ witnesses concluded (POL update attached)
26/11/18: cross-examination of POL’s witnesses concluded (POL update due shortly)
27-30/11/18: court not sitting

6/12/18: closing submissions (POL will provide update soon after)

I should also stress that POL’s legal team are wholly responsible for the contents of these legal updates (we’re unable
to follow the trial on a daily basis and offer an opinion on it).

We do not yet have the timetable for the 2" trial (Horizon Trial) but would expect POL to provide updates on a similar
basis.

I hope this is ok but let me know if you’d like to discuss anything further.
Regards,
Stephen

Stephen Clarke I Post Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments
Corporate finance and governance in government.

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

UKG1I00008701
UKGI00008701

Subject: Follow-on actions from yesterday's meeting
Hi Sam,

Thanks to the Minister for her time yesterday, detailed below are the follow-on actions (Both Sams’ please let me
know if I have missed anything).

* Weekly briefings as the litigation case progresses (verbal and written updates) (UKGI to action)

* A face-to-face meeting with Tom Cooper (UKGI to action, Tom Aldred and Gavin Lambeth can also possibly
attend)

¢ Further information around the franchising process and local issues particularly regarding accessibility,
service provision, etc. As such, going forward the Minister wants direct briefing from POL on franchising cases
(Sam White and team to action)

* An understanding of who invests when POL franchises with a retailer — (1 have checked with POL on this point,
and they say it is a joint investment but the exact split is dependent on the contract and commercial agreement
—they will provide more information when the request is commissioned) (Sam White and team to action)

* An understanding of the breakdown of the £17million fall in sub postmaster remuneration (Sam White and
team to action)

Thanks,
Tosin

Oluwatosin Adegun I Manager

Post Office and The Royal Mint Shareholder Teams
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

UKG1I00008701
UKGI00008701

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www teccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

