UKGI00016730

UKG100016730

Shareholder

Executive

HM Government

Agenda for Shareholder Executive Board Meeting
Thursday 16 May 2013 (15.00 — 18.00)
Indicative
Item Timing Agenda Item Papers
Apologies for absence, Chairman’s welcome and
1. 10 mins introduction, minutes from last meeting, -
declarations

2. 10 mins Chief Executive's report (13)09
3. 50 mins ShEx engagement across government (13)10
4. 30 mins ShEx licence to operate (13)11
4a 80 mins Major projects update (13)12
4b (20 mins) = — Information Economy Industrial Strategy (13)12a
4c (20 mins) = — Royal Mail (13)12b
4d (20 mins) = Business Bank (13)12¢
5. (20 mins) = Urenco (13)12d
- AOB and close

[3h 00mins total]
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Shareholder

Executive
HM Government Commercial - In Confidence

Minutes of Shareholder Executive Board

Wednesday 13 March 2013 at 14.30

Members Patrick O’Sullivan (Chair) (PO’S) Attendees: Patrick Magee (PM) (item 4)
present: Claudia Arney (CA)

Gerry Grimstone (GG)

Jeremy Pocklington (JP) Secretary: Peter Batten

Tony Watson (TW)

Mark Russell (MR)

Roger Lowe (RL) Apologies: Lord Carter

Anthony Odgers (AO) Ken McCallum (KMC)

1. Apologies for absence, Chair’s welcome and introduction, minutes from last
meeting, declarations of interest

1.1.POS formally opened the meeting, and invited MR to comment on the nature
of the papers. MR explained that following members’ feedback at the January
Board, the Board papers would focus more on seeking their advice.

1.2.MR noted his recent conversation with Lord Deighton. There is an emerging
view that ShEx, IUK and the Cabinet Office will play an increasingly central
role in providing expertise for Departments undertaking large and complex
projects.

1.3. The Board considered the potential benefits that could be achieved by
combining ShEx and IUK, but noted that this was unlikely to progress any
further this Parliament.

1.4. It was explained that as a result of Lord Deighton’s review, it is very likely that
ShEx will further increase in size. The Board expressed its desire for a

faction] review of ShEx’s purpose and resourcing before this occurs.

1.5.MR set out his intention to recruit additional Executives to the Board, and
noted that Fiona-Jane MacGregor had recently been appointed as ShEx COO,
replacing Mark Boyle.

1.6. The Board discussed the practice of ShEx staff sitting on the Boards of ShEx
assets. AO stressed the benefits of having a direct link between Government,
Government policy and the asset.
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

2. Chief Executive’s Report

2.1.Introducing his report, MR provided an update on the Green Investment
Bank, noting that £700m has already been committed on sensible projects
that should make money. It was noted that Sir Adrian Montague is stepping
down and the recruitment process for a replacement is now underway.

2.2. The Board noted the Post Office Ltd update without discussion.

IRRELEVANT

2.5.MR provided a commentary to the ShEx People Survey results noting that
KMC has successfully improved satisfaction within the IE team in the
intervening period, and that this was evident at the recent ShEx Away Day.
However, and referring back to the earlier discussion, MR noted the need for
ShEx management to remain cognisant of the potential for negative side-
effects of an enlarged ShEx on staff morale.

— PM joined the meeting —
3. Royal Mail

3.1.RL presented the Royal Mail, noting that industrial relations remained a key
risk to the transaction process. RL explained that ShEx is publicly aiming for a
transaction by March 2014, but is privately working towards an October /
November 2013 window.

3.2. The Board discussed the timescales, querying whether an autumn transaction
was possible, and what the impact of going early would be on the value of the
company. RL explained that preparations were geared towards an October
transaction, and noted that the company has outperformed budget forecasts
meaning that value can be more quickly captured than previously anticipated.

3.3.RL explained that owing to Parliamentary obligations, ShEx would have to
prepare a report for June in advance of the Summer Recess.

3.4. GG expressed his view that ShEx must continually engage with institutional
investors to ensure the quantum of employee shares granted to workers does
not harm investor appetite. GG felt that this would be an important piece of
evidence that Ministers should consider in deciding how to approach employee
shares.
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

3.5. GG was also keen to discuss the planned timescales, noting that a November
window provided an additional four weeks to engage institutional investors.
RL explained that October was preferable as it afforded sufficient elasticity for
unforeseen events, noting that December was off limits due to the Christmas
mail rush.

3.6. TW was keen to understand the target price that ShEx would be seeking to
achieve, noting that there was a need to balance price with speed. RL
explained that the target price was between £1bn and £3bn, but that the
transaction window was likely to close in March 2014 and achieving a sale this
Parliament was the paramount priority.

. Business Bank

4.

4

IRRELEVANT
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

— PM left the meeting —

5. Urenco

” IRRELEVANT

6. Future Board agendas

6.1.1n light of the requests made during the meeting, the future Board agendas will
be reworked and resubmitted for consideration and discussion.

7. AOB

7.1. The Chairman held a private unminuted session with the NEDs to discuss the
Chief Executive recruitment process.

ShEx Board Secretary
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

8. Actions

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Shareholder

Executive

HM Government

Chief Executive’s Report — ShEx Board 16 May 2013 (13)09

Commercial - In Confidence

Board action: To note

This paper updates the Board on current key areas of work in ShEx. There are
separate papers updating the Board on Royal Mail, Urenco, and the Business Bank.

1 Student Loans Company

IRRELEVANT

UKG100016730
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Recent progress

21

" IRRELEVANT

2.3

The Board to note:

= Post Office Ltd (POL) performed strongly in its first year of independence
from Royal Mail; and

= We are working with POL to agree a commercial strategy for the business
to 2020, including ideally agreeing at least 2 years’ funding (FYs 15/16
and 16/17) as part of the Spending Review this June.
UKGI00016730

UKGI00016730

Financial Performance in 2012/13Heading

3.1

Initial (unaudited) end-year figures suggest Post Office Ltd has continued to
perform well with operating profit significantly exceeding budget. Full year
operating profit was £94 million (against an original budget of £84 million, an
increase on the £61 million that the company achieved in FY 11/12). After
stripping out subsidy, this is still a loss of c£116m, but it represents an
improvement in underlying profitability of c£3m on the prior year. We expect
this to improve further over FY 13/14 as the benefits of POL’s network
transformation programme (which ramped up late in FY 12/13) feed through.

Developing a commercial strategy to 2020

3.2

3.3

3.4

41

42

POL recently presented high-level details of its new strategic plan to 2020.
Funding for the first two years (i.e. FYs 13/14 and 14/15) is secure under the
existing government £1.34 billion funding package but there is no funding in
place beyond March 2015. POL’s plans envisage reducing reliance on network
subsidy to around £50 million by FY 19/20 (from £210 million today), through
further investment to complete transformation across its network. POL’s initial
forecast total funding requirement for the five years from FY 15/16 to FY 19/20
is £550m.

POL's strategy envisages EBITDA (excluding network subsidy) growth from
negative £98 million to positive £115 million through broad-based revenue
growth, cost control and the delivery of key strategic initiatives, including:

= Anew approach to the network transformation programme — moving away
from voluntary postmaster participation in favour of mandated conversions
to the new variable cost operating models (building a positive narrative for
the consumer around this — longer hours, shorter queues, introducing new
parcels-focussed, smaller, urban outlets — will be crucial not only to the
success of the strategy but also to securing political buy-in);

= Completing the programme to eradicate losses in its c.370 city centre
“Crown” branches via pay restraint, franchising, and revenue growth; and

= Launching a range of new products, particularly in Mails (prepaid parcels),
Financial Services (current accounts) and Telephony (premium services).

Our instinct (without yet having engaged on detail) is that the plan is
commercially sensible and builds on progress since 2010, but that building the
concurrent political narrative may present challenges. We have recently
appointed KPMG to diligence the plan. We expect to work intensively
throughout May and June as plans and the spending review progress.

Nuclear Decommissioning Authorit

Sellafield contract negotiations

IRRELEVANT

UKG100016730
UKGI00016730

UKGI00016730
6 ShEx Chairs’ Event
On Monday 29 April Lord Green hosted the third Shareholder Executive Chairs
Event which focused on how the portfolio businesses can drive exports.
61 I I
62 I
03 IRRRELEVAN I I
64 I I
END

11
UKGI00016730

UKGI00016730

Executive

HM Government

Shareholder

Commercial - In Confidence

ShEx engagement across Government — ShEx Board 16 May 2013 (13)10

TWIDYSWWOS 8 ADI1Od — GaL0Id1LS3ay

aIAog ew

juswebeuew ‘Aoyod — peyiyjsey,
OL(EL) :eouaiajas Jadeg

€10z Aew 9) — pieog xqyuS
HUIyJOM JUSWILIBAOH-ssos9
Mau jenusjod — x4us

UBWUI2ACD WH

SAIINDOXA
JEPIOYBIeUS @

12
eb

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Executive summary

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

+ Requests and demands on ShEx have grown significantly in recent months
+ These requests are increasingly departmental rather than asset specific

+ Various drivers behind this, including the Civil Service Reform Programme, and corporate
reviews such as Laidlaw and Browne

+ ShEx seen as a key player with required commercial skill set and expertise

* Two parallel strands of work current underway:
— Infrastructure UK Infrastructure Capability Plans
— Specific requests from departments for corporate finance support - MoD, DCLG, DfT and
DECC
+ Major issues for ShEx relating to the work involved, resource, operating model and
departmental agreements

— Board asked to endorse approach on MOD and DCLG prior to Perm Sec approval.

@ Shareholder
Executive
vl

RESTRICTED - POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Influences

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

(civil Service Reform Programme — June 2012
+ Civil Service Reform Programme includes a new competency framework, a new approach to project management, and a capability plan

Reform themes Capability Plan themes
+ More Digital + Commercial Skills
+ More skilled + Project Management
+ Better policy making + Digital

YG + Unified, open and accountable + Leading change

(6 Lataiaw report in to West Coast Mainline — Dec 2012

+ DIT to take forward the Laidiaw “prescription” in response to failures fram West Coast Mainline franchise failures: Clarity of process; Clarity of
responsibility, Adequacy of resources, Open to challenge and escalation, Honesty an risk.

Specific improvements required include:
+ Planning and preparation — sound planning and rigorous management, drawing in relevant expertise and engaging stakeholders in process effectively
+ Clanty over structure and governance — clearer and simpler structure, clearly identified responsibility and appropriate mix and skills

Xe Resource — ensure adequate skills and training are in place, and use of external professional advisers

xX

Va

Lord Browne report on Major Projects — March 2013

+ Two insights - Lowest standards that are set at the start of a project are the highest standards that can be expected for the rest of the project

- Nobody ever stops or intervenes in a poor project soan enough,

\ Three areas for improvements to project processes: set-up phase, project governance, assurance

4
4

@ Shareholder
Executive
SL

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Infrastructure capacity plans

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

+ Infrastructure UK (part of HM Treasury) mandated to develop Infrastructure Capacity Plans

* Cross cutting approach to the planning, + ShEx focus is on non-infrastructure issues,
prioritisation and enabling of investment in specifically relating to core corporate
infrastructure

finance capability

+ IUK has requested that four departments work * ShEx have committed 3 x G6/7 to the work

up Infrastructure Capacity Plans — prioritised to date, each for 25% of their time (actual
assessment of current and future: commitment is less to date)
infrastructure projects

* ShExis providing supporting role but is not
* ShExis working alongside IUK and MPA on ia) holding the pen on any of the reviews
their engagement with four key Departments —

DfT, Defra, DECC and DCMS

Benefit to ShEx in showing willing to
support and keeping an eye on developing

+ Focus on capacity, capability, and resourcing landscape

gaps - either internally or through IUK
specialist pool

+ Departments are due to report by the end of May, for review and sign-off and submit to Economic Affairs Committee by end-
June.

@ Shareholder
Executive

et Gonna
OL

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Infrastructure capacity plans — departmental progress

@ Shareholder
Executive

ot Genin 5
Departmental requests - MoD.

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

BACKGROUND - ShEx re-engaging with MoD on three separate asset sales after previous withdrawal due to issues over
visibility, involvement and selective use of ShEx advice

WORK INVOLVED

+ Supporting MoD in
executing transactions to
generate capital receipts

+ Three assets with
individual workstreams:

- Government Pipeline
and Storage System;

- Defence Support Group,

- Marchwood Sea
Mounting Centre

Significant preparation
required to progress each
transaction

+ Potential further work
relating to DE&S
governance

RESOURCE

+ Leadership from a GS
(50% of time)

+ 50% of 3 Grade 6/75
for each individual
asset (one identified)

+ Located in MoD where
possible (face-time")

+ Projects due to last up
until Spring 2015

PROPOSED

AGREEMENT

Joint lead role on
corporate finance-
related or sale-related
aspects of transactions

Reporting through
SRO to DG level
sponsor

This includes
appointing advisers,
project management,
advice to Ministers,
design of sale process,
market engagement

STATUS

Memorandum of
Understanding being
negotiated, (caveat re
budget transfers]

Sets out the ShEx
engagement including
on issues of
governance, visibility of
Submissions to
Ministers and PEX(A)

Break clauses inserted

ACTION - Board approval to enter into MoU

@ Shareholder
Executive

db
st

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Departmental requests - DCLG

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

BACKGROUND - As an alternative to finding in-house resource, a direct approach from Peter Schofield with proposal to
build a joint team to address the Department's commercial needs.

WORK INVOLVED RESOURCE PROPOSED STATUS
AGREEMENT
+ Advising policy teams on
asi ki se + DCLG has very litie in- I} * reg to alles ‘on + Tobe agreed, but
commercial impllcadors house commercial areas of expertise aiming for Juty start.
of the HMT £180bn resource to draw upon. required
mortgage equity
+ Request to ShEx to + No agreement as yet,
guarantee scheme and create a joint team but indicated agreed in
AG ews Hp ao ay consisting of 1 G5 and 1 principal, subject to
Equity Scheme. G6 from ShEX. ShEx Board
+ Work includes greater
+ DCLG to provide 2G6 II+ Further consideration
leveraging of private and 1G7 of how to structure joint
sector investment working team and the
including through + ShEx in lead, reporting jocation required, and
guarantees, equity loan directly in to DCLG DG who would form part of
positions, asset sales team —new resource
+ Team to be
or existing ShEx
+ Analysing different asset predominantly located resource. :
classes; quantifying and inDCLG.
managing investment
risks, portfolio
management.

ACTION - Board approval sought

Shareholder
Executive
6L

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

RESTRICTED - POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Departmental requests — DfT and DECC

DfT BACKGROUND - Good existing relationship with ShEx. DECC BACKGROUND - Engagement to date very significant,
Request to consider direct involvement in corporate finance but likely to increase further given previous relationships.
activity at request of Perm Sec, possibly formalised. Significant engagement on NDA, Green Deal, New Nuclear, etc
WORK INVOLVED RESOURCE WORK INVOLVED RESOURCE
+ Support on several + Currently, two ShEx G5s. + Atthis stage, ShEx acting II. No dedicated resource
corporate finance and one ShEx G6 as “critical friend” in but likely greater
workstreams: NATS, Supporting DECC as they II resource required
roads reform, Highways II + Likely greater resource pull together their ICP for
Agency Projects, required lUK
Network Rail, Local
Transport projects + DECC engaged in wider
Including Mersey skills audit

Gateway Bridge; ather
transport projects and
potential asset sales

AGREEMENT STATUS AGREEMENT STATUS
+ No formal agreement + Discussions on-going + To keep in touch as * Tobe agreed
in place, but positive work develops and
working relationship + Key issue will be DfT not while DECC develops
wanting to separate its own plans.
+ Collaborating on ICP corporate finance team
review from policy teams in the
Department

+ Will consider options
on joint working team
thereafter

Shareholder
Executive 8
02

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Asset Sales

Current position

+ HMT and CO considering a major push on asset sales — initially for 2015/16, with a programme to follow. Provisional target of 25%+
proceeds of average asset proceeds of each Department. £40bn total?

+ Departments submitting returns of potential disposals for 2015/16 as part of Spending Review negotiations
+ Also will cover central and local government and business and property assets.
Policy ideas

Asset sales policy ideas are in early incubation and thinking to date has been led by HMT, with some CO and ShEx input.

Early ideas include:

— Delivery bodies for asset sales could be ShEx (business assets) and HCA (for property), and assets could be transferred from
departments to ShEx and HCA to deliver on a sale;

— ShEx, HCA and third parties can propose assets for disposal;

Positive incentives for Departments to identify and transfer assets for sale; and

- Strong Ministerial support required which could mean larger role for PEX(A) - horizon scanning, adjudication with Departments, decision
making

Role for ShEx

+ ShEx seem to be key to early thinking as a central body to handle and deliver business asset sales

+ Wewill be involved in the development of this proposal to ensure proposals are workable and in ShEx's best interests.

+ Obviously, this would be a departure from our current business model which we need to think about carefully.

Next steps

+ Two stage challenge process (officials / Ministers) of 2015/16 returns — Mid May.

+ Announcement expected around Spending Review with more detailed planning of longer term model continuing over the Summer.

@ Shareholder
Executive
1?

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Issues for discussion

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Approvals
— The Board is asked to endorse the MoD and DCLG proposals
— The Board to note that proposals for DfT and DECC will be submitted when further developed

Resourcing
~ To allocate resource immediately to the MoD and DCLG projects
— Impact on broader resourcing requirements

Terms of Engagement
— MoU in all cases
~ Case-by-Case negotiation

Charging
- Budget transfer proposed — compulsory?
— Level of charge — salary recovery?

Supervision
— Additional senior management resource requirements — see accompanying paper "The ShEx licence to operate”
— Formal review processes to be developed

Corporate Finance Profession
— Strengthen cross-government relationships
— Networking and career development for individuals

@ Shareholder
Executive

Wot Covronrt

10
ez

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Appendices

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

A- Policy influences

B- MoD draft MoU

@ Shareholder
Executive
ee

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Annex A — Policy influences

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Civil Service Reform Programme

+ Reform programme includes a new competency framework, a new approach to project mai

/ retorm plan published in June 2

“Through the Civil Service Reform programme,
the MCO and Head of the Civil Service are
jointly implementing their vision for an
exceptional Civil Service delivering the best for
Britain, The Civil Service will be 2 smalier,
more open and flexible organisation, achieving
results faster and operating in a different way. it
will be more focussed, will do fewer things, but
will do them better. The Civil Service will be
trusted and respected by the public, the

Government of the day and future
Governments as an efficient, effective

fe Relevance to ShEx
Delivery (models, digital, transactional

services, shared cap: Examples: Mutuals,
‘GovCos, Trading Funds, PDG, sharing of best
practice.

Policy (open policy making, resourcing
priorities, skills and expertise) Examples: use of
external advisors, flexible management of portfolio,
“split of private and public sector resource.

Implementation and accountability (project —
-management, management info) Examples:
transactional specialists, culture of constructive

organisation” challenge, Clearly defined accountabilities
Building Capability (5 year plan, churn between
REFORM THEMES "sectors, improvement plans) Examples: diverse.

MORE DIGITAL MORE SKILLED Getto ee ee

BETTER POLICY MAKING Employment: offer (flatter organisation, eulture
UNIFIED, OPEN AND oy ne ier Highly collegiate

@ Shareholder

Executive

HOt Gaoveninane

jement, and a capability plan

ve

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Policy influences

Laidlaw report in to West Coast Mainline Recommendations

+ In October 2012, the DfT SofS announced that + DfT to take forward the Laidlaw “prescription” of:
the competition to run passenger trains on the .
West Coast Main Line had been cancelled - Clarity of process;

following the discovery of significant technical
flaws in the way the franchise process was
conducted

- Clarity of responsibility;

- Adequacy of resources;

Sam Laidlaw, lead non-executive on the DfT

" - Open to challenge and escalation;
Board was appointed to conduct an

independent inquiry. - Honesty on risk.
+ The independent inquiry into the cancelled Specific improvements required include:
West Coast Main Line franchise competition
has concluded that the project failed because + Planning and preparation — sound planning and
of an accumulation of significant errors related rigorous management, drawing in relevant expertise
to inadequate planning and preparation, and engaging stakeholders in process effectively
complex organisational structure, and a weak .
governance framework. + Clarity over structure and governance — clearer and

simpler structure, clearly identified responsibility and
appropriate mix and skills

+ Resource — ensure adequate skills and training are

@ Shareholder in place, and use of external professional advisers

Executive

13
Se

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

RESTRICTED — POLICY & COMMERCIAL

Policy influences

Lord Browne Report on Major Projects

+ Government's lead non-executive reported on improving the execution and control of major projects

* Report highlights the two basic insights and three areas in which the government's approach to major projects
should be substantially improved.

+ Two basic insights: The first is that the lowest standards that are set at the start of a project are the highest
standards that can be expected for the rest of the project. The second is that nobody ever stops or intervenes
in a poor project soon enough.

1) The process used in government for managing the set-up of new projects, called the ‘starting gate process,’
while an improvement on earlier attempts, is too simplistic given the costs and risks associated with major
projects.

2) Major projects in government are announced and money is committed to them without the assurance that a
project leader and team with the right capability have been put in place.

3) To inform these decisions on funding, there needs to be high quality assurance on project readiness and
value for money. MPA should also be seeking an independent view on the design of major projects as part of
the stage gate process, drawing on the expertise of the Chief Scientists in government and the senior
members of professional associations such as the Royal Academy of Engineering.

@ Shareholder
Executive
UKGI00016730

UKG1I00016730
Annex B
DRAFT FOR DISCUSSION
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (THE “MEMORANDUM”)
BETWEEN THE SHAREHOLDER EXECUTIVE (“SHEX”)
AND THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE (“THE “DEPARTMENT”)

IN RELATION TO THE ASSET MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (“THE
PROJECT”)

DATED [e] APRIL 2013

1. Introduction

This Memorandum of Understanding sets out the broad terms of engagement between
ShEx and the Department in relation to the Project. It seeks to ensure that the
Department and ShEx have a clear common understanding of the basis of ShEx’s
engagement, including Project accountabilities, reporting lines and working
relationships.

2. Purpose

The primary objective of the Project is to execute transactions that generate a capital
receipt in respect of three assets owned by the Department within the Asset
Management Programme (“AMP”). Those assets being:
i) the Government Pipeline and Storage System (“GPSS”);
ii) the Defence Support Group (“DSG”); and
iii) Marchwood Sea Mounting Centre (“Marchwood”).

Within this there are three distinct priorities:
i) to put in place acceptable ongoing contractual arrangements between the
Department and each individual asset;
ii) to conduct a market based transaction that delivers value for money to the
Department and the tax-payer, consistent with achieving priority i) above; and
iii) to ensure full compliance with all relevant Department and wider HMG
approval processes.

The relevant timeframe is for each individual asset, the earlier of:
i) a transaction is completed;
ii) a decision is taken by the Department not to proceed with a transaction; or
iii) the end of this Spending Review Period (being April 2015).

¢ Appropriate KPIs and milestones will be put in place and agreed between the
Department and ShEx to monitor progress against this objective. If agreement
cannot be reached that sufficient progress is being made against agreed KPIs
and milestones, ShEx reserve the right to terminate its engagement with the
Department;

26
UKGI00016730

UKGI00016730

3. Accountabilities

The Department’s:

Secretary of State is accountable to Parliament for the performance of all
functions carried out in relation to the Project;

Accounting Officer is accountable to Parliament for ensuring that Project
systems, processes and controls conform to requirements of regularity,
propriety, and good financial management; and

Carole Tolley, as SRO, reporting to [DG level contact] who has Executive
Committee / Management Board responsibility for all issues relating to the
Project, including policy, governance and finance.

The Department will:

retain responsibility for policy in relation to the Project and will work with
ShEx to ensure that wider Departmental and Government objectives are taken
account of;

retain the responsibility for budget allocations related to the Project and Project
Team; and

ensure that ShEx is appropriately represented in all Project governance. ShEx
will be consulted in relation to any future changes in these arrangements

ShEx will:

jointly lead, together with Business Strategy Group (“BSG”), on all corporate
finance-related or sale-related aspects of the transactions, including:

— appointment of external advisers and the negotiation of advisers' fees and
terms;

— management of project timetable and deliverables;

— provision of advice to ministers, SRO and other government departments
and committees (e.g. PEX (A));

- design and structuring of sale and sale processes;

— approach to and engagement with the market and potential acquirers;
— instruction and management of all external advisers;

— transaction project management; and

— negotiation with potential acquirers.

27
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

maintain a continuing dialogue with BSG;

meet regularly with the SRO (at least twice-monthly) and the Minister for
Defence Equipment, Support and Technology (at least quarterly) to discuss each
of the transactions and the overall programme;

ensure that ShEx input to the transactions is clearly presented to, and understood
by, all relevant stakeholders;

provide appropriate representation at the AMP Board and Project Boards for
each asset;

provide appropriate representation at the Ministerial Owners Council for DSG;
provide sufficient specialist resource to support the Project, under the leadership
of [G5]. This is initially estimated as being [50%] of [G5]; and for each of the
three assets, [50%] of a Grade 6/7. It is intended that, where practicable, all such
resource will be physically located in the Department for a significant

proportion of their time working on the Project;

where relevant, support in discussions with HM Treasury, Cabinet Office,
Number 10 and other relevant central government bodies;

agree with HM Treasury an acceptable value-for-money methodology;

ensure quality assurance of the input being provided through [G3] and,
ultimately, the ExCo of ShEx; but

for the avoidance of doubt, not take overall responsibility for the Project.

4. Reporting

The Department and ShEx will:

jointly sign-off on all submissions, updates and advice related to the Project.
Should there be any disagreement, submissions and advice will record the
different opinions;

seek agreement from finance and policy officials on submissions and advice
where decisions are sought or where content is novel, contentious or
repercussive; and

ensure that all advice, and responses to advice, are made in writing. If
applicable, reasons will be provided by the Department for not following
ShEx’s advice.

28
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

The Department will:

ensure that ShEx is invited to attend, and is able to contribute to briefings for,
all internal and external meetings related to the Project; and

ensure that ShEx is sighted in advance on all submissions, advice or meetings
that are relevant to the Project, but which fall outside its scope of work.

5. Working Relationship

The Department and ShEx will:

[six months] from the date of this Memorandum, review overall progress of the
Project, and in particular the development of acceptable ongoing contractual
arrangements between the Department and each individual asset;

jointly agree on a Project scope, timetable and team structure. Future changes to
any of these will be agreed between the Department and ShEx; and

ensure that all documents are filed in accordance with normal Civil Service
practice, and in such a way as to ensure business continuity at the end of the
Project.

The Department will:

cover, through budget transfer, the related salary costs of ShEx for the duration
of the Project [to a maximum of [£*]];

keep ShEx informed in relation to policy developments outside of the Project.
This will ensure that advice is given, and decisions are made, on a fully
informed basis;

give ShEx appropriate forewarning of any requests related to the Project. Both
the Department and ShEx will ensure that responses are appropriate and timely;

ensure that ShEx has access to all material information in relation to the Project,
including internal and 3“ party documents, correspondence and reports; and

ensure that ShEx has access and open lines of communication to other teams
across the Department (and related bodies) in order to support the Project.

These arrangements are intended to set the framework for the constructive engagement
of ShEx on the Project and will be reviewed periodically particularly in the event of
changed circumstances, objectives or priorities in respect of the Project.

29
Signatories
Signed by[ ]

For and on behalf of

THE SHAREHOLDER EXECUTIVE
Job Title [INSERT]

Date

Signed by [INSERT]

For and on behalf of
THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE

Job Title [INSERT]
Date

Copied to:

CEO ShEx;

DG MoD; and

HM Treasury Spending Team.

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

30
UKGI00016730
UKG1I00016730

Shareholder

Executive
HM Government Commercial - In Confidence

The ShEx Licence to Operate — ShEx Board 16 May 2013 (13)11

Paper titled The ShEx Licence to Operate to be presented by Fiona-Jane
Macgregor at the Board meeting.

31
UKGI00016730

UKG100016730
Shareholder
Executive
HM Government Commercial - In Confidence

Information Economy Industrial Strategy - ShEx Board 16 May 2013

(13)12a

ShEx Board to note that:

= Progress to date and expected upcoming activity
= Potential areas for deliverables in the Strategy

Summary

= Weare now in the drafting stage of the Strategy, following a 4 month
period of knowledge gathering and stakeholder engagement.

* The Strategy is due to be published in mid-June. Once BIS Ministers are
content, a first draft will be shared with No.10 and other Government
Departments. It is also being sent to selected players in the sector via the
Information Economy Council.

= Ahead of launch, Council members will be invited to comment on and as
far as possible to agree the text (as it is intended to be a co-created
document); it will also be subject to a Cabinet clearance write-round.

= The proposed overall vision is for a thriving UK information economy that
enhances our national competitiveness. Action currently focuses on
supporting:
= UK businesses making best use of IT and data;
= Enabling citizens to make the most of the digital age; and
= A strong, innovative information economy sector exporting UK
excellence to the world.

Possible new commitments

= This is a sector where HMG needs to tread lightly. The Strategy provides

an opportunity to highlight existing activity that supports the information
economy and where Government and industry can work together to bring
greater coherence to this activity. The main areas of follow-up action are
likely to be:

= Improving digital skills

« Encouraging the adoption of open standards

« Getting more SMEs trade online

« Fostering a business environment that promotes growth

32
UKGI00016730

UKGI00016730

Launch and beyond

We are looking for a high profile event to launch the Strategy around mid-
June and developing a programme of events for the following weeks and
months. The aim is to maintain focus and involve Ministers from other
Departments to highlight the range of areas covered and underline that
this is a cross-Government strategy.

The Strategy will not be a static document. It will continue to evolve after
publication as ideas and concrete actions emerge from dialogue with
government officials and external stakeholders.

Our ambition is the Strategy will lead to a more co-ordinated approach to
the information economy in Government. At present responsibility for key
aspect of the information economy sits across four Departments (BIS,
Cabinet Office, DCMS and MoJ).

Background

1.

1. In September 2012, the Secretary of State set out a cross-government
industrial strategy based on having a clear vision for the future, taking long term
decisions, being open to new opportunities and focusing on things the UK does
best. This includes building a collaborative strategic partnership with key business
sectors, including the Information Economy. The technology sector is important to
the UK. In 2011 it contributed around 4.2% to GVA and 885,000 jobs. Whilst the
GVA contribution is less than the financial services sector (11%) it is greater than
that of the automotive and aerospace sectors.

2. The first challenge was to define what the Strategy would encompass given the
wide range of sectors and activities that could be included. The key underpinning
“sectors” were identified as telecommunications, software and IT services. The
working definition of the “information economy’ is: the part of the economy where
digital technologies and information combine to drive productivity and create new
growth opportunities across the whole economy. This positions the Strategy as
capturing the tech sector in a vertical sense and its role as a horizontal enabler of
other sectors. Owing to short product life-cycles and rapid technological advances
the Strategy has a 2020 horizon.

Following analysis of potential growth opportunities, Ministers agreed that the
Strategy should focus on the following areas:

= Cloud computing — where software services or data are hosted remotely
from users whilst remaining accessible anywhere any time;

= Big data— where there are new opportunities to analyse and yield value
from the combination of new and vast datasets;

= The internet of things (machine to machine communication) — the
concept where all objects, animate or inanimate, are able to gather and
communicate useful information to each other;

* Smart cities — a future where transport, energy, environmental and
healthcare systems are interconnected, reducing costs, providing new
services, and providing efficiencies; and

= On-line economy — e-commerce is a real UK strength.

33
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

4. The Strategy also covers the cyber security sector and ICT as a productivity
raiser in other sectors. It also looks at cross-cutting business environment issues,
skills, access to finance and procurement.

5. Work to produce the Strategy started in October. Since then a delivery team has
been established, subject knowledge and economic analysis have been built and
the sector and other stakeholders have been engaged. An Information Economy
Council has been formed to develop a strategic partnership between Government
and industry and ensure we work together to deliver action.

END

34
UKGI00016730

UKGI00016730

Shareholder

Executive
HM Government Commercial - In Confidence

Royal Mail - ShEx Board 16 May 2013 (13)12b

ShEx Board to note that:

We have received further positive confirmation of a number of critical
transaction “enablers”: strong full year trading results; an
encouraging final business plan refresh; helpful regulatory clarity
from Ofcom; and continued positive feedback from investor meetings
(including US investors).

Industrial relations remain a significant risk however, with
management not yet certain of the timing or nature of a revised pay
and modernisation deal with the unions. We are clear that having
some progress on a deal or agreement is necessary to risk a formal
“go” decision on the transaction in the summer and that clarity on a
deal itself will be needed before commencing a transaction — senior
discussions with management are ongoing.

Preparatory work is progressing well, with advisers making good
progress on legal and financial diligence. An OGC gateway review of
the project recognised the strength of the ShEx team’s management
of the sale (noting the significant exogenous risks).

Treasury have approved the latest iteration of our Outline Business
Case for an IPO in autumn 2013 (whilst doing all necessary work to
retain the alternative options of a later IPO (spring 2014) or a private
sale). The developing timetable for an IR deal will be central to this
approach.

Work continues with officials and Ministers to finalise a number of
transaction decisions including employee shares, the retail
component and outline capital structure.

It is important to reemphasise that there remain significant risks and it
remains possible that a deal will not be achievable on acceptable
terms; we therefore continue to work on “hold” strategies should this
be the case.

1) TRANSACTION “ENABLERS”: LATEST POSITION AND ASSESSMENT OF KEY

RISKS

1. We continue to assess closely the key transaction “building blocks” that must fall
into place if we are to successfully execute a sale. Our principal focus (and risk
assessment) is on:

A.

Industrial relations:

RM continues to engage in negotiations with the CWU but have not yet
reached a new pay and modernisation deal, nor has RM launched its
consultation on the future of the RM pension scheme. The CWU has also
stepped up its campaign against privatisation, through a “Save Our Royal
Mail” campaign, as well as securing a consultative ballot at their recent
conference covering a range of issues including privatisation.

However, we have seen little evidence of this campaign gaining any
supporters, especially, following the publication of a Written Ministerial
35
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Statement and related speech given by Michael Fallon to demonstrate
continued momentum towards a deal. HMG and RM continue to rebut the
misinformation emanating from this campaign.

We expect IR to be a key area of concern for investors although the
company are more sanguine on whether a finalised deal is required ahead
of key summer milestones notably the analysts presentation, and predict
that an IR deal will not (and should not) be reached until much later on in
the deal timetable. The recent announcement of a consultative ballot, the
outcome of which will be in late June, has further clouded the IR
negotiations as RM are cautious about giving CWU any further reason for
action.

Moya Greene has recently advised us that the CWU will be writing to
Michael Fallon to suggest we discuss “capital model” and “share scheme”.
The former comprises the CWU’s view on possible alternative ownership
structures, and the CWU will not discuss the latter in isolation. We will
need to await the CWU’s proposals before taking on a view on further
engagement, but we view CWU’s engagement on employee shares as a
crucial part of the overall debate on IR, and therefore our current
preference is to find a way of discussing this with CWU if possible.

. Financial performance and outlook:

RM continues to perform strongly. Our view is that this outperformance
continues to support an IPO-led strategy in Q4 2013. Furthermore, we
assess a risk of a near-term financial shock as relatively low but will
continue to monitor closely.

Full Year Performance: RM has performed strongly over the Full Year
12/13 (to March), with all key financial metrics ahead of both original budget
and mid year reforecast (see Annex 1). Group PBIT margins reached 4.7%
(vs. 2.5% last year and the highest for over a decade), a crucial evidence
point demonstrating margin recovery to investors.

Refreshed business plan: BIS SoS formally approved RM’s refreshed
business plan in May, on the basis of projected sustained margin and
cashflow improvement over the next 3 years. We have formally requested
further clarity from Management on how they would mitigate key downside
risks to maintain performance and dividends.

. Investor appetite:

Royal Mail, alongside BAML and Goldman Sachs, met with 14 investors on
a US road show in March. US investors expressed a high level of
engagement and potential appetite, especially given the UK location, size
and nature of the sector

US investors on the whole appear to have taken a more technical approach
to the RM story vis-a-vis UK investors:

e focusing on margin progression and cost reduction

e less concerned with the regulatory, pension and union issues —
clearly bigger issues for UK investors and may be a function of UK
investor familiarity with the RM story and appreciation of domestic
sensitivities

We have not seen any feedback (UK and US) to suggest that we
should not proceed with our preferred strategy of preparing for an IPO
in autumn 2013

36
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

= RM continues to refine its equity story in light of this feedback. The next full
round of investor meetings will be on the back of RM’s full-year results; this
is likely to be in the first week of June.

D. Market/economic conditions:

= We cannot predict market conditions but this will form a key part of our
analysis of feasibility of a sale at the forthcoming sale strategy decision
points closer to a sale (i.e. early May and in the summer). We, and our
advisors, are encouraged by continued activity in the PO market, not least
the imminent proposed flotation of CVC’s stake in bpost (the Belgium
Universal Service provider).

E. Regulation:

= Ofcom published their approach to regulating end to end competition at the
end of March. We, and the company, were encouraged by both the
substance of the proposed framework and the clarity of Ofcom’s message
to the market that they can and will act to protect the Universal Service. We
believe that this will be sufficient to prevent regulation becoming a “red flag”
for investors.

= Ofcom continue to signal their willingness to engage with analysts, and
potentially investors directly. Their recent successful engagement with S&P
(see capital structure below) has given us confidence in the regulatory
clarity they are able to communicate.

2. Risks to these critical transaction enablers are significant and there remains a
strong possibility that one or more could materialise; we are continuing to assess
contingency options should this be the case. However, at this stage we (and our
advisors Lazard and UBS) remain of the view that, subject to IR in particular,
a sale should be feasible from autumn 2013.

Il) TRANSACTION READINESS: ROYAL MAIL AND SALE PROJECT

Preparatory work is progressing well across a number of key strands:

3. Transaction syndicate: We have commenced our appointment process for our
banking equity syndicate (i.e. Global Coordinators and bookrunners for a potential
IPO). We expect to confirm the core members in late May and appoint a full
syndicate by July.

4. Legal and Financial diligence: The company, and its advisors, have made good
progress on initial legal and financial diligence. We, and our advisors, have
reviewed the work and agree with its key findings. Critically, the work has not
exposed any “red flags” that we were not already mindful of (e.g. Industrial
relations).

5. PLC readiness: On the back of Ernst and Young’s “Financial Position and
Prospects (FPP)” analysis the company are implementing a wide-ranging set of
actions to ensure that RM’s Governance and processes are suitable for a listed
company. We continue to press the company to explain timing and assurance on
this programme.

37
UKGI00016730

UKGI00016730

6. OGC review of sale project and team: A Gateway Zero review was held in mid-
April. The Review panel gave the project an overall ‘confidence in delivery’
assessment of amber. The key conclusion of the Review is that whilst the project
is subject to significant external risks (IR in particular), these are being managed to
the extent that they can be by ShEx and success appears feasible provided that
objectives and plans are aligned between the three major stakeholders (ShEx, RM
and HMT). The Review made 11 recommendations, one of which is already
complete with an implementation plan in place for the remaining 10

Ill) OUTLINE BUSINESS CASE AND PROGRESS ON KEY DECISIONS

7. The latest (May) iteration of the OBC has been approved by Martin Donnelly and a
Treasury Approval Point (TAP) panel. It considered a number of specific additional
decisions over and above the initial February iteration:

A. Transaction size

= Further assessment of investor messaging, valuation and value for money
has highlighted likely benefits of Government seeking to sell-down toa
minority ownership position post IPO. The OBC has been updated to reflect
a target sale of c43% of shares (which alongside 10% employee shares
would see control pass to private shareholders).

B. Capital Structure

= We have been clear that access to external borrowing is critical to our
equity story and in fulfilling our policy objective of securing private capital.
On the basis that we are targeting a sell down to a minority position,
Treasury have confirmed that we should prepare for RM refinancing its debt
from external providers at IPO. Where such a selldown is not achieved (i.e.
where RM continues to be public sector classified/majority owned),
Treasury require that RM will need to continue to borrow from the NLF.
Discussions are to commence imminently with the NLF team to ensure that
such backup facilities are on fully commercial terms (in order to minimise
potential investor concerns on an unusual and possibly uncertain capital
structure).

* On this basis RM has initiated a market testing exercise with a range of
potential funding providers, deliberately timed to coincide with and benefit
from the concurrent appointment of equity banking advisors.

= Treasury have approved key principles for calibrating the day 1 capital
structure (i.e. drawn debt, undrawn facilities and cash), namely that i) the
structure must support a transaction (principally that RM receives a stable
investment grade credit rating); ii) it must deliver Value for Money (i.e. does
not over-solve to an inefficient balance sheet and iii) ensures the
sustainability of the Universal Service (i.e. the business can cope with
potential shocks).

c. Employee Shares
= The size and terms of transfer have yet to be finalised. HMT ministers are
reluctant to commit to 10% for free without firm assurance of concessions
from the union.

= We have now agreed with the company that GLS employees will not be
included in the share scheme. RM are looking at separate ways to
incentivise GLS employees (which may itself have implications for
shareholder value)

= We have been preparing four schemes with the company, which are being
worked up in parallel in readiness for the appointment of the employee
shares provider this month. They are individual ownership in a tax-

38
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

approved (SIP) scheme (our preferred option in an IPO), individual
ownership outside of a tax-approved scheme (if we wish to provide some
shares without a holding period) and Employee Benefit Trusts for both IPO
and private sale scenarios (which could be used alongside a SIP if required
for the sake of IR).

RETAIL

We have been working up the shape and structure of a retail share offer,
and in particular the policy and practical implications of including a direct
element within this. BIS Ministers are minded to pursue a small-scale direct
component within the overall retail offer, focussed on providing access for
those who cannot / prefer not to use intermediaries. Initial market research
suggests demand for Royal Mail shares could be significant.

FUNDING

Treasury have agreed the funding arrangements for employee share costs
over above the £43m to be funded from within the RDA ringfence and other
transaction costs associated with the sale to be funded from within the RDA
ringfence. It has been agreed that BIS may make a claim on the Reserve if
they cannot be covered through underspends. This will be subject to an
assessment of need and affordability at the time.

8. The TAP panel have approved the latest iteration of the OBC subject to a number
of requests:

The OBC to be updated with further consideration of our IR strategy, in
particular how key IR dates fit with our transaction timetable and what
levers HMG has to increase the pressure on the Union and when these
could be deployed.

VfM arguments to be drawn out more clearly in the OBC, in particular
around why the assumptions made in the sell vs. hold analysis are valid.

The OBC to be clearer about the residual risk to HMG of selling RM,
including providing further information on the potential financial costs to
HMG, the risk mitigations available and the terms of the Special
Administration regime set out in the Postal Services Act 2011.

Plan B to be developed further to consider risks associated with
implementation and an analysis of RM management resistance and
strategies for overcoming this.

Options for the retail offer to be developed ahead of further discussion with
HMT.

IV) PLAN B

Lazard have had a number of discreet conversations with potential private
investors during April / May to determine level of appetite for Plan B. These
meetings are being undertaken in the strictest of confidence and with a very
clear message that our priority remains to IPO the business (so as not to
risk confusion or risk stakeholder concerns if this were to leak).

39
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

= Anumber of key themes have emerged from discussions:

e Investors are impressed with the progress in recent years but
recognise a number of issues remain (operational efficiency, volume
decline, etc.);

e Sovereign Wealth Funds would generally require another investor to
lead the transaction and drive value creation;

e Private Equity would require sufficient influence over the business to
drive change in order for a transaction to be attractive;

¢ Early interaction with Unions would be required in the event Plan B
became the preferred route in order to avoid potential negative
impact on value (as well as negative public reaction to investors);
and

¢ Clear reluctance to commit additional time and resource to
investigating Plan B while IPO remains HMG's preferred route.

9. Lazard’s initial assessment suggests Plan B has significant risks, for similar
reasons as the IPO (i.e. industrial relations, pension etc.) but potentially heightened
where IR that has prevented an IPO. Lazard stresses that a private sale could
likely be constructed but with potential value impact and with likely significant
execution risk.

40
V) NEXT STEPS & FORTHCOMING DECISIONS

10. Following indicative formal approval from the TAP panel, the OBC will be submitted
by officials to ministers in support of a formal recommendation that the project
should proceed.

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

11. The expected timeline of formal sale strategy decisions and supporting evidence to
support those decisions is as follows (noting that advice on individual issues may
come up earlier in preparation for these big decision points):

Decision Supporting evidence
Early May I Validate lead sale strategy (or change to I « Updated Business Case and VfM
43 alternative option) and agree policy on: analysis (approved by BIS
(current ¢ Employee shares Accounting Officer and TAP panel)
TAP * Retail offer . ¢ Full-year results
decision) I * Access to debt (external borrowing) I. Further clarity on Ofcom’s end-to-
. Principles of approach to capital end position
structure I
« Target size of stake to be sold ° Update on pay deal / pensions
negotiations
May/June I* Appointment of GloCos e Syndicate appointment process
43
End-June I Validate lead strategy following June I Detailed investor feedback following
13 investor mtgs full-year results
e Whether to lay the Report to e Draft prospectus available
Parliament before summer Recess e Further update on market conditions
(i.e. in July vs. September) « Update on IR progress
¢ Confirm intention to proceed with IPO
Early ¢ Confirm decision to proceed with sale I* Q1 results (to June 13)
Sept ‘13 e Commence “pilot fishing” e Further investor engagement ,
e Decision to execute early IPO including pilot fishing
(assuming lead strategy remains ¢ Clear adviser analysis of market
early IPO)leading to formal conditions and appetite
announcement of Intention to Float ¢ Final Business Case
.
Oct 13 e Decision on: e Full picture of IPO investor appetite

- exact size of stake

- pricing

- allocation principles (e.g. split
between institutional and retail
investors)

e Current trading update
¢ Equity market backdrop (i.e. open to
IPOs?)

4

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Annex 1: Full year financial performance

12. Full year performance is significantly ahead of the budget! and reforecast2

= Revenue of £9,279m is £163m (+1.8%) ahead of budget and £46m (+0.5%)
ahead of reforecast.

= PBIT of £440m is £187m (+42.5%) ahead of budget and £40m (+9.1%)
ahead of reforecast.

Variance to
Actual FY November Variance to

Group performance reforecast Budget

£
Revenues 9,279 +46 +163
Variance (%) 0.5% 1.8%
PBIT £ 440 +40 +187
Variance (%) 9.1% 42.5%
Margin 47% I
UKPIL
Revenues £ 7,766 +15 +156
Variance (%) 0.2% 2.0%

£
PBIT 331 +35 +189
Variance (%) 10.6% 57.1%
Margin 4.3% I
GLS
Revenues £ 1,498 +43 +26
Variance (%) 2.9% 1.7%

£
PBIT 101 +1 7
Variance (%) 1.0% ~6.9%
Margin 6.7% I
People costs
Costs ~£ 5,147 +35 -26
Variance (%) -0.7% 0.5%
Distribution &
Conveyance costs
Costs £ 1,785 -42 -16
Variance (%) I 24% 0.9%

' Budget at end-June 2012
? Reforecast at end-November 2012

42
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Shareholder

Executive
HM Government Commercial - In Confidence

Business Bank — ShEx Board 16 May 2013 (13)12c

ShEx Board to note that:

"The progress made with the £300m investment programme, with
roadshows having been carried out and expressions of interest
received

= The progress made in the institutional design, financial framework
and communications strategy

Summary

= Budget 2013 announced extensions to existing Government finance
schemes which will form part of the business bank programme. A
trade credit pilot is currently taking place with Kingfisher plc under
the Enterprise Finance Guarantee (EFG) scheme. Additionally, a
further £75m has been made available for early-stage venture capital,
expanding the Business Angel Co-investment Fund and the
Enterprise Capital Funds (ECF) programmes.

= On 21 March 2013, we published a strategy update, “Building the
business bank3”, which provided further details on the progress
being made and a high level road map for the programme.

IRRELEVANT

B

> https:/Avww.gov.uk/government/publications/building-the-business-bank-strategy-update

43
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

N

- IRRELEVANT

B
8.)

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

» IRRELEVANT >

IRRELEVANT

Organisational Design

17. The business bank is operating on an interim basis within BIS. New processes will
be rolled out as part of an organised, phased process. We envisage the project
being completed by Autumn 2014.

18. Work is progressing well with HMT on setting an appropriate financial framework
for the Business Bank.

19. We are currently recruiting for further senior posts in the Business Bank team,
including interim head of investment, head of finance, head of risk and head of
communications.

20. We envisage that the Chair of the business bank Board will be appointed after
summer recess and the permanent CEO will be appointed before the end of the
year. This part of the process has been brought forward by about six months.

45
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

21. We are continuing to work on the legal framework for the bank. In parallel,
discussions are ongoing with the Commission regarding the State Aid implications
for the bank as an institution and for the bank’s products.

23.;

IRRELEVANT

24)

25;

END

46
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Shareholder

Executive
HM Government Commercial - In Confidence

Urenco — ShEx Board 16 May 2013 (13)12d

47
UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

Update on German government

C
10.

UKGI00016730
UKGI00016730

17)

49
