UKG1I00002168
UKGI00002168

From: Hadley Paul (ShEx)[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PSHADLEY]
Sent: Wed 27/11/2013 9:17:35 AM (UTC)
To: ‘Jonathan Preece (UK SBS)! Midgley Darrell
(ITD
Cc: RO. Francis David
(Ley Wathen Maureen (ShEx)f.
Brow
(BE}
Clairé (BEY GRO 4
Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request - Fujitsu

Darrel/Jonathan

Whatever the commercial issues at stake I cannot agree to relations with Fujistu, or any other major
IT supplier, being ring fenced in this way. It is the responsibility of my team maintain direct dialogue
with the whole of the IT sector, regardless of whether other parts of the Government firmament are
having contractual issues with them. The Government has committed to a Industrial Strategy for the
sector and that means dialogue with all the players, large and small.

Paul

Paul Hadley I Deputy Director - Information E
1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET I Ti
https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/department-for

Innovation & Skills

-business-innovation-skills

‘The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and higher skills across
the economy. BIS: working together for growth.

From: Jonathan Preece (UK SBS:
Sent: 27 November 2013 09:00
To: Midgley Darrell (ITD); Hadley Paul (ShEx)

Ce: Callard Richard (ShEx); Francis David (LG); Wathen Maureen (ShEx); Brown Vicki (ShEx); Evans Francis (BE);
Harwood Julia (ITD); Hobson Claire (BE); Gibson Will (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx); Swinson MPST

Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request - Fujitsu

I would recommend (from a purely commercial perspective) that any BIS engagement with FJS should be
through the commercial team managing the exit from FJS. There is a risk of compromise or potential prejudice
the exit agreement. So any engagement should be deferred until this exit is finalised.

We have also agreed with the Crown Commercial Representative of FJS that any future engagement should be
at the least sighted to the central team, whilst the cross govt review is underway, notwithstanding the need for
post exit lessons learnt, or engaging FJS in their perspective of the future IT sector as listed below.

Regards

Jonathan Preece

UKG100002168
UKGI00002168

Email: jonathan.preec:

PA: _ Kathy Glanville

UK Shared Business Services Ltd, North Star House, North Star Avenue
Swindon SN2 1FF

U<SBS

a —

Shared Business Services

From: Midgley Darrell (ITD)
Sent: 27 November 2013 08:33

To: Hadley Paul (ShEx)

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Francis David (LG); Jonathan Preece (UK SBS); Wathen Maureen (ShEx); Brown
Vicki (ShEx); Evans Francis (BE); Harwood Julia (ITD); Hobson Claire (BE); Gibson Will (ShEx); Batten Peter
(ShEx); Swinson MPST

Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request - Fujitsu

Paul,

To note Fujitsu are deemed a ‘high risk supplier’ by the commercial side of the Cabinet Office
and they wish to be sighted of any involvement so be cautious regarding any invites. This
also partially explains the 'hard time’ you suggest below for any large IT supplier.

Of course as good project professionals we will conduct a lesson learnt review of Elgar with
Fujitsu who wish to improve their standing across Government by helping us exit gracefully
from the current contract. It will make interesting reading!

Regards

Darrell

Darrell Midgley I CIO for BIS and Partner Organi
Business, Innovation & Skills I darrell. midgley!

& Technology Directorate I Department for
GRO I www.bis.gov.uk I

The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and higher
skills across the economy.
BIS: working together for growth

From: Hadley Paul (ShEx)

Sent: 26 November 2013 16:05

To: Evans Francis (BE); Harwood Julia (ITD); Hobson Claire (BE); Gibson Will (ShEx); Batten Peter
(ShEx); Swinson MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Francis David (BSFCS); Midgley Darrell (ITD); Jonathan Preece (UK SBS);
Wathen Maureen (ShEx); Brown Vicki (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request - Fujitsu

All
UKGI00002168

UKG100002168

My team sponsors the "tech" sector but has not had much direct contact with Fujitsu
over the last 12 months. The agenda seems weighted towards the corporate social
responsibility space - happy to contribute to any briefing if they show interest in
discussing the direction of the ICT sector. We would be happy for Fujitsu to participate
in some of the sub-groups which the industry has formed to work on the challenges
identified in the Information Economy Strategy published in June. Like Francis - I don't
think we should be shy to ask them about lessons learnt from the 15 year Elgar
contract. That said generally the procurement side of Cabinet Office has been taking a
hard line with all of the giants in the IT sector of late so we might get a strong reaction
from their side.

Paul

Paul Hadley I Deputy Director - Information Economy I Department for Business, Innovation &
Skills

1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET I Tel:
https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/department-for-business-innovation-skills

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth
and higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth.

From: Evans Francis (BE)

Sent: 26 November 2013 09:46

To: Harwood Julia (ITD); Hobson Claire (BE); Gibson Will (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx); Swinson
MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Francis David (BSFCS); Hadley Paul (ShEx); Midgley Darrell (ITD);
Jonathan Preece (UK SBS)

Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request - Fujitsu

Hi all,

As Claire says this is not very strategic. But Joe Moor, the PR guy, is trying to do
his job - to change BIS perceptions of Fujitsu from "those people who gave us
that outdated IT system" to upstanding corporate citizens taking their social
responsibilities seriously. Hence he is including everything he can think of into the
message, in the hope that the sheer volume of stuff will persuade us to agree to a
meeting.

Happy to be part of a team (to cover gender balance) and like Julia's idea to
"leverage this engagement to help ensure our exit is as"graceful" as possible from
everyone's perspective". There is nothing to be embarrassed about, it seems to
me we could tackle the issue head-on. Every BIS official is a Fujitsu customer. It
would be interesting for example to ask them what they think Fujitsu has learned
from this contract.

Best wishes,
UKG1I00002168
UKGI00002168

Francis

Francis Evans I Senior Policy Adviser I Business Environment Directorate I Department for
Business, Innovation & Skills I 3rd F ioria S London SW1H OET I
GRO __{recommended rather

than leaving a message on BIS voicemail)

The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting
sustained growth and higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: Harwood Julia (ITD)

Sent: 26 November 2013 08:04

To: Hobson Claire (BE); Gibson Will (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx); Swinson MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Francis David (BSFCS); Evans Francis (BE); Hadley Paul (ShEx);
Midgley Darrell (ITD); Jonathan Preece (UK SBS)

Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request - Fujitsu

All

My team are leading on the exit from the 14 year old Elgar contract and the
relationship with FJ over the next four months and would be very happy to
contribute to any pre brief and perhaps leverage this engagement to help
ensure our exit is as"graceful" as possible from everyone's perspective.

Darrell Midgley the BIS CIO, will have a wider view across our POs who are
engaged with FJ. Jonathan Preece in SBS also has a key role in managing
that relationship from an SBS angle.

Let me know how we can help.

Julia

Julia Harwood

FLITE Programme Director
Chief Information Officer Core BIS, DSO, DD Info Strategy

reet I London SW1H OET I
www.bis.gov.uk

From: Hobson Claire (BE)

Sent: 26 November 2013 07:45

To: Gibson Will (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx); Swinson MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Francis David (BSFCS); Harwood Julia (ITD); Evans
Francis (BE); Hadley Paul (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request - Fujitsu

Ria ca David in my team - invite them to our CR bash in Dec?
UKG1I00002168
UKGI00002168

There's a lot in here and not very strategically laid out. I agree with
the caution on the IT and PO fronts.

We'd be happy to talk to them about my areas - women on boards
(FTSE 350 exclusively; GEO lead on gender diversity more generally)
and corporate responsibility.

I don't think the minister should meet them but you can say we'll be in
touch about CR and WoBs. We can invite them to the CR launch in
the middle of December, e.g. ACTION: David.

Copied to Francis (WoB) and David (CR) in my team and Paul Hadley
in case we have a relationship via the sector team.

Claire
x5003

From: Gibson Will (ShEx)

Sent: 25 November 2013 18:40

To: Batten Peter (ShEx); Swinson MPST; Hobson Claire (BRE)
Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request

I think that would be Julia Harwood.

Will Gibson I Executive Director I Sharehi
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET
will.gibso
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a
difference by supporting sustained growth and higher skills across the
economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: Batten Peter (ShEx)

Sent: 25 November 2013 18:38

To: Gibson Will (ShEx); Swinson MPST; Hobson Claire (BRE)
Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request

Non on mine from a Post Office perspective - although would
echo Will's point about the operational and commercial nature of
the relationship. Might also want to be slightly careful given
Fujitsu ran Elgar which is due to be phased out of BIS.. not sure
who the best person to advise on that relationship is though.
Peter
UKG100002168
UKGI00002168

From: Gibson Will (ShEx)

Sent: 25 November 2013 18:34

To: Swinson MPST; Hobson Claire (BRE)

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx)
Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request

No particular objection on my part. It's a commercial relationship
with POL so we don't normally engage on those sorts of issues,
but they're a key partner of the Post Office and Jo may want to
ask them to reassure her of the systemic integrity of the Horizon
network given the recent Parliamentary and news interest on
that.

Copied to Richard who will likely be leading on this when any
meeting goes in, and Peter who leads on the Horizon stuff.

www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-
executive

PA: Karen Smith I/

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is
making a difference by supporting sustained growth and higher
skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: Swinson MPST

Sent: 25 November 2013 18:24

To: Hobson Claire (BRE); Gibson Will (ShEx)
Subject: FW: Ria - meeting request

Dear both

Apologies for the delay in sending.

Please could you confirm your thoughts with
regard to the below e-mail's meeting request
when you are able, as Joe seems to be very
keen and has contacted me today.

Thanks so much.

Ria

Ria Trott I Diary Secretary to Jo Swinson MP,
Minister for Employment Relations and Consumer
UKG100002168
UKGI00002168

Affairs I Department for Business, Innovation &
Skills I 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I

All emails and attachments sent by a member of the Private
Office to an official on behalf of a Minister relating to a
decision, request or comment made by a Minister, or a
briefing or note of a Ministerial meeting, must be filed
appropriately by the recipient in Matrix. Private Offices do not
keep official records of such emails or attachments.

From: Joe Moor I
Sent: 18 November 2013 16:
To: Swinson MPST

Subject: FAO: Ria - meeting request

4

Dear Ria

Further to our conversation earlier today, I am contacting
you on behalf of Fujitsu as they are keen to meet with
your minister to discuss a number of different issues,
which I will briefly outline below.

Two of Fujitsu’s execs, Simon Blagden and Gavin Bounds,
met briefly with your minister when she spoke at a
Business in the Community — BITC - fringe event at this
year’s Liberal Democrat Party Conference (the event was
supported by Fujitsu). With the view to seeking a more
substantial meeting, we did approach her Parliamentary
prior to the Conference; however, we were advised that
her diary was too full but to contact your predecessor,
Filder, which I am now doing!

Fujitsu’s executives are keen to meet your minister again
for a number of specific reasons, that cross both of her
departmental remits ie. BIS and DCMS:

- _ Firstly, as you may have seen in Saturday’s
Times, Fujitsu’s Chief Executive, Duncan Tait, is a
cosignatory of a letter highlighting a BITC
campaign called Opportunity Now — an initiative
seeks to address the gender balance at all levels
of organisations. More information can be found
at www.project2840.com

- Secondly, earlier this year, Fujitsu responded to
BIS’ Corporate responsibility: call for views —
providing details of the various CSR activity they,
as a company, are involved with

- And finally, the Post Office has been working
with Fujitsu since 1996, during which time it has
been central to the introduction of many new
UKG100002168
UKGI00002168

services, including; Chip and Pin terminals,
automated cash accounting, mobile phone e-top-
ups and the Smart Post system. Fujitsu has also
been the driving force behind the development
and deployment of the radical new IT and ePOS
infrastructure known as Horizon, and are also
supporting important initiatives, such as the
Crown Transformation programme with the
successful introduction of mail kiosks.

Given all the above, Simon Blagden, Fujitsu’s Non-
Executive Chairman for UK & Ireland, would like to
arrange a meeting with your minister whereby they can
provide her with a briefing on the work they do that is
directly relevant to her brief, as well as outlining some of
the critical infrastructure projects and services they
provide across other government departments. It would
also be a nice opportunity for him to introduce your
minister to Helen Lamb, one of Fujitsu’s Executive
Directors, who initially joined the company as a graduate.

I hope the above outlines all the information you require
and I look forward to hearing from you in due course.

With best wishes

A Joe Moor
Public Affairs

Portland House
Bressenden Place

London SW1E 5BH
grayling.com

Read our latest political e-bulletin

Grayling is the second largest independent Public Relations, Public Affairs,
Investor Relations and Events consultancy. We have offices in 70 locations in
40 countries across Europe, the US, the Middle East and Asia Pacific. Grayling
is part of Huntsworth ple.

Registered number: 3140273. Registered office: 15-17 Huntsworth Mews.
London, NW1 6DD

Virus checked for Grayling
UKG1I00002168
UKGI00002168

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically
logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes

UK Shared Business Services Ltd. Registered in England and Wales as a limited company. Company number
6330639. Registered Office: North Star House, North Star Avenue, Swindon, Wiltshire SN2 1FF.

UK Shared Business Services Ltd (UK SBS) is the new name for RCUK Shared Services Centre Ltd. While we
migrate all our materials to the new name and new identity please bear with us.

This email and any attachments are intended for the named addressee(s) only. If you are not the intended
recipient, please notify UK SBS immediately and do not disclose, distribute, or retain this email or any part of it.
While UK SBS has taken every reasonable precaution to minimise risk of this e-mail or any attachments
containing viruses, the recipient should carry out its own virus checks before opening the attachments. The
Company does not accept any liability for any losses or damages which the recipient may sustain due to
presence of any viruses. Any opinions expressed in this email (including attachments) are those of the author
and do not necessarily reflect the company's opinions. We will not accept responsibility for any commitments
made by our employees outside the scope of our business. The Company reserves the right to monitor all e-
mail communications through their networks for the purposes of preventing and detecting crime.

This message has been scanned by the iCritical Email Security Service.
For more information please visit http://www. iCritical.com

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
