UKG1I00019087
UKGI00019087

From: Razzell, Robert - UKGI

Sent: Tue, 4 May 2021 07:37:39 +0000
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Subject: FW: POL - Tim Parker

FYI

ig Razzell, Robert - UKGI
sagects rw

Dear Charles and Rob,

This is just to record my 50 minute conversation on Thursday, 29" April with Tim
Parker, the Chairman of POL. Its worth mentioning at the start the very positive
message he gave about Tom who he says deserves a great deal of respect for his
intellect, acumen and sheer hard work in the cause of POL. The following points were
discussed.

1. We didn’t discuss in detail the long chain of events that had led to the current
outcome. We did however talk at some length about culture and what they were
doing to change this at POL. I observed that it was my view that this issue, in its
many guises, lay at the heart of the problem. He started by saying that the seeds
of the dysfunctional relationship with post masters lay in the public sector
mindset of the past. Back in the Royal Mail days there was a military approach to
dealing with post masters which was that, far from seeing them as partners, it
was regarded as part of their duty “to stop anyone nicking our money”. This
mindset suggested that if there was a problem at a post-office it was the post-
masters fault. He said that the CEO and Team were putting enormous effort into
changing this mindset and getting a proper relationship with post masters. The
move to have post masters on the Board was part of this but only one small part.
They were genuinely trying to reset the relationship with post-masters, genuinely
engaging and consulting and coming up with deeds not words. He thought they
really were making progress here. I acknowledged that this was a large subject
but that purpose/culture and values were an integral part of developing and
executing a coherent strategy. [Charles, as we discussed this issue needs to be
woven into the POL portfolio work].

2. He said that they had had 60 Board meetings in the last year but that in his view
the Board had managed to stay cohesive through a hugely challenging time. He
described it as now as two separate businesses the normal Post Office business
and the resolution of the historic cases. He said this was placing extraordinary
stresses on the organisation and its capacity.

3. On the historic litigation he appeared to suggest that the recent outcome in Court
had some benefit in that it meant that there was greater certainty in how they
UKG1I00019087
UKGI00019087

dealt with any case where Horizon had been in point. He briefly said that while he
understood why BEIS wouldn't wish to manage the Historic Shortfall Scheme it
was very uncomfortable given the sums of public money involved. He did
however think they were making progress in this.

. On the enquiry he also seemed almost surprisingly sanguine about the outcome

on the basis that the changes they had, and were, putting in place would show a
substantial change and in his view make any chance of something like this ever
happening again very remote indeed. He felt that real progress had been made
and that, if asked, the biggest anxiety for post masters at present was their
concern over the new Royal Mail agreement.

. On the business outside the litigation he said that they had performed relatively

well through COVID with mails/parcels benefiting to make up for reduced cash
transit and hugely reduced travel. He thought their current year budget was
challenging but achievable assuming here was some reawakening of travel.

. On bench strength he acknowledged that, aside from the CEO, there was a good

deal of room for improvement. The team was not fantastic. We briefly discussed
the position of the CFO with which Tom is very familiar. He wants a pragmatic
outcome on this but also understands the political realities. I asked him about the
calibre of his top HR person and their team. Apparently the HR Director is away
on maternity leave but the interim is competent, in his view. He worries about
keeping the CEO motivated but thinks he is safe at present as he will want to see
through the changes being made.

. On Tom and the team and UKGI’s contribution, he was notably positive about

Tom’s contribution. He said he had had earned real respect for his intellect,
acumen and sheer hard work on behalf of POL. He had made a substantial
contribution on many issues. He suggested that Tom’s team lacked the same
experience and this sometimes led to frustrations at POL; this was in the context
of a bit of a complaint about over-managing POL. I pushed back immediately on
this and said he wouldn't expect anything differently at a private equity house if it
had suffered the issues that POL has had. I said trust had to be earned back. He
acknowledged this and said he understood it was a difficult balance.

. Looking to the future he wondered if there was a whole government view on what

POL could do for the nation given the scale of its network. He said he would like
our help in understanding this although he recognised that this was not an issue
for now. The area where he would particularly like our help is on resolving the
personnel issues and in trying to ensure that required investment in POL was not
diverted to pay for the historic litigation.

. On other issues he referenced the employment issues currently before the

employment tribunal. We didn’t discuss it in detail but he acknowledged that
there were difficult decisions to be made and the outcome was uncertain.

With best wishes

Robert
