UKG1I00009510
UKGI00009510

From: Vandini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services
Sent: Wed 10/04/2019 5:12:29 PM(UTC)

To:
5 Beal,
x]; Creswell, Carl
UKGi”
Ce: Aldred, Tom - UKGE “4
Subject: Re: Official Sensitive & Legally Privileged: Draft POL Litigation Update Sub - Recusal Decision,

Appeals etc

Richard, Tom,
Thank you for the clarifications and insightful additions to the briefing. Happy with it from BEIS perspective.

Thanks,
Cecilia

From: "Cooper, Tom - UKGI" < GRO
Date: Wednesday, 10 April 20ts-at-is:u6
To: "Watson, Richard - UKGI" <F~
and Services)" <;
“Watson, Craig (Advanced Manufacturin
(Advanced Manufacturing and ServicesI
Executive)"
Ce: "Aldred
Subject: RE: Official Sensitive & Legally Privilege
Appeals etc

Draft POL Litigation Update Sub - Recusal Decision,

In relation to the change to the legal team, can we add that we have been advocating change for some time and are
pleased that this change, which we expect will have a significant bearing on the way the litigation is conducted, has
been made.

Tom

Tom Cooper

Director

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

GRO.

E:
PA: Alexandra.Bower

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI
Sent: 10 April 2019 18:02
To: Vandini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services) <.

k>; Clarke, Stephen - UKGI
UKG1I00009510
UKGI00009510

nced Manufacturing and Services)

‘ox, Joshua -
UKGI <.. GR >
Ce: Aldred, Tom - UKG

Subject: RE: Official Sensitive & Legally Privileged: Draft POL Litigation Update Sub - Recusal Decision, Appeals etc
Steve

I have tracked some suggestions in the attached and included some comments. We might get some more clarity
tomorrow from POL regarding timings for appealing the Common issues judgment but at present the messaging
around that has become a little confused, hence my suggested deletions. I have also tried to include a line around the
decision to boost the legal team as raised by Cecilia in her below email. There will be additional legal costs but my
understanding is that POL are boosting, rather than changing, the legal team. The existing lawyers will remain on the
court record as acting for POL and the new lawyers will have an oversight/management/strategic role regarding the
litigation reporting directly to the board.

Kind regards
Richard

Richard Watson IGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Vandini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services,
Sent: 10 April 2019 17:09
To: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI

>; Watson, Richard - UKGI <_ GRO
‘atson, Craig (Advanced Manufact
vanced Manufacturing and Services) { GRO
‘ox, Joshua - UKGI

sal 5
Subject: Re: Official Sensitive & Legally Privileged: Draft POL Litigation Update Sub - Recusal Decision, Appeals etc

Thank you so much Stephen —I think it’s a very good and informative sub.
Just a thought: the Minister might appreciate being given more details as to why POL decided to change counsel — a
part for the logical reason (i.e. they’ve lost!)? Does it have to do with litigation techniques, tone used in the litigation

or what? Would you be able to include that info or have POL not shared their reasoning with you?

Also, will there be any additional incurred costs in changing legal counsel mid trial?
UKG1I00009510
UKGI00009510

Thanks,
Cecilia

Cecilia Vandini (BEIS) I Post Office Policy Lead, AMS

From: "Clarke, Stephen - UKGI" <
Date: Wednesday, 10 April 2019 a
To: "Watson, Richard - UKGI" <! "Cooper, Tom - UKGI"

oo >, "Watson, Craig (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)"

G RO >, "Beal, Eleanor (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)"
>, "Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive)" <
'Vandini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)"<i Fox, Joshua -

UKGI" > °
Cc: "Aldred, Tom - UKGI"
Subject: Official Sensitive & Legally Privileged: Draft POL Litigation Update Sub - Recusal Decision, Appeals
etc

All,

I attach a draft sub to update the Minister on latest developments since POL’s Recusal Application was lodged on 21
March. We’re awaiting confirmation from Private Office over whether the Minister would like this tomorrow or if it
can wait until Monday — the latter is our preference as it will allow us to incorporate tomorrow’s proceedings (the
Horizon Issues trial resumes briefly and POL is due to seek the Court of Appeal’s permission to appeal Justice Fraser’s
recusal decision).

In the meantime, grateful for any comments or suggestions as we may have to turn this round quickly once we get
news back from the Minister.

Thanks,
Stephen

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

