UKGI00016747
UKGI00016747

Shareholder

Executive
HM Government Commercial — In Confidence

Minutes of Shareholder Executive Board

Meeting held on Wednesday 21 November 2012 at 15.00

Members Patrick O'Sullivan (Chair) (PO’S) Attendees: Michael Fallon MP (MF)]
present: Claudia Arney (CA) Roger Lowe (Item 2) (RL)

Gerry Grimstone (GG)

Jeremy Pocklington (JP)

Tony Watson (TW) Secretary: Peter Batten

Lord Carter (LC)

Stephen Lovegrove (SL)

Anthony Odgers (AO) Apologies: None

Mark Russell (MR)

1. Apologies for absence, Chair’s welcome and introduction, minutes
from last meeting, declarations of interest

1.1.POS opened the meeting, welcoming the Minister and introducing him
to the Board members.

1.2. The Minister spoke highly about ShEx’s work, but queried whether BIS
and Government more widely was using ShEx as a resource
effectively. [action] The Minister asked whether Whitehall presented

any barriers to ShEx’s operation, and called on ShEx to play a full role
in all areas of the Industrial Strategy (IS).

1.3. The Board noted that BIS and DECC do use ShEx expertise
effectively, and that the Minister was right to see ShEx as Corporate
Finance resource for Government. Noting the greater awareness of
corporate finance across Whitehall, CA cautioned against encouraging
OGD duplication of the ShEx model, noting the inefficiency of
duplication, and the risk of diluting corporate finance expertise across
Government.

— The Minister left the meeting —
2. Chief Executive’s Report

2.1. Introducing his report, SL noted his meeting with Lord Browne who
had expressed his frustration that the full potential of Departmental
NEDs was not being fully realised, further noting that the success of
the Departmental Boards was due in large part to the effectiveness of
the Departmental SoS. GG noted that the success of the MoD Board
was a result of its independence from Whitehall, allowing it to operate
more freely and effectively.
— TW joined the meeting —

2.2.LC and GG suggested that the Cabinet Office approach to Civil
Service Reform had been suboptimal. It was noted that the Cabinet
Office was also struggling to exercise appropriate discretion in
mandating particular reforms across Whitehall.

2.3.POS asked whether there was the possibility of using Department
Lead NEDs to target IS priorities. SL suggested that the effectiveness
of an IS depended on the size of the administrative unit, and that the
Westminster Government faced difficulties in picking specific sectors
as this was likely to run into political complications. JP agreed, noting
that IS suffers from the ‘catch all’ nature of politics, but suggested
there is a key role for BIS in choosing sectors.

2.4.SL noted that there has been a step-change in the nature of
approaches from other Government Departments, citing examples
from DfT, CLG and DoH. POS noted that the Board has previously
discussed the matter and the advice had been to ‘be careful’ not to
over-stretch.

2.5.LC expressed the need for particularly careful handling of the DfT
West Coast franchise team, noting there is a reputational risk if the
exercise is publicly seen to be a ‘chair shuffling’ exercise. GG voiced
concern that further expansion would leave ShEx’s management team
spread too thinly. MR noted that with a headcount around the 100

mark, ShEx is already very large and agreed that expansion was risky.

CA warned against overburdening a highly functional part of
Government to the point that it becomes dysfunctional.

2.6.SL explained that Royal Mail had initiated a soft market testing
exercise to investigate the possibility of an IPO, with findings to be
reported by Christmas. SL noted that ShEx has been clear with the
company that all options are to remain on the table.

2.7.GG noted his concern that market testing at this stage can be tricky
owing to the difficulty to ask potential investors questions that don’t
prejudice a future transaction decision. SL explained that ShEx is
aware of the risk, but noted that the window for a transaction is being
driven by the electoral cycle, and that there was, on balance, an
argument in favour of proceeding with soft market testing. SL also
noted that he had personally called all the investment banks to make
clear that an IPO is not the only option being considered.

2.8. The Board noted that STJ (who are advising the company) have been
tasked with coaching the company into telling the equity story to
potential investors. The company is planning to meet the investment
banks in early December. The Board noted GG’s proposal that ShEx
should consider re-procuring the advisers, but MR cautioned that
ShEx had to carefully manage the relationship with the company’s
management team.

UKGI00016747
UKGI00016747
UKGI00016747
UKGI00016747

2.9. [action] SL committed to send a minute to the Minister noting the
Board's opinion on the outcome of the market testing. POS noted that
the company’s Chair had agreed to step down from one of his other
Chairmanships. It was also noted that the company had reported
strong half year results, however it was noted that these were being
driven by better than expected revenue growth, which was masking
lower than planned cost reduction.

— RL left the meeting —

21

IRRELEVANT

215 i

UKGI00016747
UKGI00016747

3. Information Economy

UKGI00016747
UKGI00016747

4. Business Bank

IRRELEVANT

-Jt

4.4)

4.5.

5. PDG Assets Update

5.1. The Board did not discuss the PDG Assets paper.

ShEx Board Secretary
November 2012
UKGI00016747
UKGI00016747

6. Actions

Completed actions

Minute I Action point Due Status
ref. I eee date
1.2

Outstanding actions

Agend I Action point Action Due Status

a Item officer date

Sept
2012

= IRRELEVANT

