UKGI00004506

UKG100004506
RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL
To: Secretary of State
From: Tim McInnes Bl S :
Date: 12 June 2015 innovation Skil

Purpose: You are meeting Paula Vennells, POL’s CEO, on Monday 15 June at 15:00 for
an introductory meeting. This submission provides you with a summary of the key points
you or POL might want to raise, in addition to some background information.

Meeting Attendees (see Annex B for biographies):

e Paula Vennells, Chief Executive Officer, POL
e Al Cameron, Chief Financial Officer, POL

Background: This is your first meeting with Paula Vennells since you became Secretary
of State. Paula typically meets the Post Office Minister (now Baroness Neville-Rolfe) 2-3
times a year but meets the Secretary of State less frequently.

As this is an introductory meeting Paula will want to focus on giving you an overview of
Post Office, including progress that has been made against their financial plan and
strategy and a summary of the challenges that have been faced (and what POL is doing to
respond to these).

She may also want to hear your views on recent developments between POL and NS&I
related to the planned withdrawal of Premium Bonds from Post Offices and also on the
work POL has been doing with the BBA and banks to develop standardised services for
UK current account holders (i.e. responding to bank branch closures).

In addition she will be particularly keen to understand your views on Government policy
for POL and particularly the balance between social and commercial drivers. The
Conservative Party Manifesto stated that it would “secure the future of 3,000 rural Post
Offices”.

See Annex A for background on key areas that Paula may raise with you.

Note: Paula met Baroness Neville-Rolfe for the first time on Thursday 11 June and the
Minister will also be attending POL’s Board Away Day on Wednesday 17 June.

Briefing Annexes and Supporting Information Contents
e Annex A: Possible Agenda Points for Discussion

e Annex B: Biographies of POL Attendees
e Supplementary Information
