UKG100049038
UKGI00049038

To: Gratton, Lorna - UKGIf
From: Amanda Burtoni:

Sent: 2024-01-20T13:21:47Z
Importance: Normal

Subject: Fwd: SID

Received: 2024-01-20T13:21:58Z

Wow! Just to be clear I haven't been involved in any vote to appoint Andrew. This is a mess! Amanda
Sent from Outlook for iOS

From: Henry Staunton
Sent: Saturday, Januar’
To: Benjamin Tidswell }
Al da Burt .

Andrew Darfoor
} Simon Jeffreys:

Cc: Rachel Scarrabelotti ¢
Subject: SID

Following the decision to appoint an internal candidate the vote was to appoint Andrew as our SID .
Congratulations to Andrew . Of course this requires an approval by the NomsCo and Board and then UKGI and
others .

Rachel will put the headhunters on hold on Monday . Lorna will inform UKGI of our decision to change course
and I will inform the Chair and CEO of UKGI when I meet them on Tuesday . There are other procedures to go
through with DBT .

Even in the last days or so there has been plenty happening particularly from organisations representing Post
Masters . Our "Post Master centric " strategy already looks as if it may need to be adapted . I will ask Rachel to
copy you with the relevant letters from Post Master organisations .

There will be plenty to discuss at our private meeting with just Nick and the NEDs . This will need to be before
the Board and Nick has kindly adapted the Agenda to allow us time for a 90 minute meeting if we need the time
. We need to try and get on the front foot in due course so all your thoughts would be helpful .

Have a good weekend .
Henry

Sent from Outlook for iOS

FER FEF RR FR RR ER RR ERR 2K FF S024 OO CDR CR a aa

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 100 Wood Street,
London, EC2V 7ER.

SFO I ACCOR ACCC RR A CR A CCR CARR OR AK 2 2A CR COR oA Ao a a a

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on
our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy
