UKGI00005060
UKGI00005060

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=73D8709345C441479FOD7E2ADCE207C9-

LATHOMPS]
Sent: Thur 16/07/2015 12:00:36 PM (UTC)
To: Neville-Rolfe MPST;
Ce: ; Callard Richard
McInnes Tim (ShEx)f
Dollin Michael (Shareholder

‘olfe MPST Correspondence[;

Subject: RE: Post Office Horizon Meeting
Hi Andrew

We spoke —I suggest that if the Minister would like to reply by email she should give a slightly fuller reply along the
lines below. As with Mr Bridgen’s note, this should be copied to Kevan Jones as well.

“Thank you for your note, and for attending the meeting yesterday. The Post Office have a legal duty to disclose any
information which could undermine a conviction or assist an individual’s defence, and they comply with that duty
fully. Furthermore, the Post Office have committed publicly on more than one occasion, including the previous BIS
Select Committee, that they will not destroy any documentation relating to this matter. They have also repeated that
commitment to me.

I am reflecting further on yesterday’s meeting and I will be in touch to follow up. I would like to reiterate what I said
yesterday about encouraging you both to take up Post Office’s offer to meet you individually to discuss the individual
cases you raised. I have asked Post Office to write you to on this.”

Let me know if any questions. I’d just add that I think the Minister should take quite a serious view of the allegations
that Mr Bridgen makes, which are serious and unfounded, accusing POL of deliberately destroying evidence.

Statements like this from MPs are unfounded and do serious damage to the business.

Thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Sent: 16 July 2015 11:21

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Cc: Javid MPST; Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Baugh James (ShEx); Dollin Michael (Shareholder
Executive); Neville-Rolfe MPST Correspondence

Subject: RE: Post Office Horizon Meeting

Importance: High

Laura,
Baroness Neville-Rolfe would like to reply to Andrew Bridgen’s e-mail in the following terms:
“Thank you for your note. The Post Office have made a public commitment to me and previously I understand to the

BIS Select Committee that they will not destroy documentation from Second Sight. I am reflecting further on
yesterday’s meeting”
UKGI00005060
UKGI00005060

Kind regards

Smith

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 16 July 2015 09:36

To: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Cc: Javid MPST; Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Baugh James (ShEx); Dollin Michael (Shareholder
Executive); Neville-Rolfe MPST Correspondence

Subject: RE: Post Office Horizon Meeting

Thanks Andrew — I am preparing a note for the Minister for today’s box in which I am proposing she writes to Mr
Bridgen so I will include a response to these accusations in that response. The short answer is that Post Office have
already committed on several occasions, including to the BIS Select Committee, that they will not destroy
documentation relating to this matter,

Thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Sent: 16 July 2015 09:33

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Cc: Javid MPST; Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Baugh James (ShEx); Dollin Michael (Shareholder
Executive); Neville-Rolfe MPST; Neville-Rolfe MPST Correspondence

Subject: FW: Post Office Horizon Meeting

Laura,

Following the meeting yesterday please see correspondence below from Andrew Bridgen MP. We will need a draft
reply.

Kind regards

¥a Andrew Smith

Department
for Business

Innovation & Skills Deprtment for Business, Innovation and Skills, 1 Victoria Street, SW1H
OET
www.gov.uk/bis I @bisgovuk I blogs.bis.gov.uk
BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

Please note: in line with Cabinet Office guidance MPST does not keep records of Ministerial business. Responsibility for storing
records sits with the relevant departmental team. Please ensure you are familiar with what records you need to be keeping and
are storing them appropriately.
UKGI00005060
UKGI00005060

From: BRIDGEN, Andrew I GRO
Sent: 16 July 2015 09:17

To: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Cc: JONES, Kevan

Subject: Post Office Horizon Meeting

Dear Baroness Neville-Rolfe,

Further to our meeting yesterday, I remain very concerned about the Post Office’s reluctance to allow questioning of
Second Sight following their forensic investigation into this matter. I have grave fears that during the summer recess,
the Post Office will request that Second Sight destroy documentation which could potentially expose the failings that I
and many colleagues believe exist with the Horizon systems and the ensuing prosecutions. I would therefore request
that you take whatever steps you can to ensure that the Post Office do not order any action to Second Sight to destroy
documents documents, so should for instance the BIS Select Committee choose to investigate this matter, they will be
able to do so with all the Second Sight investigation papers available.

Kind Regards,
Andrew Bridgen

8 Andrew Bridgen MP
Member of Parliament for North West Leicestershire

5
é

House of Commons
London
SWIA 0AA

UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
