UKG1I00018641
UKGI00018641

From: Adegun, Oluwatosin - UKGI

Sent: Thu, 10 Oct 2019 07:13:21 +0000

To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Subject: Re: Readout - Perm Sec meeting with Nick Read, 30th Sept
Thanks Tom

Sent from my iPhone

On 10 Oct 2019, at 00:21, Cooper, Tom - UKGI <} GRO > wrote:

In case you haven’t seen this already.

Tom

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Permanent Secretary << “GRO
Date: 2 October 2019 at 10:54:57 CEST
To: "Bhargava, Pranita (BEIS)" <_

3, "Aldred, Tom - UKGI"
Cooper, Tom - UKGI"

Ce: “Creswell, Carl (Professional Business Services, Retail & Post
Directorate)" "Munby, Sarah (BEIS)"
olhurst (Private Office)"

want? "SpAds Office (Private Office)"
Permanent Secretary

b

Subject: Readout - Perm Sec meeting with Nick Read, 30th Sept

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE: COMMERCIAL
Good morning all,

Please see readout from Monday’s meeting between Perm Sec and
Nick Read, to be found below my signature.

Many thanks to everyone who contributed to the briefing and thanks in
particular to UKGI colleagues for pulling together a very helpful
quarterly update.
Best wishes,

Oliver

Oliver Page I Private Secretary to Alex Chisholm, Permanent
Secretary peeenennneerncicennnnnnnnnnny
E: Oliver.Pagé __GRO

Department foi nergy and Industrial Strategy

Meeting Note: Permanent Secretary / Nick Read — 30th September
2019

The Perm Sec met with Nick Read on 30' September for an
introductory meeting, with Carl Creswell also in attendance.

Alex and Nick had an open and frank discussion about areas of
concern and the challenges that lie ahead for POL. Alex outlined his
expectations of Nick as CEO and POL more widely, including the
importance of POL living up to a public standard, Nick’s responsibilities
as Accounting Officer, and using the litigation judgment as an
opportunity to accelerate much-needed change. Nick appeared ‘all
ears’ and responded positively to Alex’s comments.

Nick's initial reflections

Alex asked Nick to share some of his initial reflections from his first few
weeks, in particular around problem areas and challenges.

¢ Nick reflected first that there appears to be a certain lack of
direction and lack of clarity over prioritisation within POL. This
was likely due in part, Nick claimed, to POL holding off on taking
decisions in anticipation of his arrival.

e Nick mentioned further points around the need to better
manage finances (especially internal visibility) and improve
capability in certain areas, particularly around scoping and
delivering change.

« Other observations:

o POL is a product-siloed business — need to drive more
harmonisation.

o ‘Litigation overhang’ weighs on the minds of staff.

o Need to deliver for postmasters — reset the relationship.

o Struck by the loyalty and enthusiasm of staff working for
POL.

Outline of 100-day plan

UKG1I00018641
UKGI00018641
Nick stressed that his overarching aim was to make POL fit for purpose
for the next 5-10 years. He welcomed BEIS’s policy work on its long-
term vision and said he was keen that POL and BEIS'’s work are
aligned. Nick listed the following key components for his 100-day plan:

e Establish clear purpose / vision — mentioned feedback from
colleagues on ‘lack of clarity’ around mission.

e Strategic clarity - POL must be clear on what businesses it is in
and in what guise. Little bit of trying to do everything at the
moment.

e Change prioritisation — what horses do we want to back?

¢ Organisational development

BEIS expectations and immediate priorities

Alex set out his expectations of Nick as CEO of POL, introducing the
Nolan principles and guidance on managing public money.
Recognising Nick’s lack of experience in this area, Alex stressed that
he should lean on BEIS for this if ever unsure, especially for anything
that is ‘novel, contentious or repercussive’.

Alex also took the opportunity to share some negative observations
from recent times.
« Litigation

o Alex gave his view on how POL had handled the
litigation, recounting that POL were initially very
confident and seemingly dismissive of BEIS concerns —
recusal attempt was not a good call.

o The judgment was very critical of both POL’s culture and
the way they had conducted the litigation — the main
thing was to show that POL has since taken on board
findings and taking steps to reset relationship with
postmasters.

o This is not ‘win some / lose some’ but rather need to think
hard about what it says about the organisation and its
culture. Alex recommended that Nick use this as an
opportunity to accelerate change. He might also wish to
tefer to the Glass Door initiative and measure staff
reactions to change.

o Alex stressed that there is likely to be anger and
indignation in the event of a negative judgment so POL
should try to get ahead of this. Nick agreed and
acknowledged need for robust handling and to show that

POL as an organisation is moving in the right direction.

« Bonuses
o POL recommendation of 100% did not reflect well on
group — left Alex with sense that POL team viewing
judgment as not their responsibility.

UKG1I00018641
UKGI00018641
UKG1I00018641
UKGI00018641

o Alex mentioned the potential fallout in press, if POL had
taken decision to issue 100% bonuses.

e Succession-planning

o Alex commented that previous POL succession plans
had not been strong enough; Nick would wish to ensure
stronger plans were in place for the future.

Other areas of discussion

e Alex referenced BEIS work on POL strategy / vision, noting that
we are going to try to be clearer on what we want from the
business. He admitted that engagement had perhaps been
inconsistent in the past.

e Alex highlighted the wider public, political and social interest in
POL - Post Offices as ‘last ones standing’ with other
businesses busy exiting high street.

« Alex noted the positive direction of POL financials — subsidies
have been going down and broadly 80% of the way there. Big
positives around the franchising programme and resetting
relationship with banks but thinking to be done about certain
products e.g. telco. Nick agreed with this.

e Nick also mentioned a concern he has about the resilience of
one retailer.

e Ways of working between POL, BEIS and UKGI.

o UKGI represents the Government's shareholder interest
in assets — they have expertise in corporate finance /
banking and ensure aligned approach across Govt.

o BEIS manage policy, vision and advise Ministers on the
issues of interest from politicians.

o UKGI and BEIS working on ‘framework document’ which
will reflect triangular relationship and include stronger
provisions on information-sharing.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud
service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

