UKGI00007909
UKGI00007909

UKGI Dashboard April 2018

Introduction

This note summaries the main updates and changes to the dashboard. ExCo are invited to review and
comment.

Whilst the portfolio process was being adapted, the dashboard text, but not the traffic lights, were updated
and shared with ExCo and the UKGI board in January 2018. The previous full update was in June 2017. Given
the time elapsed between comprehensive updates, we asked the teams to highlight major milestones or risks
which have been reached or mitigated. The dashboard will be shared with the UKGI board for information at
the 16 May meeting.

Current updates

Having reviewed the responses to the questions which underpin the traffic lights, the following points are for
ExCo’s attention.

© The Post Office is showing red for departmental relationship and UKGI are currently in discussions
with BEIS on its shareholder role for POL. The team feel that there is not currently sufficient senior
sponsorship in the Department working on POL.

Deletions/Additions

UKGI00007909
UKGI00007909

Background and changes

As part of the portfolio process review the dashboard has been reviewed and the following changes have
been implemented, principally to align with the updated portfolio review process.

* The dashboard entries had become very task-focused; they are now forward-looking and teams are
requested to define UKGI’s overarching objective and evaluate the priorities, quarterly objectives,
risks and contextual factors for UKGI.

© The “advice” and “other/board role” sections now have specific questions to allow ExCo and the
UKGI board to clearly see UKGI’s role/purpose, skills required for the role and expected time
commitment. This will help ExCo to assess whether UKGI should continue with the role and that the
appropriate person is fulfilling that role.

«The traffic lights for the governance entries have been amended to be clearer as to what is being
measured, and to complement, rather than overlap with, the dashboard entries. The following
changes have been made:

Formerly Updated
Shareholder ——————— Company
Relationship Relationship

Implementation of es Governance
Shareholder Model
Quality of
Management

Team & Board Team & Board

Quality of >
Management

_ Departmenta
Strategy I Relationship
Financial —— es Financial

Performance Performance
UKGI00007909
UKGI00007909

Balance
_ ——* Sheet & Risk
Sheet & Risk eer
