UKGI00042040
UKGI00042040

Message

From: Martin Edwards:

Sent: 17/10/2013 09:23:04

To: Whitehead Mike (ShEx!

cc: Batten Peter (ShEx)i

Subject: RE: Horizon: Review and Mediation Scheme
Hi Mike

We have now received 46 applications from sub-postmasters for the mediation scheme since it was opened at the end
of August. 37 of the application have been accepted on to the scheme and we are now awaiting full submissions from

the sub-postmasters in question before proceeding to the next stage. The remainder require additional information or
are in legal processes which exclude them from joining at this time. The application closure date is the 18" November.

As discussed with Will last week, we are in the final stages of appointing Sir Anthony Hooper as the independent chair
and expect to have him in place by the end of October.

We should probably have a longer catch-up on the mediation scheme and the wider project in the next week or so.

Thanks,
Martin

From: Whitehead Mike (ShEx)
Sent: 16 October 2013 11:20
To: Mike Granville

Cc: Martin Edwards; Susan Crichton; Batten Peter (ShEx); Gibson Will (ShEx)
Subject: Horizon: Review and Mediation Scheme

Mike

It would be helpful to have, for background purposes and possible enquires from Jo (we have a
couple of Horizon related Minster's cases in the pipeline), some information on the progress of the
Mediation scheme - numbers of cases submitted for review, numbers accepted, numbers of
mediations that have so far taken place (and with what result/success). And has an independent
Chair appointment been made?

Regards

Mike

Mike Whitehead
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills
Shareholder Executive
Royal Mail and Postal Services
1 Victoria Street
SW1H OET

UKGI00042040
UKGI00042040

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
