UKG100000930
UKGI00000930

Message
From: Ministerial Advice Team [/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=3759732953E24C9B9CSF1DE41AAA3D38-MINISTERI]
Sent: 3/12/2015 10:05:37 AM
To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive: Cable MPST
Swinson MPS
cc: Hancock MPST. Clark MPST. Neville-Rolfe MPST
i Hancock MPST.
Perm Sec (BIS)
thony (ShEx)
McInnes Tim (ShEx)
_jBaugh James (ShEx) i § Parly Unit - Others
Franklin-Wallis Hanna
Subject:
HI Laura,

As discussed (and pre-empted) No10 have indeed asked that the SofS write in response to James Arbuthnot’s questions
at PMQs yesterday. As you have already mentioned (below) that these should/could be copied to the PM, please can a
copy be sent to the MAT which I can forward on to the PMQ team.

Mr James Arbuthnot (North East Hampshire) (Con):

Is my right hon. Friend aware that in connection with the Post Office mediation scheme, the Post Office has just
sacked the independent investigator, Second Sight, and told it to destroy all its papers? Does he agree that it is
essential that Second Sight’s second report should not be suppressed, but should be supplied to sub-postmasters
and MPs, starting with the hon. Member for West Bromwich West (Mr Bailey) and the Business, Innovation
and Skills Select Committee?

The Prime Minister:

My right hon. Friend makes an important point. I know that he has consistently raised the concerns of some
sub-postmasters about the operation of the Post Office IT system and the matter of the Post Office mediation
scheme. The Business Committee is currently taking evidence on this issue, and it should be given all the
relevant information. The Government should not interfere with the independent mediation process, but I will
ask the Business Secretary to write to my right hon. Friend about his concern and to ensure that the Business
Committee can do its job properly.

Kind regards,

Abdurrahman Tavernier.
Deputy Head, Ministerial Advice Team I © : hmovation & Ski

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 11 March 2015 14:50

To: Cable MPST; Swinson MPST

Cc: Hancock MPST.; Clark MPST; Neville-Rolfe MPST; SPAD Cable MPST; SPAD Hancock MPST.; SPAD Clark MPST; Perm
Sec (BIS); Russell Mark (ShEx); Odgers Anthony (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Baugh James
(ShEx); Parly Unit - Others; Franklin-Wallis Hannah (Communications); Murphy Christina (Communications); Ministerial
Advice Team

Subject: Submission to Secretary of State and Jo Swinson on Post Office mediation scheme

Importance: High
UKG100000930
UKGI00000930

Tara, Tracey

Please see attached submission and draft letters, which is being sent jointly to the Secretary of State and Jo Swinson. It
concerns the Post Office mediation scheme and the intervention by James Arbuthnot MP at PMQs today. Thank you
both for extending the box deadline.

I'd be grateful if this could go to both Ministers today. We recommend a prompt reply to Mr Arbuthnot (and to Alan
Bates from Jo Swinson) — ideally these letters should issue tomorrow, Thursday, if possible please. I have attempted to
provide some background in the submission for the Secretary of State’s benefit, but do please let me know if he requires

any additional information.

Abdurrahman, Georgie — I am recommending that we copy the letter from SoS to Mr Arbuthnot to the PM and DPM
(given this was raised at PMQs) and also to Adrian Bailey. Please let me know if any concerns/questions on that.

Many thanks

Laura

Laura Thompson
BIS, t Street, L
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

