UKGI00017300
UKGI00017300

®

[Date]

Ms $ Storey.

Dear Susannah

Non-Executive Director of Post Office Ltd

I am writing to confirm the terms of your appointment as Non Executive Director of Post
Office Ltd (registered no 2154540) “the Company”.

1. Term of Appointment

(a) You shall serve the Company as a Non-Executive Director for a three-year
period from [Date] subject to annual review and notice. In this connection, the
terms and conditions of your appointment are set out below, it being agreed
that this is a contract for services and not a contract of employment.

(b) Your appointment is subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association of
the Company.

2. Expenses

The position is to be unremunerated but, subject to the Articles of Association, the
Company shall reimburse you for all reasonable travelling, hotel and incidental
expenses, which you may incur in performing your duties.

3. Powers and Duties

(a) You shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are appropriate
to your role as Non-Executive Director of the Company.

(b) You shall comply with all reasonable directions from, and all regulations of,
the Company including, without limitation, regulations with respect to
confidentiality, dealings in shares and notifications required to be made by a
director to the Company or any other regulatory body under the Companies
Acts, the Articles or any other regulations of the Company. You will also
observe the terms and conditions of the City Code on Takeovers and
Mergers and the rules of the UK Listing Authority.

www.postoffice.co.uk

UKGI00017300
UKGI00017300

[Date]
Ms S Storey

2

4. Conduct

It is essential that you are, and are seen to be, honest and impartial in the exercise
of your duties. You must not allow your judgement or integrity to be compromised
or permit there to arise any reasonable grounds for the suspicion as to compromise
of your judgement and integrity.

5. Confidential Information
(A) You shall not, either during the term of your appointment as a director or thereafter:

(i) use to the detriment or prejudice of the group of companies of which Royal Mail
Holdings plc is the ultimate parent (“the Group”) or divulge or communicate to
any person any trade secret or any other confidential information concerning
the business or affairs of the Company or the Group (except to employees or
directors of the Group whose province it is to know the same) which may have
come to your knowledge during the term of your appointment; or

(ii) use for your own purpose or for any other purposes other than those of the
Group any information or knowledge of a confidential nature, which you may
from time to time acquire in relation to any member of the Group. This
restriction shall cease to apply to any information or knowledge, which may
come into the public domain (except through your default).

(B) During the term of your appointment as a director, you shall not be or become a
director or employee or agent of any enterprise, or have or acquire any material
financial interest in any enterprise, which competes or is likely to compete or has a
significant business relationship with any member of the Group without the prior
consent of the Royal Mail Holdings plc Board in writing (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed).

6. Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance

Royal Mail Holdings plc has taken out insurance cover on behalf of the Group for
directors’ and officers’ liabilities. Full details of this cover can be obtained from the
Company Secretary.

7. Termination of Appointment

Your appointment shall terminate on the earliest of:-

(a) on the date of expiry of the period specified in clause 1(a);
UKGI00017300
UKGI00017300

®

[Date]
Ms S Storey

3
(b) your ceasing to be a director for any reason pursuant to the Articles or any
other applicable law.

8. Return of Papers

You shall promptly, whenever requested by the Company, and in any event upon
your ceasing to be a director of the Company deliver up to the Company all lists of
clients or customers, correspondence and all other documents, papers and records
which may have been prepared by you or have come into your possession as a
director of the Company. You shall not retain copies. Title and copyright therein
shall vest in the Company.

9. Con‘

's of Interest

You must declare to the Shareholder Executive, any personal or business interest
which may, or may be perceived (by a reasonable member of the public) to
influence your judgement in performing your functions and obligations under this
agreement. These interests included, without limitation, personal direct and
indirect pecuniary interests and any such interests of your close family members
and / or people living in the same household as you or as your close family
members.

It will be your responsibility to withdraw from any discussions where you have any
interest that may, or may be perceived to, influence your judgement.

All information on potential conflicts of interest will be held by the Company
Secretary's office and could be disclosed to the public under the Freedom of
Information Act (2000). In entering into this agreement and accepting this
appointment you thereby consent to this disclosure.

10. Review Process

The performance of individual directors and the whole Board and its Committees is
formally evaluated annually. If in the interim, there are any matters which cause you
concern about your role you should discuss them with the Chairman or the Company
Secretary as soon as is appropriate.

Yours sincerely

Alwen Lyons
Company Secretary
UKGI00017300
UKGI00017300

[Date]
Ms S Storey

4

I accept the terms of appointment as set out above.

Dates ieeeeceeeeceeteeeeeeteeeeeetteeeeetee cena
