Justice For Subpostmasters Alliance

Mr Edward Davey MP. Alan Bates
Minister for Postal Affairs

Department for Business, Innovation & Skills
1 Victoria Street

LONDON

‘SW1H OET

GRO.

20 May 2010

Dear Mr Davey

1am writing to you with regard to your position as Minister for Postal Affairs on behalf of the
Justice For Subpostmasters Alliance (JFSA).

We are an independent group of ex and serving subpostmasters who have suffered at the
hands of the Post Office and their Horizon system ever since it was first installed. Our website
5fsa.0rg.uk outlines how we came about and our aims, as well as offering sample cases that
were provided by some of the group. Currently the group numbers close to 100, though we
Continue to be joined by others who have learnt of JFSA and have found that there is nowhere
else to turn for help.

In every instance the Post Office acts as Judge, jury and executioner and the individual is
deserted by their reputedly representative organization The National Federation of
Subpostmasters. Invariably these cases all stem from the flaws of the Horizon system the
Post Office introduced and which they refuse to admit has ever suffered from a single
problem.

The evidence is there to be found by anyone in a position of being able to unlock doors
instead of placing barriers in the way of those pursuing the information. Our organization has
acress to @ number of specialists who could provide the questions and analyze the resulting
data if required. Though an independent external investigation instigated at Ministerial level
would be the most appropriate, and would without any doubt easily find evidence of the error
ridden system.

Tam sure that you appreciate that there is not a single computer system that does not from
time to time suffer from errors, especially when at the size and the level of complexity of the
Programs associated with the Horizon system. The Post Office blindly state that there are not,
nor have there ever been any system errors, so subsequently anything wrong Is entirely the
responsibilty of the subpostmaster as that is what they have agreed to when signing their
eomtract. This is a contract that was produced in 1994 and does not address nor indentity new
technology, but they are still using it to intimidate and prosecute subpostmasters.

UKGI00016119
UKGI00016119

UKGI00016119
UKGI00016119

The weight of evidence we have been collating over the years continues to grow and gain in
Standing, itis only the fiat refusal of the Post Office to allow experts to examine the system
which is holding back this major scandal from breaking. But with the growing numbers in
JFSA and the support we are now finding from the IT community and the media itis just a
matter of time until the real truth about the Post Office and Horizon is exposed.

Over the years I have Personally submitted written details of all this to the select committee of
the DTI, and then on two other occasions to that of BERR, and put simply, the information has
either been buried or disappeared. Others of JFSA have followed the route of contacting their
MP's who would take the matter up with the Post Office on their behalf. Subsequently they
are stonewalled or ‘handled’ by the Post Office often with off the shelf answers where they
only change the name and address.

In writing to you on behalf of the group, I am asking for a meeting where we can present our
case to you. Much has appeared in the press over the last few days that Government is going
to change, I only hope that is true. If it is, the abuse of subpostmasters that has been going
on under the protection of the previous Government may well come to an end.

T look forward to hearing from you.

Yoursssincerely. aa

Chairman
Justice For Subpostmasters Association

