From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Sent: Fri, 6 Dec 2019 18:03:09 +0000

To: Creswell, Carl (Professional Business Services, Retail & Post Directorate)
Subject: Re: GLO - Mediation Update - confidential and legally privileged

Ok

Sent from my iPhone

On 6 Dec 2019, ai

I (Professional Business Services, Retail & Post

Directorate) SGRO “> wrote:

Thanks, Tom.

On that basis, shall I ask Alex to agree that POL go above the £48m but only up to
£65m (including all costs)? And you ask HMT formally?

Carl

Get Outlook for iOS ne .
From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI < GRO >
Sent: Friday, December 6, 2019 5:21:34 PM
To: Fleming, Joshua - HMT <
(Professional Business Services, Retail & Post Directorate)

; Creswell, Carl

>; Watson, Richard - UKGI
hisholm, Alex (BEIS) _
__ Scott, Joshua - UKGI ¢
Mediation Update - confidential ani

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Ben Foat <I
Date: 6 December 2019 at 17
To: Tim Parker

“>, "Cooper, Tom -
Nick Read

"Emanuel, Catherine"
»Rodric Williams
‘>, andrew.parsons

UKG100018728
UKG100018728
UKG100018728
UKG100018728

>, Patrick Bourke
>, Melanie Corfield
>, "Lord, William"

Subject: GLO - Mediation Update - confidential and legally
privileged

All

The parties have made little progress today. The mediators have spent
the majority of the day with the claimants again.

The claimants are at 60m + 5.5m ClJ costs. Post Office remains at
45m + 5.5m.

We have made it clear that the mediation will end COB Monday (as we
need to put pressure on the claimants to respond and these
proceedings do in fact need to end at some point particularly with the
election and authority issues which that may cause).

Next Steps

1. We will respond to their amended settlement deed over the
weekend and we have requested the other side to have their
finalised position in relation to the settlement deed by Monday
morning. I will make sure that the joint statement is provided to
Patrick as soon as they have provided it us. They are yet to do
so.

2. The parties will provide what they say are their proposed final
offers (which are not necessarily the final offer in reality) to the
mediators on a confidential basis. We are likely to go to £50
+5.5m ClJ costs such that if the other side does the same ie
£55m +5.5m ClJ costs then ultimately the parties could spilt the
difference at £52.5 +5.5m ClJ costs. Consequently, I will need
authority from Tom, Tim and Nick over the weekend or first
thing on Monday to make the offer of £50m. You will note that
these amounts are within the authority provided by the Board
Sub-Committee. I will also need Tom, Tim and Nick to be
available to make any subsequent offers throughout the day on
Monday.

Do let me know if you have any further queries in the meantime. Happy
to discuss later this evening or over the weekend if you need.

Kind regards
Ben

> Ben Foat
Group General Counsel
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile :

JOR RRC IC A ICR ICCC RR CCR A CR CCR A CR CIR A CCR CR A CO
eof foo ook ak aa

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no
2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street,
London EC2Y 9AQ.

FER A CC Rf ER CR fA Rf oR CER A OR CE
eof fa ok ok a ao

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy.
Information about how we do this can be found on our website at

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to
whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in
error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email
communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and
for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

UKG1I00018728
UKGI00018728
