UKGI00017188
UKGI00017188

UKGI-BP-336a

UKGI Board Evaluation
Headlines

The Board was, in effect, a merger between two pre-existing Boards with very different roles.
It is relatively new — three years old. Overall, after a good deal of thought and change in the
way it works, it is widely seen as an effective Board concerned with important and difficult
issues which engages with its business seriously and professionally. The Chair is seen to be
hugely committed to his role and to be doing a very good job. The Board members like and
respect each other and get satisfaction from their roles. The taxpayer gets good value from
the input of the individual members of the Board both in Board meetings and outside,
especially on corporate finance issues. On governance issues, the role is developing positively
and there is plenty of opportunity to go further here. It is therefore not surprising that the
suggestions for improvement are relatively minor and in most instances, build on change
already made.

The role of the Board (in contrast to that of the Transactions Committee) is not easy to define
given the complicated landscape in which it sits. Great progress has been made in clarifying
this but most people think there is further to go to maximise the value it adds. A number of
people are asking for even greater focus of the Board’s time on fewer items where the Board
can add most, and for continuous engagement between the NEDs and executives about this
because of the constant changes to the UKGI portfolio and the turnover of executives.

The dynamics around the Board table are good. Some people think they could be even better
if fewer people were in the room and if the air time were shared more evenly. There is
agreement that the Board is very strong on financial and banking skills but would benefit from
the addition of a broader range of perspectives especially from the industrial sector and greater
experience of governance. As the evaluation was underway, two new NEDs were in the
process of being appointed, addressing this point. Both are from commercial, not financial,
backgrounds and have chairing experience in Government owned or regulated businesses.

Methodology

This is a facilitated self-evaluation of the effectiveness of the UKGI Board, based primarily on
non-attributable face-to-face conversations with all the Board members and a number of
executives. A list of the people to whom I spoke is attached at Annex A. The interviews all
took place between 5 and 20 March. I attended a Transactions Committee meeting on 14
March and a Board meeting, preceded by an Audit and Risk Committee meeting, on 21 March.
I read the papers for these meetings and the minutes of the three previous Board meetings.
In this report I have tried to represent accurately the flavour of what I have heard. I have
indicated the weight of the views expressed and where this might be helpful, whether they
come from the NEDs, executives or both. I have summarised the questions on which I think
the Board should focus at the end.

The Board’s Role

UKGI has brought together in a Government company, wholly owned by Her Majesty's
Treasury, the very different roles previously carried out by UKFI and the Shareholder
Executive. The company’s budget is small and its people are its most important asset. Its
income comes from the taxpayer out of HMT’s budget and from certain other departments as
a contribution for work done with them. It looks after the Government's interests in 27 entities
and has relationships with 10 Government Departments. The mix of these entities is constantly
changing (as described in a Board paper for the March meeting) with the weight shifting away
from the financial services sector and from transactions, to the governance of arms-length
bodies in Government ownership. The range (in terms of the nature of their businesses) is

1
UKGI00017188
UKGI00017188

UKGI-BP-336a

very wide. UKGI is regarded as having high quality executives from both the civil service and
the private sector. Although there is stability at the most senior level, there is a high turnover
of executives which presents a number of management and cultural challenges.

UKGI is seeking to be the Government's centre of excellence in corporate finance and
governance. The fact that it is a company rather than the arm of a Government Department
helpfully gives it scope to do things differently from the civil service. “It should feel like a
professional firm at the heart of Government.”

IRRELEVANT

Against this background, the Board's role has not been easy to define. With significant input
from the Chair and the SID, it has invested time and effort in this and in its modus operandi,
both of which are set out clearly in the Board’s Mandate. The functioning of the Board is seen
to have changed fundamentally since its inception. It has both fiduciary and advisory roles.
The former are relatively limited because of its size and the constraints on the degree of its
self-determination. The Board has become very clear about the importance of managing the
UKGI’s reputational risks. As one NED put it “we need to avoid absorbing someone else’s
reputational risk by default’. So it is now involved in defining the new mandates which the
organisation takes on, their scope, and their success measures. More broadly it has a
leadership role, giving the organisation air cover within Whitehall and Westminster and
nurturing the highest quality skills and experience in its people, as well as advising on
individual transactions (largely through the Transactions Committee) and the governance of
its arms-length bodies.

The Use of the Board’s Time

The Board now meets 6 times a year (reduced from 8) for about 3 hours. It has Board dinners
twice a year and has met once outside London. (The Board meeting prior to the one I attended
had been held at Sellafield, involving an overnight stay and dinner the night before). It does
not have its own Awayday although Board members are invited to attend the executives’
annual Awayday. In addition, this Board is unusual in the amount of time which the NEDs give
to the organisation’s business outside Board meetings. Each of the independent NEDs has a
range of arms-length bodies on which they take the lead and a number of them invest a great
deal of time with the relevant executives, making an input to the key issues, in some cases
taking on a mentoring role.

Prior to its formal business, the Board routinely meets new arrivals to UKGI for a mutual
introduction over a sandwich lunch. The agendas for Board meetings now follow a clear
structure and the meetings end with a 30 minute NEDs only session at which they review the
meeting, the quality of papers presented and discuss succession and other sensitive issues.
The Chair passes on any specific relevant comments immediately to the Chief Executive.

Considerable effort has been invested by the Chair, SID and Company Secretary in the last
year or so in bringing more structure and rigour to the agenda, the papers and the risk register,
which is used partly to determine the issues to be addressed by the Board. Everyone I spoke
to thought that real progress had been made as a result of this work. There was a range of
views about the current quality of the papers with some people saying there was further to go

2
UKGI00017188
UKGI00017188

UKGI-BP-336a

in making the papers consistent in style and structure and in being disciplined in stating clearly
what the Board was being asked to do; in ensuring that the executives did not repeat what
was in the papers but confined themselves to brief introductions to help shape the discussion;
and in focussing the agenda on a smaller number of the most significant issues on which the
Board could add the greatest value. Some executives prefer to present slides rather than
“dense” papers to the Board which, they believe, engages the Board more effectively. It would
be interesting to know whether the Board would prefer to receive more material in that format.

The Chief Executive’s report is well received. It is considered to be open and honest. One
NED commented that it should encompass, as a matter of course, all the significant current
issues on UKGI's agenda at any time, freeing the Board to focus its time on a smaller number
of key issues.

One of the points which came up in almost every conversation I had was about how the Board
could best add value to the work of UKGI either individually or together. Given the wide range
of arms-l length bodies and their key projects, it is not always easy to see how the NEDs can
to the work of the executives. A number of examples were cited (the
ind the steel crisis) where the input of individual NEDs, the Board as
a whole or the Transactions Committee had changed the way the executives were thinking
and brought a new perspective. This was more likely to happen where the NEDs spent time
alongside the executives outside Board meetings. This engagement enables the NEDs to
understand the substance of the issues themselves and the political context in which they are
being handled and helps the executives understand what the NEDs can offer them and
encourages them to open up rather than to defend their work. One person suggested that the
NEDs might be asked routinely to open up any Board discussions on their areas of special
interest, thus making more use of their understanding of these.

In terms of issues, there was an appetite for the Board to engage more with people and
organisational questions given UKGI’s aspirations to be a centre of excellence, its relative
youth and the challenges of the high turnover of executives. There was also an important
discussion at the Board meeting I attended about how best to equip the executives to carry
out their NED roles, something the Board would be well placed to frame and inform.

Most people thought the amount of time spent in the Boardroom was about right. One NED
thought there should be more meetings; others, including some of the executives, thought
there could be fewer. The NEDs value the time they spend together outside their meetings.
The off-site at Sellafield was frequently mentioned by the NEDs and praised both for its content
and the less formal engagement which the Board members were able to have with one
another. It may be worth considering whether an annual Awayday (or one every other year)
for the Board with the top executive team could be valuable, perhaps in place of one of the
routine meetings.

Board “Housekeeping”

UKGI00017188
UKGI00017188

UKGI-BP-336a

Generally, the papers do come out on time but it can be difficult to keep up with papers coming
out late or amended — better signposting would be helpful here.

How well does the Board work together?

The Board is seen to be working well together. At the point of merger there had been two
“camps” of NEDs who had had very different experiences on the two Boards from which they
came and had different expectations. These have now been melded together. Attendance is
good, apologies rare, people look forward to the meetings and members are fully engaged in
the discussions. Board members value the NED only sessions at the end of each meeting.

The Chair does a good job at bringing out the different contributions from around the table
while keeping to time. There is a good culture in the room. It is open, straightforward with no
“politics”. The spirit of challenge is alive and well.

The financial and banking sector are well represented amongst the Board members. At the
time I carried out my interviews, almost everyone mentioned the need for a wider set of skills
and perspectives around the Board table, specifically from the industrial sector and on
governance. These issues were being addressed — as mentioned under Headlines above - by
the selection of two new NEDs for the Board both to replace Simon Palley who is leaving in
May and to help smooth succession. Other suggestions made were for experience of
regulation, the private equity perspective and people development and HR, and first-hand
experience of running a government entity.

The attendance of the two Permanent Secretaries is universally valued for the perspectives
which they bring and the way in which they connect the Board, and through it, UKGI, to
Whitehall. It is completely accepted that they are unable to attend meetings in full because of
the other pressures on their time.

The Board is considered to be quite big with 7 “independent” NEDs, including the Chair, the
two Permanent Secretaries and the CEO. Several people mentioned that the Board could,
over time, be reduced in size provided it reflected the right skills mix and diversity of thought
needed to meet the changing demands of the UKGI’s mandate.

While the Board’s dynamics are seen to be good, three questions were raised with me in terms
of improving this even further:-

First, both some of the NEDs and the executives raised the routine attendance of so many
people in addition to the Board members themselves. I was told that at the very beginning
there had been as many as 30 people in the room altogether. Now, there are fewer. At the
Board meeting I attended, there were 8 or 9 executives in the room at any time, in addition to
the Company Secretary, a note-taker and a senior adviser (former Deputy CEO) Anthony
Odgers. Most of them stayed throughout the meeting, although there was some turnover for
different items of business. Some said nothing.

The argument in favour of such a large attendance of executives is that it helps them do a
better job by exposing them to the Board's thinking and to each other's work, thus countering
the risk of silo working. Some Board members are relaxed about this but other people, both
NEDs and executives, think that this is unhelpful as it reduces the airtime for Board members
and can inhibit discussions. The better quality of discussion at Sellafield where there were
very few executives in attendance was cited by some Board members as an argument for
thinking again about this.

Second, a small number of people wondered whether there was a risk of the Board being too
“consensual”. The atmosphere is open and discussion can be robust. The gender balance of

4
UKGI00017188
UKGI00017188

UKGI-BP-336a

the Board is good (people are keen to maintain this) but its diversity in the broadest sense is
quite narrow. This will change to some degree with the appointment of new NEDs but it would
be worth keeping an eye on this as the Board continues to develop.

Third, most people think that everyone has a good opportunity to contribute, something which
has improved since the Board began. “There are no blushing violets here”. But a number, both
NEDs and executives, mentioned that individual contributions were unevenly balanced and
those with “softer” voices did not always get the same air time as their colleagues, especially
on conference calls. The Chair watches for this and some of the NEDs help to manage it but
it may be that more could be done by everyone on the Board to ensure that no-one is crowded
out by too many rapid fire interventions.

Board engagement outside meetings

Engagement with external stakeholders

UKGI has a large and complex set of stakeholder relationships. The Board has stepped up its
game in terms of its Client Relationship Management. Many people commented on the great
contribution which the Chair makes to this, meeting and gathering feedback from Permanent
Secretaries and other key stakeholders around Whitehall. Each senior executive is now a
“relationship manager” for at least one Department and there is an annual review of these
which has led to a greater transparency in these relationships. Further work could usefully be
done on how the impact of UKGI can be measured.

The Board reviews its relationships with major Government Departments on a rolling basis
and these discussions are seen as valuable. One person suggested looking at the use of
UKGI’s time as a whole to see whether it was spending the right proportion of this on the right
issues and to keep this under review as mandates change — “where are the dogs that don't
bark?”

One of the NEDs suggested that more guidance for them on their role here would be helpful
— how involved should they be directly with their assets and what input would the assets
themselves value?
UKGI00017188
UKGI00017188

UKGI-BP-336a

Board Committees

The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Caroline Thompson and meets twice a year.
Again, it is seen to play a valuable questioning role within the parameters set by HMT.

6
UKGI00017188
UKGI00017188

UKGI-BP-336a

The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Board’s Chair. It keeps NED and executive
succession under review, as was evident at the time of this evaluation in the recruitment of
two new NEDs discussed in the private NED only session at the end of the Board meeting.
One or two NEDs questioned whether the Board as a whole should spend more time on
executive succession given the churn within UKGI.

Key Questions for the Board to consider

wo

IRRELEVANT

Alice Perkins CB
16 April 2019
Annex A
List of people interviewed.

Chair Robert Swannell

Deputy Chair James Leigh-Pemberton
SID Jane Guyett

Jitesh Gadhia

Robin Lawther

Simon Palley

Caroline Thomson

Permanent Secretary BEIS Alex Chisholm
Permanent Secretary HMT Charles Roxburgh
CEO Mark Russell

Deputy CEO Justin Manson

Candida Morley

Ceri Smith

Rob Razzell

UKGI00017188
UKGI00017188

UKGI-BP-336a
