UKG100001916
UKGI00001916

From: Gibson Will (ShEx)[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WGIBSON]
Sent: Fri 16/08/2013 ‘49 AM (UTC)

To: mark.r.davie:

Ce: martin.edward:
mike.granville¢
Subject: Re: Prospectus

Hi Mark,

I share your concerns and we've gone back to RM on them. I sent the comments we sent over to Susan so feel free to
have a look.

The RM suggestion it's our document is nonsense - Slaughters are holding the pen and RM directors are responsible for
it. That said, we can certainly influence its drafting as I'd be keen to ensure in this case.

Will.

_— Original Messag
From: Mark R Davie:
Sent: Friday, August 16, 2013 08:00 AM GMT Standard Time
To: Gibson Will (ShEx)
Cc: Martin Edwards <_
Subject: Prospectus

i: Mike Granville 4

Hi Will

Just wanted to touch base on prospectus which I know you have talked to Susan about. RM described it to me as a BIS
doc but I think you don't share view? Anyway the unvarnished risk section is very problematic - it highlights all the risks
which NFSP and others claim, and therefore supports the campaign. I don't suggest such risks should not be discussed
but it does so baldly without mitigation and is poorly drafted in places - specifically on Horizon.

What is your view?

Mark
Sent from my iPhone

sree rere rr rrr rrra rrr Src arr rere eee eeerer ee eererered
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JER IIIS II KISS OI IOI IOI IIIS II III ASI ADI IDI SAS DDSI SSSI S OSI

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
