UKGI00005093
UKGI00005093

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=6F2B04F873D84BADB6A80D880A549FC3-
ROLFEMPST]

Sent: Thur 16/07/2015 4:24:11 PM (UTC)

To: Javid MPSTI.

Ce: Callard Richard (ShEx){i Thompson Laura (Shareholder
Executive)[;
Subject: RE: Quick update on Post Office Horizon issue
Attachment: Note of meeting following Adjournment debate on Post Office Horizon IT System LT (1).docx
George,

Please find attached a short readout of yesterday’s meeting.

Kind regards

¥ Andrew Smith
Private Secretary to Baroness Neville-Rolfe, Parliamentary Under
S t f Stat id Minister for Intellectual Pi rt
Department .
for Business
Innovation & Skills Deprtment for Business, Innovation and Skills, 1 Victoria Street, SW1H

OET
www.gov.uk/bis I @bisgovuk I blogs.bis.gov.uk

BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

Please note: in line with Cabinet Office guidance MPST does not keep records of Ministerial business. Responsibility for storing
records sits with the relevant departmental team. Please ensure you are familiar with what records you need to be keeping and
are storing them appropriately.

From: Javid MPST

Sent: 15 July 2015 12:25

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive); Neville-Rolfe MPST
Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Quick update on Post Office Horizon issue

Laura,
I’ve discussed this with Andrew and I’m minded not to send any note to No 10 before the meeting. I think there is a
risk that in so proactively engaging with them on this and continuously reiterating our line on not needing a review

we may push them into wondering why BIS seems so defensive?

My view is we should just make a point of sending No 10 a good readout of today’s meeting asap afterwards to show
willing — grateful if you can liaise with Andrew about that.

Happy to discuss.

George
UKGI00005093
UKGI00005093

sae. George Thomson
a Private Secretary to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and
Skills, MPST .
Department RO HE
. ria St, London, SW1H OET
for Business www.gov.uk/bis I @bisgovuk I blogs.bis.gov.uk
Innovation & Skills BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 15 July 2015 10:57

To: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Javid MPST

Subject: RE: Quick update on Post Office Horizon issue

I think George usually speaks to Dan York-Smith, the PS there? I would suggest one of you sends something along the
lines of the following:

We have previously updated you on the issues relating to complaints about the Post Office’s Horizon IT system.
Andrew Bridgen MP is calling for a judicial inquiry, and raised this at PMQs on 1 July. The PM responded that he
hoped a judicial inquiry would not be necessary, and repeated the offer made by George Freeman MP in an
adjournment debate earlier that week for Government to convene a meeting between MPs and Post Office.

That meeting is taking place today (Wednesday) — Baroness Neville-Rolfe is chairing the meeting, as the Minister
responsible. Andrew Bridgen MP is attending and we understand he has invited three other MPs: Kevan Jones MP
(Lab), Ranil Jayawardena MP (Con) and lain Wright MP (Lab) (BIS Select Committee Chair). We do not know if all will
attend. Post Office will also be present.

We will provide a further update following the meeting. I would just reiterate that officials advise that we maintain
the position that the mediation scheme (set up to look at complaints) is independent of Government, and that there
remains no need for a judicial inquiry as there is no evidence of fault in the system and legal routes available for
those who have concerns.

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

{i

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Sent: 15 July 2015 10:51

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive); Creer Simon (Communications); French Claire (Communications)
Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); SpAd Javid MPST; Javid MPST; Freeman MPST; O'Driscoll, Katie; Neville-Rolfe MPST
Subject: RE: Quick update on Post Office Horizon issue

Laura,

That would be great — I am stuck in meetings this morning. Who is your No10 contact?
Kind regards

Andrew Smith

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
UKG100005093
UKGI00005093

Sent: 15 July 2015 10:29

To: Creer Simon (Communications); French Claire (Communications)

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); Neville-Rolfe MPST; SpAd Javid MPST; Javid MPST; Freeman MPST; O'Driscoll, Katie
Subject: Quick update on Post Office Horizon issue

Simon, Claire cc. Ministers’ offices
Just a very quick update on the Post Office Horizon issue:

¢ Baroness Neville-Rolfe is meeting a few MPs today (lunchtime) with Post Office — Andrew Bridgen MP and up
to 3 others

e Separately, Post Office have informed me that they are writing to a small number of applicants who have
asked to “defer” or “suspend” their mediation until a “new Government scheme” is launched — Post Office
will tell them that they will need to agree a date for mediation before 4 September (as in, the date must be
agreed by then, the mediation does not have to take place by then). If they do not do so, then they will have
given up their chance to mediate. Post Office feel it is important to do this as otherwise the mediation scheme
will run on for far longer than is necessary.

e I do not expect we will get any enquiries on either point today, but if we do please let me know. As ever, we
should refer queries to Post Office in the first instance.

Andrew —I will explain the second point to the Minister during our pre-brief later today.

Andrew/George — I think we need to update No 10 at some point that this meeting has happened. Perhaps a quick
email to the PS to say it will be taking place today and we will provide an update afterwards? Happy to prepare
something for you to send over.

Thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director, Post Office Network Team I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive
The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

