UKGI00018269

UKGI00018269

@

POST OFFICE LIMITED

BOARD REPORT

Title:

GLO Board Report (Criminal Cases)

Meeting Date:

10% March 2019

Author:

Herbert Smith Freehills

Sponsor:

Ben Foat, General Counsel

Input Sought

Historical Convictions

Action Required:
Decision

The Board is asked to NOTE Post Office’s legal duties
as former prosecutor.

Action Required:
Decision

The Board is asked to APPROVE Post Office taking
the widest and most generous approach to post-
conviction disclosure.

Action Required:
Noting

The Board is asked to APPROVE the
recommendation to await the results of post-
conviction disclosure and CCRC decisions before
deciding on its approach in any given case.

Action Required:
Noting

The Board is asked to NOTE the risks of supporting
(or not opposing) weak appeals.

Action Required:
Decision

The Board is asked to APPROVE the instructions to
the external criminal legal team.

Executive Summary

Post Office is awaiting the decisions of the CCRC whether to

refer multiple historical convictions to the Court of Appeal, likely

to be on or shortly after 24 March 2020. Separately but closely

linked, Post Office’s external criminal legal team is conducting a
Context: post-conviction disclosure exercise to identify material that
might cast doubt on the safety of any historical convictions for
which it takes responsibility as former prosecutor. In due
course, Post Office will need to decide whether to support,
oppose or not oppose any appeals.

UKGI00018269
UKGI00018269

@

Questions asked & addressed

What are Post Office’s duties in relation to the historical convictions?

What choices of approach does Post Office have in discharging those duties?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of those choices?

Does Post Office need to make decisions now on its stance on any appeal?
What instructions should the Board give to the external criminal legal team?

Report

1. In managing the historical convictions, the Board should consider what is in the best
interests of the company (mindful of its duties as the former prosecutor). If a conviction is
identified as potentially unsafe by the CCRC or Post Office’s own review, Post Office will want
to take a supportive approach to ensure that the defendant has the best chance of
overturning the conviction in the Court of Appeal Criminal Division (“CACD”). Conversely,
where convictions appear to be safe following a detailed review, maintaining that position
is the right thing to do. In either situation, Post Office’s ultimate position should be guided
by the outcomes of its post-conviction disclosure exercise and any referral decisions taken
by the CCRC.

UBWNH

2. At its meeting on 28 February 2020 the Board was briefed by the external criminal legal
team on three high-profile cases, discussed its legal duties and considered its preferred
approach to historical convictions. A further briefing and discussion with the external
criminal legal team will take place on 16 March 2020 to cover the remaining high-profile
cases and emerging themes from the review of all historical convictions.

Post Office's legal duties as former prosecutor

3. The Board is asked to NOTE that, as the former prosecutor, Post Office has the following
legal duties

(i) To conduct a post-conviction disclosure exercise (“PCDE”) in order to
disclose to the defendants any material that might cast doubt on the safety of their
convictions. This includes a duty to make further inquiries that have a real prospect
of revealing such material. This duty applies to all convicted defendants, not just
those who were also GLO claimants.

(ii) To bring obvious miscarriages of justice to the attention of the CCRC or
CACD that are revealed by the PCDE.

(iii) To co-operate fully with the CCRC in respect of the cases it is considering
whether to refer to the CACD.

(iv) To decide whether to support, oppose or ‘not oppose’ any appeal referred to
the CACD.

4. One thing that Post Office cannot do is change the past. It cannot re-decide whether it
ought to have prosecuted or not. The duties at (ii) and (iii) are straightforward, whereas
the duties of disclosure and ‘stance’ at (i) and (iv) require Post Office to decide on its
preferred approach going forward. How Post Office conducts the PCDE and its stance on
any appeal will determine how supportive Post Office is, and is perceived to be, in any
given case.

11/60436572_1 2
UKGI00018269
UKGI00018269

@

5. The critical legal factors which will inform Post Office’s approach to any given case are the
outcome of PCDE and any CCRC decision to refer, given that the CCRC has access to more
material than Post Office and Post Office should not be taking a less generous approach
than the CCRC.

6. Outside of these legal factors, Post Office will need to understand the wider consequences

of its preferred approach for example in terms of financial costs, reputational risk, further
judicial criticism, undermining of the postmaster network, etc.

The Post-Conviction Disclosure Exercise

7. The duty of post-conviction disclosure goes beyond the GLO claimants and includes all
historical convictions (the precise number is not clear but is in the range of 550-600).

8. Presently, subject to further review, Post Office assumes responsibility for RMG Prosecutions
in those convictions based wholly or partly on Horizon data pre-separation in April 2012.

9. The PCDE should take the widest possible approach to identifying possible grounds for
arguing that a conviction is unsafe. It will identify whether there was material non-
disclosure in the original case and/or whether there is fresh information now that might
have changed the outcome of that case. It will look not just at bugs, errors or defects in
Horizon but at systemic or institutional failures within Post Office that may have amounted
to serious prosecutorial misconduct. The Board is asked to approve this approach.

10.Each case will turn on its own facts, although it may be possible to take a thematic approach
on some issues e.g. Fujitsu evidence, guilty pleas to false accounting etc.

11.Subject to Board, Post Office intends to take a generous approach to post-conviction
disclosure, over and above that which is strictly necessary according to case law. What this
means in practice is that each of the convicted individuals will receive a generic disclosure
pack (i.e. a series of propositions accepting the various findings in respect of the Horizon
judgment) and a specific disclosure pack which could include PEAKs, KELs, ARQ data and
event logs, NBSC and HSD call logs, emails from investigators and lawyers, BIMs, OCRs and
OCPs. This will demonstrate a supportive approach by furnishing each convicted person with
all material in Post Office’s possession or control which casts doubt on the safety of the
conviction. The Board is asked to approve this approach.

Post Office’s position at the Court of Appeal

12.Once the CCRC refers a case to the CACD and states its reasons for the referral, it has no
further involvement. The CACD will list the hearing and Post Office, as prosecutor, will need
to decide its position. Post Office’s options will be to:

. support the appeal
. oppose the appeal
. "not oppose" the appeal

13.Not opposing an appeal means that Post Office recognises that the conviction might be
unsafe without accepting that a miscarriage of justice has occurred. In an adversarial

11/60436572_1 3
UKGI00018269
UKGI00018269

@

system, strict neutrality is difficult to achieve. In any event, whatever position adopted by
Post Office, the CACD will make its own decision, even if both prosecution and defence
support the appeal.

14.It is recommended that Post Office await the outcome of the PCDE and the CCRC's referral
decisions before taking a final view on its preferred approach. It is not clear which cases
the CCRC will refer; what the purpose of any referral is (e.g. the CCRC may decide to refer
a test case in the first instance); and in making any referral the CCRC will give a Statement
of Reasons which will need to be taken into account in Post Office's assessment. In reaching
its view, the CCRC will have had information from the applicants to which Post Office is not
yet privy. Plainly Post Office would want to ensure that its position is no less generous than
that taken by the CCRC.

15.Depending on the outcome of the PCDE and the basis for any CCRC referrals, the most
supportive approach Post Office could adopt would be to support any reasonably arguable
ground of appeal, however weak. However, such an approach overlooks the reality that
some defendants pleaded guilty or were found guilty because they were guilty. Inevitably,
it may lead to the overturning of convictions where there was strong evidence of guilt
outside of Horizon e.g. bank deposits matching the shortfalls. The CACD may criticise Post
Office for seeking to circumvent its role and Post Office would also risk further stinging
criticism of its historical conduct.

16.Apparently safe guilty pleas require a high level of either material non-disclosure or
prosecutorial misconduct to be overturned by the CACD. Therefore, Post Office might have
to accept responsibility for very serious failings, matching some of the more extreme
criticisms in the media, in order for such convictions to be quashed. The Board is asked to
NOTE these risks.

Instructions to the external criminal legal team

17.The Board is asked to approve the following instructions to the external criminal legal team:

(i) To take the widest possible approach in the PCDE to identifying potential grounds for
challenging the safety of a conviction and to identifying material for disclosure that
might support those grounds;

(ii) I To make disclosure in the PCDE that goes beyond that which is strictly required by
case law;

(iii) Once the outcomes of the PCDE and CCRC processes are known in any given case
(or group of cases, if a thematic approach is possible) to advise on the likelihood of
the conviction being quashed in the CACD and the advantages and disadvantages of
supporting, opposing or not opposing the appeal, for the Board to make the final
decision.

11/60436572_1 4
