UKG1I00010798
UKGI00010798

From: ese en
Sent: Mon 02/12/2019 8:39:53 PM (UTC)
To: Cooper, Tom - UKG!
Ce: Watson, Richard - UKGi
Bourke[;
Subject: Re: GLO Mediation Update - Day 4 - Highly Confidential & Legally Privileged

Indeed Tom. A curious request.

You can understand the principle - those involved day to day having more input into the strategic and then
tactical implementation of branch based initiatives, but little thinking has gone into the practicalities of such a
request.

Where do the NFSP or even CWU fit in ? Is it an advisory only role ? Is it the fore runner to a workers council ?
What authority and teeth might it have ? How would representation works ?

T have experienced something similar at Nisa. Delivering genuine value is very difficult, without the GLO
overtures....

Nick

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Cooper, Tom - UK‘
Sent: Monday, December 2, 2019 8
To: Ben Foat
Cc: Watson, Richard - UKGI!

I} Nick Read,
Subject: Re: GLO Mediation Update - Day 4 - Highly Confidential & Legally Privileged

Thanks Ben.

Is the idea for postmasters who are no longer involved in the business to have a role being consulted on change
and the future of Post Office? Most of the claimants are no longer with us are they? Seems a slightly odd
request.

Tom

Sent from my iPhone

On 2 Dec 2019, at 19:26, Ben Foati

Evening Tom & Richard

The parties focused on the non-financial aspects of the proposed settlement and therefore no further
offers were made today. A significant amount of time was spent between the mediators and the
claimants in getting them to articulate the settlement structure. At the end of Day 3, the non-financial
aspects of the settlement from the Claimants’ perspective included:

© Agreed statement by the parties (which we will reviewed from both a legal and comms
perspective)

© POL’s approach to the convicted claimants (not that we “consent” to their applications to
the Court of Appeal to have their convictions overturned but more to do with our approach
ie that we would take external QC expert advice on our ensuring that we comply with our
UKG1I00010798
UKGI00010798

legal obligations (for eg. disclosure obligations in respect of the Horizon issues judgment to
the CCRC).

© POL would assist those claimants who wish to exit the business post settlement.

© POL would waive or withdraw the proof of debt for those insolvent claimants.

In addition, the claimants have asked today for:
* A support programme for claimant SPM and SPM in similar position of the claimants including
mental health support for claimants
* POL to consult claimant group on the change process and for them to have some form of
consultancy role advising the business, which would include input to consideration of the future of
the Post Office
* POL not the enforce SPM debts pending implementation of the settlement agreement
« Emergency funding for hardship cases (taken out of the funds of the settlement)

These points are up for negotiation and the devil will be in the detail. The parties are going to have a
discussion tomorrow to better understand what the claimants envisage as they have not really explained
these additional requirements but also for us to socialise operational challenges. For example, there
may be some things we can give assurance on such as some form of consultation but as Nick pointed out
we need to careful not to undermine the existing NFSP or CWU although we may consider what changes
could be made to the NFSP. We also need to keep in mind any potential impact to the Starling project (if
prospectively some of these concessions appear to indicate that SPM are workers).

After the meeting on Tuesday afternoon, we will finalise our settlement draft and circulate to the other
side on Wednesday for review. The parties will then meet again on Thursday to continue the financial
aspects of the settlement. It is therefore likely that Nick and I will need to reach out to Tom and Tim on
Thursday / possibly Friday.

I hope we will be in a position to provide further clarity on the Claimants additional proposals late
tomorrow night/ early Wednesday.

Do let me know if you have any questions in the meantime.
Kind regards

Ben

Ben Foat
Group General Counsel

Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

FEC GIGI SIGISISI GS IGICI IOI ICICICICI AICI ICICI ACC ICR I I 3 1 CR A C3 IR I AC RR A CAC I oR A CSR RR CCGG RR CAE

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
UKGI00010798
UKGI00010798

this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

AICI ISI SISICICICI RIC IC CCR 3 ICC RR ICC 8 A ICSC RF AR A ICSC oR I CSA RR ICAO RB CCR GRR CGR ACE

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this
can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote
also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for
other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.
