UKGI00003722

UKGI00003722

POSSIBLE QUESTION: POST OFFICE COMPUTER SYSTEM

Issue: Several MPs led by James Arbuthnot have raised concerns over a mediation
scheme established by the Post Office to consider complaints about its Horizon IT
system. Some of the MPs withdrew their support for the scheme. James Arbuthnot tabled
a UQ today on the conduct of the Post Office Mediation Scheme. The UQ was not
allowed.

e I recognise the concerns the Right Hon Gentleman raises, who has consistently
campaigned on this issue.

e also understand the Business Select Committee has also taken an interest in this
matter.

e The Post Office set up a mediation scheme to consider concerns by a small number of
sub-postmasters about the Post Office IT system.

e Post Offices are committed to helping resolve these disputes through mediation and
quite rightly Government should not interfere with its process.

e I understand that the independent investigations that have been carried out have found
no systemic issues with the IT system.

Background

¢ Following allegations by a small number (c.150) of former sub-postmasters about
defects in the Horizon IT system which runs in all Post Office branches, Post Office
commissioned a report by independent investigators who found there are no systemic
issues with the system. This was published in July 2013.

¢ Post Office then set up a complaint review and mediation scheme so that these sub-
postmasters could have their claim investigated, and proceed to mediation if that were
appropriate. The scheme has been running for 18 months. It is independent of
Government.

e Of those cases, around 56 have already been closed through mediation or other means.
The Post Office have now announced they will mediate all the remaining cases not
involving a Court ruling, and consider the remainder on a case by case basis.

e Several MPs have shown an interest in this issue, with people saying they have been
wrongfully charged of false accounting or made to make up losses they did not create.
James Arbuthnot MP has led the group of MPs with an interest in this issue. The BIS
Select Committee took evidence from various witnesses including Post Office on 3
February 2015.
