@ Shareholder
Executive

HM Government

Commercial — In Confidence

Minutes of Shareholder Executive Board

UKGI00016711
UKGI00016711

Tuesday 8 May 2012 at 15.00

Members Patrick O’Sullivan (Chair) Attendees: Roger Lowe (Items 4 and
present: Claudia Arney 5)
Lord Carter Declan Burke (Item 5)
Gerry Grimstone
Jeremy Pocklington
Tony Watson
Stephen Lovegrove Secretary:
Anthony Odgers Deeya Sawhney
Mark Russell
Agenda I Action point Action Due Status
Item officer date
2 Bring thoughts on Private I Anthony July Done
Investment for PDG to the Board. Odgers 2012
2 Director of Information I Deeya 2012 Pending
Economy, when appointed, to I Sawhney
talk through strategy with the
Board.
Item 1 Apologies for absence, Chair’s welcome and introduction,

minutes from last meeting, declarations of interest

1.1. The minutes of the previous meeting were accepted and there were no
new declarations of interest from Board members. Jeremy Pocklington,
Director of Enterprise and Growth in HMT, was introduced as a new
Board member. Patrick also mentioned that non-executive members of

the

Board would meet once a year.

Chief Executive’s Report

2.2 I
UKGI00016711

UKGI00016711

* IRRELEVANT

25 I
26 I I
Action

‘I ITRRELEVANT I
Item3 I ShEx Deliverables 201213. ti—“‘é‘;;™O™S™*~*™S :

3.1 Patrick felt it was a good idea and it was important for the Board to be
aware of ShEx deliverables and outcomes. Stephen asked the Board to
note that this updates the 3 year plan that had previously been
approved by the Board and ran through the objectives. Mark added that
this list only covers main activity, there is a long list of others.

3.2 Board members felt this was a good overview of the key objectives.
Patrick added that that it would be useful to see financial outcomes if
possible. Claudia mentioned maintaining the ShEx brand as potential
objective. Lord Carter commented on maintaining adequate resources
in ShEx to achieve these objectives. The Board signed off the ShEx
deliverables.

Item 4 Royal Mail
4.1. Roger Lowe joined the meeting to update the Board on Royal Mail. The

2
4.2

team have recently achieved a number of milestones including State
Aid approval for the Pensions transfer; a new framework for handling
pensions; State Aid approval for POL funding; and a new Ofcom
framework. The business was performing well and was ahead of
budget targets. We are expecting a refreshed business plan at the end
of June.

Board members discussed a transaction, specifically points around a
trade sale vs. IPO; employee shares and the mutualisation consultation
for the Post Office; and union interest.

Item 5 Royal Mail Pension wind-down

5.1

5.2

Declan Burke joined the meeting to discuss the Royal Mail Pension
fund wind-down. A new Government pension scheme has been set up
with around £38bn worth of liabilities. ShEx are managing the sale of
the assets transferred to government which are spilt into the following
categories: cash and gilts (these have been cancelled); liquid assets;
illiquid assets and liability driven assets.

Ministers have set out their objectives for the sale which are to manage
and realise the assets down; not distort the market; and operate with
post investment transparency. The team have considered vfm for each
of the asset classes and how to manage down in a sensible way. A
detailed realisation plan has gone to BIS and HMT Ministers.
Independent advisors (Inalytics) have been appointed, as well as a
panel of transition managers (Blackrock, Goldman Sachs and Russell).

Item 6 Green Investment Bank

UKGI00016711
UKGI00016711

UKGI00016711
UKGI00016711

IRRELEVANT

Item 7 Any other business

7.1. Board members commented on the Land Registry Investment Review
example that had been circulated and felt this was a good and useful
piece of work.

Deeya Sawhney
ShEx Board Secretary
