UKGI00019966
UKGI00019966

Message

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive

Sent: 16/07/2015 12:33:47

To: Javid MPST

cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Post Office: submissions to Baroness Neville-Rolfe on Network Transformation and on Horizon / BBC Panorama

Thanks v much. There'll be a further update sub to BNR today following yesterday’s meeting.

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

From: Javid MPST

Sent: 16 July 2015 11:48

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Post Office: submissions to Baroness Neville-Rolfe on Network Transformation and on Horizon / BBC
Panorama

Laura,

Your extra background on Horizon has finally come out of the box. To confirm Spads have been clear with SoS we
shouldn’t get involved in the issue — it’s a matter of law — and he has ok’d this approach.

George

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 08 July 2015 09:46

To: Javid MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: FW: Post Office: submissions to Baroness Neville-Rolfe on Network Transformation and on Horizon / BBC
Panorama

Hi George — here is the original advice on the Horizon issue as requested.

Just to clarify (because this was over a month ago):

e The BBC Panorama programme hasn’t aired and we are not sure if it will do now

e There have been 20 applications to the Criminal Cases Review Commission. We understand (privately) that the
CCRC will be unlikely to reach a decision on any case before Christmas

e¢ The mediation scheme is still in operation but many people are requesting to “delay” their mediation until a
“new Government inquiry” has been established. They are doing so on the advice of the JFSA. Post Office are
considering how to handle but it is in no-one’s interests (other than JFSA and their campaign) to have this issue
prolonged.

As I said, very happy to chat through any of this with you or with SoS.
L

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

UKGI00019966
UKGI00019966

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 02 June 2015 14:47

To: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Cc: Javid MPST; Freeman MPST; SpAd Javid MPST; Perm Sec (BIS); Russell Mark (ShEx); Odgers Anthony (ShEx); Callard
Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Dollin Michael (Shareholder E: itive); Baugh James (ShEx); Adetimilehin Tobi (DG
CT); Boughen Aileen (Communications) Rogers Ashley (Communications); Creer Simon
(Communications); French Claire (Communications)

Subject: Post Office: submissions to Baroness Neville-Rolfe on Network Transformation and on Horizon / BBC Panorama

Hi Andrew, Charlie cc. PS/Secretary of State, PS/George Freeman, PS/SpAds

Please find attached two submissions for Baroness Neville-Rolfe. These cover two current (urgent) issues for Post Office
which we mentioned to the Minister in our intro meeting today and which we would like to cover in a little more detail
in our catch up tomorrow. Grateful if these could go in tonight’s box (and thank you for allowing us an extra hour!)

The first covers Network Transformation, and in particular, the next steps for Post Office branches which have not
engaged in the transformation programme. (First Word attachment plus PowerPoint annex)

The second covers the Post Office Horizon mediation scheme, with particular focus on the BBC Panorama programme
on 22 June which is due to feature this issue. (Second Word attachment plus PDF annex)

We do not expect the Minister to come to a decision on these submissions overnight, but if she is able to read/skim
them ahead of tomorrow’s meeting that would be very helpful for both us and the Minister.

In terms of tomorrow’s session, we would like to cover:
¢ = Quick introduction to the rest of the POL team
e Network transformation (15 mins)
¢ Horizon (10 mins)

George, Rob — there is a chance that these issues could prompt media attention in the next few weeks. It might
therefore be helpful for SoS / SpAds to have sight of these submissions later this week. We are happy to provide any
additional information or background that you think might be helpful. We will of course continue to keep Press Office in
the loop on developments, particularly on BBC Panorama.

Many thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director, Post Office Network Team Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I £. i GRO H

www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-sh;

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth
