UKG1I00021033
UKGI00021033

Discussion: Post Office Limited
policy responsibilities

Cover style
UKG1I00021033
UKGI00021033

Current POL responsibilities

UKGI currently oversees all aspects of HMG’s 100% shareholding in Post
Office Limited (POL) on behalf of BEIS. To achieve this UKGI:

* Holds a seat on the POL Board and Audit and Risk Committee.

* Oversees corporate governance activities such as the approval of
POL’s longer term strategy, executive and non-executive recruitment,
and director remuneration.

* Monitors POL’s financial and operational performance, holding POL to
account against its commercial and policy objectives in the strategy.

* Ensures POL is provided with sufficient investment and subsidy
funding to achieve its target of being commercially sustainable in the
longer term, whilst meeting its social obligations, particularly around
minimum network coverages requirements.

* Advises Ministers on both commercial and policy issues, supporting
them in Parliament and with the wider set of stakeholders who have
an interest in Post Office matters.

UKG1I00021033
UKGI00021033

UKGI proposal for discussion: future
POL responsibilities

UKGI responsibilities:

BEIS policy responsibilit

* Continue to fulfil shareholder role, sit on the POL
Board and oversee, and participate in, corporate
governance activities.

+ Continue to monitor POL’s commercial and
operational performance, and ensure it is
provided with sufficient funding and subsidy
funding

+ Provide significant support to the BEIS policy
sponsor in key areas where UKGI's knowledge of
the business is central to responding to requests
or putting forward policy positions.

For discussion: UKGI believe it is not appropriate for
them to execute the daily POL Working Capital
Facility (including day to day calculation and
approval, liaising directly with POL). They propose
that this be undertaken by BEIS Finance.

Key point of contact for the UKGI on policy
related matters (e.g. network size and access
requirements, funding) and conduit on BEIS
policy issues that may affect POL.

Monthly horizon scan with UKGI for areas which
may impact the Department/POL.

Own the key policy remit of minimum network
size, access criteria, and path to commercial
sustainability.

Drive the delivery of the forthcoming Cabinet
Paper on Post Office Card Account, financial
inclusion and cash and working capital funding.
Review, critique and clear UKGI advice to
Ministers. Provide a BEIS policy view to Ministers
on key advice, e.g. for Spending Reviews.

Work with UKGI to consider key strategic
ownership issues, at the appropriate time.

Draft PQs, UQs, briefings and correspondence
(with support from UKGI and POL).

UKG1I00021033
UKGI00021033

Resource requirements

Should these responsibilities be transferred to BEIS, we believe the following BEIS resource will be
required to carry out this function effectively.

Policy resource:

* Given the upcoming Cabinet paper on POL and the likely policy work this will require, both in the
development of the paper and the implementation of its outcomes (e.g. consultations etc), we
propose this will require 1 G7 FTE lead and 1 FTE policy support officer (SEO/HEO).

Briefing resource:

+ Anestimate of recent volumes for Post Office related correspondence and parliamentary business is
included in the table below. Should changes be introduced following the Cabinet paper we can
expect these volumes to increase. We propose this will require 1 SEO FTE lea jally, with the
addition of 1 HEO FTE support officer in the autumn following the Cabinet paper.

23 PQs answered in the last 6 months
128 letters answered in the last 6 months
Parliamentary 4 debates and 3 petitions in the last year

4 Urgent Questions in last 6 months
Ministerial briefings 30 briefings and 11 diary cases in last 6
months

