UKGI00018997
UKGI00018997

From: Permanent Secretary

Sent: Fri, 15 Mar 2019 15:49:22 +0000

To: Chisholm, Alex (BEIS);Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Ce: Permanent Secretary

Subject: RE: Post Office judgement

Hi Alex,

Please find the summary attached and copied out below.

Best wishes,
Sophie
a Sophie Lewis
Private Secretary to the Permanent Secretary

Department for
Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

ictoria Street, London, SW1H OET
www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

GLO - Post Judgment Briefing for BEIS/UKGI & Ministers

Background

1. A dispute between the Post Office and a number of mainly former subpostmasters has
been ongoing for a number of years. Despite attempts to resolve these without recourse to
litigation, the Post Office has been defending a Group Litigation in the High Court since last
year.

2. The Group Litigation has been broken down into a number of separate trials, with each
representing a building block towards an outcome on the ultimate question of breach of contract
and any liability, as follows:

a. The proper interpretation of the contract between subpostmasters and the Post Office;
b. The reliability of the Horizon, the electronic point of sale system used in post offices;
c. The parties to proceedings who are eligible to claim; and

d. The liability, if any, for breach of contract (as interpreted in trial a) above).

3. The litigation is, therefore, expected to continue well into 2020, although there is a
requirement at various stages for the parties to consider whether mediation might sensibly be
explored as an alternative to litigation.

4. The judgment handed down and made public today, concerns the first of these
individual trials, and nothing beyond it. It does not, therefore, address any questions of breach
or liability for any such breach. The second of these trials, focusing on the operation and
reliability of the Horizon system, began on Monday, 11 March, and is expected to conclude in
early May.
UKGI00018997
UKGI00018997

5. While the litigation is focused on the resolution of these legal disputes, it clearly
produces effects beyond them, particularly in a matter which has already attracted considerable
attention in the media, in Parliament, and beyond.

Judgment
Legal Findings

6. The principal legal finding is that the contract is relational and, as a consequence, it
contains a number of significant obligations on Post Office which, until this judgment, were not
apparent. A number of terms must therefore be implied into the letter of the contract, including
the majority of terms Post Office contested in the trial. Those that will give us the greatest issues
are:

e While in principle our postmasters can be responsible for losses, Post Office now bears
the onus to prove that there has been a loss (it can only recover a ‘true loss’ — that is
physical loss of cash or stock, or a real financial loss eg payment to a client), and that it
was caused through the fault of a postmaster or his assistant.

We must be able to demonstrate that we carried out a reasonable and fair investigation
into the loss (proportionate to the amount lost) as to the cause and reason for any
alleged shortfall and whether it was properly attributable to the postmaster.

The branch trading statement currently in use cannot be relied on as an ‘account’ where
there are matters in dispute. The judge does not address the status of the account
where there is no dispute. This gives us issues going forward, as well as potentially
undermining the basis of historic convictions. We will seek specialist advice on the
impact of this as will be relevant for the CCRC review.

While the right to suspend postmasters remains, certain process changes will be
required, including a requirement to pay any postmaster who is suspended.

On the right to terminate contracts, we now have a duty to consider the appropriate
notice period in each case; and we cannot act arbitrarily or capriciously, or where we are
in breach in respect of matters giving rise to the suspension or termination.

« We can amend the contracts unilaterally but any such amendments must be reasonable

Other Findings

7. Beyond the legal findings, the judge is exceedingly critical of the Post Office,
expressing himself in unusually strong language. He was critical about the handling of the case,
and finds the Post Office’s conduct in its dealings with the Claimant subpostmasters to be have
been oppressive. He also considered its operations lacking in transparency, and its procedures
and processes haphazard.

8. He is also very critical of the National Federation of Subpostmasters, which he does not
consider to be an independent body, or one capable of putting its members’ interests above its
own separate commercial interests.

Post Office Response
9. The Post Office is clear that this verdict is extremely challenging and the outcome will

depend on how the company responds to the situation, both internally and externally. Provided
we understand the urgent need to do things differently, and to change certain of our priorities,
UKGI00018997
UKGI00018997

we believe we can emerge stronger from this situation. Beyond the management of the ongoing
proceedings themselves, our focus and efforts are squarely on the substance of the changes we
need to make to comply with the judgment, improve the ways in which we work with our
postmasters, and maintain confidence and business continuity. The issues we are working
through are set out below.

10. Appeal and Management of the Ongoing Litigation — a separate document provides
additional detail, but Post Office is considering the question of appealing the judgment. We
understand that BEIS will wish to be consulted on any decision in this regard.

11. Communications - it is key that, beyond accepting the judge’s findings, we
acknowledge the judge’s criticisms and express contrition over the perception of our business
as having behaved in an oppressive manner. On both fronts, we will accept that given this
perception, there is a need for change. We will also need to stress that this dispute has no
impact on the services we provide at the counter for both our corporate and retail customers.
Finally, we will need indicate that we will we have some questions over aspects of the judgment,
and will be considering the question of appeal on points of law. A comprehensive
communications plan to deliver this has been created covering all stakeholders. Please note
that our media statement and materials for Parliament, have been or will be discussed with
BEIS/UKGI officials and ministers.

12. Impact on Operations — the judgment clearly raises a whole host of challenges to way
in which we currently work with our subpostmasters. Without seeking to be exhaustive, it is
probably most helpful to provide a flavour of these through the following list:

a. We need to manage an expected rise in the number of disputes from subpostmasters over
trading statement

b. We need to manage an expected increase in subpostmasters wishing to revisit historic
disputes

c. We need to consider any necessary amendments to the contract, and the process by which
we make these in the light of the judge’s criticism

d. We need to consider the effect on new branch openings, including which contracts to use
for signature

e. We must continue to meet cash requirements in branch while amounts remain in dispute

f. We will need to redesign cash declaration processes, so they fit the requirements of the
contract as interpreted

g. Weare establishing helplines to field higher volumes of enquiries

h. We are taking steps to manage key stakeholders, including commercial partners

i. We are considering re/de-prioritising activity to release sufficient budget and human
resources to support all change

j. We are contingency planning to respond to all potential outcomes in the ongoing Horizon
trial

13. NFSP - given the criticisms levelled by the judge at the NFSP, we are considering how
best to revise of our ways of working and considering whether there is scope for new user
groups to complement our engagement.

14. Postmasters - We also consider that the judgment could catalyse and broaden our
plans to build a much closer partnership with our subpostmaster community, strengthening the
appeal of the role, making it easier to make a commercial success of the model, and improving
the service provided in communities across the country.
UKGI00018997
UKGI00018997

Conclusion

15. There is no mileage in, or intention to, sugar the pill — this is a very difficult verdict for
the Post Office, both culturally, and operationally. Our unrelenting focus will be on recognising
the impact of this judgment, in both its legal and cultural dimensions, and working tirelessly to
improve the services we provide our subpostmasters, and address the perception of Post Office
behaviour identified by the judgment.

16. We are available to support Ministers in the challenges they are likely to face in the
immediate aftermath of this judgement and beyond. If it were felt helpful, that might include
placing one or more members of staff to work alongside BEIS and UKGI officials for a period.

15 March 2014

From: Chisholm, Alex (BEIS)
Sent: 15 March 2019 15:
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Cc: Permanent Secretary {
Subject: Re: Post Office judgeme:

Please send me summary of judgement asap, then free for a call from 4pm, though on a mobile
on a train
A

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI!
Sent: Friday, March 15, 2019
To: Chisholm, Alex (BEIS)
Cc: Lambert, Gavin (Advanced Manufacturing and Services); Watson, Richard - UKGI; Mark
Russell

Subject: Post Office judgement

pm

Alex

The judgement in the first trial is out and it is adverse to POL. You'll get the briefing by 3pm.
There are a couple of things that I need to brief you on and on which POL is asking for a quick
decision. It's a high profile decision to do with handling the case with significant implications for
BEIS.

Do you have time for a call later today or over the weekend?
UKGI00018997
UKGI00018997

Tom
Sent from my iPhon

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to
whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in
error, please notify the sender and delete the email.

This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the
secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email
has been swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

