UKG100018433
UKGI00018433

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI
Sent:
To:
Ce: . i Watson, Richard -

UKGI:;beth. white: “$Cooper, Tom -

UKGI,;Annabelle.Miles; Clarke, Stephen - UKGI;Adegun, Oluwatosin - UKGI;Cole, Alex -
UKGI;Culshaw, Robin - UKGI

Subject: Fwd: Post Office Group Litigation - Update on Horizon Issues Trial - SUBJECT
TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Gordon

See below as requested
Tom

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: "Watson, Richard - UKGI" <.
Date: 1 July 2019 at 08:30:30 BST
To: "Clarke, Stephen - UKGI" < ‘a
UKGI" <¢
Ce: "Cooper, Tom - UKGI"
UKGI" <<
Subject: Fw: Post Office Group Litigation - Update on Horizon Issues Trial -
SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

__.i>» "Aldred, Tom -

, "Culshaw, Robin -

Sent from my BlackBerry — the most secure mobile device

“Post Office Group Litigation - Update on Horizon Issues Trial - SUBJECT TO LEGAL
E - DO NOT FORWARD

Thanks Richard. I set out below a summary of the Closings, which I had prepared
for our internal purposes in any event:

The Claimants’ Closings:
- maintain the narrative that Post Office has concealed problems with
Horizon and not provided adequate disclosure;
UKG1I00018433
UKGI00018433

- do not directly answer whether they consider Horizon to be robust, but
assert that robustness can only be considered once identified bugs and
remote access have been considered;

- assert the experts’ appraisal of Horizon was hampered by the lack of a
proper problem management system, the difficulty in piecing together
documents relating to bugs, and Post Office / Fujitsu’s lack of information
and candour on the issues;

- nonetheless claim there to be a "significant and material risk" that
Horizon bugs could have caused shortfalls in branches;

- assert that their expert Mr Coyne's "bottom-up" approach to the Horizon
Issues (i.e. considering individual incidents) was correct and preferable to Dr
Worden's "top-down" approach (i.e. looking at the system as a whole);

- criticise Dr Worden's credit and reliability, including his statistical
analysis which is said to be outside his expertise and contained fundamental
errors, but still note he estimated that Horizon could have between 145 and
672 bugs which caused financial impact;

- criticise Post Office for relying on hearsay evidence, i.e. using
witnesses who rely on and consolidate the evidence of others rather than
calling each witness individually, e.g. Mr Godeseth referring to evidence
obtained from Gareth Jenkins on Legacy/pre-2010 Horizon;

- _ invite the Court to make findings about the facts of the individual
Claimants’ evidence, despite this seemingly being out of scope for the trial
(e.g. Mr Tank’s purported difficulties with postage labels).

For Post Office, our Closings:
- seek to keep the primary focus on the expert evidence rather than that
of individual Claimants, which is of limited utility in a trial of generic issues;
- emphasise that the experts agree that Horizon is robust relative to
comparable systems, well supported, no design flaws have been identified,
and that despite diligent efforts, few bugs have been identified which might
impact branch accounts, such that the Claimants have not made out their
case that Horizon is unreliable;
- on the experts, note that Mr Coyne’s “deep focus” on identifying
individual problems meant his evidence lacked balance and did not
acknowledge any positive aspects of Horizon, whereas Dr Worden had
sought to assist the Court in a balanced way, adjusting factors in the
Claimants’ favour where appropriate;
- deal with each witness’s evidence in detail, focussing on (from the
Claimants’ witnesses) Richard Roll and the parts of his cross-examination
helpful to Post Office’s case, and (from Post Office’s witnesses) Torstein
Godeseth, where we seek to correct some of the odd answers he gave
while accepting that his evidence was unsatisfactory;
- address in the appendices each of the bugs raised in Mr Coyne’s
second/"supplemental’” report filed c.1 month before the trail began, and
which could not be addressed individually through cross-examination in the
time-limited trial;
- address the Claimants’ complaints about disclosure head on, noting
that despite the difficulties in providing disclosure against the Claimants’
unclear and changing case, Post Office had disclosed 517,965 documents
(the Claimants only 1,535) and the Claimants had made no complaint about
UKG100018433
UKGI00018433

the disclosure through the Court's processes prior to trial, despite ample
opportunity to do so.

Will you be attending Court for the Closing submissions?
Kind regards, Rod

From: Watson, Richard- UKGI [I GRO

Culshaw, Robin - UKGI
; Cooper, Tom - UKGI

j ‘ost Office Group Litigation - Update on Horizon Issues Trial -
SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Thanks Rod

If you are preparing a summary anyway fine but don't do one just for UKGI.
Kind regards

Richard

Sent from my BlackBerry — the most secure mobile device
From: rodric.williams,
Sent: 27 June 2019
To: Richard. Wat:
Cc: Ben.Fo
Subject: Post Office Group Litigation - Update on Horizon Issues Trial - SUBJECT TO LEGAL
PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT
FORWARD

Richard, Robin,

T attach the parties’ written Closing Submissions on the Horizon Issues trial, which
were filed earlier today. The parties’ oral submissions will be delivered to the Court
on Monday 1I July 2019 (for the Claimants) and Tuesday 2 July 2019 (for Post
Office), concluding the trial.

Given the length of these documents, I aim to forward to you tomorrow a summary
of their content. Please let me know if you need anything further in the meantime.

Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand
20 Finsbury Street

FEES SI II IIIT I TI I IRR ARTA TR TR RRR RRA RRR RRR RRR RRR ARR TTR R TR
ae

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JESSE SSSI SISISISIOISISSISS SI SISISISISISISSSISISSISSIGRISISSISISCI ISIS ICI ISI SCI AICI ICI aS EK a
ek

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about
how we do this can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the
individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and
have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This
footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and
that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

UKG100018433
UKGI00018433
