UKG1I00018921
UKGI00018921

From: Chris Aujard

Sent: Wed, 14 May 2014 08:23:57 +0000

To: Alice Perkins

Ce:

Lyons;'2_ ;Callard Richard (ShEx);Paula Vennells;Mark R Davies
Subject: RE: Update: Sparrow Board Committee

Hi Alice — sorry for the delay in getting back to you — on the second part of your question (the timing of
the board sub-committee), my sense is that it would better to hold it at such a time as we can factor into
our papers (and thinking):

1) Tony Hooper’s feedback (Paula and I are meeting him this Thursday);

2) Deloitte’s Phase 2 work (summary due on Friday); and

3) The latest position on the Scheme’s progress (there is an all-day face to face Working Group
meeting the day before the Board meeting)

This implies a meeting/con call just after the Bank holiday Monday (i.e. Tuesday the 27 or Wednesday
the 28" of May), which is later than I would have liked. That said, in the interim:

1) We can brief Paula after the Working Group meeting on the 20 so that she can provide the full
Board with an oral update at its meeting on the 21°, or, if you would prefer
2) We can give a quick oral update ourselves to sub- committee members either just before, or just

after, the Board meeting (I am not sure how realistic this is).
Depending on how clear the language is, I would also suggest that the Deloitte paper be circulated to
members of the Board (or the committee as the case may be) when it is ready, and that it too forms part of
the oral update.

Happy to talk on the phone, if you want!

Chris

From: Alice Perkins
3 May 2014 12:09
Alwen Lyons; ‘alasdairmarnocht_

{Paula Vennells;

GRO

‘richard,callard)
Mark R Davies .
Ce: Chris Aujard; Belinda Crowe; Martin Edwards; Lesley J Sewell
Subject: Re: Update: Sparrow Board Committee

Thank you for the update.

Does this mean that all this will come back to the Board for discussion next week? And/or are you
planning a further Sub-Ctee meeting before then (which would be heroic in terms of diaries at this stage
but might be helpful)?

Alice

From .
Sent: Monday, May 12, 2014 02:36 PM GMT Standard Time

Paula Vennells
UKGI00018921
UKGI00018921

Please see message from Chris Aujard & Lesley Sewell:-

The Deloitte review is in two phases and is planned to conclude by the end of this week.
Phase 1.

Deloitte have been completing the assessment of Post Office’s current sources of assurance relating to
the integrity of Horizon. This is a desk top exercise and they will complete this work by examining further
documents, which are now available for their review. We expect to receive a draft of the report by close

of play on 13" May.

The above also includes the move from old Horizon to the current day HNGx, assessing the testing
strategy, documentation and sign-off prior to the implementation of HNGx in 2010. Their assessment will

also be included in the draft expected by end of day 1 gh May.

In addition, they are reviewing how branch transactions are stored both pre and post HNGx, this will
determine if there has been any material changes since 1999. This part of the exercise will be limited to
the documentation which is available.

Phase 2.

Following the Board meeting, Deloitte's work has been extended to perform a desktop review of those
detailed features of Horizon which ensure that:

. the sub-post master has full ownership and visibility of all records in their Branch ledger; and
. these Branch ledger records are kept by the system with integrity and full audit trail.

Deloitte's work will include a technical validation of the Audit Store’s tamper proof mechanisms and they
will also consider, as far as reasonable, where key events in the past could have impacted these features,

considering pre and post 2010.

Deloitte will also highlight where and how testing of these features could be considered by POL to
provide further assurance to the Board.

The executive summary will be completed by close of play Friday 16" May.

Kind regards

PA to Alice Perkins, Chairman & Alwen Lyons, Company Secretary

UKGI00018921
UKGI00018921

1S' Floor, Banner St Wing, 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ

/

From: Alwen Lyons

Sent: 09 May 2014 18:15

To: Alice Perkins; Alasdair Marnoch; Callard Richard (ShEx); Paula Vennells; Mark R Davies
Ce: Chris Aujard; Belinda Crowe; Alwen Lyons

Subject: Update: Sparrow Board Committee

Please see below an update from Chris Aujard

Thanks
Alwen

Dear All

Following last week’s subcommittee meeting, Deloitte have now come back with the
following timetable for completion of their work:

End of Tuesday 13th May — Delivery of the updated and final Executive Summary for the
Phase I work — this is expected to be substantially the same as the (draft) document tabled at
the last Board meeting.

End of Friday 16th May ~ Issue of the full Phase I report.

End of Friday 16th May — Delivery of a summary of the key observations from their
“extension” work. This work will include an assessment of the technical design of the so-
called Audit Store’s tamper proofing features, and will cover the periods both after and (to
the extent practicable) before 2010, which is when the Horizon on-line system was
introduced. We had hoped to circulate a brief description of the scope of this “extension”
work, but the wording is still being refined into more digestible language and should be
available on Monday. That said, Deloitte is now firmly seized of the need to focus on the
question of the extent to which Horizon can be relied on to produce complete, accurate and
auditable accounts, rather than something more “risk framework” focussed.

Kind Regards
Chris

Chris Aujard I General Counsel

5" Floor, Bunhill Wing, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

UKGI00018921
UKGI00018921

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
