UKG100004900
UKGI00004900

From: Paula Vennelis,
Sent: Wed 08/07/2015 8:27:16 AM (UTC)
To: Alice Perki

“I Virginia Holmes!
dair Cameron{!

Gilliland.
(ShEx)i_ GRO

Subject: Fwd: BNR scanned doc
Attachment: Baroness Neville-Rolfe scanned doc.pdf
Attachment: ATT00001.htm

) Callard Richard

Dear all,
It isn't often that I get such a positive note from a minister and I wanted to share it and to thank you for the
preparation you put into the Board discussion with Baroness Neville-Rolfe. (See below.)

She clearly left the Board Awayday and the two executive meetings (with Kevin and then with Al and me) with
confidence in the Board and the wider team, all of which is helpful as we enter more challenging weeks and
months ahead. We will be tackling Sparrow, the remaining branches in NT, and negotiating with the CWU and
Unite over Crowns, Supply Chain and Pensions - having a minister in a positive frame of mind can only be
helpful!

My thanks also to Richard and his team, for their endeavours behind the scenes positioning and briefing our work
for the minister.

Looking forward to seeing you next week.
Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

Avene O’ Farrell
Executive Assistant

to the Chief Executive, Paula Vennells

Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London, EC2Y 9AQ
UKG100004900
UKGI00004900

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street,
London EC2Y 9AQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

