UKGI00018497
UKGI00018497

From: Tolhurst (Private Office)

Sent: Fri, 16 Aug 2019 11:30:24 +0000

To: White, Beth (Better Regulation Executive);Permanent Secretary

Ce: Creswell, Carl (Professional Business Services, Retail & Post
Directorate);Cooper, Tom - UKGI;Watson, Richard - UKGI

Subject: RE: Nigel Boardman to continue to Project Sparrow OFFICIAL SENSITIVE
Hi Beth

Thanks for the update on this. We've alerted Kelly and will let you know when we hear back.
Thanks

Nehal

From: White, Beth (Better Regulation Executive GRO.

Sent: 14 August 2019 16:21

Permanent Secretary

Te UKGI

Subject: Nigel Boardman to continue to Project Sparrow OFFICIAL SENSITIVE

OFFICIAL SENSITIVE - LEGAL/COMMERCIAL

Jess, Ben

You will recall the Minister requested that Nigel Boardman, BEIS’ Non Executive Director and Chair of

BEIS’ Audit and Risk Committee to engage with POL on their ongoing litigation issues.

Today, in order to help him understand the issues, Nigel attended a meeting between HMT, BEIS and
UKGL. This also updated HMT colleagues on the situation, and settlement timetables/approaches and
possible quantum, which whilst not currently clear, we agreed a way forward to having more of the

evidence we need to support decisions by Ministers around settlement.

This 3-way group will continue meeting into the Autumn as we develop the business case for supporting

the funding of any settlement.

Nigel has offered, if BEIS would find it useful, to continue to provide support to this group where

appropriate, in addition to his meeting with POL which is scheduled for early September.
UKGI00018497
UKGI00018497

We valued his input today, and would be supportive of his continued engagement. Could you confirm that

the Permanent Secretary and Minister are happy for this to continue?

Kind regards
Beth

Beth White
Deputy Director, Post Office Policy Team

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

