UKGI00016307
UKGI00016307

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE Eo

Department for
Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

Meeting with Nick Read, CEO of POL

1300-1330, Wednesday 22nd January 2019
tbc

External attendees:
Nick Read, CEO, Post Office Limited (POL)

Internal attendees:
Kelly Tolhurst, Minister for Small Business, Consumers and Corporate Responsibility
Jessica Tysoe, Private Secretary

Purpose of meeting and Handling:

Following an introductory meeting between yourself and Nick Read on 17" October
2018, you agreed to have regular follow-up meetings. This meeting with have three
objectives:

1.

To thank Nick for his successful handling of settlement talks on the GLO
proceedings and for working so closely with UKGI and BEIS officials. You may
also wish to discuss outstanding issues, particularly the on-going need to
strengthen POL’s relationship with postmasters and ensure they are better
supported;

To hear Nick’s reflections and gain an update on the progress on POL’s
Purpose, Strategy and Growth (PSG) review, along with the next steps of their
Five-Year Plan and need for this to dove tail with BEIS’s long term vision work;
and

For you to emphasise that, in order to make a robust and persuasive Spending
Review case for a post 2021 subsidy, we require POL to provide us with their
best available evidence to support their expected funding request.

Agenda:
No Item Time
1. Update on the Litigation and Outstanding Issues 1300-1310
2. Update on the Purpose Strategy and Growth (PSG) Review and I 1310-1320

POL’s Five-Year Plan

3.

Spending Review Approach 1320-1330

Points to make:

1. Update on the Litigation and Outstanding Issues

Say that you are pleased that on 11 December the Post Office and Claimants
reached a comprehensive resolution to the litigation following several days of

Page 1 of 2
UKGI00016307
UKGI00016307

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE Esc
Department for

Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

respectful, challenging and ultimately successful mediation, culminating in
POL’s agreement to a settlement.

e Thank Nick, and by extension POL for the handling of the mediation talks the
way in which POL entered these with good faith to settle the proceedings.

e However, as there are several outstanding issues, you may want to make the
following points/ask questions:

o Emphasise that the Government values the delivery of all elements of
settlement, in particular strengthening the relationship between POL
and its postmasters.

o That you are aware that, despite the settlement, POL is still potentially
exposed to claims from i) the cohort of convicted claimants, and ii) other
postmasters who were not part of the GLO. Ask Nick how POL intend
to handle this and what preparations they have put in place.

o That you are aware that a review of the convicted claimants is being
conducted by the Criminal Courts Review Commission (CCRC).
Emphasise the importance of keeping Government up to date on
the progress of this.

o Make Nick aware that you are receiving increasing volumes of
correspondence in response to the litigation, including a recent letter
from Alan Bates of the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance requesting
the Government pay the costs incurred to date by the claimant group.

2. Update on the Purpose Strategy and Growth (PSG) Review and POL’s Five-
Year Plan

e Nick Read has brought in McKinsey to work on POL’s 5YP and ‘Purpose,
Strategy and Growth’ (PSG), two strategic pieces aimed at setting a new vision
for the company and make strategic investment choices (‘big bets’).

e BEIS’s policy team and UKGI expect to see the draft 5YP following the January
POL Board meeting (and a further iteration in February) with the aim of feeding
into it ahead of it being agreed at the Board meeting on 24th March.

e Note that you are aware McKinsey’s review of POL’s operation is coming to an
end and that senior officials are meeting with Nick on 30 January to discuss
next steps. Seek Nick’s immediate reflections on the progress of the PSG
review and ask him whether there are any updates on the review’s ‘Big
Bets’ that he would like to share and/or discuss with you.

e Emphasise that you are particularly interested in PSG work on workplace
culture and the relationship between POL and postmasters. You may want to
raise the following:

o While McKinsey’s organisational health survey is a positive step
forward, you are aware the results have been poor, so it will be crucial
in the coming year for POL to address the shortcomings identified.

Page 2 of 2
UKGI00016307
UKGI00016307

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE Esc
Department for

Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

o Encourage Nick to roll out the same survey to postmasters, as there is
currently very little evidence on a postmaster’s work life, beyond last
year’s NFSP survey which found that over 20% of postmasters were set
to hand in their keys in the next 12 months. This could be a useful
learning opportunity as part of improving the relationship with
postmasters. Presumably NFSP may run the same survey again soon.

o Culture and the postmaster relationship were central to the litigation and
whilst it has been settled there is still a long way to go to “reset” the
relationship. Ask Nick what lessons POL has learnt from the
process and how they are progressing with their commitments
from the settlement agreement.

o Explain that you are aware that Nick has committed to engaging
postmasters around culture in a different way. Ask Nick how he is
conducting this and what he has found out so far, emphasising the
link between the litigation settlement agreement.

o Emphasise the need to ensure that POL’s PSG and 5YP work dovetails
with the long-term vision work that BEIS policy are undertaking:

o. This is particularly important for the role and definition of a future social
purpose that should reflect the social value that postmasters provide in
local communities and key cross-government strategies such as
loneliness and net zero.

o Also emphasise the significance of the Post Office’s role in supporting
HMT’s access to cash agenda and the synergies with POL’s growth
plans in the finance and cash market.

3. Spending Review Approach and Subsidy

e Please note that following a recent official lead discussion with CFO Al Cameron,
we have noted the following points in regard to POL funding request for a post
2021 subsidy bid:

© POLis likely to request that the subsidy continues at the current payment of
£50m p.a. level or slightly below. This is below the current cost of providing
the loss-making network (est. at £73.7m). Whilst this is somewhat
disappointing, it is not unexpected given that just under 50% (5392 of
11478) of the overall network (excluding 193 DMBs) are uncommercial. On
this basis we can see a case for a continued subsidy, particularly to ensure
continued access to SGEls in rural and remote location for vulnerable
customers as well as SMEs. However, we will need POL’s best available
evidence to be able to make a robust case to HMT, who will be expected a
zero-case. Emphasise that POL will need to provide us with timely and
robust evidence including on SGEI regional and demographic
demand. We are grateful for the material they have provided already;

o Obtaining the relevant State Aid approval and getting the final Funding
Agreement and updated Working Capital Facility (WCF) in place requires
careful sequencing, given the potential for the spending review to be
pushed back to the Autumn.

Page 3 of 2
UKGI00016307
UKGI00016307

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE Esc
Department for

Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

o The WCF needs to take place by the end of 2020 so that POL’s accounts
can be signed off as a going concern for at least the next 12 months from
the point of signing.

e Emphasise that we are determined to avoid the problems at the time of the
last Funding Agreement and officials from UKGI, BEIS policy, finance, legal
and State Aid teams have developed a plan to ensure this.

e [If needed:] Say that you are aware that POL have indicated that they will once
again request that they are allowed to borrow for investment, either from
Government or private markets. Explain that while we have sympathy from a
commercial perspective, we think it will be extremely difficult to persuade
HMT.

e Finally, the draft Framework Document, which has been cleared by the Perm Sec
and will be submitted shortly for ministerial review, includes options for developing
a dividend policy. However, POL do not believe a dividend will be payable to
Government in the next funding period, due to the Company's ongoing investment
needs. Consider encouraging Nick to continue engaging officials on options
for a dividend.

Other Live Issues (if raised):
British Gas and Post Office

e Since January 2020 the Post Office and Payzone networks have become
exclusive bill payments provider for British Gas.

e While the vast majority of transactions have been handled successfully, there
are a small number of customers that have not been able to transact at their
Payzone or Post Office retailer. The Post Office is working to rapidly address
those issues.

e Additionally, some stakeholders have raised issues with the coverage of our
network in comparison to the incumbent supplier, PayPoint. While it is true that
POL/Payzone have fewer outlets than PayPoint, POL suggest that the overall
geographic coverage is superior. In areas where customers are travelling
further than they would rather, POL are also prioritising installations to those
areas. POL have actively been responding to MPs expressing constituents’
concerns.

POca

e The contract for the Post Office Card Account (POca) will come to an end on
30 November 2021.

e POL believe that DWP’s plans for POca will have significant negative impacts
on both customers and postmasters and have informed us that they will start
briefing more widely about the implications in the next few months.

e It is highly likely that postmasters and stakeholders will react negatively at
services being withdrawn from the Post Office network.

e BEIS officials have been in discussion with DWP counterparts to make sure
they are aware of these risks, ahead of their planned procurement for POca’s
replacement (which is now due to go live in March 2021).

Page 4 of 2
UKGI00016307
UKGI00016307

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE od
Department for
Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

Verify / Digital ID
e The Post Office is one of largest providers of identity verification through the

Government's "Verify" service (a secure way for people to establish their

identity online and thereby access government services). Verify is a growing

business segment for POL, providing £10m of revenue in 2017/18.

Cabinet Office have asked POL to pay a higher fee to Digidentity to stop them

making losses and potentially leaving the digital identity market. Requiring POL

to pay a higher fee turns a profit into a loss for the Post Office.

e A further meeting to discuss this is likely to be set up between POL and John
Manzoni later this month or in February.

e Inthe meantime, Digidentity is threatening to stop accepting new registrations
on POL’s behalf in the next few weeks, which, according to POL, is a breach of
contract.

e We believe the key to resolving this issue is for HMG to be clear with POL
about its future ambitions and how participants in Verify could benefit as this
would enable POL to make a commercial decision to continue to invest in the
business. Our views have been communicated to Cabinet Office.

Media handling and social media:
N/A

Page 5 of 2
