UKGI00018334
UKGI00018334

es ha
Department for

Business, Energy
eewoverniment & Industrial Strategy

Date: 22 February 2019
Director General: Mark Russell
Lead Official: Tom Aldred

Lead Official Telephone

Recipient To Note / Comment To Approve / Decide
Kelly Tolhurst xX

Official Sensitive and Subject to Legal Privilege
Post Office Limited (POL): Update

Summary
1. This is an update on Post Office Limited (POL), in advance of you meeting Tom
Cooper (UKGI) who sits on the POL Board as the Shareholder’s Representative.

Issues

2. Departure of Paula Vennells as CEO. Paula’s departure from Post Office has been
announced, as has her appointment as non-executive Chair at NHS Imperial Trust,
and as a non-executive Director at the Cabinet Office. In the short term, a family
illness means that Paula will be stepping back from day-to-day management of the
Post Office as soon as an interim CEO has been appointed.

3. Interim CEO. POL want to appoint the current CFO Al Cameron as interim CEO,
pending the recruitment of a permanent replacement. His appointment requires
ministerial approval. POL have proposed the interim CEO receives the same base
salary as current CEO, but not her bonus package. Al would also be eligible for a
retention bonus of £50,000 in the event that he was not appointed on a permanent
basis, and on the condition that he remain in post for six months after the new CEO
starts. UKGI believe that this is appropriate given Al’s unrivalled knowledge of the
business and the clear risk that he would subsequently look to leave. This package
also requires ministerial and CST approval. Itis currently being considered by BEIS’s
SCS Review Panel and will then come to you for approval.

4. Recruitment of a permanent CEO. The recruitment process has begun and you will
be kept informed throughout the process. We are working with POL and their
headhunters, Russell Reynolds, to develop an appropriate reward package for the
new CEO. This will be informed by relevant benchmarks, market intelligence
gathered by Russell Reynolds, and the need to establish sufficient ‘headroom’
between the CEO salary and that of the executive team. We have emphasised to
POL the importance of achieving a diverse range of candidates.

5. Litigation. POL are awaiting judgment in the first litigation trial, which focused on the
contractual relationship between Post Office and its agents (the ‘Common Issues’
trial). This is expected imminently. The second trial, focusing on the Horizon IT
system, is due to start on 11 March and we expect there to be media and
parliamentary interest. We continue to work closely with POL to understand their
UKGI00018334
UKGI00018334

es ha
Department for

Business, Energy
eewoverniment & Industrial Strategy

contingency plans and the communications strategy. We will shortly be providing
advice on this topic and can provide a full briefing if you would like.

6. Financial performance. POL continues to improve its financial performance, with
trading profit forecast to reach £60m in 2018/19, up from £35m in 2017/18. This has
primarily been achieved by reducing costs through an extensive (and publicly
funded) modernisation programme and particularly by replacing more costly directly
managed branches (DMBs) with franchised branches. While revenues have been
largely flat, these should rise sharply in future once the updated Banking Framework
is in place from January 2020. We expect target trading profit of £80-100m in
2019/20, rising further in subsequent years. POL’s annual financial plan is currently
being finalised, due to be agreed at the March Board.

7. Dividend policy. Rising profits brings the opportunity to eliminate POL’s subsidy and
the need to consider how best to share the gains between agents, employees and
new investment. We want to explore the introduction of a dividend policy so that
taxpayers can also share in higher profits.

8. Corporate restructuring. POL proposes to alter its corporate structure, to create a
new holding company (HoldCo) and transfer ownership of its Financial Services
business, Post Office Insurance and Payzone from POL to HoldCo. This would mean
that the group would be compliant under FCA rules once its strategic initiatives in
these areas are completed. We are working closely with POL to ensure that the
Secretary of State will retain the same rights over the group as currently apply to
POL. The project is also an ideal opportunity to put in place a dividend policy for POL
that would apply when the current funding period finishes in March 2021.

9. Investment funding. HMG allocated POL £210m of investment funding for the period
2018-2021, of which they have so far drawn down £142m. While some projects have
changed in scope and cost, the overall portfolio is on track to meet its budget. The
DMB programme has been accelerated as it provides additional benefits, while Mails
projects are on hold pending the outcome of negotiations with Royal Mail. UKGI has
worked closely with POL to improve both its controls and reporting around its
transformation spend, providing extra comfort over its expenditure.

10.IT migration. Post Office have successfully completed a migration of back office IT
systems. This has reduced both risk and operating costs.

4

. Retail Strategy. Post Office are working on a new Retail Strategy. It is likely that will

include the introduction of a new retail format that offers only a limited service
focused on parcel drop off and collection. This would be in addition to the existing
network of branches that offer the full range of services. The strategy will also look
for further opportunities to simplify and automate Post Office services and
transactions. We will work closely with POL on this strategy and in particular on the
implications for agents and consumers, as well as for financial performance.

12. Banking Framework. At the end of 2018, Post Office tabled a revised fee structure
for the next three years of the Banking Framework beginning in January 2020. POL’s
UKGI00018334
UKGI00018334

es ha
Department for

Business, Energy
UK Government & Industrial Strategy

Investments
proposals would lead to around a doubling in fee income, based on the current
volume of transactions. Fees were historically under-priced and increases are
required to ensure the long-term sustainability of banking services across the whole
post office network. The banks are required to respond by the end of March and
current indications are that they will agree to the proposals, subject to a few minor
amendments.

13. Franchising of Directly Managed Branches. You have received separate advice on
POL’s franchising programme.

