UKG100001433
UKGI00001433

From: Martin Humphreys
Sent: Thur 26/07/2012 2:
To: Batten Peter (ShEx),

Ce: Whitehe:
Granville
Subject: FW: Albert Owen - JFSA
Attachment: IncomingletterfromAlbertOwenMPtoNL_1342445030946[1].pdf
Attachment: Newspaper Article 18 01 06 re Gaerwen.doc
Peter

We have very little information to hand on the case regarding Gaerwen as it is so long ago. It appears that Mr Thomas
was suspended in October 2005 following an audit — we have found a press article at the time that mentions the case
~which is attached. It appears that the branch remained closed until January 2006 when it re-opened operated by a
temporary subpostmaster.

Unfortunately we don’t have any other information on this electronically as it appears that those records started after
this case.

I could ask for a search to be carried out for any manual archived files but this would not meet your timescales and it
may be that any files have been destroyed over this period of time.

On the position of the review that is mentioned in the MP’s letter the situation is that it will be an independent review
and the specific cases and the timescale for the review are still to be determined at this stage.

For info, the reactive position from POL at the time of the review being agreed was as follows; i

Post Office spokesman said: “The Post Office continues to have absolute confidence in the robustness and integrity of
its branch accounting processes. Over the past ten years, many millions of branch reconciliations have been carried
out with transactions and balances accurately recorded by more than 25,000 different subpostmasters. The Post
Office has no hesitation in agreeing to an external review of these few individual cases that have been raised with us
by a number of MPs.”

This affects a very small number of individual cases and to put this into context, over the past ten years, many
millions of branch reconciliations have been carried out with transactions and balances accurately recorded by more
than 25,000 different subpostmasters. The Post Office continues to have absolute confidence in the robustness and
integrity of its branch accounting processes. We are not independently reviewing our systems. We have agreed with
MPs to commission an external review of a small number of individual cases and report back on these. We already
have processes in place to ensure that systems and processes are fully audited and are robust.

Hope that helps
Regards

Martin Humphreys.
Stakeholder Relations
Post Office Ltd

148 Old Street
London
EC1V 9HQ

From: Batten Peter (ShEx) [mailt

UKG100001433
UKG100001433

Sent: 25 July 2012 17:09

To: Martin Humphreys

Cc: Mike Granville; Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Baugh James (ShEx)
Subject: RE: Albert Owen - JFSA

Hi Martin,

I'm afraid I'm chasing on another letter today. Our response to Albert Owen is due by the end of the week, I
would be grateful for your advice by close of play tomorrow.

Kind regards
Peter

rtment for Business, Innovation & Skills I
www.bis.gov.uk I

The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is building a dynamic and competitive UK economy by creating the
conditions for business success; promoting innovation, enterprise and science; and giving everyone the skills and opportunities
to succeed. To achieve this we will foster world-class universities and promote an open global economy. BIS - Investing in our
future

From: Batten Peter (ShEx)

Sent: 16 July 2012 17:13

To: ‘Martin Humphreys’

Ce: Mike Granville; Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Baugh James (ShEx)
Subject: Albert Owen - JFSA

Dear Martin

Grateful for advice relating to any history of accounting irregularities at what I assume is Gaerwen
Post Office (?) and more widely about recent progress regarding the forensic review of cases (i.e.
how many, and when the review will be completed).

Many thanks
Peter

<<IncomingletterfromAlbertOwenMPtoNL_1342445030946[1]>>

The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is building a dynamic and competitive UK economy by creating
the conditions for business success; promoting innovation, enterprise and science; and giving everyone the skills and
opportunities to succeed. To achieve this we will foster world-class universities and promote an open global economy.
BIS - Investing in our future

The original of this email was scanned for viruses by the Government Secure Intranet virus scanning service
supplied by Cable& Wireless Worldwide in partnership with MessageLabs. (CCTM Certificate Number
2009/09/0052.) On leaving the GSi this email was certified virus free.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
UKG100001433
UKG100001433

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y 0HQ
with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered
company number 02154540

This email was received from the INTERNET and scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus
service supplied by Cable& Wireless Worldwide in partnership with MessageLabs. (CCTM Certificate Number
2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call your organisation’s IT Helpdesk.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
