UKGI00008656
UKGI00008656

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=8D968D43E33749AE9E59F9C9350E69D5-
COOPER, THOMAS (TCOO]

Sent: Mon 19/11/2018 12:55:22 PM (UTC)
To: .
Subject: RE: Official Sensitive : Meeting with Kelly Tolhurst this morning

Thanks for your confidence Tosin!

From: Adegun, Oluwatosin - UKGI
Sent: 19 November 2!
To: UKGI POL Team
Subject: Official Sensitive : Meeting with Kelly Tolhurst this morning

All

We had a meeting with Kelly Tolhurst this morning — Tom C dialled in, whilst Sam W, Sam R and I were in attendance.

* Kelly had concerns over POL’s potential liabilities over the court case

* She was sorry to hear Paula is leaving but suspicious about the timing given the ongoing litigation case and
asked about the process for getting her replacement. Tom confirmed that it is POL led but will be done with
shareholder consent. Paula will however be in post between March and June 2018. Kelly is happy to provide a
supportive quote on the press release announcing Paula’s resignation.

* Keen to be properly briefed as the litigation case progresses and would welcome both verbal and written
updates on a bi -weekly basis (Steve can you please action)

* She would also welcome a face-to-face meeting with Tom C. (Tom I will let Marcus know, so he can arrange
it with Sam R)

* She wanted more information around the franchising process and re-iterated that she understands the merits
of the programme, but would appreciate more information regarding local issues particularly regarding
accessibility, service provision, etc. As such, going forward she wants direct briefing from POL on franchising
case — Sam White and team to action

* She also wanted to get an understanding of who invests when POL franchises with a retailer — (I have checked
with POL on this point, and they say it is a joint investment but the exact split is dependent on the contract and
commercial agreement — they will provide more information when the request is commissioned) — Sam White
and team to action

* She also wanted to get a understanding of the breakdown of £17million fall in sub postmaster remuneration -
Sam White and team to action
UKGI00008656
UKGI00008656

Tom C addressed all her issues and I could see that she left the meeting feeling satisfied that all was in hand.

Thanks,
Tosin

Oluwatosin Adegun I Manager

Post Office and The Royal Mint Shareholder Teams
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

GRO

