UKG1I00007794
UKGI00007794

From: Jane MacLeodI
Sent: Fri 16/02/2018

_..... GRO
34 PM (UTC)

To:
Ce:
McAlister, Marcus -
Subject: Post Office - Induction
Attachment: Process for Appointment of anew POL NED V2 .1 (TC) 16-2-2018.docx
Hi Tom

Further to discussions with Al, Marla and myself over the last few weeks, we have put together a summary of the
further meetings that we suggest you have as part of your induction. Wherever possible we will schedule these to
align with other meetings etc, and we will liaise with GE members to ensure that as between them, and any meetings
with their direct reports (eg mails), we are joined up and avoid duplication.

To this end, I know you have already meet with all GE members on an introductory basis; had a more detailed
meeting with Al yesterday, and have had briefings from the Panther team, so it will be for you to let us know whether
you feel you have had enough of a briefing on the topics covered in those meetings? I gather you have agreed with Al
to let him have a list of the further areas on you would like briefings; hopefully some of these will be addressed
through the attached.

I will collate the various papers which we think would be helpful and where possible, will make these available via our
Board paper portal, although Richard will have copies of anything that has gone to the Board.

We also recommend that you spend some time visiting a range of branches, and a cash distribution centre, and we
recommend you allow for approximately 2 days in aggregate to do this.

The legal team is finalising a contract summary as requested. This will include the following agreements:

¢ Bol arrangements and Joint venture (‘FS JVA’)

e — FRES arrangements and Joint venture

e POMS

Royal Mail Contract (Mails Distribution Agreement — ‘MDA’)

¢ POCA contract

e IT Towers arrangements — Atos, Fujitsu, Computacenter, Accenture and Verizon.

Overall, the CoSec team will oversee your induction, however a number of the meetings (eg branch visits) will be set
up with you directly.

Please let me know if you have any queries? We will be in touch with Marcus to start scheduling time in so that, to
the extent possible, ahead of the March Board, you will have had the necessary briefings to support the matters to be
discussed at that meeting.

Kind regards,

Jane
UKG1I00007794
UKGI00007794

Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ
Mobile number

HECK RF 22K A C22 FARR O22 2 ARR C22 GOR A ORR OR ENR COE OR ao

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

HEC 2A AR A 2K 2 FAR KR FR 0 RR GK 28 2 08 BN A a a a

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

