UKGI00020990
UKGI00020990

BEIS Policy Sponsorship of Post Office

UKGI currently oversees all aspects of HMG’s relationship with Post Office Limited (POL). POL does
not currently have a policy sponsor within its owning Department of BEIS. The proposed scope
below outlines those duties that would be best undertaken by BEIS rather than UKGI.

It is worth noting that the majority of the work would still reside with UKGI, who would offer
significant support to the BEIS policy sponsor in key areas where UKGI’s knowledge of the business is
central to responding to requests or putting forward policy positions.

The scope below provides an initial view of the role, however a more comprehensive scoping out of
responsibilities would have to take place with the proposed policy sponsor and their team once they
have been nominated.

Strategic role

The role would involve acting as key point of contact for the UKGI shareholder team on policy
related matters (e.g. network size and access requirements, funding):

© Formally owning the key policy remit of minimum network size, access criteria, path to
commercial sustainability

© Driving the delivery of the forthcoming Cabinet Paper on POCA, financial inclusion and cash
and working capital funding

© Critiquing and supporting UKGI advice to the Secretary of State during key events such as
Spending Reviews (the SoS has historically wanted a BEIS view on UKGI’s advice), advocating
the funding proposals once the position is settled.

© Acting as two-way conduit for BEIS related issues that may affect POL, or vice versa (e.g.
employment policies, industrial strategy, business rates and living wage)

© Reviewing and providing clearance on UKGI advice before it goes to Ministers. In some
exceptional cases, advice may instead come directly from BEIS officials, with support from
UKGI

Supporting UKGI’s lead in establishing improved funding / budgeting flexibilities to better
accommodate the needs of what is now a profit making commercial business, and longer
term considering ownership options

¢ Working with UKGI to consider key strategic ownership issues, at the appropriate time

¢ Meeting with UKGI on a monthly basis to horizon scan for areas which may impact the
Department

Operational Role

Policy team to take responsibility for drafting PQs, UQs, and correspondence (with support from
UKGI and POL).

Separately, the execution of the daily POL Working Capital Facility (including day to day calculation
and approval, liaising directly with POL) is something that is not particularly appropriate for UKGI to
undertake. We would ideally seek that this be returned to BEIS — most likely not in any “policy
team” but dealt with by BEIS Finance.
