UKG100018380
UKGI00018380

From: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)

Sent: Wed, 3 Jul 2019 11:46:39 +0000

To: Aldred, Tom - UKGI

Ce: Clark Spad, Mpst (BEIS);Cooper, Tom - UKGI;Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation

Executive);Beal, Eleanor (Advanced Manufacturing and Services);White, Beth (Better Regulation
Executive);Vandini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services);Clarke, Stephen - UKGI;Watson,
Richard - UKGI;Miles, Annabelle (Communications & Partnerships);Wilson, William (BEIS);Culshaw,
Robin - UKGI;Adegun, Oluwatosin - UKGI;Cole, Alex - UKGI

Subject: RE: POL litigation: End of Horizon trial

Hi Tom,
I hope you are enjoying your away day!

Thank you for providing this, please could you send on POL’s summary of the closing
arguments of both sides in the Horizon trial?

Many thanks,

Jess
eB Jessica Tysoe
Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
Business, Energy Strategy

& Industrial Strategy 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET
f mpst.tolhurst
WWW.gov.uk/beis I https://twittér-com/beisgovi

uk

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI ¢ GRO
Sent: 03 July 2019 12:24 _
To: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) :
Ce: Clark Spad, Mpst (BEIS)
— ~~ ‘Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive)

G RO >; Beal, Eleanor (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)

i; White, Beth (Better Regulation Executive)
‘andini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)

Cooper, Tom - UKGI

UKG100018380
UKGI00018380

As set out below, the Horizon trial has now concluded, with judgment due in the autumn . All
parties have agreed that there will be insufficient time to prepare for the third trial to start in
November and so it has been put back until March 2020. The parties have been asked by the
court to try to agree the issues that need to be determined at that third trial and in the absence
of agreement by 21 July, there will be a case management hearing for the court to decide. This
would be on 23 July.

If it would be useful, we can send on POL’s summary of the closing arguments of both sides in
the Horizon trial.

Note that we are all at an away day today so have limited ability to respond!

Tom

Sent from my iPhon

On 2 Jul 2019, at 22:47, Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) { GRO } wrote:

Hi Tom,

The Minister has requested a summary of proceedings today, and it would be good
to know on what basis he or she made that indication (if we know).

Please could you provide this by 3pm tomorrow?

Many thanks,
Gordon
<image001.png> <image002.jpg Gordon Hipwood
> Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP

Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
4_Mictoria Street.London..SW1H.OET

www.gov.uk/béis I @béisgovuk

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI <
Sent: 02 July 2019 17:13

To: Tolhurst, Mes (BEIS) <
_Ce: ¢

; Cooper, Tom - UKGI
)

Beal, Eleanor (Advanced Manufacturing and

White, Beth (Better Regulation Executive)
jlia (Advanced Manufacturing and

Clarke, Stephen - UKGI

‘Watson, Richard - UKGI

iMiles, Annabelle (Communications & Partnerships)
___.} Wilson, William (BEIS)
UKG100018380
UKGI00018380

:Culshaw, Robin - UKGI
Adegun, Oluwatosin - UKGI!

}, Cole, Alex - UKGI <
Subject: POL litigation: End of Horizon trial

Jess

Please see below an update on the Horizon trial for the minister.

Litigation update

The Horizon trial concluded today and judgment is not expected until the Autumn.
The Judge has indicated that the third trial cannot now take place in November and
instead will take place in March 2020. The parties have been asked to agree
directions for the scope and conduct of the third trial. We are seeking clarification
about this from POL and will update you as soon as we have that.

Tom

Tom Aldred I Executive Director
Post Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments

ictoria Street LLondon.L.
AGP...

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the
individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and
have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This
footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and
that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http:/Avww.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

