UKG100018525
UKGI00018525

From: Fleming, Joshua - HMT

Sent: Sun, I Dec 2019 20:50:32 +0000

To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI;Alex Chisholm

Ce: Watson, Richard - UKGI;Aldred, Tom - UKGI;Car! Creswell;Scott, Joshua -
UKGI;Duffy, Philip - HMT

Subject: RE: Mediation

Thank you for the update Tom. I will not be contactable tomorrow, so please speak to Phil (cc’d)
if you need HMT approval for a proposed settlement.

Regarding the additional 77 postmasters, presumably if there is a settlement along the lines set
out below, that could trigger further claims from other postmasters, notwithstanding the
undertakings from Freeths. Do you have an estimate of the size of further claims that could
potentially be brought by these 77 postmasters?

Thank you

Josh

Joshua Fleming I Deputy Director I Corporate Finance, Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Team I
HM Treasury

Sent: 30 November 2019 16:49
To: Alex Chisholm <Alex.Chisholm:

<Tom.Aldred¢
HMT <Joshua.!
<Joshua.Scott_
Subject: Fwd:

GRO

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Ben Foat <Ben.Foat,.
Date: 30 November 2019 at 16:23:57 GMT
To: "Cooper, Tom - UKGI" <To
Ce: Alan Watts <Alan.Watts!
<Richard.Watsoni
Subject: Re: Mediation

GRO. >, "Watson, Richard - UKGI"

Hi Tom
UKG100018525
UKGI00018525

They are just names on list (not claimants or even clients of Freeths). It was a
comment made to Nick (in the absence of lawyers when he had his discussion with
the claimants representatives). I understand that Alan Bates made reference that
there was this list where other postmasters had similar experiences to the
claimants in these proceedings. We do not have any other details - not even their
names.

What we were thinking is that would request a copy of the list on the basis that the
settlement agreement would need to make reference to them ie regarding the
undertaking not to solicit etc apply explicitly to that list and all others. In this way we
can ascertain the list. They may refuse to give the list over without the consent of
those listed as apparently some were afraid to advise post office of the shortfalls.
There may be, however, another way to get the list through Alan Bates (perhaps
through offerings a moratorium not to take recovery action and work with the
postmaster to find out what is not working for them).

We are discussing on Monday how best to go about this and will revert back.

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat

General Counsel
Post Offi imi
Ben. foati

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <Tom.Cooper, GRO
Sent: Saturday, November 30, 2019 3:08 pm

To: Ben Foat

Cc: Alan Watts; Watson, Richard - UKGI

Subject: Re: Mediation

Ben
Do you have any more info on the 77 additional claimants mentioned in your email?
Tom

Sent from my iPhone

On 30 Nov 2019, at 11:25, Ben Foat <Ben.Fo: °

____P wrote:
Morning Tom

« Overall, the parties made significant progress. The claimants
last offer last night was £65m plus the £5.5 costs which POL
was liable for in respect of the Common Issues Judgment. My
sense is that we will be able to get them even lower. Our last
offer remains at £40m.
UKG100018525
UKGI00018525

e We are proposing to go back to the mediators over the
weekend through Herbert Smith Freehills (HSF) where we
instruct them that a 4!" day of mediation on Monday would be
helpful.

Tactically I don’t want your (or Tim’s) formal approval yet but to

contact Tim, yourself and Nick on Monday to obtain authority for

£50m plus the previous £5.5m common issues judgment costs

(which POL is already liable for — we can’t argue these as they

are already court ordered). The legal view is that settlement at

that point would be an excellent result in respect of these
proceedings. Our next offer on Monday is likely to be £45m plus
the £5.5m costs.

Settlement will be made by the parties signing a “Settlement,

release and discharge” which will cover:

o Financial settlement (as a global amount — not assigning
individually — particularly because of the convicted
claimants)

o Release and discharge of these [civil] proceedings
(which will cover the convicted claimants, but as
discussed, will be difficult to cover malicious
prosecutions).

o Agreed statement by the parties (which we will review
from both a legal and comms perspective)

o POL’s approach to the convicted claimants (not that we
“consent” to their applications to the Court of Appeal to
have their convictions overturned but more to do with
our approach ie that we would take external QC expert
advice on our ensuring that we comply with our legal
obligations (for eg. disclosure obligations in respect of a
published Horizon issues judgment to the CCRC).

o POL would assist those claimants who wish to exit the
business post settlement.

o POL would waive or withdraw the proof of debt for those
insolvent claimants.

o Freeths and the litigation funder to give an undertaking
not solicit or act for any further claimants against Post
Office.

We are working on this draft document over the weekend.
There is likely to be legal debate to ensure we are protected
on the above points though there is likely to some degree of
residual risk with the above points.

e Nick spoke to client representatives again and it was revealed
that there was a “further list” containing 77 other postmasters
who were not clients of Freeths but were known to have had
similar problems as the claimants. The above mentioned
undertaking will go someway to prevent any further claims but
as discussed at Board we do need to be realistic that Post
Office may receive a further tranche of claims after the
successful resolution of these proceedings. It will however be
better managed through an established process and the “clive”

.

.
quantum template so as to minimise disruption to Post Office’s
BAU activity.

I will email you separately to update you on other GLO matters shortly.

I'm available this weekend if you want to discuss.
Have a great weekend in the meantime.

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat

Group General Counsel
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <Tom.Coope:
Sent: Saturday, November 30, 2019
To: Ben Foat <Ben.Foat!

Great. Thanks

Sent from my iPhone

On 30 Nov 2019, at 09:10, Ben Foat <Ben.Foat: _
wrote:

Hi tom

I'm drafting an email to you now. You should have it in
about 5 minutes.

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat
General Counsel
Post Office Limited

UKG100018525
UKGI00018525
<Richard.Watson
Subject: Mediation

Ben, Alan

Grateful if you could could let us know where things stand
currently.

Tom

Sent from my iPhone

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the
use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you are not the
intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify
the sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our
email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and
effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and
that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

JESSE SUSIE SISSIES IESE ISSA ISIE IIIA III III III

tek

This email and any attachments are confidential and
intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply
email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely
those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and
Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JE EIEIO SISOS ISS IIS SIS IIIS IIS IIA IAI III II III

see

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your

UKG100018525
UKGI00018525
privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on
our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the
individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and
have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This
footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and
that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to
whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in
error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email
communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and
for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses

UKGI00018525
UKGI00018525
