UKG1I00004781
UKGI00004781

From: Javid MPST[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=358BDF92E3B6441BA05DB1F19CAD786F-
JAVIDMPST]

Sent: Wed 01/07/2015 11:00:54 AM (UTC)

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)f

Ce: SpAd Javid MPST;
(MPST
Subject: Post Office Horizon issue
Laura,

Dan York-Smith at No 10 has got back on this. Afraid I missed the call so I got this second hand - but the message is PM
is happy not to offer a judicial enquiry.

George

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 29 June 2015 20:30

To: Javid MPST

Cc: SpAd Javid MPST; King Nick (MPST); Neville-Rolfe MPST; Freeman MPST; Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Adjournment Debate This Evening

George — a note, attached, for you to send over to Dan in No 10 when you get a chance. It is slightly longer than I
intended but I think necessary to reassure No 10 we have this covered (and you did say “much more detailed
background and context”...!)

(Just to reiterate, this is about Government launching a judicial inquiry, not about Government facing a judicial
review. I have not stressed that point in the note but feel free to do so if you think there is any confusion about that
point.)

Let me know what you think and very happy to make any amends / discuss.

Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

Sent: 29 June 2015 17:45

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Cc: SpAd Javid MPST; King Nick (MPST)

Subject: RE: Adjournment Debate This Evening

Hi all,

I just spoke to Dan York-Smith at No 10 about this. We talked through it and he thinks there shouldn’t be an issue, but
he won’t have any opportunity to clear this with the PM tonight. He has asked that we write again tomorrow with a
much more detailed background and context, clearly setting out why we recommend resisting calls for a judicial
enquiry.

With this additional background he will then seek clearance from the PM tomorrow in advance of Andrew Bridgen
speaking at PMQs. Laura, can you confirm you will take this forward?

Happy to discuss.

Thanks,

George

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 29 June 2015 17:22

To: Javid MPST

Subject: FW: Adjournment Debate This Evening

istant Director I Shareholder Executive

rol P.
Sent: 29 June 2015 13:29
To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)
Subject: RE: Adjournment Debate This Evening
UKGI00004781
UKGI00004781

Great, thanks Laura, will ask Nick to forward on.

Thanks,
Rob
ua Robert Jones
Department
for Business . “T Victoria Street; Londoii;, SW1H OET
Innovation & Skills www.gov.uk/bis I @bisgovuk I blogs.bis.gov.uk

BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

Please note: in line with Cabinet Office guidance MPST does not keep records of Ministerial business. Responsibility
for storing records sits with the relevant departmental team. Please ensure you are familiar with what records you need
to be keeping and are storing them appropriately.

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 29 June 2015 13:27

To: SpAd Javid MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Adjournment Debate This Evening

Comments below:

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

From: SpAd Javid MPST
Sent: 29 June 2015 13:22

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Subject: Adjournment Debate This Evening

Importance: High

Hi Laura,

Can you have and amend what I’ve put below.

Nick,

As just discussed, I’ve given you the briefing pack for tonight’s adjournment debate on the Post Office/Horizon issue.
Andrew Bridgen MP is down to lead and is planning to call for a judicial enquiry (he has already done so in this
Sunday's Express), alleging that Post Office has failed to give justice to a small number of subpostmasters who raised
complaints about the system. There have been two independent reviews on this matter, the most recent being in April,
which said that there were no problems with the Horizon System itself. The focus has now shifted away from criticising
the I.T system and is now on the Post Office’s handling of the situation, mostly around its approach to prosecutions.
The fact remains that there is no evidence that any individual’s conviction is unsafe, and there are legal avenues
(appeal, or the Criminal Cases Review Commission) if people feel there have been miscarriages of justice. Officials
recommend that we resist calls for a judicial enquiry and maintain that this matter is independent of Government
(we are the shareholder of Post Office, not the manager).

We've also heard that he is down to ask a question at PMQs. Given the recent coverage, and the fact that there
will be a debate this evening where the Government will resist his calls for a judicial enquiry, he may want to press
the PM on Wednesday. Officials want to make sure that we're joined up, so we don't resist this evening, only for the
PM to accept or soften the position on Wednesday.

Can you check with your No.10 colleagues please?

Thanks,
Rob
#a Robert Jones
vie Ir
Department
for Business . 7 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET
Innovation & Skills www.gov.uk/bis I @bisgovuk I blogs.bis.qov.uk

BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

Please note: in line with Cabinet Office guidance MPST does not keep records of Ministerial business. Responsibility
for storing records sits with the relevant departmental team. Please ensure you are familiar with what records you need
to be keeping and are storing them appropriately.
