UKG1I00020995
UKGI00020995

Message

From: Lambert, Gavin (Advanced Manufacturing) 7

Sent: 16/05/2018 06:48:04

To: Permanent Secretar }Robinson, Laura (Business Growth)
cc: Callard, Richard - UKGI: _

Subject: Re: POL Policy Sponsor
Attachments: BEIS Policy Sponsorship v3[1].docx

Thanks Madhav

This looks helpful to me and an interesting brief. Particularly given my former role at the Post Office working with
Richard.

It’d be helpful to understand from Richard quite how big this role would be, given volume of Parly traffic , and if any
resource would move over.

Happy to get a catch up in with Alex as a way to progress this.

Thanks

Gavin

GRO “i

From: Permanent Secretary ¢
Date: Tuesday, 15 May 2018 at 17:27
To: "Robinson Laura (DB)", "Li
Cc: Richard Callard <_
Subject: FW: POL Policy Sponsor

nced Manufacturing)"
] Permanent Secretary {

Hi Gavin and Laura,

Thanks for your emails last night and today.

Alex asked the UKGI team to produce a one page document looking at what sort of work they expect to shift over to the
BEIS policy team as part of the proposed changes, which they sent me today (see attached). Let me know if this is useful
for you, and whether you’d still like to talk to UKGI before you talk to Alex. Ideally I’d like to get a meeting in the diary
sooner rather than later.

Thanks for all your help.

Kind regards,

Madhav
UKGI00020995
UKGI00020995

cd Madhav Bakshi

Private Secretary to Alex Chisholm, Permanent Secretary
Department for Sirealle s
Business, Energy 1 Vict Street London SW1H OET

& Industrial Strategy

www.gov.uk/beis I twitter.com/beisgovuk

The Permanent Secretary's box closes at 12pm each working day.
Advice on working with the Permanent Secretary's office can be found here.

Does this email or any attachments need to be “on the record” or available to others for their day to day work? If so, it is
the responsibility of the policy team to save information into SharePoint, in line with Cabinet Office and Departmental
guidance

From: Callard, Richard - UKGI
Sent: 15 May 2018 12:02
To: Permanent Secretary
Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGI f
Maghrabi, Syed (Finance & Portfolio) <
Subject: POL Policy Sponsor

Madhav
Please see attached the one pager Alex asked for in relation to the description of the policy sponsor role. I have
discussed this with BEIS finance but didn’t open it out to the wider group (Tim Jarvis, Caleb, Jaee etc). Happy to do so if

you would like but thought it was important to get this up sooner rather than later.

Separately, it is worth noting that Tom Cooper tested the idea of using Gavin Lambert with Paula Vennells, and there
was no objection from her perspective.

Kind regards

Richard

Richard Callard I Executive Director I Post Office Shareholder Team, Geospatial Commission Set Up Team
UK Government Investments
1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

Please note that with immediate effect, my email address has changed t

I will still receive emails sent to my old address until 30 April 2018. Thereafter you will only be able to contact me
on my new address and emails sent to my ukgi.gov.uk address will not be forwarded.

I would be grateful if you could note this and change contact details accordingly.
UKGI00020995
UKGI00020995

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

