UKG100000942
UKGI00000942

Message
From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive) [/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=73D8709345C441479FOD7E2ADCE207C9-LATHOMPS]
Sent: 7/2/2015 1:55:23 PM
To: Neville-Rolfe MPS’
cc: Javid MPST erm Sec (BIS)
{Russell Mark (ShEx) Odgers Anthony (ShEx)
allard Richard (ShEx) \.. im (ShEx)
Dollin Michael (Shareholder Executive; "Baugh James
Boughen Aileen (Communication: “freer
i nications)
Parly Unit - Others Driscoll, Katie
reeman MPSTi

Subject: RE: Submission to Baroness Neville-Rolfe and George Freeman: Post Office Horizon adjournment debate next steps
Andrew

Thank you for providing the Minister’s feedback and setting out her preferred approach. I have revised the letters on
this basis, also taking into account the feedback from George Freeman to make reference to the Prime Minister’s
statement. These are attached in two separate documents in the Minister’s template for her consideration and
signature.

Following our conversation earlier I think it would be sensible for us to prepare some short handling advice for the
Minister in dealing with any stakeholder enquiries about this meeting. I will consult with press office and aim to provide
something for the Minister's box tomorrow, if that works for you.

Thanks

Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Sent: 02 July 2015 13:41

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Cc: Javid MPST; SpAd Javid MPST; Perm Sec (BIS); Russell Mark (ShEx); Odgers Anthony (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx);
McInnes Tim (ShEx); Dollin Michael (Shareholder Executive); Baugh James (ShEx); Boughen Aileen (Communications);
Creer Simon (Communications); French Claire (Communications); Parly Unit - Others; O'Driscoll, Katie; Freeman MPST;
Neville-Rolfe MPST

Subject: RE: Submission to Baroness Neville-Rolfe and George Freeman: Post Office Horizon adjournment debate next
steps

Laura,

Thank you for your submission.

Baroness Neville-Rolfe has considered the submission and is mostly content. With regards to the meeting she believes
that the initial meeting should be small and consist of Ministers, the 2 or 3 key MPs and 1 or 2 from the Post Office. The
meeting should explore the key issues and next steps ~— which may include follow up meetings.

Would it be possible to have revised letters for the Minister to consider and sign.

Kind regards
UKGI00000942
UKGI00000942

I Andrew Smith
i Private Secretary to Baroness Neville-Rolfe, Parliamentary Under
I

Secretary of State and Minister for intellectual Property

rMeditich 81SKits
I

SW1H OET www.gov.uk/bis II__GRO I blogs.bis.gov.uk

BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

Please note: in line with Cabinet Office guidance MPST does not keep
records of Ministerial business. Responsibility for storing records sits with
the relevant departmental team. Please ensure you are familiar with what
records you need to be keeping and are storing them appropriately

From: O'Driscoll, Katie /~
Sent: 01 July 2015 18:18
To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive); Neville-Rolfe MPST; Freeman MPST

Cc: Javid MPST; SpAd Javid MPST; Perm Sec (BIS); Russell Mark (ShEx); Odgers Anthony (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx);
McInnes Tim (ShEx); Dollin Michael (Shareholder Executive); Baugh James (ShEx); Boughen Aileen (Communications);
Creer Simon (Communications); French Claire (Communications); Parly Unit - Others

Subject: RE: Submission to Baroness Neville-Rolfe and George Freeman: Post Office Horizon adjournment debate next
steps

Hi Laura, Andrew,

The Minister considered your advice and he is somewhat content. However, he feels strongly that Second Sight and
George Thompson (NFSP) should be invited. He commented that the MP’s focused on Second Sight and it would not be
a satisfactory meeting without them. He agrees that JFSA should not attend.

He would also like a line in the letter to Andrew Bridgen to reflect the PM’s offer at PMQs alongside his own.

Andrew ~ can you feed this in to your recommendation to BNR?

Thanks,

Katie

Katie O’ Driscoll
Diary Manager to George Freeman MP — Minister for Life Sciences
UKG100000942
UKGI00000942

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Sent: 01 July 2015 15:02

To: Neville-Rolfe MPST; Freeman MPST; O'Driscoll, Katie

Cc: Javid MPST; SpAd Javid MPST; Perm Sec (BIS); Russell Mark (ShEx); Odgers Anthony (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx);
McInnes Tim (ShEx); Dollin Michael (Shareholder Executive); Baugh James (ShEx); Boughen Aileen (Communications);
Creer Simon (Communications); French Claire (Communications); Parly Unit - Others

Subject: Submission to Baroness Neville-Rolfe and George Freeman: Post Office Horizon adjournment debate next steps
Importance: High

Andrew, Katie

Please see attached submission which is being sent jointly to 1. George Freeman and 2. Baroness Neville-Rolfe. It follows
up on Monday’s adjournment debate in the Commons on the Post Office Horizon system, which is Baroness Neville-
Rolfe’s policy lead but the debate was taken by George Freeman.

The submission recommends how we meet the commitment made by Government (and repeated at PMQs today) to
convene a meeting on this matter. There are draft letters for Baroness Neville-Rolfe to send to Andrew Bridgen MP (who

called the debate) and Paula Vennells, Post Office CEO.

In terms of timing, we strongly recommend the letters issue this week if possible, so if George Freeman is able to
consider this tonight and his views fed to Baroness Neville-Rolfe to consider tomorrow, that would be very helpful.

1am very happy to chat through any aspect of this, either with private office or with the Minister if they would find that
helpful.

Please note that in the time available it has not been possible to clear this submission through SpAds, but we would of
course welcome their input on the decision if Rob is able to put this to Nick tonight.

Many thanks

Laura

www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

This email was scanned by the Symantec anti-virus service

In case of problems, please call your IT support helpdesk.

This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are confidential. If you are not the intended recipient, any readin,
printing, storage, disclosure, copying or any other action taken in respect of this e-mail is prohibited and may be
unlawful. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender immediately by using the reply function
and then permanently delete what you have received.
UKGI00000942
UKGI00000942

Incoming and outgoing e-mail messages are routinely monitored for compliance with the Department of
Health's policy on the use of electronic communications. For more information on the Department of Health's e-

mail policy click here http://www.dh.gov.uk/terms

This email was scanned by the Symantec virus scanning service and was certified virus free.
Communications may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
