UKGI00003957
UKGI00003957

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=73D8709345C441479FOD7E2ADCE207C9-

LATHOMPS]
Sent: Mon 23/03/2015 12
To: Swinson MPST{_ Cable MPST{.
Ce: Callard Ri (Shi

(ShEx)I Franklin-
Wallis Hannah (Communications){.
Subject: RE: Post Office mediation: response to letter from BIS Select Committee
Attachment: 150318 response to Adrian Bailey MP v4.docx
Claire

Thanks very much for feeding back Jo’s comments on the advice. As we discussed on Friday, I have redrafted section 4
of the response relating to whether Government should receive a copy of Second Sight’s report.

Our advice remains that Government should not receive a copy of the report. The revised drafting emphasises two
points:
1. The report will be sent to Post Office who have publicly committed (including to the Committee itself) that
they will not destroy information relating to the scheme, and as such it is not necessary for HMG to also hold
a copy
2. Moreover, the report does not relate to the operation of the Horizon system (which has been demonstrated
is not at fault) but rather, relates to issues which will be operational matters for Post Office. It is Government
policy that we do not intervene in operational matters for POL, and as such, we do not think it would be
appropriate for HMG to request a copy.

The second point is particularly pertinent here. We strongly advise the Minister that Government should maintain its
independence here. This is important because, if Government were to request (and receive) a copy of the report, it
becomes implicit that Government could be called upon to respond to the report, and potentially to become more
involved in the mediation scheme. Moreover, our wider policy on Post Office is that we set the parameters for POL to
operate and we then allow POL the freedom to operate — blurring that line here could lead to pressure to do so again
in the future.

I would also just flag the point made previously that the Second Sight interim report, when completed, will be issued
to those applicants remaining in the scheme, including members of JFSA, so the report will not be held solely by Post
Office. There is also a high likelihood that the report may be leaked (based on precedent).

Hope that helps — do let me know if there is any other information the Minister would find helpful. Very happy to chat
through.

Thanks
Laura

tor I Shareholder Executive

From: Swinson MPST

Sent: 20 March 2015 12:22

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive); Cable MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Parly Unit - Others; Franklin-Wallis Hannah (Communications)
Subject: RE: Post Office mediation: response to letter from BIS Select Committee
UKGI00003957
UKGI00003957

Hi Tara/ Laura,

Jo Swinson saw the response to Adrian Bailey which she is happy with. However she wasn’t comfortable with one of
the response in the Annex of the letter at 4.2 about it not being appropriate for the Government to receive a copy of
the report. She thinks that this is a sensible recommendation from BISComm and that as sole shareholder
Government should hold a copy of the report for audit trail purposes.

Laura — could you please advise if this is an absolute showstopper so I can put further advice to the Minister as
needed. Alternatively if we can live with this could the response please be redrafted to reflect this steer.

Thanks,
Claire

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 20 March 2015 11:16

To: Swinson MPST; Cable MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Parly Unit - Others; Franklin-Wallis Hannah (Communications)
Subject: RE: Post Office mediation: response to letter from BIS Select Committee

Hi Tara, Claire
Just to let you both know that the BIS Select Committee have published their letter to SoS about the Post Office
mediation scheme on their website. I think we can therefore expect they will publish our response as well. This is fine,

the response has been drafted on that presumption, but just to make you both aware.

Post Office have been in touch as they would be keen to correct some of the inaccuracies in the Committee’s letter,
but I have asked them to wait until the Government has had a chance to respond.

Thanks

Laura

Shareholder Executive

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Sent: 18 March 2015 16:
To: Swinson MPST «. GRO } Cable MPST

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx)

Subject: FW: Post Office mediation: response to letter from BIS Select Committee
Importance: High

Hi both
One change to the letter (revised version attached) and I’d be grateful if this revised version could go to the Ministers.

The change is the addition of a line at the end of the letter saying that SoS is copying his letter to Paula Vennells so
that Post Office can reflect on the points raised.

Thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive
UKGI00003957
UKGI00003957

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Sent: 18 March 2015 16:09

To: Cable MPST; Swinson MPST ¢
Cc: Hancock MPST.; Clark MPST; SPAD Cable MPST; SPAD Hancock MPST.; SPAD Clark MPST; Perm Sec (BIS); Russell
Mark (ShEx); Odgers Anthony (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Baugh James (ShEx); Parly Unit -
Others; Franklin-Wallis Hannah (Communications); Rogers Ashley (Communications)

Subject: Post Office mediation: response to letter from BIS Select Committee

Tara, Claire

Please see attached submission and proposed draft response for the Secretary of State to send to Adrian Bailey as
Chair of the BIS Select Committee, regarding the Post Office mediation scheme. I also attached Mr Bailey’s original
letter.

In terms of timing, it would be good practice for SoS to reply before the last sitting day of Parliament, so it would be
helpful if the letter could issue on Monday or Tuesday next week if possible.

Very happy to provide any additional information that might be helpful.
Thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director, Post Office Network Team I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET f
www.qgov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

