UKG1I00017603
UKGI00017603

From: Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive)!
Sent: Thur 16/05/2019 11:51:17 AM (UTC)
To: Thomas “Alisdair

Cameron

Cc: Sullivan, Pauline (Better Regulation Executive} GRO
Subject: RE: Supporting the Minister
Hi Al and Tom,

I'd be happy to talk about it too because I agree there’s more we should try to do.
Pauline — could you try to find a time for the three of us to speak (after Tues next week, I suggest), please?

Thanks,
Carl.

ae Carl Creswell
Director,

Department for
Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

Orchard 2, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET
www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: Thomas Cooper’
Sent: 16 May 2019 12:36
To: Alisdair Cameron

reswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive)

Re: Supporting the Minister

Al

Happy to discuss. We’re struggling with it too to be honest.
Tom

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Alisdair Cameron}, GRO

Sent: Thursday, May 16, 2019 11:08 am

To: Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive); Thomas Cooper
Subject: Supporting the Minister

Carl, Tom
Can we please talk about how we collectively support Kelly? She clearly feels under-communicated with and
there was a consistent sense yesterday that she felt she was out there defending us without the proper

joined up support.

From our point of view, we would see the role of UKGI as a two way flow of challenge and support — Tom,
UKG1I00017603
UKGI00017603

you spend a lot of time with us, sit on the Board and are a member of the Litigation sub-committee so our
assumption has been that there is enough knowledge in the system to supplement the day to day working
of the Comms teams and to so on to ensure BEIS and Kelly are briefed?

If that isn’t right — and it kind of doesn’t feel that it is — perhaps I should be sending a weekly email to Kelly
and/or sending on the notes we do for the Board when we get in the newspapers etc.

I don’t mind very much which way we do it, I just feel we need to collectively get better at it?

Thanks Al

Al Cameron
Interim Chief Executive

r POST.
OFFICE

20 Finsbury Street
London
EC2Y 9AQ

GRO I

FECES SESS OSS SSCS SIOSESI OSES SOE SORE SORE SORES SSSI GI II

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FECES SOI SESS SRIE OSES OREO SEES OSE SORES SFE SOE SORES SEI GI Krk

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our

website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”
