UKG100002221
UKG100002221

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Sent: Tue, 25 Mar 2014 10:14:17 +0000

To: Batten Peter (ShEx);Lidbetter Katrina (ShEx);Baugh James (ShEx);McInnes Tim
(ShEx)

Subject: Paula readout

All - quick readout of my meeting with Paula pre-board yesterday:

Sparrow: Apparently chair Tony Hooper has send the Second Sight reports back to them to be re-written
- he considered them to be substandard and unsubstantiated (not sure those were his precise words but
the sentiment was certainly there). And Tony Hooper has also decided to give SS his idea of what the
general framework paper should cover, so clearly his faith in SS is waning. Whilst we could capitalise on
this Paula is a bit worried of forcing the point too much (i.e. we should let him draw his own conclusions,
he might start to rebel if he feels he is being pushed in that direction. Paula has also talked to a number
of other parties (Financial Ombudsman and a few other companies that have gone through this) - their
views are that all cases should be handled and resolved together at once rather than case by case (which
makes sense to me - as I said you can then allocate a pot of cash and no more, and apportion it out
rather than write open ended cheques). These other orgs also tend to group the cases by "caricatures"
e.g. badly handled training, nasty response to complaints etc, rather than hard and fast rules.

Public Purpose document: is ready to go, see attached. Paula and Martin looked a bit reticent when I
said we need to get this out well before the NFSP conference, and I have chased Mark Davies on this.
They are worried about Sparrow, but there will always be something to worry about.

&

Jenny & George: Mentioned Jenny and George are meetin, and that more generally we needed to
discuss what Jenny might want to say at conference. Martin said the thought Peter and Nick Beale were
liaising

VOA: I gave them what readout I could but mainly told them that I was being kept in the dark.

GDS / PEX ER: Gave them a readout out of the Maude meeting. Paula felt Maude may have been put
up to some of his negative attitudes, but Paula agreed that they needed to be better at serving and
winning over GDS (which reflects my constant theme that they must see HMG as a customer, see next
point). They thought of taking GDS to their Kennington or South Bank branches once they are up and
running to show them what their capabilities are.

POCA: I made a comment about the POCA team at POL in that whilst they are perfectly adequate they
are not really "salesmen" as such and their pitch needed a bit of sales gloss over laid on it i.e. whats in it
for DWP and why should they have confidence in POL. I think Paula and Martin both agreed, and
thought maybe they should get Martin G involved. Anyway, watch this space.....

R
