UKGI00004710
UKGI00004710

REF MCB2015/10621 & REF.J13482

POST OFFICE -HORIZON 22° June 2015

Dear Madam

I was very disappointed to receive your letter of the 11" June with the comments outlined therein and
have come to the conclusion that it was not written with your personal knowledge of the situation but rather drafted
from the comments sent to you from the Post Office / or their lawyers.

I would suggest you investigate the comments :- “small number of subpostmasters “ !! “no evidenceof systemic

flaws” and “ continues to make progress in considering cases “ I think you will find that the only case that was
considered & settled quickly [no doubt with a gagging order? ] was the one where the sub-postmaster from the
Wirral walked in front of a bus & committed suicide.

I would venture to suggest you attend the adjournment debate on the 29™ June in the house and also watch the
PANORAMA programme which will shortly be shown —you might then find you need to modify your opinions.

As an old-aged pensioner and ex-government service employee I am becoming increasingly alarmed as to what sort
of country my grand-children will inherit ,what with widespread sexual abuse enquiries, continual bank & financial
complaints and the general inability of anyone to do anything about it !

THERE SEEMS TO BE SOMETHING LACKING IN THOSE WHO CARRY OUT PUBLIC SERVICE.

I would venture to suggest that you might need to change your opinions —the Post Office has behaved very badly,
hundreds of people have been wronged — and all this time it has been subsidized by government to the tune of
millions of pounds.

Following on from your recent letters to various it would be nice to think you had spoken to the numerous M.P.’s
that have much more information on this scandal and not just accepted what you have been told by Post Office.
Good place to start would be James Arbuthnot & then SECOND SIGHT !!

Don’t make the mistake of supporting the wrong- doers .!

Yours faithfully

M.A.WILSON Baroness Neville-Rolfe DBE CMG
Dept for Business Innovation& Skills

1 Victoria St. London SW1H DET.
