UKGI00016322
UKGI00016322

Pon Margot James MP
ot

Department for Business, Energy &

Department for Industrial Strategy
’ 1 Victoria Street
Business, Energy London

SW1H OET

& Industrial Strategy

David Warburton MP

House of Commons Our ref: MCB2016/23776
‘Your ref:
London
20th September 2016
SW1A 0AA
Dear

Thank you for your letter dated 16th September, enclosing correspondence from your
constituent, John Bowman of Charlton Adam Post Office, about the future of the Post Office.

While the Post Office is publicly owned, it is a commercial business operating in competitive
markets, and the Government allows it the freedom to operate commercially on a day-to-day
basis. Post Office places great importance on the relationship it has with its postmasters, and
I would encourage Mr Bowman to discuss any concerns he has with the Post Office. Mr
Bowman can also make use of the National Federation of Sub Postmasters (NFSP), who
remain the representative body working for postmasters.

Mr Bowman’s email raises some specific points about the state of the business and it may be
helpful if I set out the evidence on how the business is performing. Since 2010, Government
has invested £2bn to modernise and sustain the business and this has delivered real
improvements. The network of branches is at its most stable in decades and thanks to our
investment is offering real improvements to customers. This includes an extra 200,000
opening hours every week, the largest Sunday retail network in the country and over 6000
newly modernised branches offering a better experience for customers and more sustainable
retail propositions for postmasters. Customer satisfaction has remained high at over 95%.
The subsidy needed to sustain the network has dropped from a peak of £210m in 2012 to
£80m this year and this should continue to fall. Losses in the business (excluding any
subsidy) have reduced from -£120m in 2012/13 to -£24m in 2015/16. In short the business is
offering more for customers, doing so more efficiently for the taxpayer and is ensuring that
Post Office services remain on our high streets throughout the country. This of course assists
Government in meeting its manifesto commitment of maintaining 3,000 rural branches around
the country.

Mr Bowman mentions the legal action taking place on complaints about the Horizon IT
system. As I’m sure you will appreciate, as civil proceedings have been issued against the
Post Office on this matter, I am unable to comment further at this present time. This is a
matter for the courts.

The Government recognises the importance of the Post Office to communities. Change is not
easy but it is necessary if the business is to become commercially sustainable and less reliant
on taxpayer subsidy. The government supports this goal and the attempts by the
management team to meet it and, while challenges remain, I believe the business is on the
right path.
UKGI00016322
UKGI00016322

MARGOT JAMES MP
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy
