UKGI00014839
UKGI00014839

Dear Sir or Madam,

T write to complain about the unprofessional disgusting behavior and actions of two of
your employees, these being Caroline Richards a business development manager in the
Lancashire area and Steve Bradshaw a post office investigator.

‘The post office I work in is under investigation and [ ans now working all the hours there.
T received a phone call from Steve Bradshaw on Tuesday 10" March 2009 at 11,30am
asking me to make a statement for the investigation, He-wanted my mobile phone number
but I don’t use it for work. He asked me if 1 had any time free during work hours to
which f replied no as 1am working, T asked if giving the statement was something I had
to do, He said no but it could get me in the clear. He phoned again the same day at
2.50pm wanting to know ifhe could meet me to take ‘astatement. 1 hadn't decided and
wanted to seek legal advice so {told him I needed to think about it.

The following day I 1'" March 2009, Steve Bradshaw and Caroline Richards came to my

place of work and asked if I wanted to make 2 statement without introducing himself. 1

told them I didn’t know because J hada’t had chance to seek legal advice in under twenty

four hours and when T work nine to five, six days a week. I found Steve very

confrontational. I told Steve that f woulda’t make a statement without legal

representation and he told me that 1 wasn’t allowed one which is 4 complete fic. Caroline

came to look after the post office while I was to give a slatement. Caroline does not have

the right to say if T have @ break as she is notmy employer. Lewis McDonald owner of

the store in which the post office operates in told Steve that my fiancé had told Lewis that

Lwas not Lo give a statement to them wilhout proper Jogal representation After a very

confrontational five minutes and after Steve didn’t get what he wanted, Stevetold

Caroline to.close the post office which Is not his authority to do as TY understand, Steve i
and Caroline left the store. f phoned my fiancé because I was emotionally distraught, He i
arrived not long after to check I was ok. He spoke to Steve and Caroline and Informed I
them not to approach me again in this manor. Caroline returned to the store and asked to
speak to me again instead. ‘of Steve Bradshaw, Is she entitled to do this? Does her role
within your company allow her to do this and represent an investigator? My fiancé John
jold her that if it was about the st atement (hen the answer was no. She said it was about
post office, But low and behold it was about the sintement, Caroline said that if J choose
nol to give a statement. she would speak to Zubeir Patel my employer about my suitability
for my Job. She gave me a deadline of two days (Friday) for my decision. I consider this
threat of my position and livelihood to be blackmail.
UKGI00014839
UKGI00014839

Due to the days events I felt emotionally drained and very ill and had to take the rest of
the day off. Please understand how much this traumatic experience has affected my
perception of the Post Office.

{ would like some answers. Is this how Post Office operates, namely through bl jackmail
and bully by tactics? [s this the proper behavior of a business development manager and
investigator? Why do you Jetpeople tike this represent your company?

{think that you should consider whether these people shonid be representing your
company. Llook forward to a reply from yourselves about your intentions in dealing with
Caroline Richards and Steve ‘Bradshaw inappropriate behavior and whether Broughton
Post Office is staying open. At this me { am seeking legal advice with our solicitor and
employment securities.

Jowill expect your reply in writing by 24/03/09

