UKG100006685
UKGI00006685

From: Callard, Richard - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=6988FBA346C64632AA2C6DDACEAC7D18-
CALLARD, RICHARD (RC]

Sent: Mon 02/05/2016 2:33:09 PM (UTC)

To: UKGI POL Team}
Ce: French Claire (Communication:
Subject: Fw: Sparrow update/media coverage

Laura, to see, further update on Sparrow.
R

Sent from my BlackBerry 10 Smartphone.
Original Message --
From: Paula Vennells +
Sent: Monday, 2 May 2
To: Virginia Holmes; timfranklin?, Carla Stent; kenmccall!
Cc: Tim Parker; Alisdair Cameron; Alwen Lyons; Jane MacLeod; Mark R Davies

Subject: Sparrow update/media coverage

iCallard, Richard - UKGI

Dear all,

You may have seen some media coverage on Sparrow this weekend - I thought it would be helpful to share with you
Jane's update to Tim and myself:

"On Thursday afternoon we received the formal Letter of Claim from Freeths on behalf of 91 applicants. The document
is 53 pages long and will require careful review. On a very quick scan it appears that, not unexpectedly, there are a
number of allegations made, however, there does not appear to be any new material raised. At this stage, there is no
quantification of the claim for damages.

We have referred the Letter to our legal advisers and will be in discussion with them next week as to the litigation
strategy."

The claimants have already involved the press resulting in articles in The Sunday Times and the Daily Mail over the
weekend. Our legal advice is clear: now that the matter has become subject to court proceedings, that is the proper place
for discussion of the issues; our response to enquiries has been limited to saying that we have received the claim and
therefore will be responding through legal processes.

We will review the communications strategy in parallel with the development of the litigation strategy, and the Board will
be updated on both: I have asked for a briefing paper to be prepared for our meeting in May.

If you have any questions at all, do ask; equally, don't hesitate to get in touch with Jane or Mark directly.
Best wishes,
Paula

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
Post Office Ltd

Sent from my iPad

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.
UKG100006685
UKGI00006685

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in partnership with
Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call your organisations IT Helpdesk.
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
