UKG100008158
UKG100008158

From: Griffiths, Mpst (BEIS:
Sent: Thur 21/06/2018 7:37:18 AM (UTC)

To: Adegun, Oluwatosin - UKG! Clarke, Stephen -
UKGIf”

Ce: Cooper, Tom - UKGIf._
Clark Spad, Mpst (BEI:
Partnerships & Governanc

Subject: Readout: Introductory meeting"

Idred, Tom - UKGIE.
;Moss, Duncan

Parker (11.06.
Hi All,

Please see below a short readout from the Minister’s meeting with Tim Parker last week. Let me know if there is
anything I have missed. Tosin, as mentioned, I had to leave halfway through due to a UQ being tabled and Georgina

covered the rest of the meeting. I therefore don’t have full notes for the parts in italics so please let me know if there
is anything to add here.

Thanks,

Sam

Readout: Introductory meeting with Tim Parker (11.06.18)
Tim explained that his aims were:

* To double the size of the POL network in time

* To move more in the direction of being a franchise in a convenience retailer

* To acquire Payzone to make POL more competitive with PayPoint

* To align renumeration so that postmasters are better rewarding for business banking services

Tim discussed the face that the POL business is reliant on Royal Mail. POL has a 10 year agreement with RM which is
in the process of being renegotiated but RM will most likely to be keen to renew at least for the time being.

The banking framework is a big success and contributes greatly to financial inclusion.

AG is keen to explore the challenges of the banking network shrinking and whether this means that business banking
facilities at POL become an issue. He questions the speed and convenience of business banking with POL currently.

AG expressed concern about the security and safety of staff with increasing banking services being offered and cash
being held onsite. Tim thought POL could already do a lot with managing safes etc. He mentioned new research
which suggests that the lower the protection around the counter the fewer the robberies. POL are investing time and
effort to ensure they are ahead of the game- robbery methods are continually changing and they try to keep pace
with this.

There was some discussion of the IT upgrade. A new IT director has made some good changes. Issues arise from the
hardware which is old.

Some discussion of the gig economy — some postmasters are agents

On the Horizon litigation case - Tim said that lawyers are optimistic about the outcome. It was agreed that a meeting
should be scheduled for September to discuss contingency plans. Some concerns were raised about how to present
this case to the press.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
UKG100008158
UKG100008158

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

