UKGI00006022
UKGI00006022

PS/Letwin

When Baroness Neville-Rolfe and Mr Letwin spoke on Monday 14 September about the Post Office,
Baroness Neville-Rolfe explained that she was meeting Mr Arbuthnot the following Thursday (17
September) and would update Mr Letwin following that meeting. Mr Letwin wanted to know Mr
Arbuthnot’s reaction to the idea of a review by Mr Tim Parker, new Chairman of the Post Office,
which he agreed with Baroness Neville-Rolfe was a good way forward.

Mr Arbuthnot's main ask was for Baroness Neville-Rolfe to agree to meet Second Sight, the firm of
forensic accountants who had been employed by Post Office to look into the Horizon IT system and
the cases that had been brought forward by individuals to the mediation scheme. Mr Arbuthnot felt
this would help the Minister understand the issue better, and was only fair to hear their side of the
story having had briefing from Post Office experts and the sub-postmasters. Baroness Neville-Rolfe
agreed to consider this, and officials are considering options.

Mr Arbuthnot and Baroness Neville-Rolfe agreed that the Criminal Cases Review Commission's
investigations would be important and should be allowed time to conclude, although Mr Arbuthnot
raised doubts about whether the CCRC would resolve the issue if there was a finding in favour of the
Post Office. The main case in his constituency, that of Mrs [2], is before the CCRC and was not the
subject of mediation as she had already been found guilty in court of false accounting which he feels
was unjust.

Mr Arbuthnot informed Baroness Neville-Rolfe that he planned to make his maiden speech in the
House of Lords on this subject.

On the review, Mr Arbuthnot had some concerns that Mr Parker, as the new Chairman of the Post
Office, might not be sufficiently objective to provide independent scrutiny. He suggested an
alternative would be former Court of Appeal judge Sir Anthony Hooper, who previously chaired the
Working Group on this matter. Baroness Neville-Rolfe said she would consider meeting him but
noted that he had previously refused to meet Ministers on this subject when he was in post as
independent Chair.

BIS are considering next steps including whether Baroness Neville-Rolfe should meet Second Sight.
Baroness Neville-Rolfe still expects Mr Parker to consider this matter when he starts his role next.
week, and looks forward to hearing his views. Baroness Neville-Rolfe will reply to Mr Bridgen's email
shortly along the lines attached.

The Government's position is that the processes already in train (CCRC investigations; remaining
mediations; Mr Parker's review) should be allowed to complete before any further action is

considered, and that many of these issues can only be resolved through the proper judicial channels.

As this is potentially a serious problem for the Government, Baroness Neville-Rolfe would appreciate
Mr Letwin’s view before she writes.

With thanks

Harriet Smith
Private Secretary to Baroness Neville-Rolfe DBE CMG
