UKG1I00020885
UKGI00020885

Message

From: Callard, Richard - UKGI [/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=6988FBA346C64632AA2C6DDACEAC7D18-CALLARD, RICHARD (RC]

Sent: 28/02/2018 17:29:59

To: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI [/-

Subject: FW: Meeting with POL

Attachments: General Litigation Monitoring Protocol Guidance_FR.doc

7

Lambert, Helen - UKGI

Hi — not very comfortable with the comment on the second page saying we definitely will get a second opinion. We may
well do, but shouldn’t we make it more conditional (to avoid sending POL in to a bit of a spin).
R

From: Reynolds Francis (Legal B) [mailto!,
Sent: 28 February 2018 1
To: Lambert, Helen - UKG!
Cc: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI <
Subject: RE: Meeting with POL

3 Callard, Richard - UKG

Hi Helen,
Thank you for this.
I’ve revised the attached note and inserted comments in track changes.

Let me know if you have any queries.

Thanks,
Francis
From: Lambert, Helen - UKGI [mailto! GRO

Sent: 27 February 2018 18:21
To: Reynolds Francis (Legal B)
Cc: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI; Callard, Richard - UKGI
Subject: RE: Meeting with POL

Francis
Elizabeth has forwarded me the below and asked that I briefly update you on the meeting with POL.

POL seemed initially reluctant to set out any protocol arrangement, however did become more receptive to the idea
over the course of the meeting. We have therefore drafted up a general guidance protocol based on the protocol we
discussed for OS. We would refine this before sharing with POL, for example including more bespoke detail on their
hearings in respect of touchpoints and removing point 2, however feel it is important that UKGI and BEIS Legal are
aligned and therefore would appreciate your comments on this as a general outline for future use.

We are aiming to share this with POL by the end of the week, and therefore would appreciate if you could let us have
any comments at your earliest convenience and by COB Thursday at the latest.

Kind regards
Helen
UKG1I00020885
UKGI00020885

Helen Lambert I Legal Secondee
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI

Sent: 27 February 2018 18:
To: Lambert, Helen - UKG! Le
Subject: FW: Meeting with POL

From: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI
Sent: 23 February 2018 09:27

To: 'Reynolds Francis (Legal B)' < >
Subject: Meeting with POL

Good morning Francis,
lam aiming to keep the meeting with POL very informal, so on second thought my suggestion is that we do not dial you
in —it’s not appropriate for a getting to know you meeting — apologies for messing about!

E

Elizabeth O’Neill IGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

Please note that with immediate effect, my email address has changed to, GRO

I will still receive emails sent to my old address until 30 April 2018. Thereafter you will only be able to contact me
on my new address and emails sent to my; address will not be forwarded.

I would be grateful if you could note this and change my contact details accordingly.

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.
