UKG100008342
UKG100008342

From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=8A261230540B454 1883BC1E75B94ESE7-
CLARKE, STEPHEN (SCL]

Sent: Thur 16/08/2018 9:47: 2 AM (U

To: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) GRO
Ce: Permanent Secreta ; Aldred, Tom -
I; Watson,
Lambert, Helen -
_4: White, Sam (Advanced Manufacturing and
‘andini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and
é j; Lambert, Gavin (Advanced Manufacturing
and Services),
Subject: FW: Official Sensitive & Subject to Legal Privilege: POL Litigation Update Submission
Attachment: POL Litigation Update Sub to Perm Sec - August 2018 FINAL.docx
Attachment: Annex 1 - Disclosure Protocol.pdf
Attachment: Annex 3 - Litigation Background Briefing from POL's Legal Counsel.pdf
Attachment: Annex 4 - Litigation Update from POL after 31 July Board Meeting.docx
Attachment: Annex 5 - Proposed Agenda and Attendees for 10 Sept.docx
Attachment: Annex 2 Updated - Pre-onboarding Protocol & Recipients List.docx

Official Sensitive and Subject to Legal Privilege: please do not forward outside the closed distribution list
Hi Sam,

As discussed, here is the info submission that went to the Perm Sec on the Post Office Horizon Litigation. I’m sending
this now for information as we won't be getting any comments back from Alex before the Minister goes away again.

The recipients list in Annex 2 has been updated to reflect that the Minister is now signed up, as well as changes in the
new POL policy sponsorship team. I’ll follow up with Clark Spad’s office on getting the new Spad onboard.

Regards,
Stephen
From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI
Sent: 10 August 2018 15:59

To: ‘Permanent Secretary’
Cer Evans, Gareth (BEIS)

ambert, Gavin (Advanced Manufacturing and Services) _

Lucie- UKGIE Lambert, Helen - UKG

Subject: Official Sensi ive & Su ject to egal Privilege: POL Litigation pdate Submission

Official Sensitive and Subject to Legal Privilege: please do not forward outside the closed distribution list

Madhav,
UKG100008342
UKG100008342

Please find attached an update submission (with 5 annexes) on the Post Office Horizon litigation case. This is an info
sub to (i) bring Alex up to speed on the case; (ii) brief Alex on safeguards for handling POL’s legally privileged
information under the Disclosure Protocol and (iii) focus on plans for the oral briefing on 10 September by POL’s Legal
Counsel. Please note that POL have password-protected their background briefing (Annex 3) as an extra safeguard;
the password will follow by separate email.

For the benefit of copy addressees who saw this sub in draft a few weeks back, I should explain that the sub was put
on hold while we collected the required signatures for recipients on the closed distribution list. May I also take this
opportunity to remind you not to share this sub beyond the closed distribution list (latest list is on the final page of
Annex 2) - this is one of the safeguards to protect POL’s legally privileged info under the Disclosure Protocol.

Kind regards,
Stephen

Stephen Clarke I Post Office Shareholder Team
UK Government Investments
Corporate finance and governance in government.

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

