UKGI00032895
UKGI00032895

Message

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI [/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=0224934F23B1444386FD031B130603A8-SCOTT, JOSH]

Sent: 30/10/2020 09:45:22

To: McInnes, Tim - UKGI!

Subject: RE: Advice for Approval - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

Joshua Scott I Manager
UK Government Investments

set, London. SWLIHOET

www.u

Follow on in}

From: McInnes, Tim - UKGI <
Sent: 30 October 2020 09:44
To: Scott, Joshua - UKGI, I

Subject: RE: Advice for Approval - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

Do you have her number?

Tim Mcinnes I Executive Director

UK Government Investments

www.ukgi.org.uk

Follow on in]

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI <
Sent: 30 October 2020 08:22
To: Mcinnes, Tim - UKGI ‘Desai, Meet - UKGI
Subject: RE: Advice for Approval - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

Thanks Tim.

FYI — Eleanor will have only got back tomorrow so this email might be worth a quick call to follow up so it isn’t lost in the
ocean of emails!

Josh

Joshua Scott I Manager
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

www.ukgi.org.uk
UKGI00032895
UKGI00032895

Follow on inI

From: McInnes, Tim - UKGI ¢.
Sent:30 October 202007099
To: Scott, Joshua - UKGI +. GRO __I; Desai, Meet - UKGI ¢ GRO

Subject: FW: Advice for Approval - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

Sorry forgot to cc.

Tim McInnes I Executive Director

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria S'

www.ukgi.org.uk

Follow on inI

From: Mclnnes, Tim - UKGI

Sent: 30 October 2020 07:08
To: Brooks-White (Jobshare)
Subject: FW: Advice for Approval - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

See below. I think it’s worth a push and I’m happy to do this, though you may have better relationships with the 8th
Floor than me. In my eyes we already have approval to launch from a few weeks ago as we have an approval to hire up
to two postmaster NEDs (i.e. so I don’t think this needs to go into the November meeting and can be done outside, and
delegated). Otherwise we will probs recommend to POL that they can announce next week that they will be opening the
process for applications very shortly (i.e. they can announce but they can’t start the process without approval).

Given next week is a particularly good opportunity to get the word out — they have two engagement activities with
postmasters I think — it would be a shame to miss it.

Let me know what you want to do... Clearly our preference is to get this moving (not least as there might be another POL
related submission going to the 11 November meeting, re. the CFO).

Tim
Tim McInnes I Executive Director

UK Government Investments

1Vi

www.ukgi.org.uk

Follow on in]

From: Desai, Meet - UKGI ¢
Sent: 29 October 2020 18:37

To: Mcinnes, Tim - UKGI >; Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Subject: FW: Advice for Approval - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

UKGI00032895
UKGI00032895

Disappointing to get backtrack on this. Is it worth one more push (from Tim or within BEIS policy) — what do you guys
think?

Best,
Meet

Meet Desai I Manager

UK Government Investments

Follow on inI

From: Secretary Of State (Private Office)
Sent: 29 October 2020
To: Desai, Meet - UKGI {.
SpAds Office (Private Offi
Cc: Permanent Secretary

I Post Office Team
McInnes, Tim - UKGI

UKGI

+; BEIS Partnerships Mailbox
and Partnerships)

Donald, Charles - UKGI <__ ; Cutting, Nicola (Communications &
Dickason, Julie (Organisational Development and Partnerships)
Broomfield, Kerry (Organisational Development and Partnerships)

{ GRO j; Finn, Yaacov - UKGI < Brinkworth, Elliot - UKGI

Subject: RE: Advice for Approval - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

Hi all

With apologies for overriding the previous SoS office steer, this should no longer be delegated. Please can you work with
the appointments team to have this cleared by Spads and Minister Scully ready for a SoS decision on 11 November (his
next meeting on appointments).

Thanks
Izzy

From: Desai, Meet - UKGI

Sent: 29 October 2020 12:44 2
cully, Minister (Private Office) <_.

= Post Office Team

+; McInnes, Tim - UKGI

+; Cole, Alex - UKGI

; BEIS Partnerships Mailbox
>; Collins, Ruth (Organisational Development and Partnerships)

Donald, Charles - UKGI <¢" ; Cutting, Nicola (Communications &

UKG1I00032895
UKGI00032895

Dickason, Julie (Organisational Development and Partnerships)
Broomfield, Kerry (Organisational Development and Partnerships)

GRO i; Yaacov.Finn < rinkworth, Elliot - UKGI
d

Subject: R Advice for Approval - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

Partnerships) <

Hi Sonny, Jamie,

Further to Ministerial and SpAds support for postmaster representation on the POL Board (below), POL have designed a
proposed approach for the recruitment process. Ash has confirmed delegation of this matter to Minister Scully, after
SpAds clearance.

All appointments to the POL Board must be approved by the BEIS SoS as sole shareholder and whilst an appointment
would be in February 2021, this is to sight Ministers on the approach. This would be so POL can announce the details of
the scheme to the postmaster community once approval has been received. POL are planning to provide details of the
scheme on Friday 6 November.

We would note that this appointment is atypical to a usual NED appointment because the NEDs will be from the
postmaster community. POL are determined to rebuild relations with postmasters following the litigation settlement and
Ministers and officials are in strong support of this commitment.

POL have a number of engagement activities next week with the postmaster community and it is an excellent opportunity
to provide details on the postmaster NED initiative. The concept of which has been already communicated to postmasters
following Ministerial support. It will be important to maintain momentum following positive developments with the recently

announced Independent Inquiry.

Any questions please do let me know. Headlines from the submission below.

Thanks,
Meet
Stage 1 Submission — Approval for recruitment
This is not an OCPA regulated appointment

[To Approve Minister Paul Scully MP

[To Clear Special Advisers

[To Note IBEIS Secretary of State (SoS), Alok

ITo Note Sharma MP
Permanent Secretary

Role, Partner Organisation Non-Executive Director x2, Post Office
Limited

Prime Minister's interest list INo

Lead Official / Policy & Telephone \Meet Desai (UKGI) -:
[Eleanor Beal (BEIS) ¢ GRO

Unique Reference Number B62

Summary: Post Office Limited (POL) want to launch the process to appoint two NEDs from the postmaster community to
represent postmasters at Board level. This submission seeks your approval for the proposed approach to recruitment (Annex
A). In principle approval was provided by SoS and Minister Scully for the creation of postmaster NEDs in July 2020.

Timing: Approval by Thursday 5 November, to enable POL to formally launch the postmaster NED recruitment campaign on
Friday 6 November. The POL Board approved the process on Tuesday 27 October.

Recommendations: You approve POL's approach to the recruitment process for two postmaster NEDs and provide input
on whether you would like BEIS representation on the Independent Panel. POL's Board has a strong preference for the
Panel to be independent of POL and BEIS.
UKGI00032895
UKGI00032895

Meet Desai I Manager
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria SI , London, SW1H OET

www.ukgi.org.uk

Follow on

From: Secretary Of State (Private Office) <
Sent: 12 August 2020 13:06 .
To: SpAds Office (Private Offi
McInnes, Tim - UKGI <____.

Cc: Permanent Secreta
Post Directorate)

Scott, Joshua - UKGI <
ter (Private Office) <i
; Creswell, C: s

GRO

_p Post Office Team
‘ole, Alex - UKGI

Munby, Sarah (BEIS) >; Donald, Charles - UKGI
Dickason, Julie (Organisational Development and Partnerships)

Broomfield, Kerry (Organisational Development and Partnerships)

Finn, Yaacov - UKGI <7 Brinkworth, Elliot - UKGI

Eocene
Subject: RE: Advice for Approval and Letter - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

Hi Josh, Tim,

SoS has agreed with the recommendations in respect of the Postmaster Representation on the POL Board without
further comment.

Many thanks
Sarah
a 7 Sarah Edmond
Locum Private Secretary to the Rt Hon. Alok Sharma MP

Dep: less, Energy and Industrial Strategy

Department for
Business, Energy 1 ia Street, SW1H OET
& Industrial Strategy www.gov.uk/beis I twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: SpAds Office (Private Office)
Sent: 09 July 2020 11:23
To: Scott, Joshua - UKGI <_
Secretary Of State (Private
Cc: Permanent Secretary <.
Post Directorate)

; Scully, Minister (Private Office) ¢

\ayeesmarnainarnvanearenremvmainanmaineteninni!
nesenveeneneee p; Creswell, Carl (Professional Business Services, Retail &

; McInnes, Tim - UKGI % Cooper, Tom - UKGI

UKG1I00032895
UKGI00032895

st Office Team <_
_§ Cole, Alex - UKGI < GRO

GRO : BEIS Partnerships Mailbox.

i>; Donald, Charles - UKGI

‘un, Oluwatosin - UKGI

esai, Meet - UKGI

Munby, Sarah (BEIS)
ickason, Julie (Organisational
Broomfield, Kerry (Organisational Development and
“>; Finn, Yaacov - UKGI < 5 Brinkworth, Elliot -

Subject: RE: Advice for Approval and Letter - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

Hi all,

Thanks very much for this sub SpAds agree with the recommendations without any further comment.

Thanks,
Ali
4 a Alistair McHugh
Assistant Private Secretary to the Special Advisers
Department for pepartment for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
Business, Energy 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

& Industrial Strategy www.gov.uk/beis I @beisgovuk

From: Scott, Joshua - UKGI <
Sent: 02 July 2020 10:32

Secretary Of State (Private Office)

Permanent Se

1; McInnes, Tim -

Cooper, Tom - UKGI <
, Oluwatosin - UKGI ¢

Post Office Team

Cole, Alex - UKGI

EIS Partnerships Mailbox

> ; Munbyy Sari Donald, Charles - UKGI
Dickason, Julie (Organisational Development and Partnerships)

Broomfield, Kerry (Organisational I Development and Partnerships)

Finn, Yaacov - UKGI < “}; Brinkworth, Elliot - UKGI

Subject: Advice for Approval and Letter - POL Postmaster Representation on the Board

Hi Jess, Megan,

Cc Ali

Further to the commission to the respond to the letter from the POL CEO regarding postmaster representation on the POL
Board (attached), we have drafted a suggested reply and accompanying advice for approval by SoS.

All appointments to the POL Board must be approved by the BEIS SoS as sole shareholder and whilst an appointment
would be a number of months away, we feel it important to sight SoS on POL's intentions and request his approval for the
broad direction of travel before responding to Nick letter. This would be so POL can announce their intentions to the
postmaster community once approval has been received.
UKGI00032895
UKGI00032895

Apologies for sending to SpAds and Minister POs all at once. POL plan to undertake a series of ‘roadshows’ for
postmasters across the UK from today so we thought it best to get the advice in before the weekend.

Any questions please do let me know.

Details of the sub below.

Cheers,

Josh

Purpose

This note provides an update to POL's proposal for 1 — 2 Postmaster Non-Executive Director (NED) roles on their board
and on the engagement POL has had with postmasters regarding their relationship model. The POL CEO, Nick Read, has
written to Minister Scully requesting the Department's agreement in principle to the broad direction of travel. Officials are

supportive of POL's proposal and we ask for the Secretary of State's approval for POL to announce their intentions to the
postmaster community.

Timing

Routine — we request a decision next week, if possible, so POL can socialise this with the postmaster community.
Special Advisers

This note has been sent to SpAds in parallel.

Annexes

Annex A — Letter from Nick Read to Minister Scully on Postmaster Engagement (30/06/2020)
Annex B — Draft response from Minister Scully to POL letter

Contacts
Director General: Sarah Munby (BEIS)/ Charles Donald (UKGI)

Lead Officials: Joshua Scott

Lead Official Telephone:

Joshua Scott I Analyst
UK Government Investments

1. SWE

10ET

www.ukgi.org.uk

Follow on

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also
confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other
lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also
UKGI00032895
UKGI00032895

confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other
lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.
