UKGI00018527

UKGI00018527

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI

Sent: Sat, 30 Nov 2019 11:53:03 +0000
To: Ben Foat;Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Ce: Alan Watts

Subject: Re: Mediation

Ben

Thanks for this update. Sounds very encouraging.
Kind regards
Richard

Sent from my BI rl the most secure mobile device — via the EE Network

ichard. Watsoni,
Subject: RE: Mediation

Morning Tom

¢ Overall, the parties made significant progress.
which POL was liable for in respect of the Common Issues

—_— a sense is that we will be able to get them even lower.

« We are proposing to go back to the mediators over the weekend through Herbert Smith

Freehills (HSF) where we instruct them that a ath day of mediation on Monday would be
helpful.

¢ Tactically I don’t want your (or Tim’s) formal approval yet but to contact Tim, yourself
and Nick on a to

(which POL is already liable for - we can’t argue these as they
are already court ordered). The legal view is that settlement at that point would be an

excellent result in a of these proceedings. Our next offer on Monday is likely to be

e Settlement will be made by the parties signing a “Settlement, release and discharge”
which will cover:

o Financial settlement (as a global amount — not assigning individually —
particularly because of the convicted claimants)

o Release and discharge of these [civil] proceedings (which will cover the
convicted claimants, but as discussed, will be difficult to cover malicious
prosecutions).

o Agreed statement by the parties (which we will review from both a legal and
comms perspective)

°
UKG100018527
UKGI00018527

o POL would assist those claimants who wish to exit the business post settlement.
o POL would waive or withdraw the proof of debt for those insolvent claimants.
o Freeths and the litigation funder to give an undertaking not solicit or act for any
further claimants against Post Office.
We are working on this draft document over the weekend. There is likely to be legal
debate to ensure we are protected on the above points though there is likely to some
degree of residual risk with the above points.

I will email you separately to update you on other GLO matters shortly.

I'm available this weekend if you want to discuss.
Have a great weekend in the meantime.

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat

Group General Counsel
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile :

From: Cooper, Tom - UKG:
Sent: Saturday, November 30, 2019 9
To: Ben Foat ¢

Great. Thanks

Sent from my iPhone
UKGI00018527
UKGI00018527

On 30 Nov 2019, at 09:10, Ben Foat

Hi tom
I’m drafting an email to you now. You should have it in about 5 minutes.

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat

General Counsel
Post Office Limited
Ben.foa'

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <_
Sent: Saturday, November 30
To: Ben Foat!
Cc: Watson, Richar«
Subject: Mediation

Ben, Alan
Grateful if you could could let us know where things stand currently.
Tom

Sent from my iPhone

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to
whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in
error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email
communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and
for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

EE 2 FR RR AR FR A SR FR RR of A FR a ao of aaa a
ek

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.
UKGI00018527
UKGI00018527

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FEISS SICISISISISISISIGSISISIGISISISISISICIG SI SISSICISISISISISII ISIS SGI SEICI ICICI ACSI ICI I a aC ICR a aR RR a
sek

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about
how we do this can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and
delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the

secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for
malware and viruses.
