UKGI00002063
UKGI00002063

From: McInnes Tim (ShEx)[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=TMCINNES]
Sent: Fri 20/09/2013 10:42:
To: Gibson Will (ShEx
Subject: Re: RM prospectus

I'd picked them up anyway and talked them through with FF. Ill take a look but I suspect Martin is wanting words that
can't legitimately be included (e.g. wanting to say POL has the biggest retail network in the UK does not sit comfortably,
but saying it has more than 11,500 does - that is, what sounds like marketing versus what sounds like fact).

Tim

From: Gibson Will (ShEx)

Sent: Friday, September 20, 2013 11:35 AM
To: McInnes Tim (ShEx)

Subject: RE: RM prospectus

She has fed back to Jon Milledge and Neil Harmby - they get the point. I told him earlier that we'd let him know when we heard
anything. I think you should tell him POL should pick this up with Jon direct. We have fed our views in to FF and made clear to RM
our concerns on the Horizon point in particular. RM are being slippery because their directors are responsible for this, not us. But
they appreciate the need to avoid political problems.

Did POL also send their comments to RM or did they simply forward them to you to deal with? I would hope they also fed those
comments in themselves rather than leaving us to do their dirty work.

Will Gibson I Executive Director I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

PA:Karen Smith}; GRO I

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and higher skills
across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: McInnes Tim (ShEx)
Sent: 20 September 2013 11:32
To: Gibson Will (ShEx)
Subject: Fw: RM prospectus

Ill take a look when I come up but most of his comments should have been addressed. The wording is possibly
more nuanced than he would want but in terms of how prospectuses are drafted we have made ground.

As we've discussed I understand on the horizon point this is with Rachel. Have you had any update from her on
this?

Tim

From: Martin Edwards
UKG100002063
UKGI00002063

Sent: Friday, September 20, 2013 11:25 AM
To: McInnes Tim (ShEx); Gibson Will (ShEx)
Subject: FW: RM prospectus

Linking to my previous email — for reference, the comments in the attached set out our areas of concern.
Thanks

From: Martin Edwards

Sent: 11 September 2013 10:27
To: McInnes Tim (ShEx)
Subject: RM prospectus

Hi Tim

As discussed yesterday, I’ve tracked some comments into the POL elements of the RM prospects to highlight
where we have specific concerns. I suspect they’re the same concerns you have — the sensitivities are as much
political as commercial. If you were able to push these with Slaughters and your RM counterparts within Shex
that would be much appreciated.

Also, if you were able to find out whether there are any POL references in the wider comms/marketing
materials associated with privatisation that would also be very helpful — as well as the specific points noted in
my tracked changes, it’s the overall negative tone of the references to the Post Office which worries us.
Important this is balanced out in the overall messaging.

Give me a call if useful to discuss further.

Many thanks,
Martin

Martin Edwards I Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive

postoffice.co.uk
®postofficenews

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.
UKG100002063
UKGI00002063

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.

