HORIZON LINES FOR DPMQs

Top line:

[If pus
.

My honourable friend, the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for
Employment Relations and Consumer Affairs, will be making a
statement to the House shortly on these matters.

hed]:

Government welcomes the publication of the interim Report by forensic
accountants Second Sight into alleged problems with the Post Office
Horizon computer system and the company’s positive response.

Important to be clear that, contrary to misleading media reports, the
review explicitly confirms that no systemic problems with the Horizon
software have been found.

Must also make absolutely clear that the report makes no comment
about the safety or otherwise of any past conviction of a
subpostmaster for fraud, theft or false accounting.

A very small number of subpostmasters have experienced issues with
the Horizon system - a minute proportion of the tens of thousands
(68,000) of people successfully using the system on a daily basis
across the network of over 11,500 branches.

Important to be clear the issues and concerns covered by the Report
do not relate to any Government action or policy decision. They are
wholly operational matters for Post Office Ltd in which the Government
has no role

The Post Office has proposed a number of measures to address points
made in the Second Sight report about support and training for
subpostmasters.

Government cannot intervene in the legal process to review or appeal
past convictions. These are matters which can only properly be dealt
with by the relevant judicial authorities.

Background

The Second Sight review was commissioned by Post Office Ltd (POL) last
year in the context of allegations by a very small number of subpostmasters
of accounting irregularities affecting their branches which they have attributed
to faults with the Horizon system. POL has always expressed full confidence
in the integrity of Horizon. Concerns raised by 47 subpostmaster were
channelled to Second Sight either through local MPs (and co-ordinated by

James
Subpo:

Arbuthnot MP) or through a group called the Justice for
stmasters Alliance (JFSA).

UKGI00001812
UKGI00001812
