UKG1I00001839
UKG100001839

From:
Sent:
To:

Subject:

Whitehead Mike (ShEx)[/O=DT/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MJWHITEH]
Thur 11/07/2013 7:48:05 AM (UTC)
Gibson Will (ShEx)}

McInnes Tim (ShEx’

(ShEx)f. _

Nathan Jai (ShEx): G 4
FW: Post Office dispute: URGENT 9 July 2013

Ambulance chasing lawyers circling!

Mike Whitehead

Department for Business, Innovation and Skills
Shareholder Executive

Royal Mail and Postal Services

1 Victoria Street
London SW1H OET

From: George Thomson I

GRO

Sent: 10 July 2013 20:14
To: Paula Vennells; Kevin Gilliland; Susan Barton; Nick Beal; Whitehead Mike (ShEx)
Subject: Fwd: Post Office dispute: URGENT 9 July 2013

Hi Folks

This is the type of mess we have created with the Horizon debacle.
Our tactics were totally misguided.

George

Begin forwarded message:

From: Robert Fife +
Date: 9 July 2013 12
To: "George. Thomson
Ce: Chris Dickson <{

Subject: Post Office

George

pute: URGENT 9 July 2013

I lead Commercial Litigation within Anderson Strathern.

Chris Dickson is currently out of the office for 3 months working for the Crown as a prosecutor.

I have seen/heard/read the detail of the computer system fall out.
UKG1I00001839
UKG100001839

Do you need any advice on the legals here? I would be pleased to assist/advise as appropriate.
Let me know.

Kind regards

Robert

Robert Fife

Partner, Dispute Resolution

for and on behalf of Anderson Strathern LLP

Financial Conduct Authority-regulated business is solely carried out by Anderson Strathern Asset Management Limited.
Anderson Strathern LLP is licensed by the Law Society of Scotland for incidental financial business.

This email has been sent from Anderson Strathern LLP, Anderson Strathern Business Services Limited or Anderson Strathern Asset
Management Limited, together "Anderson Strathern". Anderson Strathern has offices in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen and
Haddington. For further information on the services we provide, our staff, current legal developments, events, career opportunities and
a full list of partners, visit our website at www.andersonstrathern.co.uk Please note that the contents of this email are privileged and/or
confidential. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender and ensure that this email is deleted and not read, copied or
disclosed to anyone else. It is your responsibility to scan this email and any attachments for computer viruses or other defects. We do
not accept liability for any loss or damage which may result from this email or any file attached. Email is not secure and can be
intercepted, corrupted or amended. We do not accept liability for errors or omissions arising as a result of interrupted or defective
transmission. Email entering or leaving Anderson Strathern's system is subject to random monitoring and recording by the firm.
Telephone calls may be recorded for compliance and training purposes. All business is transacted for and on behalf of Anderson
Strathern LLP or Anderson Strathern Business Services Limited or Anderson Strathern Asset Management Limited.

Anderson Strathern LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in Scotland (SO301485) and having its registered office at 1 Rutland
Court, Edinburgh, EH3 8EY. ‘Partner’ denotes a member of, and all business is transacted for and on behalf of, Anderson Strathern
LLP. A list of members’ names is open to inspection at each of our offices.

Anderson Strathern Business Services Limited is registered in Scotland (SC138174) and has its registered office at 1 Rutland Court,
Edinburgh, EH3 8EY.

Anderson Strathern Asset Management Limited is registered in Scotland (SC376947) and has its registered office at 1 Rutland Court,
Edinburgh, EH3 8EY.

This email message has been scanned for viruses by Mimecast.
Mimecast delivers a complete managed email solution from a single web based platform.
For more information please visit http:/www.mimecast.com

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
UKG1I00001839
UKG100001839
