UKGI00019168

UKGI00019168

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI

Sent: Wed, 21 Nov 2018 12:00:09 +0000

To: Rodric Williams;Fox, Joshua - UKGI

Ce: Jane MacLeod;Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO

NOT FORWARD

Rodric

We have found your updates helpful and would be grateful if we could have them on a weekly
basis while this trial and future trials are ongoing.

I trust that will be OK
Kind regards
Richard

Richard WatsonIGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 15 November 2018 00:
To: Watson, Richard - UKGI

Fox, Joshua - UKGI
Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT
FORWARD

Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Richard, Josh,

In accordance with the Information Sharing Protocol agreed on 11 June 2018, I set out below a

summary of the Claimants’ evidence following the conclusion today of our cross-examination of
the six Lead Claimants.

Overall, our cross-examination:
¢ was effective in establishing that the Lead Claimants:
UKG1I00019168
UKGI00019168

o understood and accepted core agency duties to Post Office when they entered
into their contracts with us, which included accounting to us for our cash and
stock and branch losses;

o received their written contracts, and had ample opportunity to request the
contract if (as some maintained) they had not;

o received good training when they took over their branch.

revealed very little to support claims that Horizon may have been responsible for their
branch losses, with plausible alternative operational reasons for the losses being
advanced.

demonstrated that several Lead Claimants had engaged in false accounting, corrupting
those accounts.

also demonstrated the difficulty in taking to trial very old cases which would typically be
statute-barred from a Court hearing.

less favourably, highlighted the Lead Claimants’ confusion with:

o the “settle centrally” process for disputing Transaction Corrections and branch
accounts at the end of a Trading Period (a matter we aim to address in our
evidence);

o the suite of documents received through the appointment process on the day
they take over branch operations (although this was better with the more recent
Network Transformation documents and processes).

also highlighted that Post Office’s investigations into disputed branch losses were not
always visible to the Lead Claimants.

Tomorrow, the first two Post Office witnesses (Nick Beal and Paul Williams) will give their
evidence. This marks a turning point in the trial, as over the next six days the majority of court
time will be spent with the Claimants’ counsel Patrick Green QC cross-examining our witnesses,
putting to them questions designed to advance the Claimants’ case and harm ours. We
therefore expect significant criticism to be levelled at Post Office and our practices and
procedures during this period, the scope of which will become clearer tomorrow.

Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand
20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ ,
i

2017 Winner of the Global
Postal Award for Customer
Experience

ERR 2 oR A A A RR A A RR A oR A AR a aa

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
UKGI00019168
UKGI00019168

Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

2B C2 29 2 Ff 2 KR 2 12 FA A oR AR a oe a aa

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this
can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

