UKG100008535
UKG100008535

From:

Sent:
To:
Cc:

Subject:
Attachment:

Tom

Watson, Richard - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=E8568E9D213F4097A7A65F3DA4F63CC1-
WATSON, RICHARD (RWA]

Wed 17/10/2018 2:16:58 PM (UTC)
Cooper, Tom - UKGI:

Clarke, Stephen - UKG{
H ‘Ox, Joshua -

RE: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD
Bates v The Post Office - Judgment No..2 strike out application 15 Oct 1....doc

Jane has forwarded to me the attached judgement. Clearly the judge is unimpressed by the parties conduct (see in
particular para’s 13-16). In para 52 he makes the point I did below namely that Judges are very used to disregarding
irrelevant evidence. He also has the same suspicion as you namely that the PO is simply attempting to restrict
evidence for PR reasons (see para 54). Finally in para 57 he makes clear that litigation should not be conducted
aggressively or dismissively.

I have to say it makes a very uncomfortable read from the PO’s perspective and gives me very considerable cause for
concern about their litigation tactics/handling, not to mention the merits of the case itself.

Kind regards

Richard

Richard Watson IGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

T

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

W: https://www.ukgi.org.uk/

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI

Sent: 17 October 2018 07:
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <.

Ce: Clarke, Steph
Joshua - UKGI <

Subject: Re: Post Office Group Litigatior

Tom

_x>; Aldred, Tom - UKGI £

>
in - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

You will see I have asked to see the judgement.

I am concerned that the Judge felt PO had impugned the court and made the application for
improper purposes but need to understand the detail.

I infer that the Judge is getting a little tired of the satellite litigation and wants the parties to focus
on the trial and possible resolution of this case.
UKG100008535
UKG100008535

His criticism of the PO's conduct in their litigation tactics should not influence the legal issues he
has to decide but may be relevant in decisions on costs, not only of the failed application (which I
assume they will have to pay) but also more widely.

It is easy to be wise with the benefit of hindsight but on the assumption that the PO were
concerned some witness evidence was not relevant to the issues in the first trial I am a little
surprised PO were advised to make this application. Judges are very used to disregarding
irrelevant evidence and submissions about that aspect could have been made at the start of the
trial so he was on notice as to the PO's position.

Kind regards

Richard

To: Richard.Watsor
Cc: Stephen.Clarke¢ . I
Subject: FW: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Richard
What’s your view of this?
Tom

Tom Cooper

Director

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Jane MacLeod{ GRO
Sent: 16 October 2018 17:
To: Watson, Richard - UKGL: Fox, Joshua - UKGI
Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <i __ ‘odric Williams
Subject: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Richard, Josh,

Further to Rod’s emails on 9 and 10 October 2018, the Managing Judge Mr Justice Fraser has now ruled on our
application to strike out as inadmissible parts of the Claimants’ evidence. We received the judgement late last night.

We were not successful on the application:
UKG100008535
UKG100008535

* the application was decided on case management grounds for which the Managing Judge has considerable
discretion;

© applying that discretion, the Managing Judge set a very high threshold for strike out, and concluded that we
had not established to the necessary standard that the Claimants’ evidence could never be relevant to the case,
given the number of Common Issues, the “considerable legal analysis” each will require, and what our case on
those issues is.

* However he confirmed that he will apply properly the law on admissibility when it comes to trial, and that the
November 2018 Common Issues Trial will not rule on matters which concern Horizon or whether Post Office
actually “breached” its obligations to the Claimants (matters to which most of the disputed evidence goes and
which will be dealt with in later trials).

As previously discussed, the Managing Judge therefore appears to be continuing his theme of wanting to give the
Claimants their “day in court” while applying the orthodox legal position. That said, we lost the application and can
expect the Claimants to be awarded their costs of it when that question is dealt with on the first day of trial
(estimated to be c£120k).

In deciding the application, the Managing Judge was critical of our conduct of the case, including intimating that we
were not acting cooperatively and constructively in trying to resolve this litigation (which criticism was levelled
equally between the parties); and that we had impugned the court and its processes by making the application for
improper purposes.

This response is extremely disappointing given the approach we have been adopting, and his challenge as to the
purpose for which we had applied for strike out is at odds with comments he had made during various procedural
hearings over the past year. Nevertheless, we are refining our preparation for trial — including our reactive
communications plan — in the context of the Judge’s remarks.

Kind regards,

Jane

Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ
Mobile numb:

FO SSIS CII SI SISISISIOCI ICICI SI SISIGIOICGI ISIC ICICI GICICICI ICI ICI ICICI GR ACC ICR I C3 1 RoR a COIR A I ACS RoR A CAC

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FSO ISIS CII SI SICISISIOCI ICICI SICISISISIGI ISIC II I CIICICI I III ICR I ACC I I I a 3 Fk 8 a CSIR oR I ACS RR AR I aE
UKG100008535
UKGI00008535

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

