UKG100041313
UKGI00041313

To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI__

From: Thomas Cooper

Sent: 2021-05-19T13:09:38Z

Importance: Normal

Subject: Fwd: Board meeting tomorrow and the agenda and decisions sought
Received: 2021-05-19T13:09:45Z

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Veronica Brantot
Sent: Wednesd

'; Ken McCalI

Subject: Board meeting tomorrow and the agenda and decisions sought

Dear all,

Given the papers for tomorrow’s meeting were only circulated this morning and there are a lot of important decisions
to take the team has reviewed which decisions might wait, which are urgent and why. To this end item 1 on approval
of the decision making tools has been deferred to next week. The rationale and asks for the remaining items is as
follows:

1. Post Conviction Claims (Alan Watts)
a. Strategy (with HSF paper).

° A decision on strategy is needed sooner rather than later to avoid being “bounced” into litigation but we can
introduce this for discussion this week and follow up next week for decisions. Getting approvals for interim
payments (the next agenda item) may help ameliorate the litigation risk.

b. Interim Payments (with HSF paper)
° We would like the Board to take a decision on the interim payment point so that we can get the ball rolling
with UKGI around shareholder approvals and funding. There was support for these payments in principle last

week, so we are looking for agreement on the amount of any payment and whether any of it should be for legal
costs.

2. HSS (Alan Watts)

a. Potential routes of challenge to the Scheme (with HSF paper)
® This is for noting only, ahead of sharing HSF’s paper with BEIS.

b. Rate of interest (HSF paper)

e We would like the Board to decide whether they want to make ‘a
FY The decision can probably wait a week, but would bene

enable HSF’s paper to be shared with BEIS.
UKG100041313
UKGI00041313

c. Further discussion on the proposed amendment to the Terms of Reference

° We propose to discuss only this agenda item.

I will include these notes on the agenda posted on Diligent for reference.
Best wishes
Veronica

Veronica Branton
Company Secretary

Company Secretariat

Legal, Compliance & Governance
Finsbury Dials

20 Finsbury Street

London

EC2Y 94Q

See the Company Secretariat Intranet Page for: Our Group Governance Framework, Post Office Group Board & Committee Dates & Deadlines, Board
Paper Templates & Guidance, CoSec Training Dates and Sign Up & Guidance on the Contract Approval Process.
For Contract Approval Form (CAF) enquiries, please email caft

JESS USO SISOS SSIES SSSI SSISI ORCI IFEIORE OSS ARI ARES SSS SESS SRII SII IIIA
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

ERR FRR A RR A RR ARR OR A OR ORR OR SRR OR OO RGR a ao

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be
found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”
