UKG100000998
UKGI00000998

Message
From: Permanent Secretary;
Sent: 5/22/2018 7:53:25 AM
To: Callard, Richard - UKGI; GRO
cc: Evans, Gareth (BEIS)
(Finance & Portfolio;
Swoffer, Chris (Communications, Partnerships & Governance) Shepherd, Jessica
( icati hips & Governance} , Oluwatosin - UKGI
} ‘ooper, Tom - UKGI
‘er, Marcus - UK‘ irker, Nick - UKGI
eill, Elizabeth - UKGI ambert, Helen - UKGI
ussell, Mark - UKGI Permanent Secretary
Subject:
Hi Richard,

Thank you for producing this. Alex has read the note and said that everything seems to be correct in terms of handling.
He has asked that he be briefed alongside Andrew Griffiths by POL’s General Council (see para 24). Let us know when
the meeting might take place and we can coordinate on timings.

Thanks,
Madhav

ae Madhav Bakshi
Private Secretary to Alex Chisholm, Permanent Secretar
Department for fate Secrelary y

Business, Energy HOET
& Industrial Strategy

www.gov.uk/beis I twitter.com/beisgovuk

The Permanent Secretary's box closes at 129m each working day.
Advice on working with the Permanent Secretary's office can be found here

Does this email or any attachments need to be “on the record” or available to others for their day to day work? If so, it is
the responsibility of the policy team to save information into SharePoint, in line with Cabinet Office and Departmental
guidance

From: Callard, Richard - UKGI;
Sent: 18 May 2018 09:51

To: Permanent Secretary!
Cc: Evans, Gareth (BEIS
(Finance & Portfolio)

Maghrabi, Syed

Shepherd, Jessica
degun, Oluwatosin - UKGI

‘ Cooper, Tom - UKGI
arker, Nick - UKGI
ambert, Helen - UKGI

GRO
GRO

Subject: POL: Horizon Litigation Submission
UKG100000998
UKGI00000998

Madhev

Please find attached a submission on the Post Office Horizon litigation case. This is a factual briefing to give Alex the
background to the case. We intend to submit further advice, planned for next week, on a protocol between BEIS, UKGI
and POL to keep the Department informed of events, and also to provide more clarity on POL’s QC’s views of the case.

Kind regards

Richard

Richard Callard I Executive Director I Post Office Shareholder Team, Geospatial Commission Set Up Team
UK Government Investments
1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

¢

Please note that with immediate effect, my email address has changed to } H

I will still receive emails sent to my ofd address until 30 April 2018. Thereafter you will only be able to contact me
on my new address and emails sent to my ukgi.gov.uk address will not be forwarded.

I would be grateful if you could note this and change contact details accordingly.

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

