From: Watson, Richard - UKGI

Sent: Fri, 11 Oct 2019 09:02:39 +0000

To: Aldred, Tom - UKGI

Ce: Cooper, Tom - UKGI;Culshaw, Robin - UKGI;Scott, Joshua - UKGI
Subject: RE: Legally Privileged - Legal Advice - GLO - Disclosure Incident

As discussed lets agree a plan/timetable for updates when we meet later
Richard

Richard WatsonIGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

1Vi

11 SW1H OET

Ss 1) Nc I
W: https://www.ukgi.org.uk/

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI <Tom.Aldre
Sent: 11 October 2019 09:49
To: Watson, Richard - UKG

Thanks Richard

UKG100018459
UKGI00018459

We should get an update for Kelly. She is meeting Nick Read on 17 Oct and Nigel Boardman on

23 Oct, and has asked for briefing on the latter by midday 16 Oct.

Should we aim to send an update on both sparrow and starling for 16th?
Tom

Tol

ffice Shareholder Team, UKGI

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI <}.
Sent: 11 October 2019 09:11
To: Aldred, Tom - UKGI <{
Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGI < GRO i>; Culshaw..Rabin.- UKGL_...

Scott, Joshua - UKGI <!__ R
Subject: FW: Legally Privileged - Legal Advice - GLO - Disclosure Incident

To note the latest update regarding the disclosure incident.
UKGI00018459
UKGI00018459

Kind regards
Richard

Richard WatsonIGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

1 SW1H OET

To: Tim Parker
Tim.Franklin1

st.
Cameron < 2
Ce: David Parry

Shikha Hornsey < .
Emanuel, Catherine <

Subject: Legally Privileged - Legal Advice - GLO - Disclosure Incident
All

Attached is our actions tracker which shows the progress that we have made this week on the
GLO KELs disclosure incident.

In summary:
1. The Court and the Claimants have been notified of the incident but as yet have not
responded.
2. A draft CEO to CEO script and reserved rights letter to Fujitsu has been drafted. Nick

has a call with the SVP at Fujitsu on next Tuesday, 15" October. Legal advice as to
whether POL has a claim against Fujitsu as a result of this incident and more generally
in respect of the GLO proceedings is expected on 14 and 18 October respectively.

3. Approximately 14,000 KELs have been received from Fujitsu which is being analysed.
We should understand the extent to which the previous versions differ from the final
versions by 14 October and finalise a review of those previous versions of KELs which
have been referred to in the GLO by 17 October. Once this exercise is complete we will
be in a position to consider the potential impact to the substantive issues before the
Court in the Horizon trial.

4. Arrangements for appointing an auditor to examine FJ’s performance of the Court
Support Services required under the contract together with the broader controls around
UKG100018459
UKGI00018459

the FJ relationship are being progressed. The scope of the audit is currently being
mapped out.

5. Draft comms has been prepared by the Comms Team in the event that this incident
becomes public (most likely through the Court process).

Please do let me know if you any queries in the meantime.

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat

Group General Counsel
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ.

From: Ben Foat

Sent: 04 October 2019 18:00
To: Tim Parker }
Tim.Franklin1 <!
Thomas Coope:

b:CarlaStentt<

; Ken McCall1 < GRO
; Watson, Richard’ UKGI
t Alisdair Cameron

< Gi

hikha Hornsey < GRO :

lan <. GRO “} Emanuel, Catherine
Subject: Legally Privileged - Legal Advice - GLO - Disclosure Incident

All

Attached is our actions tracker which shows the progress we are making on GLO KELs
Disclosure incident.

In summary:
1. we have made the necessary communication to the Court and Claimants solicitors in the
terms discussed yesterday. We have not had a response from them at this time.
2. Fujitsu (FJ) have commence extracting the KELs. The process is estimated to take 1
day, assuming no technical issues are encountered through the extraction process. We
UKG100018459
UKGI00018459

have proceeded expeditiously with extraction and disclosure and, if we feel it necessary
to be sure we have provided everything, quality assure independently of Fujitsu the
KELs later, but make that clear in our communications with the Claimants. This ensures
disclosure is not delayed by any initial quality assurance exercise.

3. A review team has been stood up to review and assess the impact of the KELs when
they are received from FJ.

4. We are finalising the CEO to CEO script and reserved rights letter to FJ complaining
about this incident. This will cover our request for audit as agreed by Board yesterday.
This should be ready by Monday.

5. External GLO lawyers are examining how the KEL disclosure, and FJ’s involvement
more generally, could be addressed in the existing GLO proceedings. In addition, the
legal team will provide advice w/c 7 Oct on any potential claim POL may have against FJ

(contractual or otherwise) flowing from FJ’s mishandling of the KELs disclosure.

6. The horizon contingency planning team have been made aware and Comms
preparations are underway with Mark Davies’ team.

7. The IT team are engaged on this issue and we will work with IT to support them in any
necessary governance and management control review and will, in due course, report
back on what further controls could be introduced in respect of FJ.

8. The insurance position for the GLO as a whole is being considered by POL’s broker
Lockton. However, given that this event arises out of POL’s conduct of litigation rather
than its normal business operations, it seems unlikely that insurance cover will be
available for it (assuming it gives rise to any quantifiable loss to POL) but we will confirm
the position.

Please do let me know if you have any queries.
Finally, thank you for your time yesterday. Have a lovely weekend.
Ben Foat

General Counsel
Post Office Limited

From: Ben Foat

Sent: 03 October 2019 15:48

To: Tim Parker; Carla Stent1; Tim.Franklin1; Ken McCall1; Thomas Cooper; Watson, Richard -
UKGI; Tom.Aldred: GRO. j Alisdair Cameron; Nick Read; David Parry

Ce: David Parry; Rodric Williams; Kenneth Garvey; Sherrill Taggart; Mark R Davies; Shikha
Hornsey

Subject: Legally Privileged - Legal Advice - GLO - Disclosure Incident

Importance: High

All
A meeting has been put into your diary for 4pm today.

The purpose of the meeting is to inform the Board and UKGI that a disclosure incident has
arisen in respect of the GLO proceedings and to advise you of how we are managing the issue.
UKG100018459
UKGI00018459

The Board is asked to note the incident and to approve the approach which will be discussed on
the call (which is broadly set out below).

In short, it appears that Post Office failed to disclose potentially relevant documents in the GLO
proceedings (specifically in respect of the Horizon Trial). You will recall that we are currently
awaiting the Court’s judgment in respect of those proceedings.

Context

Fujitsu had previously informed Post Office that the “Known Error Logs” (KELs), which were key
documents in the Horizon Issues trial because they documented, for helpline staff, the known
issues in Horizon with the work around and fixes, were overwritten when updated such that no
previous versions were kept and only current versions could be disclosed. Post Office relied on
that information when completing the Electronic Disclosure Statement which was subsequently
communicated to the Claimants in December 2017. However, Fujitsu has now advised Post
Office this week that past versions of the KELs do, in fact, exist. Consequently, the scope of
disclosure as represented and provided was inaccurate.

Issue

1. Concealment and Procedural Breach - Post Office’s credibility and the perception
around Post Office’s approach to managing the litigation will likely be criticised (ie
Claimants’ previous overarching criticism of Post Office not being transparent, seeking to
conceal and not providing full disclosure); and

2. Potential Impact to the Court’s findings - Whether the previous KELs (the volume is
not yet known) could cause the experts to change their evidence and/or impact the
substance of the case before the Court. You may recall that the Claimants have
advanced a case theory of “tip of the ice berg” which suggests that there are more errors
than is fully known. However, it may be that the further disclosure of the previous KELs
does not impact the evidence or the substance of the matter before the Court but we are
unable to advise on this until the disclosure of the previous KELs is made by Fujitsu;

Actions/ Next Steps

Post Office is obliged to notify the Claimants of the error. This is likely to result in the Claimants
notifying the Justice Fraser as part of their overarching criticism of Post Office’s disclosure. The
GLO Legal team (externals and in-house lawyers) are, together with the CIO and her team,
have notified the Claimants solicitors and the Court of the error and explained that it arose from
incorrect information from FJ.

Management next steps:

1. Communication to relevant parties: we have written to the Claimant solicitors and the
Court today advising them of the issue. In that communication, Post Office has made it
clear clear that it relied on FJ when it made its inaccurate disclosure statement and has
offers to provide the previous KELs to the Claimants upfront;

2. Disclosure of the KELs: FJ has already been instructed to provide the previous KELs
to us which we will need to assess and disclose to the Claimants. This process is not as
simple as it is not a matter of drop and dragging files across but rather the data needs to
be specifically extracted from their systems. Consequently, it may take some time given
the volume. We have asked FJ for an ETA on this but suggest that this be escalated by
the CEO.

3. Analysis of the KELs: We need to have an understanding of whether the KELs (the
scale of which is to be determined) would likely affect the evidence that was provided at
Trial. We may wish to instruct our Court expert to assist us with this analysis;
UKG100018459
UKGI00018459

4. Impact to the Trial: Justice Fraser may reconvene the Court and seek further evidence
from the experts as to whether previous KEL versions would have affected their
evidence. If this occurs Post Office may be liable for the costs of the hearing (for both
sides);

5. POL response to FJ:

a. CEO escalation: irrespective of the Legal analysis below, this matter should be
escalated to the CEO at FJ on a reserved rights basis to express POL’s
disappointment with this incident and to remind FJ of their ongoing obligation in
respect of Court Case Support Services and indeed the previous the discussion
between Duncan Tait (FJ board director) and the previous POL CEO Paula
Vennells in which she flagged a serious concern about the fragility of FJ witness
statements which had either been disproved and or changed. I will forward an
email from PV that refers to this conversation which I received earlier today. This
escalation should be followed with a letter which reserves Post Office's legal
rights in respect of this incident.

b. Legal advice: Legal is preparing an advice on:

i. POL’s potential right of action against FJ in these circumstances
though we appreciate that the issue needs to be considered in a broader
context (supporting the future GLO case; broader commercial impact;
business continuity gap / alternative provider etc). One of the areas that
we have already been considering is whether FJ should be joined to the
proceedings depending on the outcome of the Horizon Judgment which is
a separate question.

ii. POL’s unilateral right to exercise audit and/or appoint a third party to
review and test FJ evidence to date. There is a right to appoint a third
party to audit the Court Case Support Services obligation.

6. Impact to the Judgment / Horizon Contingency Planning: The Horizon Contingency
Team will factor in the likely adverse comments that Fraser J may make as a result of
this issue and what specific findings he could make around POL processes in respect of
Horizon and its processes in respect of this issue.

7. Stakeholder management: we will notify and continue to update the Board and UKGI
on the incident via email. The POL Comms Team has been made aware of the issue (as
the Claimants are likely to complain to the Court and if Court is reconvened, there is a
risk that the issue could become public. A Comms statement will be prepared as
appropriate.

8. Lessons Learnt / Controls over outsourced arrangements: I have asked the team
to ascertain what Post Office did to assure itself that the information provided by FJ (its
outsourced supplier) was accurate and what controls were/are in place to provide such
assurance. One of the areas that we have already been considering is whether FJ
should be joined to the proceedings depending on the outcome of the Horizon
Judgment.

Input Sought
Board is asked to note the incident and approve the approach outlined above and/or to make
any further recommendations.

I will continue to update on the progress of the matter by email after the call.

Please do let me know if you have any queries in the meantime.
UKG100018459
UKGI00018459

Ben Foat

Group General Counsel
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

GRO:

Mobile

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ.

JRE SSIES HSI SIS IIIS IASI SSE II TA IAI I A II

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents
of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply
email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this
email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this
can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http:/Avww.symanteccloud.com

