UKG100001852
UKGI00001852

From:
Sent:
To:

Subject:

Whitehead Mike (ShEx)[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MJWHITEH]
Wed 17/07/2013 7:44:38 AM (UTC)

Batten Peter (ShEx:
(ShExy

RE: Second Sight report - follow up to Friday

Gibson Will

Sadly they have a habit of dropping everybody off when we seek 'awkward' data. I have not seen
anything and my guess is that without a chaser, they'll unilaterally decide we don't need it!

Mike Whitehead
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills
Shareholder Executive
Royal Mail and Postal Services
1 Victoria Street

London SW1H OET

From: Batten Peter (ShEx)

Sent: 16 July 2013 17:11

To: Gibson Will (ShEx); Whitehead Mike (ShEx)
Subject: RE: Second Sight report - follow up to Friday

Did Susan, Rodric or Martin ever come back to either of you on this? (I know POL often drop me off

their copy lists - I try not to take it personally)

From: Susan Crichton i.
Sent: 09 July 2013 10:36

To: Gibson Will (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx); Rodric Williams
Cc: Martin Edwards; Whitehead Mike (ShEx)

Subject: Re: Second Sight report - follow up to Friday

Will - we are working on this will get it through to you asap.

From: Susan Crichton
Sent: Tuesday, July 09, 2013 08:46 AM
To: 'William.Gibsor~

On to it

Susan

From: Gibson Will (ShEx) i"
Sent: Tuesday, July 09, 2013 08:41 AM

To: Batten Peter (ShEx}.. iRodric Williams
UKG100001852
UKGI00001852

Cc: Susan Crichton; Martin Edwards; Whitehead Mike (ShEx)
Subject: RE: Second Sight report - follow up to Friday

What we need in particular, and very urgently, is a breakdown of the 47 cases showing:

1. How many of the SPMs had their contracts terminated?
2. How many of the SPMs were convicted of respectively, fraud, theft and false accounting?

3. In each category, how many of those convicted pled guilty?
4. How many (if any) were prosecuted but found not guilty?

Can you get this to us by 10.30 please?

Will Gibson I Executive Director I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I

www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

PA: Karen Smith

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth
and higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: Batten Peter (ShEx)
Sent: 09 July 2013 09:39

To: = ‘rodric.william:

Ce: Susan Crichton; ‘Martin Edwards’; Gibson Will (ShEx); Whitehead Mike (ShEx)
Subject: Second Sight report - follow up to Friday
Importance: High

Hi Rodric

I left a voicemail about the Second Sight report. We are likely to have to make a
statement to Parliament this lunchtime. Jo Swinson's office has urgently requested
information about the number of convictions. Will spoke to you at the end of the meeting
on Friday about this, and it would be great if you could send over your findings as soon as
possible.

Alongside the breakdown of conviction types, can you also please let me know in how
many of the cases were there allegations that Horizon was to blame?

Happy to discuss also, am o}

Many thanks
Peter

Peter Batten I Policy Adviser I Post Office Network Team I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET/ peter. batten
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained
UKG100001852
UKGI00001852

growth and higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise
specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
