UKG100010205
UKGI00010205

From:

Sent:

To: Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation

Ce: Beal,

Clark Spad, Mpst

Cooper, Tom - UKG! :

Subject: RE: OFF SEN COMMERCIAL: Post Office Litigation - advice

All,

SoS has reviewed this advice and has expressed preference for the first 7 options to pursue. Content for you to
proceed on this basis and we can discuss further at Industry meeting when next scheduled.

Thanks,
Bex

Rebecca Lowe, Private Secretary to the Rt Hon Greg Clark, Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy

From: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) <_
Sent: 11 June 2019 13:35

To: Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive)!
lark, Mpst (BEIS)
Cc: Watson, Craig (Advanced Manufacturing and Services.
Manufacturing and Services) !
Lambert, Gavin (Advanced Manufacturing and Services) i.
; Aldred, Tom - UKGIE
FF SEN COMMERCIAL: Post Office Litigation - advice

ermanent Secretary

Beal, Eleanor (Advanced

Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Subject: RE
Hi all,

Aside from the hustings Kelly does not have a clash with Industry tomorrow, so we are working on the basis that she
should be available to attend.

Many thanks,
Gordon
pos Gordon Hipwood
Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP ;
Department for Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy

Business, Energy

& Industrial Strategy I “sue.

From: Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive) <!

UKG100010205
UKGI00010205

Sent: 11 June 2019 10:16
To: Permanent Secretary
Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) <~
Cc: Watson, Craig (Advanced Manufacturing and Services) <
Manufacturing and Services) { Clark Spad, Mpst (BEIS) <i
Lambert, Gavin (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)
} Aldred, Tom - UKGI {
IMMERCIAL: Post Office Litig

Clark, Mpst (BEIS) <

GRO

>; Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Thanks, Ben — we spoke and I confirmed that delaying until next week’s industry meeting would be fine.

As long as Ministers know we've put the advice up promptly, as they requested, then another week is ok by
us.

You also mentioned that Alex may mention it to SoS during their KIT later today so do let us know if
anything comes out of that conversation that we need to know.

Carl.

we Carl Creswell

Department for
Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

7 , London SW1H OET
www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: Permanent Secretary ¢__. GRO $
Sent: 11 June 2019 09:16 .
To: Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive) ‘

i “} Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)
Cc: Watson, Craig (Advanced
Manufacturing and Services) i

Subject: RE: OFF SEN COMMERCIAL:

lark, Mpst (BEIS)

Beal, Eleanor (Advanced

Hi Carl, SoS office, Kelly’s office,

I think the planets are aligning for this to actually feature at next week’s industry weekly, rather than this
Wednesday? Bex said that would be better next week as already a packed agenda this week, and I’ve just learned
from Alex that Kelly won’t be attending tomorrow anyway. Is that right?

Cheers,

Ben

Benjamin Steyn — Private Secretary to the Permanent Secretary — Department for Business, Energy and Industrial

From: Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive) {
Sent: 11 June 2019 09:06

To: Clark, Mpst (BEIS):
Cc: Permanent Secretary <7"

Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)
Lambert, Gavin (Advanced Manufacturing and

UKG100010205
UKGI00010205

Services) d

iF Kilgarriff, Patrick (Legal) ¢.
Watson, Craig (Advanced Manufacturing and Serv
eal, Eleanor (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)
$; Watson, Richard - UKGI ¢_
Beckett, Richard (Finance & Portfolio}

3; Cooper, Tom -

dred, Tom - UKGI ¢.
(Finance & Portfolio)
Corera, Jane (Legal
Annabelle (Communications & Partnerships) Clarke, Stephen - UKGI
>; Yeomans, Rachel (Communications & Partnerships) <)
facturing and Services) <!

Miles,

lark Spad, Mpst (BEIS)

Subject: OFF SEN COMMER

: Post Office Litigation - advice

Hi Bex and Sam,

Following last week’s industry meeting, I attach our advice on the issues that the SoS and Kelly Tolhurst
raised.

I would be grateful if this could be put to Ministers at an early opportunity, please. I understand it may be
for discussion at tomorrow's industry meeting.

Many thanks to Craig Watson for all his work on this!

Carl.
we Carl Creswell
Director, Professional Business Services, Retail and Post
Department for
B induatial Se eegy Orchard 2, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET

www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

