UKGI00019389
UKGI00019389

Message
From: Cable MPST [/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=CABLEM]
Sent: 23/07/2013 11:11:43
To: Swinson MPST hitehead Mike (ShEx)
in Peter (ShEx) {~
~ ‘JOdgers Anthony (ShEx)
cc: Rannard Claire (MPST MIN) Adetimilehin Tobi (BSFCS)

} Caughey Sam (Finance)
i T MIN)

PAD Cable MPST
Boughen Aileen (Communications) I
Subject: FW: Subpostmasters News Story - Private Eye =
Attachments: Subpostmasters news story.pdf

Hi all

I have spoken to officials working on POL and compiled the following advice for Vince - this will go in
the box tonight with the article.

« Officials recommend not following up on the article - it presents a very skewed picture and
does not cover all the facts.

« The interim report clearly said that there was no evidence of systemic failures or flaws,
whereas the report suggests POL has admitted to system errors. There were 2 minor
discrepancies which POL identified and rectified independently of the report. This affected a
very small portion of the network (around 0.5%) and no subpostmasters lost money as a
result.

« Arbuthnot is closely involved in the investigation, and provided a channel for the submission of
individual cases for review by the forensic accountants. Although the article correctly refers to
Arbuthnot applauding the Post Office on the open way it has responded to the allegations,
there remain significant differences in opinion. Following publication of the interim report,
Arbuthnot tabled an Urgent Question requiring a Government statement in the Commons,
despite conversations with Jo Swinson to explain the operational nature of the issue.

« With regards to the last sentence about the possibility of redress, it must be remembered that
the prosecutions were subject to the judicial process. There is no automatic redress and
nothing the Government should or could intervene on. Additionally, a number of
subpostmasters pleaded guilty.

«It should be emphasised that this is only an interim report.

SpAds/Emily W/Aileen - Are you happy not to take forward the article in the light of this advice?
Thanks

Anna

Anna Bartholomew I Te!

re he Secretary of State I Department for Business,
Innovation and Skills I &

I www.bis.gov.uk

From: Cable MPST
Sent: Monday, July 22, 2013 03:10 PM
To: Swinson MPST; Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Gibson Will (ShEx); Batten Peter (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx);
UKGI00019389
UKGI00019389

Lidbetter Katrina (ShEx); Odgers Anthony (ShEx)

Cc: Rannard Claire (MPST MIN); Adetimilehin Tobi (BSFCS); Walker Sam (Finance); Caughey Sam (Finance);
SPAD Cable MPST; Walch Emily (MPST MIN); Boughen Aileen (Communications)

Subject: Subpostmasters News Story

<<Subpostmasters news story.pdf>>
Hi all

Vince has seen this news article and thought it was a good news story for the post office and
good link to the Trust and Transparency work. Any suggestions on what can we do to take this
forward?

Thanks

Anna

Anna Bartholomew I Temporary Cover - Private Secretary to the Secretary of State I Department for Business,
Innovation and Skills I" www.bis.gov.uk

