bog Ed

Department for
papenetelbll Business, Energy
OFFICIAL — SENSITIVE & Industrial Strategy
Date:

X April 2021
Director General: Charles Donald (UKGI), Mike Keoghan (BEIS)
Lead Official: Joshua Scott / Tom Cooper, Eleanor Brooks/Beth White
Lead Official Telephone:

Recipient ToNote/Comment I To Approve / Decide
Minister Scully x

Special Advisors x

Permanent Secretary x

POST OFFICE LIMITED (POL) —- RESPONSE TO POL CEO REGARDING ADMINISTRATION
OF COMPENSATION ARISING FROM CRIMINAL APPEALS.

Summary

1_On 5 March the POL CEO, Nick Read, wrote to you proposing that Government directly
administers the process of settlements arising from the appeal of criminal convictions (Annex
A). Nick-a\so raised the proposal in his regular catch up with you on 15 March.

4-2.__ You will also be aware that Nick wrote to the Secretary of State on 14 April, following a speech
he made to internal POL staff which subsequently attracted media attention, in which he states
that POL “does not have the resources fo meet the calls for compensation [from postmasters
whose convictions are overturned]" and requests the Government's support for funding,

2.3. Having considered the proposal, officials believe it presents a number of practical challenges,
‘as well as issues around whether it would be ‘appropriate’ for Government to take ownership of
resolving historical POL issues, which would set an unhelpful precedent for other Government-
sponsored bodies that need to resolve historical matters. Officials therefore recommend that
BEIS respectfully rejects Nick’s proposal and have drafted a response for your approval (Annex
B).

Timing

34 Routine.

Recommendation

4.5. That you approve the draft response at Annex B.

Background

5.6.__As per advice submitted on 12 March, there are a number of postmasters who we expect to
have their convictions quashed frer-on 23 April following hearings in March at the Court of
Appeal wic-22-March,and, POL has been considering the best process for providing
compensation.

6.7.__We have previously advised that a compensation scheme for postmasters with quashed
convictions could be an option. However, POL and its legal advisers no longer believe a
scheme is a viable option after engaging with a number of potential claimants represented by
law firms who have informed POL and its advisers that their clients will not participate in a
compensation scheme but are prepared to consider alternative settlement methods. It is likely
that more postmasters will take the same approach. Postmasters whose convictions are
quashed could also bring individual claims or a group litigation case in order to obtain
compensation.

UKGI00039176
UKGI00039176

(Formatted: Inder: ef 0.63 on, No bles or uma)

UKGI00039176
UKGI00039176

8 a

UK Government Department for
Investments Business, Energy
OFFICIAL — SENSITIVE & Industrial Strategy

7.8.__In his letter, Nick outlines his views that Government should administer such compensation
directly, and that he believes this would make the process more efficient and enable Post
Office to focus its attention on current postmasters and its retail offering

so

9. The backdrop to this request is that litigation related matters continue to take up a significant
portion of Nick's bandwidth, even after the creation of the Historical Matters Business Unit last
year. Furthermore, you will be aware that in recent months BEIS/UKGI officials have
undertaken a significant amount of work with POL to put in place sufficient governance
processes around the Historical Shortfall Scheme. This has slowed down progress on the
scheme but is vital to see-ensure that taxpayers’ money is being spent appropriately.

a + [ Formatted: Font: (Default) Arial )

(Formatted: Indent: Left: 1.27 em, No bullets or numbering

8.

Response to Letter

840. Officials have considered Nick's proposal carefully. Broadly, there are three potential options
for responding to Nick's request

a. Accept Request: BEIS accepts Nick's proposal and officials work to “stand-up” a BEIS
team, with support from UKGI, to design and deliver the process for
compensation/settlement, and the governance around it. An agreement would need to be
reached between BEIS, POL and its advisers to access the relevant information

b. Reject Request: BEIS respectfully rejects Nick's proposal. POL designs and delivers the
process for compensation/settlement, in consultation with BEIS/UKGI officials who would
put in place appropriate governance arrangements as POL have already indicated it cannot
sufficiently cover the compensation costs. (Preferred option)

c. Hybrid Approach: BEIS agrees to explore Nick's proposal, noting the practical issues that
need to be resolved, in an attempt to reach a “middle-ground” whereby the burden of
administering the settlement(s) is reduced on POL, but that itis still clear the ownership of
the issue sits with POL. It is unclear how long this could take.

40-11. Officials are- sympathetic to Nick's propesalrecognise the pressures that these issues cause
for POL's leadership, but-howaver-we believe it presents a number of practical challenges, as
well as wider issues around whether it would be ‘appropriate’ for Government to take ownership
of resolving historical POL issues. See our assessment below:

‘* Officials believe it is more appropriate for POL to continue to have ownership over resolving

past POL issues rather than Government. Notwithstanding the fact that the liability remains

h POL, wiVe believe the public may also think it is right that POL owns the process for
addressing its past failings.

* Neither BEIS nor UKGI currently have the capacity nor the capability to take on such a role
in administering the process of settlements. Both teams have already undergone a notable
expansion to cope with the additional workload on POL.

* A third party administering such a process risks complicating the process due to access to
information currently held by the Post Office. There would also be issues around the
handling and assessment of confidential and legally privileged information.

* Government taking a direct role in this situation risks setting a precedent to other partner
organisations.
Department for
iwocnerta ent Business, Energy

* Agreeing to administer this compensation/settlement raises the risk that the mechanism
and/or decisions relating to it could be amenable to Judicial Review (JR) which could bring
extra liabilities for Government. For this, we note the decision of 11 March to reject a JR
application regarding the Historical Shortfall Scheme, in large part due to the fact that it is
a voluntary scheme set up and administered by POL under private law and therefore is not
subject to public law.

44.12. Furthermore, officials have raised some concerns regarding POL's internal governance
arrangements for the Historical Shortfall Scheme and the appropriate escalation of decisions to
the POL Board. Officials have had constructive discussions with the POL Board regarding the
appointment of a NED with legal expertise to oversee a sub-committee on legal settlements
which will oversee the HSS and expected claims from convicted postmasters who have their
convictions overturned. You have recently approved this approach and we recommend this-is
otedthat you highlight this in the response to Nick, since it is a more practical way of ensuring
the burden of overseeing the work is shared (on behalf of the POL's Board and CEO),

412.13. Officials therefore propose option (b) and have drafted a letter for your approval. Minister
Scully — are you content for the letter at Annex B to be issued to the POL CEO?

Contributors

43-14. BEIS POL policy colleagues have been consulted on this advice and have cleared its
contents.

OFFICIAL - SENSITIVE & Industrial Strategy

UKGI00039176
UKGI00039176
UK Government Department for
Investments

Annex A - Letter from Nick Read to

ter Scully (5 March 2021)
TEXT OF LETTER SENT TO MINISTER SCULLY FROM NICK READ

Paul Scully MP

Minister for London and Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy

1 Victoria Street

London

SW1H OET

5 March 2021
Dear Paul,

Compensation for Postmasters with quashed convictions and Post Office vision for
2025

As I look ahead to the Court of Appeals deliberations commencing Monday 22 March, and
the convictions already quashed at Southwark Crown Court, I would like to share my thinking
about how best to meet the needs of those rightly pursuing further justice, and those of
current and future Postmasters and their customers.

Since taking up my post in September 2019, I have spent a significant proportion of my time
instituting wide-ranging reforms designed to prevent any possibility of recurrence of the
issues that affected too many Postmasters. This is clearly the right thing to do.

At every stage, I have worked closely with your officials, in both UKGI and BEIS, to navigate
the volume and complexity of the requirements for us as a business as we seek to put
matters right. While I understand completely the need for appropriate controls in the
management and spending of shareholder money, in the context of the criminal cases I
believe that there is a more efficient alternative to a model in which Post Office devises and
administers a scheme for redress but which the shareholder funds.

A scheme similar to Historical Shortfalls Scheme (HSS) for those successful in their appeals
of criminal convictions is unlikely to work, not least because the lawyers representing a
significant number of the appellants have already indicated that they will not participate in
such a scheme. The merits of each claim will be also be harder to assess than those in the
HSS.

Given that the funding of the compensation will inevitably have to be met by the shareholder
and that, quite rightly, the shareholder accordingly expects to exercise a tight control of that
expenditure, I consider it to be more appropriate for the shareholder to administer the
process of settlements directly.

This will, in my view, make the process more efficient for those seeking compensation and
would allow Post Office to place more of its focus on enabling current Post masters to thrive
and serve their customers well in a retail environment that is changing dramatically in
response to the pandemic.

Business, Energy
OFFICIAL - SENSITIVE & Industrial Strategy

UKGI00039176
UKGI00039176
Bog Ld

UK Government Department for
Investments Business, Energy
OFFICIAL ~ SENSITIVE & Industrial Strategy

Having considered the matter carefully, I am of the view that itis only by acting decisively to
resolve these legal and compensation issues that we will be able to break from the past and
start realising a positive future for the Post Office.

On that subject, as the new financial year approaches, I will shortly set out [to Post masters
and colleagues] a vision for the Post Office in 2025. This vision will focus on the traits of a
successful franchise which operates for the mutual benefit of Post Office Limited as
franchisor and Postmasters as franchisees. Most importantly, the vision will emphasise how
local Post Offices can be the retail anchor on high streets and help sustain communities
through the essential services they provide. I hope that this is a vision you will support in
Parliament, providing the appropriate counterweight to the scrutiny entailed in achieving
justice for Postmasters affected where things went wrong in the past.

Our next meeting is scheduled for Monday 15 March, with an agenda already focused on the
closure of Directly Managed Branches and the future size and shape of the Network. I
would be pleased to speak to you sooner to discuss compensation for appellants with
quashed convictions and the vision for the Post Office to 2025.

Yours sincerely,

Nick Read Group Chief Executive Officer

UKGI00039176
UKGI00039176
UK Government Department for
Investments

Annex B — Draft Response
Dear Nick,

RE: Compensation for Postmasters with quashed convictions and Post Office vision
for 2025

Thank you for letter of 5 March and your time on 19 April at our catch up to discuss the
matter of compensating postmasters whose convictions are quashed and your Post Office
vision for 2025.

With the Court of Appeal [set to hand down its judgment on 23 April] I am grateful to you for
raising such an important issue and the work of you and your team on what is a very
complex issuematter. As you know, my Department and I are keen to continue to work with
Post Office to help it address its past failings, ensure that lessons have been learned from
the Group Litigation, and that true change has happened or is underway at Post Office. Part
of this will be to ensure that all post masters whose convictions are quashed are
appropriately compensated for the impact the conviction has had on their lives and
livelihoods.

With that in mind, I have considered your proposal carefully and I am sympathetic to your
reasons, but-however I believe this process should be delivered by Post Office, in
consultation with BEIS and UKGI officials. I believe it is more appropriate for Post Office to
continue to have ownership over its past historical issues rather than Government. I note that

ou have separately written to the Secretary of State about funding for historical liabilities,
and this will be responded {o separately; however, I can confirm that BEIS will consider a
business case for the funding at the appropriate time.

Your proposal also presents a number of practical issues. Neither BEIS nor UKGI currently
have the capacity nor the capability to take on such a role in administering the process of
settlements. Both teams have also expanded considerably in recent months to manage the
additional work on Post Office, this-includesincluding the Historical Shortfalls Scheme (HSS)
but also on other areas, and further expansion is unlikely. There is-the issue regarding
theSuccessful delivery of compensation will require access to information currently held by
Post Office; and-including a third party such as BEIS administering the compensation, and
handling and assessing Post Office's confidential and legally privileged information risks
complicating the process further. I-would-also-c) tention to-the-des 44

its rationale for doing seo!

However, I am pleased that, following receipt of your letter, my officials have been having
constructive discussions with you and the Board about ways in which POL's oversight and
management of the litigation can be strengthened. I have approved the recommendation to
appoint a NED with legal expertise to the POL Board in order to oversee a sub-committee on
legal settlements which will oversee the HSS and expected claims from convicted
postmasters who have their convictions overturned. I understand that you have also
decided to strengthen the legal capability in the management team of the Historic Matters
Business Unit that manages the HSS scheme and postmaster litigation. We are hopeful this
will also lead to improved management and control of POL's legal costs which remain a
significant concern for me and my officials, as well as easing the direct pressure on you for
oversight of POL's required actions to address the historical matters.

UKGI00039176
UKGI00039176

Business, Energy
OFFICIAL - SENSITIVE & Industrial Strategy

(Commented {CC(Di]: Perhaps dees ts? }

boy ae
Department for

IK Government é
ul i« Gov ents Business, Energy
OFFICIAL - SENSITIVE & Industrial Strategy
Finally, I eupport:welcomed your sharing yourthe vision for the Post Office in 2025 you-that
shared with me in our catch up. As the pandemic has shown, the Post Office and
postmasters provide essential services to communities across the UK, and as we come out
of lockdown I share your belief that post offices will be vital to the return of the high street. I

invite you to continue to develop this vision with my officials,
iti and will want to continue to discuss it with you in the

months ahead.

Yours sincerely,

UKGI00039176
UKGI00039176
