ae

UK Government
Investments

Present:

In attendance:

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE

FINAL

UK Government Investments Limited

(the “Company”)

27-28 Eastcastle Street, London W1W 8DH

Minutes of a meeting of the Board of Directors held in

Room 4k, 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET
On 29 November 2018 at 13.30pm

Robert Swannell (in the Chair)
Alex Chisholm (until item 7)
Jitesh Gadhia

Jane Guyett

Robin Lawther

James Leigh-Pemberton
Simon Palley

Charles Roxburgh (until item 8)
Mark Russell

Caroline Thomson

Carolyn Battersby (item 12)
Jamie Carter (items 7 and 9)
Tom Cooper (item 7 onwards)
Zoe Gillis

Michael Harrison (item 7 onwards)
Alex Howell (item 9 and 13)
Lowri Khan (Item 7)

Justin Manson (Item 7 onwards)
Madelaine McTernan (item 11)
Candida Morley (item 7 onwards)
Anthony Odgers

Daniel Okubo (item 7)

Anna Payton (item 12)

Robert Razzell

David Sandford

Louise Tilbury

Richard Watson (item 7 onwards)

UKGI00016807
UKGI00016807

Company No. 9774296

1. Declarations of interest, introductions

Each Director of the Company who had an interest under sections 177 and/or 182 of the
Companies Act 2006 declared such an interest and it was noted that, in accordance with article
7 of the Company's Articles of Association, each such Director was entitled to vote in respect of
any proposed matter in which he/she was interested and that each such Director was entitled to

be (and was) taken into account in ascertaining whether a quorum was present.

Page 1
UKGI00016807

UKGI00016807

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE

FINAL

2. Minutes from previous meetings
The minutes of the 13 September 2018 meeting were approved.
3. Action Log

It was agreed that the executive would submit draft KPls for 2019/20 to the Board ahead of the
year end.

4. CEO’s update

The Board considered how UKGI might respond to various Brexit scenarios; key areas would be
the special situations team’s response to possible economic shocks, inward M&A in response to
any adjustment to sterling, and possible expanded use of the BBB. UKGI's model of senior
advisers was felt to be both scalable and flexible, which alongside an enhanced secondment
programme, would give UKGI additional capacity to respond should these risks crystallise.

UKGI's input into new nuclear was noted; notwithstanding the current uncertainty around
Hitachi's investment into Wylfa, there would be an ongoing role for UKGI in assessing the
regulated asset base model, and on Sizewell C. It was noted that the key person risk relating to
David Long which had been raised at previous meetings is being mitigated by David working
very closely alongside Emma Christian and Jonathan Gorrie, two EDs who also have a
background in the energy sector.

It was agreed that the likely conclusions of the Magnox Inquiry would necessitate an increased
focus on defining UKGI's governance and shareholder role, providing thought leadership, and
disseminating best practice across Whitehall; the Board agreed that given Roger's departure in
January, Candida would be best placed to lead this, although noting the constraints on her time
imposed by her workload on NDA. On the subject of Roger's departure, the Board noted that it
was not the intention to recruit a direct replacement, as it was felt that with over 30 EDs and Ds,
there is adequate senior capacity.

There was a brief discussion on the matter of appointments to public bodies, noting the recently
issued guidance by BEIS on this matter, the GIAA report on the Ordnance CEO appointment,
and the general complexity of making appointments to public bodies. It was agreed that there
should be a discussion of the appointments process, in particular focusing on best practice, in
the new year.

Action: board to consider best practice in making executive and nor-executive appointments to
public bodies at the May board meeting.

5. People

It was generally felt that the Board's employee engagement session immediately prior to the
board meeting had been worthwhile and that this initiative would be continued. Various
suggestions for building on the current employment engagement initiatives were considered,
including establishing director groupings, a shadow board on the BEIS model, and creating
more forums in which staff can engage with NEDs. The plans to conduct a skills gap analysis
were discussed. It was agreed that this would be brought to the March meeting.

Action: update on the skills gap analysis to be brought to the March 2018 board meeting

Page 2
UKGI00016807

UKGI00016807

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE

FINAL

6. CFO report

The current year financial position was noted. Looking ahead to the spending review, there was
strong encouragement from HMT to not dismiss the possibility of levying a transaction fee or
finding other forms of charging for UKGI’s services. There was due consideration of the
challenges associated with these charging models.

7. HMT departmental relationship review

The Board noted that the UKG-HMT relationship is considerably stronger and deeper than at
the time of UKGI's creation, and that HMT is deploying UKGI's expertise in a broader capacity
beyond the sphere of its assets managed by UKGI, such as in the balance sheet review. The
reliance of the HMT financial stability team on the FIG team in particular was noted. HMT's
perspective was that it would like to try and increase the flow of people from UKGI into HMT,
and to further broaden an understanding of UKGI amongst the other directors with whom UKGI
doesn't necessarily do business on a day-to-day basis. Overall there was positive feedback on
UKGI's work from HMT.

IRRELEVANT

UKGI00016807
UKGI00016807

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE

FINAL

IRRELEVANT

Having given due consideration, the Board ENDORSED the appointment of Alice Perkins to
facilitate an external board effectiveness review and asked the CFO to issue a letter of
engagement accordingly.

Page 4
UKGI00016807
UKGI00016807

OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE

FINAL

IRRELEVANT

Chair of the meeting

Page 5
