UKGI00019531
UKGI00019531

Message

From: Callard Richard (ShEx) [/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=EFOFAS7983304064B518D3B87774A899-RCALLARD]

Sent: 11/12/2014 17:42:40

To: } Patrick Bourke

Subject: RE: Sparrow Questions

Thanks Belinda.

Hi Patrick — happy to discuss anything tomorrow — I am spending most of my day in Brussels for various reasons, but am
only really in meetings between 0930-1100 do give me a try if you need to. Contact details below.

R

Richard Callard I Executive Director I Post Office Limited and Green Investment Bank Shareholder Teams
Shareholder Executive

BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET Ii
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: Belinda Crowe!
Sent: 11 December 20: :

To: Callard Richard (ShEx); Patrick Bourke

Cc: Chris Aujard; Gavin Lambert; Mark R Davies; Belinda Crowe; Batten Peter (ShEx)
Subject: RE: Sparrow Questions

Richard
As discussed, Patrick is holding the pen on this and therefore I am introducing you by email.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9H!

From: Callard Richard (ShEx) [mailt

Sent: 11 December 2014 11:07

To: Batten Peter (ShEx); Belinda Crowe

Cc: Chris Aujard; Gavin Lambert; Mark R Davies
Subject: Sparrow Questions

Belinda
UKGI00019531
UKGI00019531

As discussed, sorry I couldn’t join the call last night. Peter and I are working on the briefing jointly, particularly as he is
soon to depart and so it helps me get up to speed. In that light I have considered the sorts of questions that Jo will face,
which I have listed in the attached, and I would be grateful if you and the team could start preparing the answers given
that you are best placed to do so — we just don’t have some of the background required.

I would be happy to discuss these, but these are by their nature quite uncomfortable or unreasonable questions, but
that is what we will be asked of Jo. Even if we don’t speak publically of some of the questions needed in here, we still
need the answers to provide Jo privately with the confidence to rebut James Arbutnot’s claims. Although we have kept
her sighted on the scheme, there has clearly been a limit to what we could tell her given confidentiality reasons to date.

It would be helpful if answers are short and punchy — Jo has to remember them ideally rather than scrabbling around for
them.

Finally, I would be grateful for responses asap, but otherwise by close Friday so I have the weekend to look at them and
turn them around (our deadline here is 2pm Monday which is a rather tight). I will separately establish what time any
verbal briefing might be.

Many thanks

Richard

From: Batten Peter (ShEx)
Sent: 10 December 2014 18:26
To: Belinda Crowe

Cc: Callard Richard (ShEx)
Subject: Sparrow catch-up

Belinda

Many thanks for your time. As discussed, can you please send copies of:
- PV letter to Arbuthnot of S November
- The angels and devils briefing (I think that was the name ascribed to it)
-  Mark’s rebuttals for the Today programme
- Key facts sheet (i.e. # resolved cases, etc)

We also discussed the cost of the WG point. Recognising the risk that any number could be twisted against POL, this is a
number that Jo will need to be aware of numerically and from a handling risk.

Best wishes
Peter

Peter Batten I Shareholder Executive I Department for Business, Innovation & Skills I
www.bis.gov.uk I

The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is building a dynamic and competitive UK economy by creating the conditions
for business success; promoting innovation, enterprise and science; and giving everyone the skills and opportunities to succeed. To
achieve this we will foster world-class universities and promote an open global economy. BIS - Investing in our future
UKGI00019531
UKGI00019531

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JER SOO IOI IA IOF OSI I ISBT III III II II II III II I III I AI III III

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
