UKG100008139
UKGI00008139

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=8D968D43E33749AE9E59F9C9350E69D5-
COOPER, THOMAS (TCOO]

Sent: Fri 08/06/2018 3:21:12 PM (UTC)

To: Callard, Richard - UKGII

Ce: [ Aldred, Tom -
Clarke, Stephen - UKGI

Subject: Re: Post Office Group Litigati

Yeah. Doesn’t feel like the last time

Tom Cooper

Director

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

Please note that with immediate effect, my email address has changed to tom.coope:

I will still receive emails sent to my old address until 30 April 2018. Thereafter you will only be able to
contact me on my new address and emails sent to my taddress will not be forwarded.

I would be grateful if you could note this and change my contact details accordingly.

On 8 Jun 2018, at 16:06, Callard, Richard - UKGI

conned Wrote:

Good work. Let’s see how long that lasts.
R

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Sent: 08 June 2018 16:06

To: Lambert, Helen - UKGI ¢~ -_ ~

Cc: Callard, Richard - UKGI < GRO . Aldred, Tom - UKGI
; O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI <

; Clarke, Stephen -

ation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Spoke to Jane. She apologised. We’ll get the update on Monday.

In future we can expect updates within a week of the board meeting
She now knows the Protocol is agreed and will turn it around as well.
Tom

Tom Cooper
UKGI00008139

UKGI00008139

Director
UK Government Investments
1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

PA: marcus.mcalister “GRO 4]

Please note that with immediate effect, my email address has changed to tom.cooper: GRO;

1 will still receive emails sent to my old address until 30 April 2018. Thereafter you will only be able to
contact me on my new address and emails sent to my} address will not be forwarded.

! would be grateful if you could note this and change my contact details accordingly.

On 7 Jun 2018, at 13:58, Lambert, Helen - UKGI < wrote:

Hiall

The requirement for this particular update is set out in the protocol (i.e. an update after
the board meeting of 24 May). Rod acknowledges this in the first of the emails attached, in
response to my email of 16 May, but also actually indicates that he will try to get this to us
before the Board meeting. I then subsequently asked him for the update on 31 May (also
attached) and then yesterday.

Obviously the sub went up in the meantime and potential dates for POL’s GC to brief
Alex/Andrew Griffiths directly have been discussed, but the idea that this could be
considered a substitute for the reporting requirements we have agreed in the protocol is
not one which would have occurred to me, particularly considering that meeting may not
happen until late September. We certainly can’t wait that long for an update on the Merits.

Thanks
Helen

Helen Lambert I Legal Secondee
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

E

: helen.lamberté I

From: Callard, Richard - UKGI
Sent: 07 June 2018 13:07
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI
Subject: FW: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Tom

Think it’s time to escalate to Paula again. Might be worth Helen digging out the emails that
showed what we asked for etc.

It’s constant defer defer defer. And it will keep happening.

R
UKGI00008139
UKGI00008139

From: Rodric Williams [mailto:
Sent: 07 June 2018 13:00

To: Lambert, Helen - UKGI <
Cc: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI

Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Clarke, Stephen - UKGI <

Subje: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Helen,

I had understood that the report I sent on 14 May 2018 had been shared with Alex
following the Board and Subcommittee meetings held in May, the outcome of which is that
a further meeting on the Postmaster Litigation will be held between Alex, Tom and our
senior management later in the summer, once the practical implications of counsels’
opinion (which is essentially lengthy and complex legal analysis) had been assessed by Post
Office.

In light of that development, I had no longer anticipated the need to provide a formal
briefing on the merits opinion. We have however provided you with five separate updates
on developments with the Postmaster Complaints in the intervening period.

In addition to the CCMC held on Tuesday, we are also this week finalising Defences to the
Individual Particulars of Claim filed by five of the Lead Claimants in the Common Issues
trial, each of which is c.50 pages long. These must be filed with the Court tomorrow. I
trust you will appreciate that hitting this critical court deadline needs to take priority over
any additional reporting.

Kind regards, Rodric

From: Lambert, Helen - UKGI [mailtd
Sent: 06 June 2018 11:14

Callard, Richard - UKGI
Snsnisnninninninns nc ommisniinianiinnsnnl
Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Hi Rodric
I hope all is well.

I am sure you have been busy with the CMC yesterday, but was hoping you might be able
to give me an update on the below. The urgency in getting an update on the case to Alex is
in increasing significantly and we would appreciate if you could provide the update, in
particular on the merits opinion, so that we are able to do so as soon as possible.

Many thanks
Helen

Helen Lambert I Legal Secondee
UK Government Investments
1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Lambert, Helen - UKGI
Sent: 31 May 2018 09:29

To: 'Rodric Williams' <
Cc: O'Neill, Elizabeth - < E:
Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Rodric

Please find attached the protocol with minor amendments. We hope this can now be
considered agreed.

I was also wondering whether you might be able to give me an expected timescale for
receipt of the written update following last week’s board meeting.

Many thanks
Helen

Helen Lambert I Legal Secondee
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

From: Rodric Williams [mailto:
Sent: 22 May 2018 13:32

; O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI

Subje: ost Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Elizabeth, Helen,

Information Sharing Protocol

Please find attached the draft Protocol, the amendments to which seek to reflect the
discussion we held last week. I hope these are acceptable, but please let me know if not.

Case Management Conference

By way of an update, a Costs & Case Management Conference has been listed for a half-
day hearing on 5 June 2018, which (time permitting) will deal with the parties’ respective
costs budgets and the progress the parties’ experts have made in preparing for the Horizon
issues trial to held in March 2019.

Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams

UKG100008139
UKGI00008139
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand

20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9A4Q

FEO SISICI CII ISI SICICII ISIC SI SICICI II GIGICICIC I ICICI ICR aI ICICI 2 CCI RoR ICC KR A CHIR oR ACCA aR aR a
eae

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender,
unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

AEC 2A FR A 2K 2 FRR 02 AR 2 0 22 08 EG a a a
ae

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the
individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and
have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This
footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and
that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

<mime-attachment>
<mime-attachment>
<mime-attachment>

UKG100008139
UKGI00008139
