UKGI00019720
UKG1I00019720

Message

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Sent: 12/03/2015 13:53:41

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive): McInnes Tim (ShEx)
“t Baugh James (She)

Subject: RE: Readout from Jo's office on sparrow

Not sure I want to provide an interim reply to bates and Arbuthnot. It would imply we are thinking about things (as
opposed to just taking some time to reply).

Jo clearly didn't read the sub! Think we need to stiffen resolve on Monday. Aside from giving Jo Hamilton wads of cash
6 anda full apology, which this doesn't warrant, then this won't go away in the nice way Jo wants it to.

Sent from my Windows Phone

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Sent: 12/03/2015 13:15

To: Mcinnes Tim (ShEx); Baugh James (ShEx)
Ce: Callard Richard (ShEx’

Subject: Readout from Jo's office on sparrow

Just had a chat with Claire about the sparrow sub and letters. Apparently Jo wasn’t overly happy with it — she feels she
wasn’t fully aware that POL were terminating Second Sight’s contract, or that the publication of the Second Sight report
was so imminent. I explained to Claire that a) the original advice did say that “this means POL will be terminating their
engagement with SS” and b) the Second Sight report was never due to be published and attempts to portray it as such
are misleading.

We are probably going to have to go chat to Jo on Monday to cover off these points, before she’ll sign the letter. This
means delaying the SoS to Arbuthnot letter too, as SoS will want to ensure Jo is happy with it. I am waiting to hear back
from Tara on whether SoS had any comments on the letter or sub.

I think there might be merit in sending Arbuthnot and Bates a holding reply if we are not going to be able to reply until
next week. I’ll talk to private office about that when I hear back from Tara. Views welcome.

L

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director, Post Office Network Team
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I}
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

I Shareholder Executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth
