UKG1I00017686
UKGI00017686

From: Chisholm, Alex (BEIS)f GRO “4
Sent: Wed 04/12/2019 8:01:55 AM (UTC)
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Cc: Creswell, Cai
Directorate}

Subject: Re: Post Office

Services, Retail & Post .
_p Aldred, Tom - UKG!

I think it is a reasonable idea in the circumstances and speaks well to desire to strengthen partnership and mutual
respect between executive and postmasters (and employees). I am not sure how the Chair would see it so Nick
would want to explore with him before raising it in the negotiations. Taking ministers’ minds on this at this time
obviously not easy - probably not really viable - at this time. One variant might be to make half yearly Board
meeting a Stakeholder event with postmaster and employee reps and special focus on their needs and views.

A

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Sent: Tuesday, December 3, 2019 9:
To: Chisholm, Alex (BEIS)
Cc: Creswell, Carl (Profes:

UKGI 4 GRO
Subject! Post Office

& Post Directorate) ¢ GRO F Aldred, Tom -

Alex

This is only an idea at the moment but how would we feel about POL having a postmaster rep and an employee
rep on the Board?

I’ve just spoken to Nick Read and he thinks there could be merit in creating some kind of advisory body of

where the Board was populated by his store owners. He sees it as a way to meet the wishes of postmasters
generally (not just the claimants) to have some influence over the direction of the company. He hasn’t thought
through how NFSP would be involved (or be evolved).

Of course it would be a bit odd to have a postmaster rep on the Board but no employee rep so that would follow.
Judgement now delayed to w/c 16/12 by the way.

Tom

Sent from my iPhone

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you
are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also
confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other
lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.
