UKG1I00042076
UKGI00042076

Message

From: Gibson Will (ShEx) [/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WGIBSON]
Sent: 25/11/2013 18:33:33

To: Swinson MPST f jobson Claire (BRI

cc: Callard Richard (ShEx) i Batten Peter (ShE:
Subject: RE: Ria - meeting request

No particular objection on my part. It's a commercial relationship with POL so we don't normally engage on those sorts of
issues, but they're a key partner of the Post Office and Jo may want to ask them to reassure her of the systemic integrity
of the Horizon network given the recent Parliamentary and news interest on that.

Copied to Richard who will likely be leading on this when any meeting goes in, and Peter who leads on the Horizon stuff.

Will Gibson I Executive Director I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I

www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

From: Swinson MPST

Sent: 25 November 2013 18:24

To: Hobson Claire (BRE); Gibson Will (ShEx)
Subject: FW: Ria - meeting request

Dear both

Apologies for the delay in sending.

Please could you confirm your thoughts with regard to the below e-mail's meeting request
when you are able, as Joe seems to be very keen and has contacted me today.

Thanks so much.
Ria

Ria Trott I Diary Secretary to Jo Swinson MP, Minister for Employment Relations and Consumer Affairs
I Department for Business, Innovation & Skills I 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I
r GRO ‘I www.bis.gov.uk

All emails and attachments sent by a member of the Private Office to an official on behalf of a Minister relating to a
decision, request or comment made by a Minister, or a briefing or note of a Ministerial meeting, must be filed appropriately
by the recipient in Matrix. Private Offices do not keep official records of such emails or attachments.
UKG100042076
UKGI00042076

From: Joe Moor [mailto: _
Sent: 18 November 2013
To: Swinson MPST

Subject: FAO: Ria - meeting request

6:14

Dear Ria

Further to our conversation earlier today, I am contacting you on behalf of Fujitsu as they are keen to meet with
your minister to discuss a number of different issues, which I will briefly outline below.

Two of Fujitsu’s execs, Simon Blagden and Gavin Bounds, met briefly with your minister when she spoke at a
Business in the Community — BITC — fringe event at this year’s Liberal Democrat Party Conference (the event was
supported by Fujitsu). With the view to seeking a more substantial meeting, we did approach her Parliamentary
prior to the Conference; however, we were advised that her diary was too full but to contact your predecessor,
Filder, which I am now doing!

Fujitsu’s executives are keen to meet your minister again for a number of specific reasons, that cross both of her
departmental remits ie. BIS and DCMS:

- Firstly, as you may have seen in Saturday’s Times, Fujitsu’s Chief Executive, Duncan Tait, is a cosignatory
of a letter highlighting a BITC campaign called Opportunity Now — an initiative seeks to address the
gender balance at all levels of organisations. More information can be found at www.project2840.com

- Secondly, earlier this year, Fujitsu responded to BIS’ Corporate responsibility: call for views — providing
details of the various CSR activity they, as a company, are involved with

- And finally, the Post Office has been working with Fujitsu since 1996, during which time it has been
central to the introduction of many new services, including; Chip and Pin terminals, automated cash
accounting, mobile phone e-top-ups and the Smart Post system. Fujitsu has also been the driving force
behind the development and deployment of the radical new IT and ePOS infrastructure known as
Horizon, and are also supporting important initiatives, such as the Crown Transformation programme
with the successful introduction of mail kiosks.

Given all the above, Simon Blagden, Fujitsu’s Non-Executive Chairman for UK & Ireland, would like to arrange a
meeting with your minister whereby they can provide her with a briefing on the work they do that is directly
relevant to her brief, as well as outlining some of the critical infrastructure projects and services they provide
across other government departments. It would also be a nice opportunity for him to introduce your minister to
Helen Lamb, one of Fujitsu’s Executive Directors, who initially joined the company as a graduate.

I hope the above outlines all the information you require and I look forward to hearing from you in due course.

With best wishes

Joe Moor
Public Affairs

Portland
House
Bressenden

Place i -
mre =) ds GRO
5BH H

grayling.com @GraylingUK_PA

UKG1I00042076
UKG1I00042076

Read our latest political e-bulletin

Grayling is the second largest independent Public Relations, Public Affairs, Investor Relations and Events consultancy. We have offices in 70 locations
in 40 countries across Europe, the US, the Middle East and Asia Pacific. Grayling is part of Huntsworth ple.

Registered number: 3140273. Registered office: 15-17 Huntsworth Mews, London, NW1 6DD

Virus checked for Grayling

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
