UKG100008372
UKG100008372

From: Paula VennellsI GRO H

Sent: Fri 31/08/2018 11:47:01 AM (UTC) —_

To: Aldred, Tom - UKGIE

Ce:

Subject: Re: Rescheduled litigation briefing with Perm Sec and minister
Dear Tom,

Thank you. It’s helpful to have a sense of your timing.

Would you mind addressing this to Jane and make sure you liaise with her and not me?

We have a proper process for handling all these issues as I think you know. It’s important we respect it and I
shall follow Jane’s guidance re papers etc.

Many thanks,

Paula

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGIF.
Sent: Friday, August 31, 2018 12:27:55 PM
To: Paula Vennells

Cc: Jane MacLeod; Cooper, Tom - UKGI; Watson, Richard - UKGI; Clarke, Stephen - UKGI; Patrick Bourke
Subject: Rescheduled litigation briefing with Perm Sec and minister

Paula

As you know, POL will now be briefing the Perm Sec and minister on the litigation case on 17 October. It would be
helpful if you can share your material in advance so we can make the most of the relatively short time that we have in
the meeting itself.

We've spoken to the private offices about when they will be taking papers. To ensure that the minister and Perm Sec
have time to read and digest it, could you please send your presentation to us COP 3 October? A covering email

setting out the key points would also be helpful.

We would be very happy to offer advice on handling the Perm Sec and minister, and what they are likely to be looking
for. Let us know if you or the team would like to discuss in advance.

You have an introductory meeting with the minister on Monday and I don’t expect her to raise the litigation case in
any detail. I think she will largely be in listening mode. I hope it goes well.

Best

Tom

Tom Aldred I Executive Director
Post Office Shareholder Team

UKG100008372
UKG100008372

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender
and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been
swept for malware and viruses.

HEC 2A AR A KR FR KR FAR 1 2 FG 2 RR a a a

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

ACR 2A AR A 2K 2 FAR KR FAR 00 FG 2 C00 GR RR AC aa

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

