UKG100002892
UKG100002892

From: Belinda Crowe
Sent: Thur 18/12/2014 6:
To: Mcinnes Tim (ShEx:
Ce: Callard Ri

Bourkef_
Subject: Re: Next Steps

Good for me. We've had a good think this end so I will update at 3pm. Happy to do over the phone if best.
Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

“Postline! GRO

On 18 Dec 2014, at 17:51, McInnes Tim (ShEx)

wrote:

Belinda,

Not sure if Richard responded to this but it looks like we’re free at 15:00.
Does that work your end?

Thanks,

Tim

From: Belinda Crowe I.
Sent: 18 December 2014 11:57
To: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Cc: Patrick Bourke; McInnes Tim (ShEx); Mark R Davies
Subject: Re: Next Steps

‘d. Let's catch up tomorrow. Times you are free?

GRO _

From: Callard Richard (ShEx) I"
Sent: Thursday, December 18,
To: Belinda Crowe

Cc: Patrick Bourke; McInnes Tim (ShEx) <
Subject: Next Steps

“>; Mark R Davies

Hi Belinda

Now that the dust has settled, a bit, I thought it might be useful to have do a call tomorrow or Monday
UKG100002892
UKG100002892

around next steps for sparrow. I know you are doing the line by line rebuttal, and are planning to write a
long-ish letter for laying in the House, but I think its worth keeping close to stay coordinated.

Other thoughts for discussion include some sort of more digestible "mythbusters" document that we can
continually put out there and Paula discussed with Jo today the idea of offering one on one's with MPs
(noting you had offered them before but let's publicise it).

Anyway, what works best for you - tomorrow or Monday, I am generally free tomorrow, slightly less so
Monday.

Cheers

Richard Callard I Executive Director I Post Office Limited and Green Investment Bank

Shareholder Teams I Shareholder Executive

BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET Ii
GRO '

ations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained
growth and higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes

UKG100002892
UKG100002892

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
