UKGI00018482

UKGI00018482

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI

Sent: Fri, 4 Oct 2019 11:55:49 +0000

To: Russell, Mark - UKGI

Ce: Cooper, Tom - UKGI;Aldred, Tom - UKGI
Subject: FW: POST OFFICE LITIGATION

Mark

You will want to be aware of the latest development on the POL litigation in my below email.
We are hopefully catching up later so can discuss then as necessary
Kind regards

Richard

Richard WatsonIGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

W: https://www.ukgi.org.uk/

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI
Sent: 03 October 2019 18:04

To: Permanent Secretary < Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)

arl (Professional

Beth (Professional B
Grant, Calum (BEIS) <
sarah.munby.

Subject: POST OFFICE LITIGATION

Post Office have just advised us that they have discovered that they failed to disclose potentially

relevant documents in the GLO proceedings, specifically in respect of the Horizon Trial which
concluded in July. Post Office are currently awaiting the Court's judgment in respect of that trial.
Context

Fujitsu, who manage the Horizon point of sale system for Post Office, had previously informed
Post Office that the “Known Error Logs” (KELs), which were key documents in the Horizon trial,
UKG100018482
UKGI00018482

were overwritten when updated such that no previous versions were kept and only current
versions could be disclosed. Post Office relied on that information when completing their
Disclosure Statement in the litigation. However, Fujitsu has now advised Post Office this week
that past versions of the KELs do, in fact, exist. Consequently, the scope of disclosure as
represented and provided by Post Office was inaccurate.

There are two broad Issues:

1. Concealment and Procedural Breach - Post Office’s credibility and the perception
around Post Office’s approach to managing the litigation will likely be criticised (ie
Claimants’ previous overarching criticism of Post Office not being transparent, seeking to
conceal and not providing full disclosure); and

2. Potential Impact to the Court’s findings - Whether the previous KELs (the volume and
content is not yet known) could cause the experts to change their evidence and/or
impact the substance of the case before the Court.

Post Office have informed the claimants and the court what has happened. The Board are
aware and POL are urgently trying to get from Fujitsu copies of the relevant documents.

The POL Comms Team has been made aware of the issue. The Claimants are likely to
complain to the Court and there is a risk that the issue could become public.

POL are putting in place a variety of actions to manage this issue, including reviewing their
arrangements and assurance processes with Fujitsu.

We will update you as soon as we have further information
Kind regards
Richard

Richard WatsonIGeneral Counsel
UK Government Investments

WwW: hitps://www ukgi.org.u
