UKG100009793
UKGI00009793

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI[/O=EXCHANGELABS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
-{EYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=97888B27D7034E80AB21DE4583305D52-

Sent: Fri 17/05/2019 6:40:55 AM (UTC)
To: Rodric William:

“3 Watts, Alan

Ce: Ben Foatf.” Watson, Richard - UKGIf”
Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD
Thanks Rod

If there are items in your first list (1-13) that are generally true, why would we appeal them?

On B, it bothers me that the only fact in the lead cases we can point to where we seem to have concrete evidence that
Fraser got it wrong is whether Bates saw the contract. Are there no others?

Take as an example Abdulla where Fraser says there were some errors in the make-up of the outstanding balance at
the time he was audited and terminated. If it turns out that (for example) he didn’t owe the post office any money at
the time he was terminated then he should not have been terminated or prosecuted. The consequences of that are
far greater than any issues in the Bates case it seems to me.

So if you’re saying we don’t need to challenge these findings at this stage, I’d like to understand why we’re picking out
the Bates contract point as being so special.

In general, I still want to go through the lead cases on a call and I assume the table that Ben outlined in his earlier
email is still being prepared so we can go through them?

Tom

From: Rodric Williams.
Sent: 16 May 2019 17:08
To: Cooper, Ti t
Cc: Ben Foa .IWatson, Richard - UKGI!
Subject: Post Office Group Litigation - SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Tom

Further to your telephone conversation with Ben yesterday, please find attached a “one pager” listing the issues of
fact being appealed from the Common Issues judgment because an individual claimant’s experience has been
extrapolated to a finding applicable to the entire postmaster community, and those being appeal because we disagree
with them (i.e. because they were not open to the Judge on the evidence and/or are perverse).

Please let us know if you need anything further in this regard.

Separately, we have raised with the external legal team the issue of the costs of the recusal application given its stark
dismissal by the Court of Appeal. We will let you know how this progresses.

Kind regards, Rod
UKG100009793
UKGI00009793

Rodric Williams

Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand

20 Finsbury Street
EC2Y 9AQ

FESS HESS ESSE ES HES EE Eo ra nao ai idaci doi icici incr

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury
Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JE EOD S EOS SESS BIOSIS HOSE OBS E EOE ODE OE ODES RIE EEE
“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found on our

website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

