UKG100045871
UKG100045871

Message

From: McInnes Tim (ShEx) [€°

Sent: 10/02/2014 14:52:38

To: ShEx - London [ heffield staff [~ “

cc: Price Julie (ShEx) f jastings Dominic (ShEx) ']; Hepworth
Sharon (ShEx) [ j

Subject: ShEx Risk Register - Action Required by 14 February

Attachments: Project Leads - November 2013.XLS; ASSET NAME_Risk Register_Feb14.XLS

ShEx Directors and Assistant Directors,

At the request of ExCo, and with input from a number of sponsor teams within ShEx, we are rolling out a new risk
register. Currently not all assets / projects maintain a register and those that do, there are a number of different formats
being used — this means risks can not be looked at by the Risk and Assurance Committee (or others) comprehensively or
consistently.

The attached risk register seeks to address this challenge.

Do I Need to Fill This In?

@ — ExCo has asked for all sponsor teams to complete a risk register, and for these to be assessed by the Risk and
Assurance Committee on a monthly basis (clearly some in more detail than others). A summary of this will then be
used at ExCo meetings.

¢ Weare therefore asking ALL TEAMS TO COMPLETE THE ATTACHED RISK REGISTER. We will follow up this week in
person to answer any initial questions, make sure responsibilities have been allocated and ensure timelines set out
below can be met (see attached "Project Leads" spreadsheet for our understanding of the various teams). If you are
able to provide updates to the schedule, that would be greatly appreciated

Note: Any request to step-out of this process will need to be approved. If you think your team should be excluded please
pick this up directly with myself, Julie, Dominic or Sharon

What Next?

@ We would like each team to appoint an “owner” of their new risk register who is responsible for updating the
document on a monthly basis. Reminders will always be sent out in advance

e Fora first attempt — which we accept will take a little longer than it will ongoing — we are keen to receive FULLY
POPULATED RESPONSES BY COP ON FRIDAY 14 FEBRUARY. This will allow the individual schedules to be brought
together and put to ExCo w/c 17th

e The register includes a tab called “Title and Guide” which explains what needs to be filled in and provides answers
to some questions. If you or your team have further questions don’t hesitate to contact me, Julie, Dominic or Sharon

What Do We Do?

The spreadsheet has been developed in a way that we hope should make it self explanatory as to what needs to be
filled in. In order to ensure registers can be compared across assets / projects there are some limitations on how
risks / mitigating actions are scored, and how risks are defined — this means that options within some cells are
locked

e¢ There might be some categories that your team do not use currently however WE WOULD APPRECIATE IT IF YOU
DO FILL IN EVERYTHING — these are areas ExCo want to see and clearly if all teams provide the same information it
also means risks can be compared looked at in a consistent way
UKGI00045871
UKGI00045871

Note: Worksheets are protected to stop people making changes to the structure of the document. There is a single
ShEx-wide file which “feeds” from the individual registers and by keeping registers the same it easier to aggregate
sponsor teams’ work

While we accept everyone is busy we hope that what we are proposing with this new register is not too demanding. For
those with registers already, what is being requested should broadly mirror what you have today but brings consistency
across all assets. For those that don’t, ExCo is keen to ensure all teams look at their assets or projects through the
appropriate lenses and we hope you see the value in this work.

Many thanks in advance for your support.

Tim, Julie, Dominic and Sharon

Tim McInnes I Shareholder Executive I Department for Business, Innovation & Skills I T:
I www.bis.gov.uk I

See our latest annual review: www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and higher skills across
the economy.
BIS: working together for growth
