UKG100045551
UKGI00045551

Message

From: Robert Swannell [-

Sent: 19/10/2018 1

To: Jane Guyett! GRO.
Subject: Re: UKGI NED Specification
Many thanks Jane.

Have a great time in Portugal — wish we were there too!
With best wishes

Robert

From: Jane Guyett
Date: Friday, 19 October 2018 at 18:
To: Robert Swannell ;
Subject: Re: UKGI NED Specification

Dear Robert,
Understood vis a vis the draft spec., that makes sense, we should aim high.

I am supportive of Alice Perkins, but suspect we will get some push back on the need for a Board review (and the cost,
whatever that is) rather than the individual doing the reviews.

Have a good weekend too, we are in Portugal for a few days, variable weather, we are making up for it by going to all
our favourite restaurants !

All the best,

On 19 Oct 2018, at 17:01, Robert Swannell

Dear Jane,

I have incorporated almost all of your comments into the draft spec. The only one I didn’t take
was the “and/or “ between the first two items because my strong preference is to have both if
it’s at all possible. That said if there was someone who looked like John Kingman I suspect we
would take them despite lack of commercial Exco experience.

By the way I have now spoken to a large number of potential board evaluators. I am inclined to
ask Alice Perkins if she would do the role for a combination of cost with her exceptional
experienced of the worlds of business and HMG. She has now confirmed she would do it at a
substantial discount to the cost of the main players. I spoke to Ffion Hague, Tracy Long ( the
two with biggest market share of FTSE companies ) and with Russell Reynolds, Spencer Stuart
and Egon Zehnder and the range was c£50,000 - £80,000. Alice will do the same job, including
one on one interviews , for £30,000.
UKG100045551
UKGI00045551

Alice is Jack Straw’s wife, She was Chair of the Post Office and was Head of HR for the civil
service in the Cabinet Office. I knew her when she was on the Board of Littlewoods before its
sale to the Barclays. She has been doing Board Reviews for many years as well as being a coach,
latterly with JCA. She recently did the Board Review for Highways England. She is a proper
“grown up” to whom I believe Board members could be candid about their views.

Do let me know if you have strong views to the contrary. I would intend to discuss this at the
November Board.

Have a very good weekend and thank you for all your help.
With best wishes

Robert

Date: Thursday, 18 October 2018 at 1
To: Robert Swannell {
Subject: Re: UKGI NED Specification

From: Jane Guyett{

Robert,

I completely agree with your approach and the characteristics.

I have added in my thoughts, below, in the text, and have a couple of questions.

In 2) Iadded IT and engineering as a sector background as I think this is also important but agree that
they are secondary to the other sectors right now

In 4) why wouldn’t we explicitly ask for main board experience ? It is unlikely that someone who is an
NED of a listed company would not have main board experience ?

Experience

1. Substantial commercial experience as a member of the Exco of a major company (‘substantial
‘ meaning a minimum of two years)

And/or

Demonstrable experience of dealing with HMG at high level in multiple departments (can we
specify a grade and minimum time served at this grade)

2. Preferably minimum of x years experience of Infrastructure, Energy, Defence, IT, Engineering
or Transport sectors (not consulting, accounting or banking)

3. Must have Chair or NED experience of listed company and/or other major entity

4. Preference for Board experience as an ED in a major entity

5. Must have financial acumen (could be commercial FD, COO, head of Strategy in a major
entity) and demonstrated experience of M&A/transactions preferable
UKG100045551
UKGI00045551

Characteristics

Low ego, capable of influence rather than directing

A team player

Demanding, but with sufficient charm/EQ to be effective as NED

Real engagement with UKGI, its values and its mission

Strong ethics, recognised by peers/colleagues

No strong political affiliations

Preferably an unconventional thinker — someone who would challenge the status quo

Someone who would recognisably add diversity to the existing Board (this is diversity of background and
experience)

Strawman Ideal candidate based on Spec

Colin Matthews (pre Highways England) CEO, Hays, Severn Trent, BAA/Heathrow/, ED Transco, NED
Johnson Mathey

Many thanks,

Jane Guyett

On 17 Oct 2018, at 13:10, Robert Swannell

Dear Jane,

This is my draft of the spec we discussed before in outline. Would be v grateful for your
thoughts before I share with Charles and the other NEDs.

<UKGI NED Specification.docx>

With best wishes

Robert
