UKG100009149
UKGI00009149

From: Ken McCall.
Sent: Fri 08/03/2019 29 PM (UTC)
To: Jane MacLec i Tim Parkert

ooper, Tom - UKGII
Shirine Khoury-Haqi,

Cc: n ; Alisdair
Cameron }; Veronica
Branton, d

Subject: Re: Postmaster Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT
FORWARD

Jane

Frankly I am extremely surprised given our most recent Barrister Opinion to lose on all material points
I look forward to hearing your thoughts in due course

Best regards

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Jane MacLeod <jane.macleo
Sent: Friday, March 8, 2019 5:25 pm

To: Tim Parker; Ken McCall!3; Carla Stent; Cooper, Tom - UKGI; Tim.Frankli
Cc: Paula Vennells; Alisdair Cameron; Veronica Branton

Subject: Postmaster Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE - DO NOT FORWARD

Shirine Khoury-Haq

All

We received the judgment this morning in the Common Issues Trial. The judgment is 325 pages and very detailed,
and as a result we have not yet read it completely or fully understood all the arguments. However a high level review
indicates:
e = We have lost on all material points
e The judge has criticised Post Office comprehensively — both as to our historic operations and behaviours and
our conduct of the case
e The judge accepts the evidence of the Lead Claimants but is sceptical of our witnesses who he characterises
as ‘extraordinarily partisan’
e He has struck out the key contractual provisions which require postmasters to account to Post Office, and
© He has stated that the Branch Trading Statement — which is the key document on which Post Office relies for
postmasters to account for cash and stock in branches — cannot be relied on as a statement of account.

The judgment will be handed down formally either next Friday (15) or on Monday 18". In the meantime we are
working on grounds for appeal.

We have activated our contingency planning in order that we have communications and detailed plans available and
ready to launch at the point the judgment is formally handed down. In the meantime, the judgment is subject to
embargo and cannot be shared or discussed outside of Post Office and its legal team. We are keeping the news to a
tight team within Post Office.

There are many questions that we cannot yet answer and we need some time to fully digest the verdict. We will
therefore be setting up a Board call probably on Tuesday. In the meantime, please call either myself or Al as needed.
UKG100009149
UKGI00009149

Jane

Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ
Mobile number:

EER A RR RRR I OGRA CORR I OH A SOR RR ERR CORR CO GRR BHR RR AO GR ao

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

CCR A ARR A ACK 2K I CARR 2K RR ARR A212 28 02 CO ORR BON RA CA aR a a

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

