UKGI00009606
UKGI00009606

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=1B473B274AA644839198B72B47DB1BE8-
ALDRED, TOM (TALDRED]

Sent: Thur 25/04/2019 11:17:05 AM (UTC)

To: Cole, Alex-UKGI -GRO.—«I

; Cooper, Tom - UK' 1

Subject: Perm Sec meeting, 24 April: Readout

We met Alex Chisholm for a general update meeting yesterday. He started by saying that he was pleased
with how officials are working together. BEIS are upping their capacity on POL because there’s lots to
cover

Litigation
* Thought POL had a better chance in the appeal than in the recusal
« Priorities for us to ensure that POL gets high quality legal advice, that the Board takes responsibility
and that we move towards a just solution
« In his experience, the windows of opportunity for settlement to happen are short. There might be a
window if POL get a good result in the appeal or recusal
+ However, his view is that chances of a settlement are very low, because of the large number of
claimants
« Whatever the final result of the litigation, POL needs to repair the damage to POL’s brand and
make sure that it is behaving as we would expect

CEO
¢ Best way to pitch remuneration package to Treasury is as ‘investing in choice’. Without it, they
might only get internal candidates

Franchising
¢ “This is a perception problem not a real problem, so we kill it with information”.

POCA
* Officials should prepare a ‘neutral’ briefing for DWP and HMT on what is at stake in terms of impact
on POL and postmasters

Telco
+ AC happy to see POL exit telco. If it is a weak product, it could damage their brand
« Proceeds should be shared. Some should come back to the exchequer but also needs to be
something in it for POL to motivate them to get a good price. They should demonstrate what the
compelling proposition is that they want to reinvest in. Not for litigation

Select Committee
* Kelly will need probably want senior officials supporting her at the committee from BEIS and UKGI

Government policy on post office
+ Government invests in post office for more than the return — there is a social purpose. Benefits from
developing, clarifying and articulating what this is.
¢ Green Investment Bank a good mode! to look at. It sets out their commercial mandate/s and also
their social mandate. Could we do something similar for POL

Tom Aldred I Executive Director
Post Office Shareholder Team

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET.

TH

UKGI00009606
UKGI00009606
