UKGI00016211

UKGI00016211
wt
Department for
i Alex Chishol
Business, Energy Permanent Under-Secretary of State
& Industrial Strategy 1 Victoria Street
London
Mark Baker

Larkhill Post Office
The Packway
Larkhill

Salisbury

Our ref: AC/[PO to complete]

8 April 2019

POST OFFICE LITIGATION AND POST OFFICE GRANT TO THE NATIONAL
FEDERATION OF SUB-POSTMASTERS

Thank you for your correspondence of 20 March about Justice Fraser’s findings on the
relationship between the Post Office and the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters
(NFSP) within his judgement on the Common Issues Trial and your concerns about the
public grant that the Post Office pays to the NFSP.

Firstly, it is worth pointing that while the Post Office is publicly owned it operates as an
independent, commercial business. As such, the matters encompassed by the recent
judgement on the Common Issues Trial, including the Post Office’s relationship with its
postmasters and the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, are operational matters for
Post Office Ltd. Therefore, Post Office is handling the legal defence of the litigation to
which you refer (Alan Bates and Others v Post Office Limited) and considering how to
respond to the judgment including any changes to its relationship with postmasters and the
NFSP.

I believe the courts are the right place to hear the issues being raised and I hope that the
litigation will assist in the resolution of what are long-standing issues between some
postmasters and the Post Office so that postmasters with claims can obtain a remedy if the
court finds there is validity to those claims.

The Judge’s findings on the relationship between the NFSP and the Post Office form part of
a judgement that the Post Office will be appealing, and it would therefore be inappropriate
for government to comment on this matter. Furthermore, the judgement itself relates only to
the first of four trials scheduled until March 2020, and the overall outcome of this litigation
will only become clear once the whole trial process has concluded, including any appeals
by either party. While this remains a matter for the courts is it is not appropriate for
Government to comment on any aspects of this case or to intervene in this process in any
way.
UKGI00016211
UKGI00016211

The Post Office have informed my officials that they have reflected in great depth on the
proceedings and on this detailed and complex judgement. As a result, they will continue
their programme of improving how they work with postmasters and are urgently considering
how to accelerate this and address the criticisms about their operations raised in the
judgment. As part of this, the Post Office is also reflecting on the comments made regarding
the NFSP. Post Office recognises that they must continue to do better for the sake of their
customers and postmasters.

As regards your concern “that the Post Office is still using money that is provided by
Government to finance a Grant Funding Agreement it has struck with the NFSP”, I can
confirm that this is not the case. Any grant funding to the NFSP is paid from POL’s own
commercial revenues and is not drawn from the Government's funding package, which
covers the period April 2018 to March 2021.

Finally, I can confirm that Post Office Limited does not fall within the Cabinet Office
Guidance on Government Functional Standard for General Grants. This is because Post
Office Limited is not classified as an Arm’s Length Body (ALB) but rather as a Public Non-
Financial Corporation under the Office for National Statistics (ONS) national account
system and because grant monies paid by Post Office to the NFSP are not drawn from
“Exchequer Funding”. Nevertheless, Government expects all public bodies to ensure value
for money principles in their use of resources at all times.

I trust this clarifies matters. Since the Post Office’s relationship with the NFSP are the
operational responsibility of the company, if you have any further concerns you should
raise these directly with the Post Office.

Yours sincerely,

Alex Chisholm
UKGI00016211
UKGI00016211
