UKG100000952
UKGI00000952

Message

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST [/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=6F2B04F873D84BADB6A80D880A549FC3-ROLFEMPST]

Sent: 9/7/2015 8:44:41 AM

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive’

t
Subject: FW: POST OFFICE

J; SpAd Javid MPST

Laura

Please see below feedback from BNR on the post office submission. Would it be possible to have what is requested for
tonight's box.

Kind regards
Andrew Smith

Sent from my Windows Phone

From: NEVILLE-ROLFE, Baroness
Sent: 06/09/2015 23:57

To: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Subject: POST OFFICE

1 Tam happy to send the No 10 report to Mr Letwin with a brief covering letter from me

Please prepare

2 I should write formally to Tim Parker following the programme and formalise my request to him. The gist of this would be that we
spoke earlier in the summer, the issues over Horizon have not gone away; indeed they have been aggravated by a Panorama
programme following which the MPs concerned have written to me proposing an independent investigation. I should say that I have
so far held to the official line, but that this is a difficult matter not least because a senior Government Minister, Oliver Letwin, has lent
his support .

3 We should reorder the letter to MPs to put the Parker section at the end and to add that following their latest letter I have written to
him formally asking him to look fully into the matter and that I believe with his own successful business background and standing he
will bring the kind of insights they are seeking. Paragraphs 4 and 5 also need to be recast so that I am not speaking for the Post Office,
but adopt a more neutral tone. Moreover it would not be true to say that I have read the various reports. I have glanced at them, but
that is not enough for me to take a definitive view - that indeed is why we have agreed the way ahead involving Mr Parker.

4 Finally, remember that our overwhelming objective is to do the right and fair thing. The Post Office may have done so, but we have
to be open to the possibility that for whatever reason they have not.

Lucy

Sent from my iPad

UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the
sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail has been checked for
viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail. This email address is not secure, is
not encrypted and should not be used for sensitive data.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

