UKG100005504
UKGI00005504

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=6F2B04F873D84BADB6A80D880A549FC3-
ROLFEMPST]
Sent: Wed 19/08/2015 11:22:49 AM (UTC)
To: Callard Richard (ShEx}
Subject: FW: Second Sight's Briefing Report - Part Two
Richard,

Here is the response sent to second sight.

Kind regards

FW: Second Sight's Briefing Report - Part Two
: Private

Dear Mr Warmington

Thank you for your email of Tuesday 4 August regarding the Post Office and attaching correspondence you have sent
to George Freeman MP and to the Prime Minister. I am replying as the Minister responsible for the Post Office. I have
read with interest your “Part Two briefing report” as well as the response from Post Office Limited.

The Government is grateful for Second Sight’s work in reviewing the Post Office’s Horizon IT system. The results of
your investigations will enable each of the individuals who have raised concerns with Post Office Limited to
understand better what has happened in their individual case, and if appropriate to seek resolution through
mediation or other means.

As you say, your work has considered not only the IT system but also wider issues, and where your investigations have
highlighted areas of concern, Post Office have committed to addressing them and making improvements, particularly
around the training and support they provide to subpostmasters. Where problems have been identified in individual
circumstances, those are best resolved directly between the two parties involved, both of whom will be able to
benefit from your investigations on each individual case.

Thank you again for raising this with me.

Kind regards

Baroness Neville-Rolfe

From: Ron Warmington GRO
Sent: Tuesday, August 04, 201

To: 'nevillerolfel, G ee .
Cc: 'george.freeman.mp: ;tirh¢ GRO
Subject: RE: Second Sight's Briefing Report - Part Two

Sensitivity: Private

UKG100005504
UKGI00005504

Dear Baroness,

Further to the article written by Tim Ross in this weekend's Sunday
Telegraph (see: http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/royal-
mail/11778288/Post-Office-under-fire-over-I T-system.html ), I have
as yet received no acknowledgement from Westminster in regard to my
July 22nd and 28th emails to Mr Freeman and to the Prime Minister.

The possibility seems to exist that Mr Freeman was inaccurately
briefed on the results of our firm's investigation. As stated below, we
have concluded that there were, and probably still are, systemic flaws
within Horizon.

With regards,

Ron Warmington

From: Ron Warmington GRO ai
Sent: Tuesday, July 28, 2015 12:15 PM

To: ‘David Cameron’

Subject: FW: Second Sight's Briefing Report - Part Two
Sensitivity: Private

Please pass this email directly to Mr Cameron. Thank you.
Dear Mr Cameron,

As yet I have received no response to my below-copied email to Mr
Freeman. In it, I am challenging the words he used in the House in
summarising my firm's Reports on the Post Office and its Horizon
operating platform. In that you also incorrectly used similar words in
the House, I respectfully look to you to ensure that more care is taken
on this matter so that broad reassurances are not again mistakenly
given.

With kindest regards,

Ron Warmington

From: Ron Warmington !__
Sent: Wednesday, July 22.2015, 27.,

To: 'george.freeman.mp! GR _l
Subject: Second Sight's Briefing Report - Part Two

UKG100005504
UKGI00005504

Sensitivity: Private
Dear Mr Freeman:

I am puzzled, and not a little distressed, by your summarisation, in your
recent email to Mr Ian Warren, and more importantly in Parliament, of
my firm's Interim and Part Two Reports (there were, in fact, three
Reports). You have summarised our Reports with the following words:
"Second Sight have produced two independent reports, in 2013 and
2015, both of which demonstrate that there is no evidence of systemic
flaws within the Horizon system which could cause the issues
reported". That is NOT a correct statement. I respectfully draw your
attention to paragraphs 21.27 and 26.8 of our Report, and to the
following additional paragraphs:

9.3; 9.6; 9.12; 10.10; 11.8; 13.8; 21.3; 21.4; 21.8; 21.30; 21.31; and 22.10.

You may have noted, from reading our Reports, and also from Post
Office's Rebuttal Documents, that Post Office has continually focussed
attention on the system itself (i.e. ‘Horizon’, and its successor system,
‘Horizon Online’), and even more narrowly on the software, rather than
on the entirety of the operational platform used by its
Subpostmasters. It follows that even if there had never been any
systemic flaws in either version of the system (that being a contention
with which we do not agree), that would not mean that the operational
platform as a whole was always fit for purpose for all of the tens of
thousands of users. As we have stated in our Report, it was not.

I have attached here a copy of our Briefing Report - Part Two. In that
copies of this Report are already in the public domain, releasing a
further copy to you does not constitute a breach of our Confidentiality
Agreement.

Tam available at any time, subject to the constraints imposed (by our
Confidentiality Agreements with Post Office) on my firm, myself and on
my colleagues individually, should you call for any clarification.

With best regards,
UKG100005504
UKGI00005504

Ron Warmington CFE, FCA

Managing Director

Second Sight support Services Ltd
Tythe Farm

Maugersbury

Cheltenham

Gloucestershire

GL54 1HR

Email

Website: http://www. 2ndsight.eu

CONFIDENTIALITY: This email and any attachments are confidential and may also be privileged. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify me at and delete the email and any attachments.

UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

