POLB(12)4"
POLB12/28-43

UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

Post Office Limited
(company no. 2154540)

Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors

held at 148 Old Street, London EC1V 9HQ on 15" March 2012

Present:

Alice Perkins
Neil McCausland
Les Owen

Paula Vennells
Chris Day

In attendance:
Alwen Lyons
Lesley Sewell
Kevin Gilliland
Nick Kennett
Susan Crichton
Sarah Hall
Martin Lacey

POLB12/28

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Chairman, Post Office Ltd

Senior Independent Director, Post Office Ltd
Non Executive Director, Post Office Ltd
Managing Director, Post Office Ltd

Chief Financial Officer, Post Office Ltd

Company Secretary, Post Office Ltd
Interim Chief Operating Officer
Sales and Network Director
Financial Services Director

Legal and Compliance Director
Financial Controller

Pensions Specialist

(item POLB 12/28)
(item POLB 12/29 & 30)
(item POLB12/30 & 36)
(item POLB 12/39 & 40)
(item POLB 12/39)
(item POLB 12/39)

INFRASTRUCTURE (IT AND PROCUREMENT)

Lesley Sewell explained the IT Strategy for the next 3 years which
will support the wider business activity, procure circa 60 IT contracts
and deliver the cost reduction challenge. The Board discussed the
Strategy which involves the proposed introduction of a Service
Integrator (SI) to manage IT providers. Les Owen asked if the SI
would be allowed to provide any of the work towers in the
framework of suppliers. (POL(12)28 Appendix 2). Lesley Sewell
explained that the SI would only supply the service desk but no
other tower;

Lesley Sewell emphasised that the business lacked the capability
and maturity to manage the changes required to deliver the future
IT infrastructure. This work was not a core competency and it made
more sense to outsource. She stressed the importance of getting
the SI contract terms correct and getting good governance in place
to manage that contract;

Chris Day assured the Board that the SI and contracts would
include efficiency targets which were already assumed in the
budget;

Neil McCausland had suggested at a pre-meet that the SI approach
be tested to give the Board some assurance that it was the best
solution. Lesley Sewell reported that Berkeley Partnership had
reviewed the SI strategy and were supportive of the approach
agreeing that the SI would bring the required capabilities to the
business;
ACTION:
Lesley Sewell

ACTION:
Lesley Sewell

ACTION:
Lesley Sewell
Chris Day

(e)

(f)

(9)

(h)

(i)

()

(k)

UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

Paula Vennells questioned whether the SI would in fact raise
capability, as the same POL staff who were currently working in this
area of the business would be TUPE’d over to the SI. Lesley
Sewell assured the Board that the contract would insist on raised
capability and people would not be retained if they did not achieve
the required level. Paula Vennells flagged to the Board that the
redundancy cost could return to POL under TUPE rules;

Les Owen asked the business to ensure that POL retained the
procurement decisions for the tower contracts. Lesley Sewell
assured him this was the way the SI contract would be structured.
She emphasised that the SI contract negotiation was vital and the
business would need to buy-in consultancy support for this work;

Lesley Sewell assured the Board that the business would retain and
strengthen its in-house resource which would focus on the IT
changes needed for new products and services;

the Chairman understood that Berkeley Partnership had challenged
the concept of the towers within the framework, Lesley Sewell
explained that the Berkeley Partnership have suggested other
solutions and proposed that the framework could be structured
around the business applications. She would take a further look at
a different approach but thought it would be too radical a change for
the business in one go. However, Lesley Sewell assured the Board
that changes could be made to the proposal as it developed and the
team would keep an open mind;

Les Owen asked if the model had been successfully deployed in
other organisations. Lesley Sewell reported that she had visited
Rolls Royce who were currently moving to the model. She agreed
to find a business who are already successfully using the SI and
similar structure to benchmark. She would look at retail / services
sector as well;

Neil McCausland asked for an explanation of the Financial overview
(POL(12)28 APPENDIX 1) and why the costs were so high for
13/14 and 14/15. Lesley Sewell explained that the optimised
baseline was based on existing contracts including RPI increases
and also included the projects involved in business transformation.
Neil McCausland challenged the additional costs. He agreed the
expenditure of £13.38m to implement the programme, but stated
that this did not mean he agreed the targets for subsequent years.
The Chairman clarified that the Board were not being asked to
approve the IT Budget for subsequent years and asked Lesley
Sewell and Chris Day to provide a breakdown and explanation of
the optimised expected cost scenarios for the Board;

the board endorsed the proposed strategy subject to the points
made and authorised expenditure of £13.8m for the implementation
of the programme.
UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

POLB12/29 NETWORK TRANSFORMATION

(a) Agency
Les Owen asked if the business had the necessary skills to assess
Subpostmaster business plans submitted for Network
Transformation. Kevin Gilliland assured the Board that the
business was experienced in these assessments as 10% of
branches change every year and the business plans for all these
changes were put through a retail assessment and then a financial
assessment led by Chris Day's team;

(b) the Chairman emphasised the importance of the selection criteria
used to prioritise branches and the need for them to be fairly and
robustly applied. Neil McCausland suggested a further criteria to
look at the benefit for the Subpostmaster as this could provide
advocacy for the change;

(c) Kevin Gilliland explained that most of the negative press for
Network Transformation was focused on locals and a previous
‘down-grading’ of service. He reported that ‘locals’ could carry out
98% of the core business carried out by the whole Network which
would move closer to 100% once a manual solution was in place
for business banking.

(d) Crowns
The Chairman congratulated Kevin Gilliland on the progress being
made. Neil McCausland encouraged the business to push for more
trials. Kevin Gilliland explained that the most difficult area of the
plan was the staff savings and that achieving the targets would rely
on engaging the front line staff. This was why more time had been
spent on the initial trial at Birmingham. Some of the staff at this
office are now being used as advocates in the next trial offices. The
Chairman reiterated that the Board was pleased with what it had
seen and understood that cultural change was needed, but
encouraged the business to keep pushing for faster deployment.
Paula Vennells agreed and suggested that six to ten pilots are now
needed instead of the couple which are planned;

ACTION: (e) Neil McCausland asked for a reconciliation between the numbers in
Kevin Gilliland the paper and the Crown P&L.

Chris Day

POLB12/30 FS SALES

(a) Nick Kennett explained the suggested management structure and
the importance of the relationship between the financial services
representative (FSR) and the branch staff. Neil McCausland asked
what incentives would be in place for the FSR. Nick Kennett
explained that a qualified FSR would earn circa £25k with an
incentive of an additional £10k available if reaching sales targets.
Kevin Gilliland reported that the structure of the branch staff
incentive was still to be agreed;
(b)

ACTION:
Kevin Gilliland

(c)

(d)

POLB12/31
(a)
(b)

POLB12/32
(a)

ACTION:
Nick Kennett

ACTION:
Neil McCausland

POLB12/33

(a)

(b)

POLB12/34

(a)

UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

Neil McCausland suggested that the new FSR model be built into
the Crown Trial, including branch incentives. Kevin Gilliland
accepted this would be a good place to trial new concepts. Nick
Kennett reported that the Birmingham trial had already seen an up
lift in sales which if replicated through the Network would bring a
£1m additional profit;

Les Owen asked for clarification as to whether the proposed FSR
role could give advice. Nick Kennett confirmed that although the
FSR would be qualified they would not give advice but would
perform an assisted sale;

Les Owen highlighted the potential opportunity as other financial
organisations’ advisors move to charging a fee post RDR (Retail
Distribution Review). Up to 40% of the population will no longer be
given free financial services advice and this presented an
opportunity for the Post Office.

MINUTES OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS
The minutes of the meeting of 9" February 2012 were agreed;

the Minutes of the POFS Board Meeting (POFS(12)1*) were noted.
Paula Vennells challenged the minuting of the MDA Commercial
Contract; she will ensure it is challenged at the next Midasgrange
Board.

MATTERS ARISING — Status Report

POLB11/62/(c) Appendix A

Les Owen asked for a report of the number of personal injury
referrals made by Junction. Neil McCausland agreed it would be
good to track these especially as they are part of an incentive
scheme. Because of her potential conflict of interest on this issue,
the Chairman asked Neil McCausland to take ownership of it to
ensure the business was getting the required information and
challenging Junction to ensure that the Post Office was beyond
criticism.

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REPORT

Paula Vennells updated the Board that cheques would now be
acceptable at ‘locals’ as a new manual process had been agreed;

Paula Vennells told the board about the successful BIS week where
500 Senior Civil Servants attended meetings and seminars with the
Front Office of Government (FOoG) team with very positive
feedback.

HEALTH AND SAFETY UPDATE

The Health & Safety Update (POLB(12)34) was noted.
POLB12/35

(a)

POLB12/36

(a)

ACTION:
Les Owen

ACTION:
Nick Kennett

(b)

ACTION:
Nick Kennett

POLB12/37

ACTION:
Alwen Lyons

POLB12/38

(a)

(b)

UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

FINANCE/PERFORMANCE REPORT

Chris Day presented the period 10 performance which continued to
show strong sales in FS and Mails as well as accelerated spend in
key investment expenditure. He also reported that period 11
continued the strong performance. The Full Year interim forecast
was now £65 - £70m “profit” including the network subsidy payment
of £180m. Les Owen asked if there was a risk that the Government
would reduce the Network Payment because of the good
performance. Chris Day reported that this had been a concern
especially around cash flow, but was unlikely because the business
had already made the case for next year.

EAGLE UPDATE

Nick Kennett gave the Board an oral update on the Eagle
negotiations. He explained the problems with the valuation of the
future portfolio which would be sold when the contract expired. Les
Owen suggested an alternative proposal and the Chairman asked
that Les Owen and Nick Kennett convene after the meeting to
discuss. Nick Kennett to send a note round to the Board to
summarise the discussion;

Nick Kennett reported that the Bank had re-opened discussions on
FSR numbers, an area which they had previously dropped in the
Heads of Terms. The Chairman told Nick Kennett to relay the
Board’s disappointment that this issue, which they thought had
been settled, was now being re-opened.

RESIGNATION OF DIRECTOR - LES OWEN

The Board noted the resignation of Les Owen as Non Executive
Director effective 15 March 2012 and the Company Secretary was
authorised to file the necessary TMO1 form with Companies House.
The Chairman thanked Les Owen for his contribution to the Board.

BUDGET AND OPERATIONAL PLAN 2012-13

Chris Day took the Board through the budget and operating plan.
He explained that he had incorporated the feedback from the
budget workshop into the adjusted budget figures. He stressed that
the business was not building in costs for independence without
due scrutiny, but recognised the concern about the existing base
costs. He explained that the non-staff costs already included a
considerable stretch challenge of £15m unidentified savings and
suggested a stretch of £8m in the staff and agents costs to be held
centrally as a contingency;

Neil McCausland challenged the increase in staff costs and Les
Owen supported his challenge as the 12/13 staff cost budget was
above the strategic plan agreed with SHEX. Chris Day explained
that the increase in costs driven by separation had been shared
with SHEX who accepted them but obliged the business to find a
way to cover the costs. Les Owen suggested that the business
ACTION:
Paula Vennells
Chris Day

ACTION:
Chris Day

POLB12/39

ACTION:

Martin Lacey

ACTION:
Susan Crichton

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(a)

UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

consider using a cost reduction firm to look at the staff costs in the
business. The Chairman agreed that the business should look hard
at its costs but noted that it would need to balance this work against
the importance of delivering Network change and revenue growth;

Chris Day emphasised the need for short term increases in costs
but also acknowledged the requirement for an efficiency agenda
with forward looking productivity measures. He explained that a
company called Vanguard are looking at working practices and re-
engineering processes in the Network;

the Chairman suggested that Paula Vennells and Chris Day discuss
the medium term cost reduction challenge with the Executive Team
to decide how they will improve productivity without jeopardising the
major transformation programmes, and report back to the Board.
Neil McCausland supported this approach;

Chris Day to circulate to the Board the updated budget figures
including contingency;

the 2012-13 budget was approved.
PENSIONS - NEXT STEPS

Chris Day introduced the Pensions paper which had been produced
to provide background for the Board. Sarah Hall and Martin Lacey
were on hand to give additional information.

The Chairman mentioned the issue of increasing employee
contribution rate and asked Martin Lacey to start a piece of work on
what POL’s options are re employee contributions.

Les Owen asked whether POL intended to take independent advice
with regard to the comments made in para 5.3 as to the legal
standing of the promise — Susan Crichton confirmed that she
thought that POL should take independent legal advice.

Les Owen also commented on salary sacrifice stating that although
this was common in the private sector, it may not be acceptable in
the POL context.

Chris Day then asked Sarah Hall to outline the increased POL
contribution rate. She explained that the RM guidance for this year
was that the P&L pension rate should be increased from 17.1 to
18.2%. Sarah Hall also mentioned that this flowed through into
cash assumptions. This assumed a stable population but the reality
might be different. Les Owen asked about the risk that the
contribution rate could increase up to as much as 24%. Sarah Hall
responded that this would equate to a cash risk of cE9m per annum
which should be manageable within the context of POL’s cash
flows.

Following a question with regard to the POL section of the RMPP it
was explained that POL would have a separate section of the
pension fund but would use the same trustees as RMG until one of
UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

two things happened: either that there was a sale of RMG to the
private sector or it became apparent that the strategic objectives of
POL and RMG ceased to be aligned. It was concluded that for time
being and provided the interests of both companies were aligned
and that the RMPP governance arrangement was satisfactory and
cost effective.

The Chairman mentioned that one of the Non Executives who
would shortly be joining the board had a particular interest/expertise
ACTION: in pension matters so suggested that Chris Day should engage with
Chris Day her regarding POL’s pension issues. The POL Board will avoid
taking any unnecessary long-term irrevocable decisions until the
new NED has been fully engaged.

It was thought that three months would be required to develop the

work with respect of risk appetite and looking at the financial impact
ACTION: of the various options. This work will be deferred until the new NED
Susan Crichton has been fully engaged.

There was a brief discussion with regard to the RMSEPP scheme
where Les Owen informed the board that RMG is seeking a final
legal interpretation of the RMSEPP pension revaluation rule. Martin
Lacey outlined a proposal that RM is considering regarding a lump
sum contribution to the RMSEPP Trustees in return for certainty of
future contributions until March 2018. POL has the option to
participate in this arrangement this year. The Chairman suggested
ACTION: that the Board were not in a position to make a decision on this
Martin Lacey proposal and that a paper should be circulated

The board agreed to delegate authority to Chris Day as set out in
the board paper.

POLB12/40 BOARD GOVERNANCE UPDATE

(a) Susan Crichton reported that the European Commission are likely
to approve the UK Government's notification that the aid to be given
to POL is State Aid in accordance with the EU SGEI Framework on
28th March and that SHEX have sent an email expressing comfort
that they are confident that this will happen to that timetable. The
UK Government's application is going through inter service
consultation and no issues have been raised. Chris Day having
reviewed POL’s financial position was content with the support from
SHEX. The Board took comfort from the assurance and deemed it
was not necessary to write to SHEX at this point;

(b) I Susan Crichton explained the stages the business needed to
complete before separation took place on the 2” April; all the
activities were contingent on Royal Mail Pension Solution State Aid;

(c) Susan Crichton reported that the new POL Articles of Association
were not yet finalised as additional tax clarification was required. At
the request of the shareholder the Articles are aligned with those of

ACTION: RM Group, apart from the section on Delegated Authorities where
Chris Day POL will have to get SHEX approval for spend of over £50m.
Susan Crichton Susan Crichton and Chris Day were asked to update and circulate a
UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

proposal for Delegated Authorities below SHEX level;

(d) _ the Articles also require SHEX sign off of a 5 year rolling Strategic
Plan. Paula Vennells pointed out that the operational intention of
the Articles was different to the actual words and wanted comfort
that this would not cause problems. Susan Crichton explained that
a ways of working document would be put in place between SHEX /
BIS and POL with read across for the Articles to ensure they

ACTION: worked in practice. The Chairman was comfortable to leave Susan
Susan Crichton/ Crichton and Paula Vennells to come to a working accommodation
Paula Vennells on this with BIS;

(e) the Board resolved that a sub committee be formed to give effect to
the legal requirements necessary for the Transaction to move Post
Office Limited to become a sister company of Royal Mail Group
Limited (the “Transaction”). This sub committee comprising of Paula
Vennells and Chris Day would execute the documents required to
give effect to the Transaction including, but not limited to, the
secondment termination agreement; the new Articles of the
Company; the Shareholder approvals and the subscription letter in
ACTION: connection with the special share. Minutes of this sub committee
Alwen Lyons would be circulated to the Board;

(f) I POL Sealing Authorities

Susan Crichton advised the Board of the need to revise the
delegated authority to authenticate the fixing of the Company’s seal.

The Board approved that the affixing of the company seal may be
authenticated by any current Director of the Company or the
Company Secretary or Assistant Company Secretary or the
following signatory:

e Susan Crichton

(g) Appointment of Alice Perkins to the Royal Mail Holdings Board

The Board noted the appointment of Alice Perkins to the RMH
Board;

it was noted that Alice Perkins had notified the Board in accordance
with article 89(B) of the Company's Articles of Association that she
was proposing to take up a position as a director of Royal Mail
Holdings plc (“RMH"”) and that this could be regarded as reasonably
likely to give rise to a conflict of interest for the purposes of section
175 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”). The Board considered
this interest and position and noted the potential for certain
situations to give rise to a conflict of interest or conflict of duty. The
Board also noted the terms of the Letter Agreement from the
Department of Business, Innovation and Skills to Alice Perkins
dated 15" March 2012 regarding the structure of the RMH group,
corporate governance arrangements and the Crown indemnity in
favour of Alice Perkins;
POLB12/41

ACTION:
Paula Vennells

POLB12/42

(a)

(b)

(c)

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)

(9)

UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

it was resolved that it would promote the success of the Company
for Alice Perkins to remain a director of the Company
notwithstanding her position and interest as a director of RMH and
accordingly that such position and interest shall be authorised for
the purposes of section 175 of the Act and in accordance with
article 89 of the Articles of Association, and that such authorisation
shall extend to any actual or potential conflict which may arise out
of the matter so authorised;

the Board may notify Alice Perkins from time to time of any
additional obligations or restrictions that it considers appropriate for
her to observe in order to manage the conflict situation;

in respect of a matter to which this authority relates, Alice Perkins
shall not be obliged to disclose to the Company any information in
respect of which she owes a duty of confidentiality to a person other
than the Company;

this authority may be terminated by the Board at any time;

subject to any duty of confidentiality, Alice Perkins shall be required
to notify the Board as soon as reasonably practicable if there occurs
any other material change of circumstances of which in her
reasonable opinion the Board should be aware if it were considering
granting or renewing any such authorisation;

it was noted that, pursuant to Article 89 and section 175(6) of the
Act, the meeting was quorate without counting Alice Perkins and
Alice Perkins did not vote on the foregoing resolution.

ANY OTHER BUSINESS

Appointment of Yorkshire Bank as Bankers POLB(12)51
The Board approved the appointment of Yorkshire Bank;

the Chairman informed the Board that, following their
recommendation to the Shareholder Executive, Virginia Holmes had
been given Ministerial approval to become a POL Non-Executive
Director and would join the Board in April;

the Chairman explained that she and the Company Secretary had
met James Arbuthnot MP, at his request to discuss the
Subpostmaster cases questioning the integrity of the Horizon
system. The Chairman hoped that she could find a way to convince
him and other MPs that the system was not at fault. This might
mean looking at a further independent study of the issues.

NOTING PAPERS

Significant Litigation Report (POLB(12)42) was noted.

Post Office Sealings (POLB(12)43) was noted.

Communication Action Group Minutes (POLB(12)44) were noted.
Olympics (POLB(12)45) was noted.

Privacy Compliance Strategy (POLB(12)46) was noted.
Verification of Telecoms Supplier (POLB(12)47 was noted.
Treasury — Authority Levels (POLB(12)48) was noted.

ACTION:
Lesley Sewell

POLB12/43

(h)
(i)

(a)

UKGI00016088
UKGI00016088

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

RMG Price Changes (POLB(12)49) was noted.

Horizon Update (POLB(12)50) was noted.

a) Lesley Sewell reported that a tactical review was underway to
understand the single points of failure within the system. A more
strategic review was also needed for re-visiting decisions made
on critical back-up for system failures. Lesley Sewell would
return to the Board with the outcome of the two reviews and the
options available for the future.

b) the Chairman informed the Board that she and Paula Vennells
were meeting with Duncan Tait (CEO Fujitsu) and Rod Vawdry
(Vice chairman of Fujitsu) that evening.

CLOSE

There being no other business, the Chairman closed the meeting.
