UKG1I00023171
UKGI00023171

Message

From: Clarke, Stephen - UKGI

Sent: 08/05/2019 08:48:31 Z

To: Aldred, Tom - UKGI § ; Watson, Richard - UKGI I Beal, Eleanor
(Advance: Vandini, Cecilia (Advanced Manufacturing and
Services) Watson, Craig (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)
C

Subject: Official-Sensitive: Letter from Alan Bates on the Post Office Litigation Judgment & CWU lobbying

Attachments: Letter from Alan Bates to Kelly Tolhurst 30042019.pdf; ALAN BATES 30 APRIL INCOMING (002).pdf; 20190507 Lead
Claimant Alan Bates on the Post Office Litigation and the Common Issues Judgment.rtf; CWU Letter to Branches on
Horizon Trial - 12 April.pdf; CWU Parliamentary Briefing on Horizon Trial - April.pdf; 20190507 MCB 07673 Robin
Walker MP on CWU Litigation Briefing.docx

All,

Grateful for your review and any suggestions on my two draft responses to (i) Lead Claimant Alan Bates and (ii) to the
CWU lobbying of MPs, by close this Friday. I thought it made sense to deal with these in the round as the CWU and
claimants appear to be sharing material (including our responses to MPs letters).

lattach:

-Two letters from Alan Bates: to Kelly Tolhurst and to the PM.

-A draft combined response to Alan Bates from Kelly Tolhurst — but I’m open to persuasion on whether the PM letter
should get a separate response from the SoS.

-The two litigation briefings that the CWU sent to all MPs and postmasters. MPs are forwarding these to us for
comment, particularly on the 4 or 5 lobbying points in bold.

-A draft response to the CWU briefings (in this case forwarded by Robin Walker MP) to serve as a model for all MPs
letters on this matter.

Thanks,

Stephen

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI
Sent: 02 May 2019 14:17
To: Clarke, Stephi
Richard - UKGI
Subject: FW: Official-Sensitiv:

>; Cooper, Tom - UKGI < __ 5; Watson,

Letter from Alan Bates on the Post Office Litigation Judgment

Steve, Richard

You weren’t copied in. Kelly has received the attached letter from Alan Bates and private office are asking whether they
should respond. My feeling is that she has to respond, the question is whether it is a cut and paste from the ‘Dear
Colleague’ letter or whether she engages more substantively.

What do you think?

Tom

From: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) —_
Sent: 02 May 2019 12:44
UKG1I00023171
UKGI00023171

ooper, Tom - UKGI < Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive)

Watson, Craig (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)

Aldred, Tom - UKGI <i_
Cc: Beal, Eleanor (Advanced Manufacturing and Services) <i
Manufacturing and i q
Spad, Mpst (BEIS)

td
Cecilia (Advanced

; Clark
; Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)

Clark, Mpst (BEIS) <~

Subject: Official-Sensitive: Letter from Alan Bates on the Post Office Litigation Judgment
Dear All,

We have received the attached letter from Alan Bates on the POL Litigation Judgment.
The letter is very critical of POL and I think some careful handling needs to be thought out.

I would be grateful for your views on whether Kelly should respond and next steps, particularly from the Permanent
Secretary’s Office. I have flagged to Kelly so she is aware.

Please can the letter not be shared more widely.

Many thanks,
Jess
aw Jessica Tysoe
Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP
Department for Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
‘ Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
Business, Energy 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

& Industrial Strategy

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

