UKG100008549
UKG100008549

Cc:
Subject: Re: Postmaster Litigation

Paula
Thank you for your email and I fully agree with your views and approach
Kind regards

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Paula Vennells ¢
Sent: Friday, October 19, 2018 1:15 pm
To: Ken McCal ‘arla Stent; Tim.Franklin:
Ce: Tim Parker

Subject: Re: Postmaster Litigation

Shirine Khoury-Haq; Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Dear all,

Important I share our suggested remedies. I have not copied Jane or Al - so please don’t forward.

I went through the judgement and the judge’s challenge on tone of voice with Jane yesterday.

Jane was not defensive and listened well. She is understandably frustrated and her note to you is a good summary
of why.

But the onus is on us to change our tack. We agreed Jane will put the following in place asap:

1) speak to the whole team - everyone needs to take a step back and think more carefully about the ‘how’ not
just the ‘what’

2) she has already spoken to Rod, our litigation lawyer, who saw the submission but didn’t spot the wording - no
doubt he regrets the error

3) future submissions will have a second legal check and the comms team will then read for ‘tone’; Jane will read
all of the next ones

4) meet Andy Burrows, the WBD lawyer who wrote the offending statement; reassure herself that he ‘gets’ the
issue

5) meet the QCs and agree how they will redress the tone

I will support Jane, and follow up each action with her next week. Once I’ve been debriefed on 4), I will call one
of the managing partners at WBD, who I know well. I want a personal reassurance.

Let me know if you have questions.
Best wishes,
Paula

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Ken McCalli
UKG100008549
UKG100008549

Sent: Friday, October 19, 2018 12:57:59 PM

To: Jane MacLeod; Carla Stent; Tim.Franklini} Shirine Khoury-Haq

Cc: Tim Parker; Cooper, Tom - UKGI; Paula Vennells; Alisdair Cameron; Veronica Branton
Subject: Re: Postmaster Litigation

Jane

Many thanks for your note

Disappointing indeed

I would like to suggest we have a full update the next time we are all together
I leave it for Tim to provide his thoughts on a discussion

Best Regards

Get Outlook for iOS

Subject: Postmaster Litigation

All

As you may recall we had a Case Management Conference last week (Wednesday 10 October) to hear our application
to strike out certain parts of the evidence presented in the witness statements of the Lead Claimants. We received
the decision on Monday evening and the decision rejects our application.

The application was decided on case management grounds for which the Managing Judge has considerable
discretion; applying that discretion, the Managing Judge set a very high threshold for strike out, and concluded that
we had not established to the necessary standard that the Claimants’ evidence could never be relevant to the case,
given the number of Common Issues; the “considerable legal analysis” each will require; and what our case on those
issues is. However he confirmed that he will apply properly the law on admissibility when it comes to trial, and that
the November 2018 Common Issues Trial will not rule on matters which concern Horizon or whether Post Office
actually “breached” its obligations to the Claimants (matters to which most of the disputed evidence goes and which
will be dealt with in later trials).

As previously advised, this is consistent with the Managing Judge’s approach of enabling the Claimants to have their
“day in court” while applying the orthodox legal position. That said, we lost the application and can expect the
Claimants to be awarded their costs when that question is dealt with on the first day of trial.

However in deciding the application, the Managing Judge was very critical of our conduct of the case, intimating that
we were not acting cooperatively and constructively in trying to resolve this litigation (which criticism was levelled
equally between the parties); and that we had impugned the court and its processes by making the application for
improper purposes. This response is extremely disappointing as this has not been our intention, and his challenge as
to the purpose for which we had applied for strike out is at odds with comments he had made during various
procedural hearings over the past year.

The judgement has been reported today in the Law Gazette (https://www.lawgazette.co.uk/law/judge-berates-
aggressive-litigation-tactics-from-an-earlier-era/5067986.article). This is the same journal that picked up the Judge’s
criticism of Post Office tactics around the same time last year.

UKG100008549
UKG100008549

We are working with Portland and the Comms team to refine our preparation for trial — including our reactive
communications plan — in the context of the Judge’s remarks.

Please let me know if you would like to discuss this further.
Kind regards,

Jane

Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

FC A ACC 8 A ACC oR FCC A Co FCA RCC oR FAR Co of CC oR CR of ACC BC

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system.
Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically
stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials,
20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FRIIS SICIC ICI OR ACICICICI I ICICI CR A C31 oR FCC RR ACC oR oF CCR oR ACCOR of COR oR ACCOR oR ACC CCE

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

