UKG100045898
UKGI00045898

Message
From: Javid MPST i
Sent: 17/12/2015 18:44:48
To: Ankers Jeremy (ShEx)
cc: Russell Mark (ShEx)},
Thomnson_Laura(Shareholder Executive}
‘]; Smith Ceri (ShEx)!_
3 Shah Salma (MPST) 7}; King Nick (MPST)
Subject: Readout - SoS meeting with Robert Swannell
Jeremy,

Many thanks for providing briefing in advance of SoS’ meeting with Robert Swannell this morning. Please find my

readout

below. There are no specific actions arising. As ever, please do forward this on to people I’ve missed.

SoS meeting with ShEx Chairman Robert Swannell, 17 December

Scene setter

SoS opened by thanking RS for his service as ShEx Chair, and willingness to take on the same role at UKGI. To have
someone of RS’ experience and talent responsible for the stewardship of a significant chunk of its balance sheet is a real
coup for HMG.

RS thanked SoS for this, and explained that he has enjoyed his HMG roles and continues to be engaged by the challenge.

SoS recognised that the responsibility of top management at ShEX, UKGI and similar agencies is to secure the best
possible deal/return for taxpayers, and that this can occasionally rub against political pressures. Ministers can be
‘impatient’ on certain asset sales, SoS acknowledged.

IRRELEVANT

UKG100045898
UKGI00045898

Post Office
RS said he was interested to hear that SoS is open to exploring different ownership models for POL, which he thinks a
worthy idea.

Both SoS and RS praised POL Chair Tim Parker, and speculated that POL should represent enough of a commercial
opportunity to interest private investors. RS would not be surprised if Royal Mail wonders whether it might “reconnect”

RELEVANT _

RS said he would like to keep in touch with SoS on a semi-regular basis; he suggested a couple of meetings a year and
explained that he is always contactable at short notice. SoS said he would welcome RS’ input.

sy George Thomson
Hah Private Secretary to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills,
MPST
Department U &
Pp 7 Victoria St, London, SW1H OET

for Business www.gov.uk/bis I @bisgovuk I blogs.bis.gov.uk
Innovation & Skills BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

