UKGI00018184
UKGI00018184

UK Government
Investments

Post Office Limited Quarterly Shareholder Meeting
Tuesday 16" February 2021

11am - 12.30pm, Microsoft Teams Meeting

UKGI: Tom Cooper (TC)
Jamie Carter (JC)
Alex Cole (AIC)
Annie Carpenter (AnC)
Meet Desai (MD)
Ramona Jones (RJ)
Siv Rajeswaran (SR)
Joshua Scott (JS)

POL: Alisdair Cameron (AC)
Nick Read (NR)
Dan Zinner (DZ)

BEIS: Carl Creswell (CC), Chair
Eleanor Brooks (EB)
Beth White (BW)

Minutes
1. Introduction and actions update, (11am — 11.05am)
CC opened meeting and introduced attendees.

NR commented on the two outstanding action points. With respect to the action point for
POL to consider controls for HSS and develop a proposal for BEIS to consider, NR noted
that this will be addressed later in the QSM when the HSS is discussed, specifically
where POL are getting to quantification, compound interest, average interest and where
is POL is getting to with the Minister and his announcement in the House later in the
month.

With respect to the action point for the request from POL for BEIS support in their efforts
to work with DWP on the cost-effective closure of POCA, NR proposed that this can be
closed as POL have come to the conclusion that there is not a great deal to be done
with respect to DWP around POCA positioning at the moment. CC agreed that he was
happy for this to be closed, noting that BEIS have been doing some work with DWP.
around the definition proposals and that DWP are in a comfortable position with respect
to the proposals.

- IRRELEVANT

OFFICIAL COMMERCIAL SENSITIVE
UKGI00018184
UKGI00018184

OFFICIAL COMMERCIAL SENSITIVE
UKGI00018184
UKGI00018184

‘IRRELEVANT.

Governance (11.25am - 11.35am)

TP commented that the POL Board has been one of the most hardworking boards that
he has been associated with, having chaired around 60 board meetings in the last year.

TP noted that over the coming months the Board will see quite significant changes, with
the onboarding of the first batch of postmaster NEDs joining the Board in April, as well
as the terms of Carla Stent, Ken McCall expiring in January, and the term of Tim himself
is expiring September 2022.

TP commented that one of things that is worth serious consideration is potentially
extending Carla Stent’s term as chair of the Audit and Risk Committee for a third term
as she has done an excellent job chairing that committee and it would help POL greatly
to have a degree of continuity there. Notwithstanding a potential extension of Karla’s
term, POL have set in place a process to recruit potentially two new NEDs, having
selected the search firm and assembling a panel to carry out the interview, with a focus
on securing high calibre and well qualified candidates.

With respect to POL’s commercial performance over the last year, TP commented that
he believed POL had done a good job responding to the challenges on the COVID 19

OFFICIAL COMMERCIAL SENSITIVE
UKGI00018184
UKGI00018184

pandemic as well as successfully securing the sale of the Telco business in an uncertain
business climate, and which will allow POL more clarity to focus on its core commercial
operations going forward.

TP noted that POL’s focus over the immediate term will be on its response to the Inquiry,
commenting and himself and Nick Read have a strong determination to have as good
an inquiry as possible. Whilst noting that there will be hurdles and setbacks along the
way and POL will be in the press a lot, he noted that if POL works hard, and makes sure
and explains that POL have in place all of the measures that should follow on from the
GLO judgment, and gets all of that right, then POL can at least minimize any potential
damage that might occur.

TP also noted that notwithstanding the noise in the press, POL will continue to engage
with its most critical stakeholders, that being the customers and postmasters, in a very
proactive and engaged way and demonstrating to them the enormous work that is being
done to effect significant positive cultural change within POL. He noted that POL has a
great deal of confidence that these core relationships will remain robust in the face of
the inquiry.

bee : ‘IRRELEVANT. ind the historic shortfall scheme had created
a certain amount of discomfort amongst POL colleagues who were worried about
wrongful trading and the implications of POL not being solvent. However, he noted that
those worries have, for the most part, been put to rest and POL is in a place now where
it can continue to operate in the current environment, but this has it has been not without

its challenges.

On Carla Stent’s extension, CC encouraged TP to put forward his case for Carla’s
reappointment to the SoS, emphasising the arguments around continuity and stability

On the Inquiry, CC agreed with the approach that POL try to get as much in place as it
possibly can so that POL can point to that and then see it reflected in the final report,
and then use that to mitigate any inevitable negative press criticism. CC noted that the
way that the Inquiry has been set up, this has somewhat neutralized the day to day press
criticism currently, but this will be expected to change come around May, when hearings
resume.

NR queried whether there is a sense that the Inquiry Secretariat may be overloaded by
the information being provided to them by POL, noting that the very large information
drops that POL is making on a regular basis.

TC queried whether the Secretariat is adequately resourced and has the right expertise
in place to make judgments on whether the systems and processes within POL are fit
for purpose.

CC commented that the Secretariat is working to plan, which was to get things launched
and then to up their capacity to do the analytical work that was required, and they will
be bringing in more resource in the coming weeks, and that they have the budget to
gather additional specialist independent resource if required. CC noted that the
secretariat shouldn't be underestimated, and his sense was that they have a robust plan
in place to deal with matters as the arise in the coming weeks and months.

On the Inquiry, TC noted that POL needs to have reasonably quickly a comprehensive
plan in place that the Board has signed off on that can be made available to an Inquiry

OFFICIAL COMMERCIAL SENSITIVE
UKGI00018184
UKGI00018184

and say that this is what POL are doing post GLO in terms of a remediation work.
Secondly, he noted that the distinction needs to be made clear between what is in POL’s
control and what is not. For instance, matters like dispute processes, communications
with postmasters, and training are entirely within POL’s control whereas matters such
as dealing with Horizon and Fujitsu are not within the company’s control. Therefore, part
of the story that will be needed to get across is the constraints that the Fujitsu
relationship has put on POL in terms of being able to do the things that POL would want
to do, and that there is of an audit trail to create around that to be able to demonstrate
that if things haven't happened but should have happened, it was not for a lack of trying
on POL’s part but because third parties have not played ball.

NR and DZ commented on the pieces of work done by KPMG and Deloitte, which will
give the Inquiry an effective overview and detail on what POL are doing with Horizon,
what POL are doing in terms of operational and cultural change, and that this will be
effectively the remediation plan. NR noted that these works were not commissioned
simply in relation to meeting the needs of the Inquiry but were crafted so that it plays a
significant and meaningful role in bringing about real day to day changes to the cultural
and operational elements of the business.

With respect to TC’s comment with respect to the narrative around third parties being
constraints to POL’s strategy, AC caveated that POL must be careful how it deals with
Fujitsu as being perceived to throw them under the bus in the Inquiry would pose
challenges in their relationship with POL, which will continue on for at least the next four
years.

Al noted that the inquiry will draw significant media attention to several issues of
commercial significance to POL such HSS Provisions, contingent liability for post
criminal cases, going concern issues, government support, litigation funding, and all
associated risks and uncertainties.

IRRELEVANT

Postmasters (11.50am - 12.10pm)

CC gave an update on discussions between BEIS Officials and Ministers on the Branch
Definition work. It was noted that the discussions went down very well, but a couple of
points were raised by Ministers including the risk of undercutting other postmasters, and
the importance of ensuring that consultations take into account the impact on the
vulnerable.

DZ talked to the Postmaster Consultation slides, noting that they have gotten
Postmaster feedback primarily around remuneration, systems and communications.
There are now feedback sessions between postmasters and POL senior management

OFFICIAL COMMERCIAL SENSITIVE
UKGI00018184
UKGI00018184

to understand how to get down to the next level of detail. The engagement sessions will
flesh out what these insights actually mean and understand what improvements could
look like. POL will also run co creation workshops with the postmasters with the senior
leadership group, facilitated by quadrangle, so that POL can really nail down what they
can do in the short to medium term, not over promise and under deliver.

TC noted that there was substantial Postmaster Feedback on issues around the Inquiry
and cultural change and queried how POL will evidence that it has made positive cultural
changes as well as measure progress going forward.

DZ explained that this is a core focus of the co-creation workshops with the postmasters
with the senior leadership group, and whilst this remains very much a work in progress,
the direction of travel is clear.

TC queried whether the survey adequately accounted for the lag in reporting whereby
the postmasters may not have reported on the most recent changes at POL. DZ
commented that the focus right now is on leading indicators but that these will become
lagging indicators later. TC commented that it should be ensured that the surveys
capture not just what Postmasters aspire to, but also what they are currently thinking.

Commercial (12.10pm- 12.25pm)

CC noted a lot of progress was being made in the determination of an appropriate
interest rate. CC noted that Treasury had tested officials quite a bit both on the points
regarding the funding provisions as well as the appropriate interest rate, and noted that
it was important to reassure Treasury that POL were not opting for the most swift
payment route and setting unhealthy precedents, and allowing delivery timetable to drive
through something that would cause some inconsistencies between treatment of interest
for that group and a treatment for other things.

TC queried the handling issues around Criminal Convictions, particularly around dealing
with inevitable questions around the setting up of the compensation scheme. NR agreed
that a conversation around this needs to happen soon and that POL will set this up.

AOB (12.25pm - close)

CC closed the meeting and thanked attendees for their time.

OFFICIAL COMMERCIAL SENSITIVE
