Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

POLB 15 (Extraordinary Meeting 1)

POLB 15/64 — 15/65

POST OFFICE LIMITED
(Company no. 2154540)
(the ‘Company’)

Minutes of an Extraordinary Board meeting held at 10.00am on 18 June 2015
at Warren House, Warren Road, Kingston upon Thames, Surrey KT2 7HY

Present:

Alice Perkins
Richard Callard
Alisdair Cameron
Tim Franklin
Virginia Holmes
Alasdair Marnoch
Neil McCausland
Paula Vennells

In Attendance:

Alwen Lyons
Neil Hayward

POLB 15/64

POLB 15/65

Chairman
Non-Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Chief Executive

Company Secretary
Group People Director, HR

INTRODUCTION

(a) A quorum being present, the Chairman opened the meeting.

AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FEDERATION

SUBPOSTMASTERS (NFSP)

(a) Neil Hayward (NH) introduced the topic by advising that

discussions had progressed with NFSP and that a point had been
reached whereby an agreement could be recommended to the
Board for approval. NH referred to the paper circulated to the
Board on the 15" June recommending the agreement and

requesting authority to sign the agreement.

(b) NH clarified that from a financial perspective, the proposed funding

comprised of two components:

e An annual grant of £1.5m, which, he understood, was more
than offset by the benefits a revised NT approach would
bring the Company and subject in any event to NFSP
providing an annual plan to the Company before the release

of any funds.

¢ Additional potential funding of up to £1m per annum of
project grants in addition to the annual grant, which would
only be awarded if the NFSP could demonstrate resultant
benefit. These funds were not guaranteed to NFSP and
would only be released if applications for funding were
acceptable when measured against the Company's existing

internal business case processes for investment.

POL Board minutes, 18 June 2015 1

UKGI00017284
UKGI00017284

OF

UKGI00017284
UKGI00017284

Post Office Limited — Strictly Confidential

(c) Having listened carefully to all of the points put forward and having
had an opportunity to question or challenge any assertions IT WAS
RESOLVED

«that it was in the best interests of the Company to enter into
the agreement with NFSP in the form as now presented;

e that NH should be granted delegated authority to conclude
the agreement with NFSP in the form as now presented;
and

e that any of the executive directors and/or the company
secretary be duly authorised to do all such acts and things
as may be required to perfect the execution of the
agreement as presented.

There being no further business the Chairman declared the
meeting closed.

Chairman

POL. Board minutes, 18 June 2015 2

