UKG100002126
UKGI00002126

From:
Sent:
To:

Ce:

Subject:

Attachment:
Attachment:
Attachment:

Hi Belinda

Batten Peter (ShEx)[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PBATTEN]
07 PM (UTC)

} Martin 7
; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd,

RE: Horizon PQs

1676 (lan Murray - Chair of Horizon group).rtf

1677 (lan Murray - meeting with POL about Horizon).rtf
1679 (lan Murray - publication date of final report).rtf

Many thanks for your helpful reply.

I've attached my draft answers which I hope use the correct terminology. I would welcome your and Mike's
comments on these. Can you please include the date of the first meeting of the Working Group in the first

answer?

Many thanks and best wishes

Peter

Peter Batten I Shareholder Executive I Department for Business, Innovation & Skills I

www.bis.gov.uk I

From: Belinda Crowe [mailto

Sent: 29 October 2013 10:57

To: Martin Edwards; Batten Peter (ShEx); Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Mike Granville; Martin Humphreys
Cc: Whitehead Mike (ShEx); Belinda Crowe; Sophie Bialaszewski

Subject: RE: Horizon PQs

Thanks Martin

In answer to the specific questions raised by Peter:

Sir Anthony Hopper has been appointed as the independent chair of the Working Group overseeing the Initial
Mediation Scheme for Subpostmasters. Press release will issue today.

The Working Group has met.

Peter, please note the terminology —I would be keen to ensure that even though the questions have been
phrased using the incorrect terminology, we rectify that in our responses. Specifically, we have an
independent chair of a Working group which is overseeing an Initial Mediation Scheme.

I would also like Mike Granville to confirm he’s content before we finalise any response on this.
UKG100002126
UKG100002126

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe
148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

From: Martin Edwards

Sent: 29 October 2013 10:31
To: 'peter.batter,
Cc: 'Mike.Whitehe
Subject: Re: Horizon PQs

} Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Mike Granville; Martin Humphreys; Belinda Crowe

Copying to Belinda to respond (thanks Belinda!)

From: Batten Peter (ShEx) [mailt
Sent: Tuesday, October 29, 2013 10:25 AM

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Mike Granville; Martin Humphreys; Martin Edwards
Cc: Whitehead Mike (ShEx) </
Subject: Horizon PQs °

Dear all,

We have received four Named Day PQs from lan Murray relating to Horizon. There are quite tight
deadlines applied to Named Day PQs, and there are a couple of questions I would be grateful if you
could look at quickly and get back to me by the end of today.

- Has Sir Anthony Hooper been formally appointed, can we reference this in an answer to a PQ?
- Has the independent mediation group held its first meeting yet, or do you have a date for when it
will?

For reference, Murray's questions are:

1. who will chair the review that will determine how best to adjudicate future disputed cases with
regards to the Horizon system; and whether the review body has yet met

2. what recent discussions he has had with Post Office Limited regarding the Horizon system

3. when (a) he, (b) Ministers in his Department and (c) officials in his Department met the Justice for
Subpostmasters Alliance

4. when he expects Second Sight to produce its final report on the Post Office Limited Horizon system

Many thanks
Peter

Peter Batten I Policy Adviser I Post Office Network Team I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I{_~

UKG100002126
UKG100002126

www.qgov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive
The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth
and higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
