UKG1I00003792
UKGI00003792

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=EFOFAS7983304064B518D3B87774A899-
RCALLARD]

Sent: Fri 13/03/2015 3:09:24 PM (UTC)

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)f

Subject: FW: Sparrow media and Parliament 7

Let's just say that we are the unsung heroes!

-----Original Message-
From: Alice Perkins ยง-
Sent: 13 March 2015 14:52

To: Alwen Lyons; Neil McCausland; virginia. holmes. t21; timfranklint1; Alasdair Marnoch; Callard Richard (ShEx)
Cc: Paula Vennells; Alisdair Cameron; Mark R Davies; Jane MacLeod

Subject: RE: Sparrow media and Parliament

Mark and Jane,

I just wanted to say that you have done a briliant job in the preparation for our announcement and subsequently. Of
course, there may well be more trouble and coverage ahead but I think that your success in keeping this out of the media
especially following PMQs, is very impressive.

I hope you and the teams involved get a decent weekend - you all deserve it.

All the best

Alice

From: Alwen Lyons I __
Sent: 12 March 2015 07:
To: Alice Perkins; Neil McCausland; virginia. holmes. t21; timfranklin1; Alasdair Marnoch; Callard Richard (ShEx)
Cc: Paula Vennells; Alisdair Cameron; Alwen Lyons; Mark R Davies; Jane MacLeod

Subject: Sparrow media and Parliament

Please find below an update from Mark and Jane

Thanks
Alwen

Dear All
We wanted to update you on media coverage around Sparrow.
As you know, we published our report on Tuesday. There was a very limited media reaction.

Yesterday, James Arbuthnot MP raised the issue in Prime Minister's Questions. He accused us of sacking Second Sight
and destroying evidence. David Cameron was well briefed and responded in a helpful way.

This prompted some media activity but I am glad to say it was confined to BBC Radio Five Live and even then outside
prime time. There was no TV coverage or focus on any of the flagship outlets and nothing in the newspapers this
morning.

We engaged robustly at senior levels in the BBC to support our strategy of minimising media attention and, therefore,
potential brand damage.

This will return when Second Sight's report is leaked, as it surely will be, and if the Select Committee reports. We are
engaging with Select Committee members to impress upon them that this is more complex than some would suggest.

We will keep you updated.

Mark and Jane
UKG1I00003792
UKGI00003792

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JI III III IIB III III LIS III IBIAS OI III IASI DOS SOS SOS SOS II ODS IOI IA

Click here<https:/www.mailcontrol.com/sr/MZbqvYsSQwJvpeaetUwhCQ==> to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.

