UKG100004121
UKGI00004121

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Wed, 18 Jun 2014 18:10:34 +0000

To: Batten Peter (ShEx)

Ce: Martin Edwards;Callard Richard (ShEx);Belinda Crowe
Subject: Re: Sparrow

Hi Peter

It was good to see you too.

We have looked at options like this to be honest and they aren't practical. Belinda, copied, can
give you a full run down.

Best wishes

Mark

Sent from my iPhone

On 17 Jun 2014, at 10:58, "Batten Peter (ShEx)" q GRO wrote:

Hi Mark, cc Martin,

It was good catching up with you and Martin last week, particularly around the ongoing
Sparrow discussions.

We briefly discussed a possible additional option that could see JFSA/24 Sight remain part
of the process, but with the process supported by additional forensic accountancy firms to
speed up consideration of the cases. This could work by either:
¢ — divvying up the cases between 24 Sight and the other accountancy firms (with 2"4
Sight/JFSA being kept onside by choosing the cases it wants to investigate — with
POL having comfort of knowing that a ‘smoking gun’ hasn’t yet emerged);
¢ — offering applicants a choice of accountancy firms (including pa Sight) to consider

their concerns (with the qualifier that ged Sight would only be able to consider cases
slowly); or

© having all cases considered by an accountancy firm(s) of scale, with 24 Sight
remaining on the Working Group to provide an ‘expert’ accountancy perspective
opinion in Working Group meetings.

You did flag some concerns around this option, including the reluctance of other firms to

work with/alongside 2" Sight; difficulties with managing additional parties within the
process; issues around consistency. With that in mind, have you had an opportunity to give
this option further consideration? It would be useful if you could provide a view on its
attractiveness from a POL perspective. From my point of view, it would seem deliverable
within the Terms of Reference, and could reduce the level of criticism from JFSA/24
Sight/MPs.

Very happy to discuss if easier.

Many thanks
UKG100004121
UKGI00004121

Peter

Peter Batten I Shareholder Exeg ive I Department for Business, Innovation & Skills

GRO? I www.bis.gov.uk I

‘ike Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS) is building a dynamic and competitive UK
economy by creating the conditions for business success; promoting innovation, enterprise and
science; and giving everyone the skills and opportunities to succeed. To achieve this we will foster
world-class universities and promote an open global economy. BIS - Investing in our future

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or
recorded for legal purposes

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD
STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal
purposes.
