UKG1I00019587
UKGI00019587

Message

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive) [" SM GRO
Sent: 28/01/2015 17:06:16

To: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: RE: Reply to JFSA letter

Didn’t think we did!

tor I Shareholder Executive

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Sent: 28 January 2015 17:02

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Subject: RE: Reply to JFSA letter

Good call. We didn't appoint him.

Sent from my Windows Phone

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Sent: 28/01/2015 16:32

To: Swinson MPST

Cc: Baugh James (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx)
Subject: RE: Reply to JFSA letter

Thanks Alysa — we spoke and agreed we’d upload the final revised version on ecase. James, can you do the honours
please (attached)?

I made a slight change to say that Sir Anthony “was appointed” rather than that “we appointed him” — I don’t know if
the latter is incorrect, but I think the former is safer.

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

From: Swinson MPST

Sent: 28 January 2015 15:07

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Cc: Baugh James (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx)
Subject: RE: Reply to JFSA letter

Hi Laura,

I just had a quick brainstorm with others in the office- what do you think of the wording below?

Alysa

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Sent: 28 January 2015 14:48

To: Swinson MPST

Cc: Baugh James (ShEx); Callard Richard (ShEx)
Subject: Reply to JFSA letter
UKG1I00019587
UKGI00019587

Hi Alysa

We've been working through the small changes that Jo asked us to make to the letter back to Alan Bates of JFSA —in
particular, Jo asked us to rework the penultimate paragraph of the letter (regarding their request for a meeting) to make
it stronger.

I attach the revised letter (with changes in track) — and the new paragraph pasted below. Could you take a look and let
me know whether you think it will be OK for Jo? Happy to chat through.

As I said above, I am glad that you say you will continue to participate in the scheme, which is something that I
would encourage. Regarding your request for a meeting, Government feels strongly that it is paramount that
both the scheme and the individual cases remain both independent and confidential which is why we
appointed the Independent Chair, Sir Anthony Hooper to oversee the scheme. Government is not in a position
to influence the scheme and as such, Sir Anthony Hooper is best placed to address your concerns.

Thanks very much
Laura
Laura Thompson I Assistant Director, Post Office Limited I Shareholder Executive

BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I G
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth
