Adrian Bailey MP
Chair
Business, Innovation and Skills Select Committee

March 2015

POST OFFICE MEDIATION SCHEME

Thank you for your letter of 17 March 2015 regarding the Business, Innovation
and Skills Committee's inquiry into the Post Office mediation scheme. I am
grateful to the Committee for considering this matter and am pleased to
provide a response to the points the Committee has raised, attached to this
letter.

It is important to reiterate that the mediation scheme is independent of
Government. Given that the cases in the scheme are disputes between
independent businesspeople and Post Office, and are of course sensitive and
confidential, it would not be appropriate for Government to intervene or seek
to influence the outcome. It is important that independence is maintained.

Since these issues were first raised over two years ago, Post Office's Horizon
system has been under considerable scrutiny and I note that it remains the
case that there is no evidence of systemic problems with Horizon. That
conclusion has stood firm through independent investigation by Second Sight.
The vast majority of subpostmasters continue to use Horizon successfully
every day in operating their branches across the country. There are fewer
than 150 cases in the mediation scheme, while there have been around
500,000 users who have worked with Horizon since it was introduced, and the
system processes over six million transactions every working day.

I agree that it is regrettable that, in a small number of cases, the relationship
between Post Office and subpostmasters has deteriorated. That is why it is
important that those current and former subpostmasters with cases remaining
in the mediation scheme can progress swiftly to mediation. Post Office have
committed to learning lessons from this matter, and I note that they have
already taken on board several improvements, working closely with the
National Federation of Subpostmasters, who are the representative body for

UKGI00019738
UKGI00019738
UKGI00019738
UKGI00019738

subpostmasters across the country. These changes will help ensure that the
Post Office network is stronger for the future.

VINCE CABLE
UKGI00019738
UKGI00019738

1. Individuals with cases involving previous Court rulings

1.1. The Committee were concerned whether there was a contradiction
between the letter from Paula Vennells to Jo Swinson MP dated 9
March 2015, and the evidence provided by Post Office to the
Committee on 3 February 2015, regarding individuals who had
previously been the subject of Court rulings.

1.2. As Post Office explained during their evidence to the Committee,
individuals whose cases involved previous Court rulings were eligible
to apply to the mediation scheme. This was set out in the original
scheme documentation, which is available as an Annex to Post
Office's recent report on the scheme.

1.3. Those individuals who have a case in the scheme involving a
previous Court ruling have had their cases thoroughly re-investigated
by Post Office. Post Office have a duty to disclose any new
information which comes to light (including as part of that re-
investigation) which could undermine the case for prosecution or aid
the applicant in their defence. Post Office have confirmed that no
such information has come to light in any of the 136 cases they have
investigated.

1.4. As Post Office set out in their letter to Jo Swinson on 9 March, and
their announcement the following day, any case remaining in the
scheme which involves a previous Court ruling will be considered on
a case-by-case basis. Mediation cannot overturn a Court ruling, and
as such, it may not be appropriate to proceed. An exception might be
if the applicant's claim for mediation does not relate to the Court
ruling, in which case Post Office may mediate. It is important to note
that any applicant who believes their conviction is unsafe may
continue to pursue the legal avenues open to them, and will have the
benefit of the re-investigation by Post Office and the independent
report by Second Sight to inform them should they choose to
challenge their conviction.

2. Post Office’s approach to mediation
2

22,

2.3.

24.

The Committee were concerned at suggestions that Post Office had
not engaged constructively in the mediation process and had adopted
an overly legalistic approach to mediation.

Mediation is a voluntary process and requires the consent of both
parties to proceed. If one party feels there is no prospect of resolution
through mediation, they may choose not to take part. Post Office
have however agreed to take part in mediation in the majority of
cases, and indeed have announced that they will mediate in all cases
not involving a Court ruling (while considering the remainder on a
case-by-case basis).

The mediation scheme is provided by the Centre for Effective Dispute
Resolution (CEDR), and the arrangements are in line with CEDR's
Code of Conduct as well as the European Code of Conduct for
Mediators. CEDR were appointed to ensure that mediations under
the scheme are conducted in line with best practice.

CEDR have provided feedback on the mediations which have taken
place to date, in general terms given the need for confidentiality. This
feedback is included in Post Office's detailed report on the scheme,
published on their website last week. In particular, the feedback from
CEDR notes that “there are some indications that legal representation
provides better support” and recommends that “applicants should be
strongly urged to seek legal advice and if at all possible legal
representation at the mediations”. It is also worth noting that from the
outset of the scheme Post Office have agreed to provide each
applicant with funding towards the cost of a professional advisor in
preparing for and attending mediation.

3. Support available to subpostmasters to report discrepancies

3.1.

The Committee questioned whether there were sufficient support
mechanisms in place for subpostmasters experiencing accounting
discrepancies. As Post Office explained in their evidence to the
Committee, there are helplines available to subpostmasters and their
staff in dealing with Horizon. The Network Business Support Centre
(NBSC) has been in operation since 1999, and its operating hours
have been extended (it is now open until 11pm Monday-Saturday, for
example). There is also a technical helpline, the Horizon Service

UKGI00019738
UKGI00019738
3.2.

3.3.

Desk (HSD), for technical issues with the system, as well as an online
help service.

It remains the case that there is no evidence of systemic problems
with the Horizon system. If a subpostmaster finds the system is
showing a loss, they have the choice of whether to accept the loss
(on the basis that they are responsible for it) or to dispute the loss for
further investigation.

Post Office has committed to continuous improvement of its training
and support and it will look into issues raised as part of this scheme
(where it has not already done so). For example, Post Office has
established a Branch User Forum which meets around six times a
year and enables subpostmasters and Crown Office employees to
raise issues and insights about business processes. The Branch User
Forum is already making an impact on how things are done in
branches, instigating a number of changes to transactions, as well as
sharing and generating ideas to inform Post Office's wider business
support programme.

4. Second Sight’s final report

41.

4.2.

The Committee recommended that the Department for Business,
Innovation and Skills should receive a copy of Second Sight's final
thematic report.

As set out above, the mediation scheme is independent of
Government and details of the cases involved are confidential.
Second Sight's further report, which is yet to be completed, is not
intended for publication but will instead be made available to
applicants and their advisors involved in mediation. As such it would
not be appropriate for the Government to receive a copy of the report.

5. Exchange and storage of information

5.1.

The Committee expressed concern that there had been a lack of
information provided to Second Sight, and that reasons for
withholding information should be made clear. The Committee were
also concerned that Second Sight would be required to destroy
documentation at the end of their investigation.

UKGI00019738
UKGI00019738
5.2.

5.3.

5.4.

The Government agrees that best practice in this case would be
timely sharing of information from all parties involved in the scheme.
Post Office have provided a considerable amount of information to
Second Sight throughout the duration of the scheme. Some
information has proved more difficult than others, often due to the
length of time that has elapsed in some of the cases under
investigation. It is also apparent that on both sides there have been
instances of miscommunication around the information that was
required and could be provided, which will have delayed the progress
of Second Sight's investigations.

Regarding information which has been withheld, Post Office have
explained that they are not providing legally privileged material. It is
standard practice that such information is not shared with anyone
else, even the Courts. Post Office has made available to Second
Sight all appropriate documentation from its prosecution files — this
information is also available to each applicant in the scheme as part
of the re-investigation by Post Office into their case.

The Government recognises the importance of information relating to
the scheme being preserved. All parties involved in the mediation
scheme are bound by confidentiality agreements and these include
the requirement to store information appropriately, and dispose of it
when it is no longer needed (such as at the termination of a contract)
or return it to the information owner. Post Office have confirmed

UKGI00019738
UKGI00019738

(Formatted: Underline

repeatedly that they will not destroy documentation relating to the
scheme, including information provided to (and returned by) Second
Sight. Given the confidential nature of this information, it would not be
appropriate for Government to also retain a copy.

6. Outcomes of mediation

6.1.

6.2.

The Committee recommended that the House should be updated on
the outcomes of the mediation scheme.

The Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution (CEDR), in their
feedback on the mediations which have taken place to date, provide
an update on outcomes. Of the 12 mediations which had been
undertaken at the time of writing - a very small sample, which was
6.3.

6.4.

noted by CEDR - the current settlement rate was approximately 45%.

“Settlement” refers to mediations where the parties have agreed a
resolution to all of their differences. Mediations may also be
“progressed”, which means that the differences between the parties
have been narrowed, and further negotiations may or may not be
undertaken. CEDR observe that in an average year across all
mediations the settlement rate tends to range between 65% and
75%, with a further 10% to 15% of cases resulting in some
progression.

CEDR note that the current settlement rate is somewhat lower than
the average settlement rate. They offer a number of additional
observations, which include that in a number of cases the applicant
has not fully understood the nature of mediation, and has instead
attended with an expectation they were going into a compensation
process. In some cases, the applicant has raised claims during the
mediation which had not previously been disclosed, and that this can
often lead to an unsuccessful mediation or a more difficult process.
All applicants are provided with information about mediation from
CEDR prior to starting their mediation, details of which are contained
in Post Office's detailed scheme report. However, CEDR and Post
Office will consider whether additional information or guidance could
be made available to applicants to help them better understand
mediation and what they can expect.

CEDR has also-agreed with-the-parties iavelved-that it will provide
information relating to the number of mediations conducted, and the
number of claims settled, progressed and not settled, at key
milestones throughout the process. The Government encourages
Post Office to share this information as appropriate, recognising the
interest in this matter from applicants and from Parliament.

UKGI00019738
UKGI00019738
