UKGI00004469
UKGI00004469

Post Office Meeting

Baroness Neville-Rolfe — Minister for Intellectual Property
Nick King — Special Advisor to Secretary of State

Richard Callard — Shareholder Executive

Laura Thompson — Shareholder Executive

Michael Dollin — Shareholder Executive

Tim McInnes — Shareholder Executive

Andrew Smith — Private Secretary

Post Office Letter on Network Transformation

Until now this invest to save network transformation (NT) programme has been rolled out on a
voluntary basis and has been taken up by around 75% of eligible subpostmasters.

To encourage the remaining branches to engage with the NT programme Post Office Limited (POL)
plan to change their contractual terms. Their preferred method of communication was through the
letter.

There were concerns raised that the letter as currently drafted could cause an adverse reaction
amongst its intended audience and this could lead to questions in parliament. While the main
representative body for subpostmasters was supportive it was likely that the Communication
Workers Union might have concerns.

What was required was sensitive handling, perhaps through the network of field change advisors,
and good press lines which should be drafted in conjunction with Press Office and SPADS

ACTION: Redraft letter to soften the tone and emphasise the positive aspects of the NT
programme.

Horizon IT System — Panorama Programme due for broadcast on 22 June

Asmall number of subpostmasters have alleged that the Horizon IT system had caused losses. POL
have conducted an audit and this has found that there were no problems with the system. There
were some prosecutions leading to convictions for fraud and false accounting.

They set up a mediation system in 2012 but this is now coming to an end. It was explained that

these issues are old news and POL has been as open as possible.

It was agreed that POL should handle press enquiries and BIS should have reactive press lines agreed
with SPADS

ACTION: Construct press lines ahead of programme on 22 June
