UKGI00018975

UKGI00018975

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Sent: Thu, 5 Apr 2018 15:07:15 +0000

To: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI;Lambert, Helen - UKGI

Ce: Callard, Richard - UKGI

Subject: RE: Litigation and Appointment - next steps - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Helen

How is this being progressed — have we commented?
Tom

Tom Cooper

Director

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

Mi.
E: tom.coop
PA: marcus.mcaliste!

Please note that with immediate effect, my email address has changed to

I will still receive emails sent to my old address until 30 April 2018. Thereafter you will only be
able to contact me on my new address and emails sent to my ukgi.gov.uk address will not be
forwarded.

I would be grateful if you could note this and change my contact details accordingly.

From: Rodric Williams I,
Sent: 27 March 2018 18:
To: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI <

<
ce .
Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Subject: RE: Litigation and Appointment - next steps - STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Elizabeth,

Thank you for sending through your draft protocol identifying the touchpoints in the Post Office
Group Litigation on which you would like visibility.

Your touchpoints overlap substantially the matters on which we will be reporting to our Board of
Directors as part of our governance for managing the litigation and its risks. That governance
includes the establishment of a Board Subcommittee to receive legal advice on Post Office’s
UKGI00018975
UKGI00018975

defence as the litigation proceeds. Tom Cooper, BEIS/UKGI’s shareholder representative on
the Board, is a member of the Litigation Subcommittee, which will meet shortly before full Board
meetings so as to provide the full Board with contemporaneous, focussed updates.

In addition to the updates BEIS/UKGI will receive through its Board and Litigation Subcommittee
representation, we are also happy to provide updates on the litigation to BEIS/UKGI’s legal
advisors. These should be done in-person or via telephone conference call, immediately
following the full Board meetings to ensure continuity and consistency of reporting.

The above approach is reflected in the attached revised protocol, which is designed to protect
Post Office’s claims to legal professional privilege and attaches as appendices:

e areporting timetable prepared around key stages in the litigation and our Board’s
calendar; and
e the obligations which will accompany the disclosure of confidential information.

Please note that the litigation timetable is very likely to change in response to the proactive case
management being applied by the Managing Judge Sir Peter Fraser. It is also likely to change
as the parties respond to developments in the litigation itself. We do not however propose to
make any changes to scheduled update meetings unless they require Post Office to consider
materially changing its approach to the litigation.

We look forward to receiving your comments on our draft. I am very happy to discuss those in
person or over the telephone if you would find that easiest.

With kind regards, Rodric

* Rodric Williams
Head of Legal - Dispute Resolution & Brand
20 Finsbury Street
London EC2Y 9AQ

tT

2017 Winner of the Global. rodric.williams!

Postal Award for Customer
Experience

From: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI
Sent: 01 March 2018 15:51

To: Patrick Bourke </ b>
Cc: Jane MacLeod < GRO >; Rodric Williams

G
Cooper, Tom - UKGIT<
<
Subject: Litigation and Appointment - next steps

; Lambert, Helen - UKGI

Patrick, Helen,
Thank you for your time last week.

As discussed, I attach a standard form litigation protocol along the lines of what we would
propose to submit to the Permanent Secretary. As you will see, this sets out various touchpoints
UKG1I00018975
UKGI00018975

in the litigation process, and the steps we intend to take to ensure the Permanent Secretary
remains fully informed at each salient point.

If you are able to provide more detail on the litigation timetable, or indeed if you have any
comments or suggestions, we would be happy to amend the protocol bespoke to the current
litigation.

Separately I'd be grateful, as I indicated in my email to Helen on Monday, if in anticipation of
Tom Cooper's appointment, you could let me know if you intend to agree an NDA similar to the
one you have with Richard, and if so, forward me the proposed text so that Tom and I may
consider.

Kind regards,

Elizabeth

From: Patrick Bourke!
Sent: 23 February 2018 15:10
To: O'Neill, Elizabeth - UKGI <

su

Dear Elizabeth

It was a pleasure to meet with you this morning.

I just wanted to confirm that we have understood the need for an appropriately
structured information flow in relation to the matters we discussed earlier, and agree that some
form of protocol to govern those arrangements makes very good sense.

While recognising that there is no set format in this regard, it would nonetheless be helpful for us
to draw inspiration from similar arrangements you have put in place with other ALBs. You
kindly offered to share something with us for that purpose.

We will come back to you with our take on how this might work best in our case, having regard
to the particularities of our governance arrangements and the litigation itself.

In the meantime, do please feel free to get in touch if there is anything you'd like to discuss.
UKGI00018975

UKGI00018975

Kind regards

Patrick

Patrick Bourke
Corporate Affairs Director
15t Floor

20 Finsbury Street
2017 Winner of the

Global Postal Award
for Customer
Experience

London EC2Y 9AQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents
of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply
email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this
email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JE ESI IA IS SSIS SISSIES IIIS IISA IATA III III III I A II

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit htto://www.symanteccloud.com

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to
whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in
error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email
communications may be monitored to ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems
and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.
UKGI00018975
UKGI00018975

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

