UKG1I00009725
UKGI00009725

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=8D968D43E33749AE9E59F9C9350E69D5-
COOPER, THOMAS (TCOO]

Sent: Fri 10/05/2019 7:11:19 AM (UTC)

To:

Ce: Rodric William:
Cameroné ; Massey,
Kirsten{_ Henderson, Tomf!

Subject: Re: Group Litigation - Legally Privileged and Highly Confidential

Thanks Ben
On 2 that’s spot on.

On 1 I was looking for something a little different at this stage.

For the 20 implied terms I’m hoping just to get a simple list along the following lines:

Item. Implied term. Covered by Necessary Cooperation

1. Training Outline the term. Yes

2. System. Outline the term. Yes

3 etc Others. Outline the term. Yes/no/comment

I hope this is clear - not easy on an iPhone! I can call you to describe it better.

The reason I’m asking for this is really to discover at high level how big the differences are between the parties -
what are we really arguing about when it comes to the contract? My feeling is that when it comes to some of the
major areas eg liability clause, training, accounting system, handling disputed items, there isn’t actually that much
between the parties.

I’m hoping this is a fairly simple exercise to do. Please tell me if it isn’t.

Tom

Sent from my iPhone

On 9 May 2019, at 20:37, Ben Foat <}

wrote:

Hi Tom

I wanted to drop you a quick note, following our Board Subcommittee earlier today, to acknowledge the
important issues that you raised which we will progress in parallel to this appeal work including:

1. Operationalising “Necessary Cooperation” — whilst I appreciate the legal view that inherent in
this legal concept is its vagueness, that answer is not particularly helpful to the business. The
working group needs to work through what necessary cooperation means operationally to Post
Office (specifically across the agent life cycle). I would propose to have the working team map
out “categories” of operational processes where this necessary cooperation could apply and
what that means. I understand that some of this work was undertaken when POL considered
how necessary cooperation could interact with the Claimants’ implied terms. My understanding
is that you are not looking for “war and peace” but a sensible summary of how necessary
UKG1I00009725
UKGI00009725

cooperation is to apply across Post Office’s operations.

2. Claimant Case Summaries — it would be helpful to provide you with not just a summary of the
relevant facts pertaining to each claimant but also what the trial judge’s position is and what are
our honest version of the facts.

Thanks again for raising these point which we will take forward but please do let me know if I have not
captured the request properly or if you would like to discuss.

Kind regards
Ben

<image001.png> Ben Foat
Legal Director
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Highly Commended for ‘Excellence In-house’ at the Law Society Excellence Awards Mobile number:
2018

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20
Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ.

2A CCR 29 FR 2A FRR A 2K 2 FAR A I 2 FA IK oR FAR A oR GOR CAC oo a a

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of
this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email
and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email
are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

AERC ICICI SIC ICI ICR ICCC CFR ACCC A FCC AR A ACC of FCC A ACC oR FCA OR oR CCR FCC oR CAC oR Ca

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this
can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

