UKG100002292
UKG100002292

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)[/O=DTI/OU=DTIHQ/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RCALLARD]
Sent: Thur 01/05/2014 1:35:01 PM (UTC)

To: Batten Peter (ShE:
Subject: Couple of things
Peter

Just following up on this mornings meeting etc could you please follow up on:

1. I want to go back to Mark (before our meeting) on his comment about "doing him the courtesy" re Becky Barrow.
Could you let me know who knew what and when over at POL i.e. when and who first knew, I told him on Tuesday night
that Nina was aware so was there something that happened during Wednesday additional to that that triggered his
comment.

2. Can you put something in the diary for next week to do a bit of a post mortem prior to meeting Mark. What do we
want etc, where did it go wrong this time (and other times).

3. Do we have lines prepped on the Sparrow collapse? When it happens I think it will happen fast so worth having some
lines and short Q&A ready for the various scenarios (¢.g. JFSA walk out, JFSA and SS walkout, AH quits, AH gets rid of
SS) etc. Might be the same line for most scenarios.

4. Have been thinking more about the slides for Jenny return (a bit). Might it be worth having a "then and now" slide i.e.
position when she left, and whats happened since. I think this has to be fairly frank, so where we have done well then
lets say so, where there are problems lets not shy away. We should then think of what we want her priorities to be (so
Sparrow, pressure on NT acknowledging that compulsory exit pilots are starting, VOA, Govt business). I am minded to
shy away from mutualisation now the milestones are out etc, aside from asking her how and if she wants to publicise
whats happened so far and learning more re ways of working.

Finally, I hope I haven't crossed a line by saying Tim mentioned you were worried that I apportioned some blame to the
team for the press notice stuff. I just want to be clear that I don't at all - it has however taught me a lesson that I need to
push harder on POL to get things done, I have been too reliant on their promises to deliver which has been an error on
my part. We do however need to be realistic as well - our view and their view will often be different which we are going
to live with and pick our battles. Happy to discuss offline if you have any worries.

Thanks

R

Richard Callard I Executive Director I Post Office Limited and Green Investment Bank Shareholder Teams
Shareholder Executive

BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth
