UKG100018414
UKGI00018414

From: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)

Sent: Thu, 4 Jul 2019 14:54:13 +0000
To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Subject: RE: POL Litigation

Hi Tom,

It would have been nice to add to the TBA this week but unfortunately it left with Kelly early this
morning.

I mentioned to Tom A at our catch up just now that Kelly intends to review all of the outstanding
POL submissions as a batch over the weekend. Perhaps a more formal update next week
would be useful once we have received her steers.

Many thanks,

Jess
MB Jessica Tysoe
Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
Business, Energy Strategy

& Industrial Strategy 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H 0ET
Q “] mpst.tolhurst¢___ 0
www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisqovuk

GRO aS

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <
Sent: 04 July 2019 14:30
To: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) <
Subject: Re: POL Litigation

Thanks Jess. Do you think Kelly will want to be sighted on this just by way of an update?
Tom

Sent from my iPhone

On 4 Jul 2019, at 14:17, Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS) <_
Hi Tom,

Thank you for pulling this together, I can confirm there are no issues our end. It is
good to see things are progressing.

I look forward to reading your update on the litigation and settlement strategy in a
few weeks.
Many thanks,
Jess
<image002.png> Jessica Tysoe

Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
suategy

From: Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive) <i! GRO

Sent: 04 July 2019 12:16 —

__!>; Permanent Secretary
} SS ohURe Mpst ‘(BEIS)

janufacturing and Services)
; Clarke, Stephen - UKGI
Watson, Richard - UK

Investment)
Executive)
Subject: RE: POL Litigation
Hi Tom,

Many thanks — just to confirm that I am happy with all of this.

It would be great if Beth White from my team could sit in on the briefing with Nigel
Boardman (if her diary allows), please. It should help bring her up to speed too.

Carl.

<image005.png><

6.jpg> Carl Creswell
Director, Prof

Orchard 2, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET

www.gov.uk/beis I https://twitter.com/beisgovuk

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <?"
Sent: 04 July 2019 12:08
To: Perm
(BEIS) <
Cc: Beal, Eleanor (Advanced Manufacturing and Services)

>; Tolhurst, Mpst

UKG100018414
UKGI00018414

I Business Services, Retail and Post
UKG100018414
UKGI00018414

Clarke, Stephen - UKGI
Creswell, Carl (Better Regulation Executive)
Watson, Richard - UKGL.

<.. Aldred, T. UKGI <i
Clark, Mpst ( Robson, Hugo (Business
Investment)

Subject: POL

All

Following up on some of the litigation actions we have after various recent
meetings, I'd be grateful for your thoughts on the following:

Observer at POL Litigation sub-committee

Having discussed the options with colleagues in UKGI, we've landed on Richard
Watson being the right person to be the observer. Unless there are any objections
from this group, I'd like to communicate that to POL as soon as possible so we can
get Richard along to the next meeting.

Working Group

I had a useful meeting with Hugo Robson the other day — many thanks for making
the introduction. Hugo has kindly agreed to take the team here through the FITT
litigation as a case study. More importantly, I think we should set up a working
group between UKGI, BEIS and HMT to handle the litigation settlement process,
review advice from POL and its lawyers, form a view on cost with external help if
needed and eventually make a recommendation to Ministers on the settlement
itself. I'd envisage the group would consist of Richard Watson, Carl Creswell, Hugo
Robson, a representative from HMG (tba), Tom Aldred and myself. I'm hoping this
would provide the right level of governance needed to get an eventual settlement
through the internal approvals required at BEIS and HMT.

Nigel Boardman meeting with POL

This is being set up by Richard and we have a date in the diary to brief Nigel,
although not until August thanks to holidays. We’re aiming to brief Hugo
simultaneously.

Litigation and settlement strategy

We have a meeting with POL and Herbert Smith on 18 July to progress things.
We'll provide an update subsequently.

Tom

Tom Cooper
Director
UK Government Investments
UKG100018414
UKGI00018414

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H OET

GRO I
nee ae
: tom.cooper! GRO i

PA: Alexandra.Bowe!

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the
individual(s) to whom they are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and
have received this email in error, please notify the sender and delete the email. This
footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure
the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and
that this email has been swept for malware and viruses.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit htto://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

