UKGI00003888
UKGI00003888

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=73D8709345C441479FOD7E2ADCE207C9-

LATHOMPS]
Sent: Mon 16/03/2015 5:25:03 PM (UTC)
To: Callard Richard (Shi
Ce: McInnes Tim (ShEx},
Subject: FW: Revised letter to James Arbuthnot MP
Attachment: 150316 SoS letter to James Arbuthnot revised.docx

Tara called — she had tried to convince SoS he could sign this off without rereading it as I had met his brief, but
apparently he has “specific things he wants to make sure are included” (which he didn’t mention before) so it is going
in his box overnight...

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 16 March 2015 15:04

To: Cable MPST; Cable MPST Correspondence

Cc: Swinson MPST SPAD Cable MPST; Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx);
Franklin-Wallis Hannah (Communications); Ministerial Advice Team

Subject: RE: Revised letter to James Arbuthnot MP

Hi Tara

Further to our conversation just now, here is a revised letter based on the feedback from SoS. I hope it addresses his
concerns around tone.

I thought it would be helpful to provide a few additional bits of information for SoS:

Firstly, he referred to the National Federation. The NFSP are strongly supportive of Post Office’s position on this
matter — that there are no systemic issues with Horizon. George Thomson, General Secretary of the NFSP, gave some
robust evidence to the BIS Select Committee on this issue, going so far as to suggest that a number of cases in the
scheme had been making false allegations against Post Office.

The organisation working with Mr Arbuthnot are the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance (JFSA) — a small group of
perhaps 20-30 members, mostly former subpostmasters, led by Mr Alan Bates, himself a former subpostmaster with a
case in the scheme. They are not affiliated to the NFSP.

It is also worth reiterating that, having re-investigated all 136 cases in the scheme thoroughly, including those which
resulted in criminal convictions, Post Office have found no evidence that would suggest any convictions were unsafe.
They have a duty to share any information of this nature if it arises with the individual and their legal advisor — but
this has not been the case in any case within the scheme (or indeed those raised outside of the scheme).

I am happy to provide any additional information that would be helpful to SoS.

Many thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

UKG100003888
UKGI00003888

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 16 March 2015 13:18

To: Cable MPST; Cable MPST Correspondence

Cc: Swinson MPST SPAD Cable MPST; Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx);
Franklin-Wallis Hannah (Communications); Ministerial Advice Team

Subject: Revised letter to James Arbuthnot MP

Importance: High

Tara

As I think Claire has already flagged to you, we have now spoken to Jo about the letter to James Arbuthnot MP.
regarding the Post Office Horizon system.

Please find attached a revised version which includes Jo’s changes, plus the additional paragraph of information I sent
up on Friday. I attach a clean version ready to be formatted, and one with the tracks showing so you can draw SoS’
attention to the changes.

It would be good if this letter can go out ASAP, please. Note that the letter is to be copied to the PM, DPM and Adrian
Bailey MP.

For your information, we are also revising slightly the letter from Jo Swinson to Mr Alan Bates to address a specific
point he raised — we plan to issue that in the next day or so (I am waiting for some clarification from Post Office).

Do let me know if you need anything else.
Thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director, Post Office Network Team I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET he a

www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive
The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

