UKG100018677
UKGI00018677

From: Ben Foat

Sent: Fri, 6 Dec 2019 18:27:35 +0000

To: Cooper, Tom - UKGI

Ce: Watson, Richard - UKGI

Subject: RE: GLO - Mediation Update - confidential and legally privileged
Hi Tom

Apologies Tom - You're right. Technically the offer I make on Monday of +5.5m will be
subject to your approval. Therefore, you don’t have to approve that over the weekend. The
subsequent (final) offer which is envisaged to be made on Monday will require your formal
approval. Of course, it is not currently possible to know what that is. It is likely to manifest by the
mediators requesting the parties to spilt the difference. Once it is known then I will seek your
formal approval (but will update Richard and yourself throughout the day).

Richard — we have again made the point about the funders authority to the otherside. The
response is that “there is authority in the room” but it remains unclear (ie there is no actual
confirmation) that the litigation funders have approved the deal. I appreciate that puts some
uncertainty around their offers and that is part of the reason for our cautious approach to the
offers.

Hope that helps.
Happy to discuss.

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat

Group General Counsel
Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON

EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile

From: Cooper, Tom - UKGI !
Sent: Friday, December 6, 2

Cc: Watson, Richard - UKGI a
Subject: Re: GLO - Mediation Update - confidenti

land legally privileged

Ben

I thought the idea was that you’d ask for approval for whatever the final number is - ie we’d only
give approval once not potentially multiple times.
Tom

Sent from my iPhone

On 6 Dec 2019, at 17:36, Ben Foat

Hi Richard

Apologies for not copying you in. I’m afraid we will need those instructions over the
weekend as per the note below.

Do let me know if you'd like to discuss.

Kind regards
Ben

Ben Foat
General Counsel
Post Office Limited

Sent: Friday, December 6, 2019 5:18 pm
To: Tim Parker; Cooper, Tom - UKGI; Nick Read

Cc: Watts, Alan; Emanuel, Catherine; Rodric Williams; andrew.parsons;
Patrick Bourke; Melanie Corfield; Lord, William

Subject: GLO - Mediation Update - confidential and legally privileged

All

The parties have made little progress today. The mediators have spent the majority
of the day with the claimants again.

The claimants are atll+ 5.5m ClJ costs. Post Office remains atl + 5.5m.

We have made it clear that the mediation will end COB Monday (as we need to put
pressure on the claimants to respond and these proceedings do in fact need to end
at some point particularly with the election and authority issues which that may
cause).

Next Steps
1. We will respond to their amended settlement deed over the weekend and

we have requested the other side to have their finalised position in relation
to the settlement deed by Monday morning. I will make sure that the joint
statement is provided to Patrick as soon as they have provided it us. They
are yet to do so.

UKG100018677
UKGI00018677
UKG100018677
UKGI00018677

2. The parties will provide what they say are their proposed final offers (which
are not necessarily the final offer in reality) to the mediators on a confidential
basis. We are likely to go toll] +5.5m ClJ costs such that if the other side
does the same ie a ClJ costs then ultimately the parties could
spilt the difference at +5.5m ClJ costs. Consequently, I will need
authority from Tom, Tim and Nick over the weekend or first thing on Monday
to make the offer of] You will note that these amounts are within the
authority provided by the Board Sub-Committee. I will also need Tom, Tim
and Nick to be available to make any subsequent offers throughout the day
on Monday.

Do let me know if you have any further queries in the meantime. Happy to discuss
later this evening or over the weekend if you need.

Kind regards
Ben

<765E9B645F6942B2895E13FE4949C2B8[52960689].png> Ben Foat
Group General Counsel
Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street
LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile : {

Ne ACF fA Rf 2 Ek 2 a ok 2k of ak fA oF a ae a a a
ee

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
Tf you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540.
Registered Office: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JES OISI SISOS ICIS ARICISISISIS I CIA ISISISISIS OR ISIE III SI ISIC II AGI ICI ICICI CI I A a a I RR A CaCO oR aR
Bra

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about
how we do this can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”
UKGI00018677
UKGI00018677

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they are
addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the sender and
delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to ensure the

secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email has been swept for
malware and viruses.
