UKG100004193
UKGI00004193

From: Cable MPST[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=C6COF9E3678444 14874B9FD89C46E311-
CABLE MPS]

Sent: Fri 17/04/2015 9:14:17 AM (UTC)

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)? , Franklin-Wallis

Hannah (Communi 1s )f~

French Claire
(Communications);

Ce: Swinson MPST! Perm Sec (BIS)f"

SPAD Cable MI Callard Richard’
(ShEx)”
Subject: RE: Update on Post Office Horizon issue
Laura,

The SofS has noted this and is grateful for the update.
Regards,
George

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 15 April 2015 11:46

To: Franklin-Wallis Hannah (Communications); Rogers Ashley (Communications); French Claire (Communications)
Cc: Swinson MPST; Cable MPST; Perm Sec (BIS); SPAD Cable MPST; Callard Richard (ShEx)

Subject: Update on Post Office Horizon issue

Importance: High

Hannah, Ashley

As I mentioned yesterday (and my email last week refers) — we expect the next development in the Post Office
Horizon issue to happen tomorrow (Thursday) or possibly Friday.

Second Sight, the independent investigators looking into the Horizon IT system, have completed their final report into
the matter. This report will be issued to all remaining applicants in the Mediation Scheme later today, and as such is
likely to arrive tomorrow or Friday (it is being delivered in hard copy).

Post Office advise that the report is poor, containing unsubstantiated allegations and misrepresentations. As such,
they are issuing their own response to the report alongside it. This will also be sent to applicants at the same time.

The report is designed to inform those applicants in the scheme awaiting mediation. It is not designed to be
published; however, we expect that once it is received by applicants (which include JFSA members) it will be leaked.
Post Office anticipate this will happen and are prepared to release the report in full, alongside POL’s response, to
journalists on request, on the understanding that they should a) respect its confidentiality and not publish it and b)
ensure any reports are balanced and cover both the SS report and POL’s response.

POL will send a copy of the report and their response to BIS later today (it will go to Richard Callard, head of the
Shareholder team here). This is in line with the commitment that Vince Cable made in his letter to the BIS Select
Committee last month.

I understand from POL that, while the report does not make any particularly new accusations, it still contains criticism
of POL and these could be picked up by interested parties (probably Nick Wallis from the One Show). However, it is
important to note that the report maintains the conclusion that there are no systemic flaws in Horizon capable of
causing the issues that have been claimed.

UKGI00004193
UKGI00004193

As before, if we receive any press enquiries we should direct these to Post Office. The mediation scheme is
independent of Government and details of cases are confidential. If you come under pressure for a line, please let me
or Richard know. Happy for my contact details to be provided to the Duty Officer.

Claire — it would be worth making sure Jo is aware.

George —I am happy to explain a bit more background on this if helpful. It may be worth notifying Vince that this is
coming out but we do not expect it to make a large splash media-wise.

Thanks
Laura

Laura Thompson I Assistant Director, Post Office Network Team I Shareholder Executive
BIS, 1 Victoria Street, London SW1H OET I i
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/the-shareholder-executive

The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) is making a difference by supporting sustained growth and
higher skills across the economy. BIS: working together for growth

