UKG100005053
UKGI00005053

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)[/O=BIS PRODUCTION/OU=EXCHANGE
ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=73D8709345C441479FOD7E2ADCE207C9-

LATHOMPS]
Sent: Thur 16/07/2015 8:43:38 AM (UTC)
To: Callard Richard (ShEx)[.
Subject: RE: Post Office Horizon Meeting

The CCRC has asked POL to preserve material. But the accusation will be that POL are asking Second Sight to destroy
information. Because once Second Sight’s contract is terminated they can’t hold on to confidential info, so they'll
either need to return it to the information owner or destroy it.

in I Assistant Director I Shareholder Executive

From: Callard Richard (ShEx)

Sent: 16 July 2015 09:41

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)
Subject: RE: Post Office Horizon Meeting

And isn't the ccrc effectively stopping them too?

Sent from my Windows Phone

From: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Sent: 16/07/2015 09:36

To: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Ce: Javid MPST; Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Baugh James (ShEx); Dollin Michael (Shareholder
Executive); Neville-Rolfe MPST Correspondence

Subject: RE: Post Office Horizon Meeting

Thanks Andrew — I am preparing a note for the Minister for today’s box in which I am proposing she writes to Mr
Bridgen so I will include a response to these accusations in that response. The short answer is that Post Office have
already committed on several occasions, including to the BIS Select Committee, that they will not destroy
documentation relating to this matter.

‘tor I Shareholder Executive

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Sent: 16 July 2015 09:33

To: Thompson Laura (Shareholder Executive)

Cc: Javid MPST; Callard Richard (ShEx); McInnes Tim (ShEx); Baugh James (ShEx); Dollin Michael (Shareholder
Executive); Neville-Rolfe MPST; Neville-Rolfe MPST Correspondence

Subject: FW: Post Office Horizon Meeting

Laura,

Following the meeting yesterday please see correspondence below from Andrew Bridgen MP. We will need a draft
reply.
UKGI00005053
UKGI00005053

Kind regards

A Andrew Smith

Private Secretary to Baroness Neville-Rolfe, Parliamentary Under
Secretary of State and Minister for Intellectual Propert

Department *,

for Business

Innovation & Skills Deprtment for Business, Innovation and Skills, 1 Victoria Street, SW1H
OET
www.gov.uk/bis ‘Iblogs.bis.gov.uk

BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

Please note: in line with Cabinet Office guidance MPST does not keep records of Ministerial business. Responsibility for storing
records sits with the relevant departmental team. Please ensure you are familiar with what records you need to be keeping and
are storing them appropriately.

From: BRIDGEN, Andrew [mailto
Sent: 16 July 2015 09:17

To: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Cc: JONES, Kevan

Subject: Post Office Horizon Meeting

Dear Baroness Neville-Rolfe,

Further to our meeting yesterday, I remain very concerned about the Post Office’s reluctance to allow questioning of
Second Sight following their forensic investigation into this matter. I have grave fears that during the summer recess,
the Post Office will request that Second Sight destroy documentation which could potentially expose the failings that I
and many colleagues believe exist with the Horizon systems and the ensuing prosecutions. I would therefore request
that you take whatever steps you can to ensure that the Post Office do not order any action to Second Sight to destroy
documents documents, so should for instance the BIS Select Committee choose to investigate this matter, they will be
able to do so with all the Second Sight investigation papers available.

Kind Regards,
Andrew Bridgen

8

i) Andrew Bridgen MP
Member of Parliament for North West Leicestershire

House of Commons
London
SWIA 0AA
UKG100005053
UKGI00005053

UK Parliament Disclaimer: This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error,
please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not
permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any
virus transmitted by this e-mail.

This email was received from the INTERNET.

Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes.
