UKG100049037
UKGI00049037

To: Gratton, Lorna - UKGIf

From: Amanda Burtonisro}

Sent: 2024-01-19T13:47:43Z
Importance: Normal

Subject: Fwd: Investigation

Received: 2024-01-19T13:47:57Z

As discussed, Amanda
Sent from Outlook for iOS

From: Henry Staunton

Amanda Burton

Ce: Benjamin Ti swe
Subject: Investigation

Nick ,

Have only now started to look at the charges levelled at me tonight as the Committee was not prepared to delay
the hearing . I have said I will be woefully unprepared but it was of no avail . It impacts you as I do not have the
time to research and do justice to the unfairness of the charges against you I am afraid . My apologies .
However , I have agreed that the scale of the review should be considerably reduced as Jane is clearly
negotiating and Ben has promised to get a sense of proportion into this . You should know that I have heard
nothing further .

It had dawned on me that you copying Foat with the file note of the views of our Post Master NEDs would
cause him to take against me . This I think applies even though I was recording the views of Post Masters who
wanted our conversation to be relayed to our Independent Directors . It is difficult to see how I would get a fair
hearing in these circumstances . He wields enormous power as the PM NEDs indicate :

+ "Fed up with the power wielded by Foat "

+ "People are guilty until proved innocent "

+ " Whilst Foat is at the helm nothing will change "

" He uses his leadership of the Inquiry Teamas an instrument of his power " .

I think the copying of the note to him puts me in a grave situation . PO investigations do not have a history of
justice to start with so we should both be aware . There seems to be a determination to trash reputations
despite being completely innocent . People will say Foat will kept out of the loop but I do believe that for a
second .

Please let me know tomorrow how on earth this confidential note to Independent NEDs came to be distributed
to Foat .

Henry
Sent from Outlook for iOS

ERR A RR AR A OR A AA A OR A RR A of 2 a ao ok a aa oo a ao

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you
UKG100049037
UKGI00049037

have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your
system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise

specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 100 Wood
Street, London, EC2V 7ER.

JBOSS ICICI SISOS SICISISICISISICIOI SSIS II SISISISIOR ISI SICIGIGI ISI SIGIGI II II I ICR I CIC ICI a ICI I kk a CAE

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be found
on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy
