UKGI00016719

UKGI00016719
OFFICIAL: SENSITIVE
Shareholder
Executive
HM Government
Minutes of Shareholder Executive Board
Wednesday 24 September 2014 at 15.00
Members — Robert Swannell (Chair) (RS) Attendees: Fiona-Jane Macgregor (FJM)
present: Claudia Arney (CA) Keith Morgan (KM)
Robin Lawther (RLa)
Jeremy Pocklington (JP) Secretary: —_ Kirun Patel (KP)
Mark Russell (MR)
Anthony Odgers (AO) Apologies: Gerry Grimstone (GG)

Ceri Smith (CS)
Roger Lowe (RLo)

1. Chairman’s introduction and minutes from the last meeting

1.1. RS welcomed attendees and invited comments on the minutes. All actions
were noted complete with the exception of the paper on ShEx deliverables,
which will be circulated shortly and has been pushed back to reflect a number
of changes within ShEx, such as significant changes to the transaction profile.

1.2. FJM noted a useful discussion had taken place with 3i, who assess risk based
on key themes rather than project by project. A follow-up discussion on risk is
planned with CDC. RS and MR both thanked the ShEx team for the quality of
the risk registers.

2. CEO Report

Urenco

~ IRRELEVANT

Page I I
UKGI00016719
UKGI00016719

OFFICIAL: SENSITIVE
Post Office Limited

2.4. AO stated network transformation was broadly on track. The environment is
tougher with greater financial pressure than originally envisaged for two main
reasons: the mails market is under pressure, and the Government move to
digital services has decreased the Post Office’s importance as the front office
for Government.

2.5. The need for a strategic CFO was raised, although remuneration and the
current CFO’s 12 month notice period were raised as possible issues where
Ministers would need to be convinced. MR noted Vince Cable has agreed to
write to the Chief Secretary on pay. The proposed replacement CFO is ready
to go, although RS cautioned that senior staff can lose patience quickly.

2.6. MR noted the intention to replace the CEO post-election. It was broadly noted
that although the CEO and CFO are managing the organisation well, the
Board is more ambitious.

2.7. FJM suggested that if the ShEx risk register was created in line with the 3i
approach, i.e. according to key themes, the biggest issue for ShEx would be
remuneration to which the Board strongly agreed.

Royal Mail

2.8. MR noted the Myners Review carried a high reputational risk for SnEx and
was also requiring considerable time from both MR and RLo. It was noted the
review had a good panel, including for example corporate financiers and an
academic. A ShEx secretariat of staff unconnected to the transaction has been
provided. It was noted the review was largely focussing on predictable areas
so far.

2.9. ShEx had met with Vince Cable and explained the Myners review could
realistically have a split panel, and there was the possibility of the report being
critical of Ministers and officials. As the report will be made public, ShEx may
suggest a private session between Myners and Cable to discuss finer details,
before publication.

Distressed Situations

2.10.f

IRRELEVANT I

2.11.MR described changes in the ShEx workload, particularly increasing work with
OGDs (especially DfT and DECC), with realisation work falling away. DCMS

Page I2
UKGI00016719
UKGI00016719

OFFICIAL: SENSITIVE

and FCO had also requested assistance on the British Council and the BBC
licence review.

2.12.CA and RS also challenged whether ShEx was taking on increased
reputational risk and being overstretched, with limited control. AO clarified that
some of the projects had required limited involvement, and ShEx was clear its
involvement would only be as part of a joint team. MR reiterated ShEx should
only accept projects where we can clearly add value.

2.13.MR clarified new work is presented at ExCo, and FJM also pointed out that a
workflow planner and project list are maintained which summarise people
resourcing and project timing. The Board was keen to see the project list in the
Board papers (to replace new projects and completed work) [ACTION — ShEx
Board Secretary].

2.14.RLa raised the importance of keeping track of what projects ShEx had
rejected. CS seconded this by stating the importance of both projects rejected
and projects completed for creating capacity.

~ KM joined the meeting ~
3. Green Investment Bank (GIB) / British Business Bank (BBB)

34.1

3.2.

3.3.

IRRELEVANT

3.4.

3.5.

Page I3
UKGI00016719
UKGI00016719

OFFICIAL: SENSITIVE

3.7.

A
A
Mm
rr
<
>
=
—_I

3.8.

E
i

~ KM left the meeting ~

4. Future of the Public Data Group (PDG)

_ IRRELEVANT

44.

Page I 4
4.6.

‘IRRELEVANT

47.1

UKGI00016719
UKGI00016719

OFFICIAL: SENSITIVE

5.2.

5.3.

5.4.

5.5.

. MR suggested a likely growth in both corporate finance projects and
governance work and suggested the increasing move to separate governance
from the customer function was driving much of the DfT work.

The Board discussed the size of ShEx, with RS questioning how ShEx
forecasts future work and why it is the current size of 65 professionals. MR
suggested the nature of the group would change if the size exceeded 100 staff
(although the workload could easily justify a larger group), and a smaller group
would not be able to deliver for other stakeholders. JP commented that 65 is
still considerably larger than had been initially envisaged.

CA highlighted that shape must also be considered alongside size. The Board
acknowledged the ShEx people structure is very different to other areas
across HMG and by nature of its profile is top-heavy, although not as top-
heavy as had initially been envisaged. The Board agreed it was worth testing if
the current model was appropriate given that many projects require a lot of
senior attention.

CS also questioned whether ShEx is adding the most value by taking on the
sponsor role. The Board stressed the importance of adding value in a
focussed way, and MR explained why there is not currently a clear ShEx
strategy on what work should be accepted or declined. AO added that this is
difficult given the dynamic nature of ShEx projects and requests. RLo also
stated work with DECC and DfT was largely as a consequence of close
relationships with the PermSecs in both cases. JP highlighted the need to
manage ShEx’s reputation and risk when working with OGDs. It was agreed
that ShEx would look into defining the work it carried out with a view to future
planning [ACTION — RJ].

The growing agreement across Government that each Department should

have its own commercial capability was noted, although it would be sub-
optimal to build a ‘mini-ShEx’ in other Departments. MR highlighted the

Page I5
5.6.

5.7.

5.8.

5.9.

UKGI00016719
UKGI00016719

OFFICIAL: SENSITIVE

Corporate Finance Profession that was being developed in ShEx [ACTION —
Corporate Finance Profession to be presented at next Board].

The Board also discussed the people and skills within ShEx, with AO
commenting recruitment was a key constraint that defines ShEx’s ability to
take on new work. MR also noted that ‘Corporate Finance’ is a very broad
term, and a number of specialisms lie within this. AO suggested technical and
digital skills are lacking, although RLo cautioned too much specialism as a
result of regular changes in the ShEx projects and portfolio.

MR raised his concern that few people outside of ShEx currently have a
sufficient overview of ShEx and noted an paper was being put together, setting
out our purpose and our work. [ACTION — Introduction to ShEx paper to be
presented at next Board].

The Board discussed the position of SnEx amongst the political parties, noting
the limited relationship with Labour to date. RS suggested a meeting with
Peter Mandelson and Lord Adonis. [ACTION — RS]. CS noted there was
generally a good level of dialogue between outgoing and incoming Ministers.

MR thanked FJM for her work on improving the Risk and Assurance
Committee. MR informed the Board that Rachel James would be replacing
FJM as COO.

5.10. Knowledge management was also raised as a current weakness within ShEx.

There are a number of areas, such as recruitment, procurement of advisors
and headhunters that could benefit from sharing of lessons learnt.

. Forward Agenda

6.1.

6.2.

6.3.

6.4.

A calendar for the coming year should be included in future Board papers
[ACTION — ShEx Board Secretary].

RS suggested an interest in looking more closely at NDA, to which the Board
agreed.

CA proposed a closer look at the BBC in anticipation of any ShEx involvement
in Governance issues.

RS also stated an intention to consider more closely self-evaluation of the

Board and to develop an understanding of how to evaluate whether the Board
is performing well.

Page I 6
UKGI00016719

UKGI00016719

OFFICIAL: SENSITIVE

7. AOB

7.1.

RS sought views of the Board on Caroline Thomson. The Board was
supportive, with her different experience recognised as valuable. JP noted her
commercial experience, although highlighted the potential reputational risk
arising from her role at BBC that may attract comment. CA and CS also felt
Vince Cable may be cautious. MR agreed to put her forward to Hancock and
subsequently Cable. MR also agreed to call GG to obtain his views. [ACTION

- MRI.

7.2. MR invited NEDs to the Chairs event to be held on 3 November.

Matters arising

Update on existing actions

14/10

Paper on ShEx deliverables
to be brought to the
September board meeting

FJM

Now planned for November board
meeting

New Actions

14/11

Project list to be included in
the Board papers (to replace
new projects and completed
work)

JA

14/12

Robin Lawther to support
BBB during the transition

RLa

On-going

14/13

Rachel James to examine
ShEx work with a view to
future planning

RJ

To discuss at January board
meeting

14/14

Corporate Finance
Profession to be presented
at next Board

RJ

14115

Introduction to ShEx paper
to be presented at next
Board

FJM

14/16

Robert Swannell to meet
with Peter Mandelson and
Lord Adonis

RS

14/17

Calendar for the coming year
should be included in future
Board papers

JA

14/18

Mark Russell to call Gerry
Grimstone RE: Caroline
Thomson

MR

ShEx Board Secretary

[END]

Page I 7
