UKG100008608
UKGI00008608

From: Aldred, Tom - UKGI[/O=HMT/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=1B473B274AA644839198B72B47DB1BE8-
ALDRED, TOM (TALDRED]

Sent: Fri 02/11/2018 2:08:19 PM (UTC)

To:
Ce:
; Clarke, Stephen - UKG
White, Sam (Advanced Manufacturing and Services},
(Advanced Manufacturing and Services},
Subject: RE: Post Office Litigation Meeting readout (17 October)
Sam

With thanks to Richard from our legal team, I can provide the following update for the minister.

We were pleased with how the meeting went and POL were also glad to have had the opportunity to provide their
perspective of the litigation. POL have shared their legal advice with UKGI and neither this nor the meeting change
the picture we presented in our previous briefing. The first trial starts next week (Wednesday). This will determine the
proper meaning of the contract between POL and its agents. The trial is likely to last a few weeks and our best
estimate is that the court’s judgement would not be expected until the new year. Our lawyers will be leading the
internal Whitehall work that will be necessary to ensure that the Minister has advice on settlement options in due
course. They are already liaising closely with BEIS Legal. The legal arguments in the first trial are complex and our
lawyers will be keeping close to developments as the case progresses.

Tom

From: Tolhurst, Mpst (BEIS)
Sent: 31 October 2018 16:56

HB nt. tar pst (BEIS)
Idred, Tom - UKGI

Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Stephen - UKGI ¢

Parker, Nick - UKG! olhurst, Mpst (BEIS) C
Subject: Post Office Litigation Meeting readout (17 October)

Hi all,

With thanks to Richard for putting this together, please find attached a readout on the recent Post Office litigation
meeting.

One of the actions from the meeting was for POL to share its legal advice with the BEIS legal team in order for the
Department to reach its own conclusions on any potential settlement. Kelly has since raised this with me again and
has asked for an update from UKGI officials on their perspective on the progress of the litigation and how the meeting
went.

Tom — would your team be able to provide an update/views on the litigation for next week? I presume the legal team
will have to consider the settlement in slower time? Can you confirm whether POL have shared their legal advice yet?

Many thanks,
Sam
UKGI00008608
UKGI00008608

Pp, a Samantha Rice
Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for

Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H OET

I mpst.griffiths

Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy

www.gov.uk/beis

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

