WBON0000340
WBON0000340

From: "Parsons, Andrew" </O=-BOND PEARCE/OU=FIRST ADMINISTRATIVE
GROUP/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=AP6>

To: "Rodric Williams
Gl

Subject: BT process questions.
Date: Fri, 27 Mar 2015 14:20:19 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001 jpg; image002.jpg; image003 jpg

Rodric

I've reviewed Simon's questions. I'm confident that Deloitte do not know the answers to these questions because I've
asked them previously. We will need to go to Fujitsu to get these answers.

FJ get very reluctant about providing information when there is possible legal risk in the frame. To avoid this, we may
want to pose this as a general information gathering exercise rather than as result of CK's advice.

I've set out below an email that could go to Fujitsu for your approval.

I suggest that we remove the questions highlighted in yellow. First, these questions are about legal risk which will
make FJ nervous. Secondly, I'm not sure that FJ will understand these questions. They simply provide raw data to
POL, how POL discloses that data to expert witnesses is a prosecution matter, not a technical matter. We can however
draw out these questions more subtly on the con call I propose in the email.

A

James

A few months back we had a conference call (with Belinda Crowe and Mark Underwood) to discuss the "remote
access" questions that were being posed by Second Sight. You may recall that this turned principally on questions
about data integrity and the Balancing Transaction process. Unfortunately we still haven't quite closed down this
avenue of enquiry and there are a few outstanding questions on the Balancing Transaction process on which I should
be grateful for your help in answering.

The questions are below. I would grateful if you could let me know when you might be around next week for a quick
conference call (with me and Post Office) to discuss these? I am around all week except Wednesday afternoon.

Kind regards
Andy

1. Is or would the use of the Balancing Transaction function, or any effect thereby achieved, be visible:
a) to an affected SPMR either:
i. upon the immediate occasion of its use; or

ii. at some point after use, e.g. by notification, appearance on Horizon, in branch accounts etc.

b) an auditor when conducting a branch audit?

e) in the final audit trail?

WBD_000210.000001
WBON0000340
WBON0000340

ii. How and in what circumstances may the Balancing Transaction function be utilised?
iii. Who may use the Balancing Transaction function, in terms of authority, access, etc.?

iv. What measures, controls or processes are in place to routinely monitor centrally initiated Balancing
Transactions, and to check and reconcile data sources?

v. Similarly, what measures, controls or processes are in place to prevent any unauthorised use of the
ian Transaction function?

vi. What records are maintained of any use of the Balancing Transaction function?

vii. Is POL/Fujitsu sure that the Balancing Transaction function has only been used on a single occasion
since 1st January 2010? And if not, why not?

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin

www.bonddickinson.com

WBD_000210.000002
