Claim No. HQ16X01238

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
QUEEN’S BENCH DIVISION
IN GROUP LITIGATION BETWEEN:

AL

Ad

23,

24,

ALAN BATES & OTHERS

Claimants
i
POST OFFICE LIMITED
Defendant
‘draft/ GENERIC DEFENCE

GPoC INTRODUCTION & KEY FACTS
The Parties
Defendant

As to paragraph 4, it is admitted and averred (1) that Post Office operates its business
through a network of around 11,600 branches in the UK, (2) that it offers products and
services to the public via this network, including the services referred to, and (3) that it
specifies procedures and standards governing how branches are to operate its business on its
behalf, Where those branches are managed by Post Office itself (“Crown Office
branches” but now known as "Directly Managed Branches"), they are directly managed by
Post Office and so are under its control. However, where those branches are operated by
‘Subpostmasters or Franchisees (“agency branches” and “franchise branches”

respectively), they are under the control of the relevant Subpostmasters or Franchisees.
As to paragraph 5:

(1) Post Office's products and services include products and servi

s provided by other

business and organisations (known as "Post Office clients").

‘or example, Post
Office provides the physical location at which a person may deposit cash into a bank
account but it does not provide the underlying banking service (this would be

provided by a bank).

2 Asone would expect, Post Office determines the products and services which it
offers to the public though this is sometimes driven by other factors, such as

regulatory changes and the requirements of Post Office clients. Post Office requires

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

(

‘Commented [AVA]: Should we not say some along the lines of
“as specified in their contract for services with Post Ofice™

WBD_001023.000001
25.

@

©)

some minimum products and services to be offered by its branches. However, it
does not require or indeed permit all Post Office branches to offer all its products

and services.

Some new produets or services, such as ATMs and National Lottery terminals, were

introduced in agency and franchise branches only where the relevant Subpostmasters

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

and Franchisees specifically consented to their introduction.

‘Commented [AV2]: However where already introduced these

products and services were obligated a part ofthe contract for
services new postmasters entered into

No admissions are made as to the “increased ... complexity” of any particular
product or service. Post Office notes that the GPoC does not allege that any such
increased complexity is material to any Claimant's case. Post Office reserves the
right to address these matters further in the event that the Claimants plead that they

are material in some wa

y, which would involve the Claimants identifying the product
or service concerned, the nature of the complexity relied on, the claims affected and

how they are affected.

Save as aforesaid, paragraph 5 is admitted.

Types of branch

Paragraph 6 is admitted. These branches are also called agency branches and

Subpostmasters (now more commonly referred to as "postmasters") invariably operate

their own retail businesses from the same premises. In their conduct of Post Office’s

business, Subpostmasters act as Post Office’s agent, which involves doing the following

things on its behalf:

(a

@

o)

@

entering into transactions with Post Office customers;

effecting and/or processing transactions with Post Office clients such as Royal Mail
(postal services), various UK government departments (various services such as
benefit payments and passports), and various financial institutions (banking services

and insurance products;

operating equipment belonging to Post Office or its clients, ranging from IT

equipment (e.g. a Lottery terminal used to sell Camelot lottery products) to basic

equipment such as scales for weighing mail and safes in which cash is stored

holding and dealing [a8 Bailees?] with stock (including cheques, vouchers and other
items) belonging to Post Office; and

2

WBD_001023.000002
26.

27.

28.

6)

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

holding and dealing [aS ERISA] with cash belonging to Post Office.

As to paragraph 7:

@

@

()

@

Franchisees are not always (and are not required to be) limited companies.

Post Office is unable to admit or deny whether most of the limited companies that
are parties to Franchise Agreements were set up for the purpose of contracting with
Post Office. Many were not (e.g. WH Smith, McColls, the Co-operative Group, and
Blakemore (Spar).

Not all individuals working in Crown Office branches are employed by Post Office:

for example, some are agency staff.

Save as aforesaid, paragraph 7 is admitted.

Subpostmaster Claimants and Contracts

Paragraph 8 is admitted as regards the Claimants (i. the claimants in action No.

HQ16X01238).

As to paragraph 9:

(a

2

8

@

Post Office contracts with Subpostmasters on standard form contracts.

As well as being expressed not to be contracts of employment, these contracts are

not contracts of employment, as the Claimants themselves admit.

‘The contracts are contracts of agency. As one would expect with contracts
governing the conduct by an agent of the principal’s business, they reserve to Post
Office the right to control certain aspects of its business (e.g. the products and
services Subpostmasters may offer on Post Office’s behalf and the procedures and
standards in accordance with which Subpostmasters are to conduct Post Office’s
business and to account to Post Office for the transactions and for the cash and
stock they have dealt with on its behalf). In relation to matters such as these, Post

Office has the power to give instructions that Subpostmasters are obliged to follow.

However, Post Office would not characterise its contracts with Subpostmasters as

“reserve[ing] to the Defendant a high degree of power, discretion and control”. Post

WBD_001023.000003
29,

Office is unsure what is meant by this vague expression, and it does not know what

particular powers, discretions and controls the Claimants have in mind.

() Save as aforesaid, paragraph 9 is admitted,

As to the contracts pleaded in paragraph 10 (“the Subpostmaster Contracts”):

(1) SPMC: Paragraph 10.1 is admitted, save that the SPMC is not dated 1994 but

marked "1994 issue", Like the GPoC, this Generic Defence refers only to the

version of the SPMC served with the GPoC.

(2) Temporary SPMC:

fave that the word “purported” is inapposite, paragraph 10.2 is

admitted. Post Office believes that 5 Claimants were engaged on the terms of the

‘Temporary SPMC.

(3) Community Subpostmaster Agreement:

@

)

©

‘The first sentence of paragraph 10.3 is admitted. Post Office believes that 7
Claimants were engaged on the terms of the Community Subpostmaster

Agreement.

As to the second sentence, Post Office believes that all or at least some of the
Claimants who were engaged on the terms of these agreements have retained a
copy of their contracts because in their Response to a Request for Further
Information dated 16 May 2017 (“Part 18 Response”), the Claimants state
that it is not their case that none of them (i) has or (ii) has ever had a copy of
the Community Subpostmaster Agreement, from which Post Office infers that

at least some of thes

imants in fact have a copy of that agreement. In any

event, Post Office provided a copy to the Claimants on 10 April 2017.

As to the third sentence, the Claimants should not proceed on an assumption
as to the material content of any contract on which they intend to rely but

must plead a positive case.

@ NTC

@

‘The first sentence of paragraph 10.4 is admitted. Post Office believes that 34
Claimants were engaged on the terms of the main branch NTC, and that 18

Claimants were engaged on the terms of the local branch NTC.

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000004
30.

6)

(b) The second sentence is noted

(©) Asto the third sentence, Post Office believes that all or at least some of the
Claimants who were engaged on the terms of these agreements have retained a
copy of their contracts. Further, in their Part 18 Response, Post Office infers
that at least some of these Claimants in fact have a copy of that contract. In

any event, Post Office provided a copy to the Claimants on 10 April 2017

(@ _ Asto the fourth sentence, the Claimants should not proceed on an assumption
as to the material content of any contract on which they intend to rely but

must plead a positive ease.

Paragraph 10.5 is noted. Post Office will respond to any claim based on any other

contract if and when such a claim is properly pleaded.

For the avoidance of doubt, Post Office pleads back in relation to the SPMC, the

‘Temporary SPMC, the NTC and the Franchise Agreement attached to the GPoC without

prejudice to its right to rely in individual cases on the terms of such agreements as they

stood at the time(s) relevant to the particular claims made by particular Claimants.

As to paragraph 11:

@

8)

Regarding paragraph 11.1, Post Office believes that 2 Claimants were employed in
Crown Office branches and that both or one of them will have retained a copy of
their employment contract. Further, from their Part 18 Response, Post Office infers

that at least one of these Claimants in fact has a copy of that contract.

Regarding paragraph 11.2, Post Office believes that 8 Claimants assert that they

employed by Subpostmasters as their Assistants (a term which in this Generic
Defence includes persons whom Subpostmasters employed to manage their
branches). Post Office notes that it had no contractual or other relationship with
these individuals and that the Claimants have not disclosed the basis or terms upon.

which they were employed by the relevant Subpostmasters

Regarding paragraph 11.3, Post Office believes that 3 Claimants assert that they were
directors of Franchisees and that 2 were guarantors of Franchisees. ‘The relevant
Franchisees contracted with Post Office on the terms of the Franchise Agreements .

Post Office notes that Post Office had no contractual or other relationship with the

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000005
AQ

33.

34.

Claimants who are merely alleged to have been directors and that the Claimants have
not disclosed the basis or terms upon which they acted as directors of the relevant

Franchisees.
(4) Save as aforesaid, Post Office is unable to admit or deny paragraph 11.
Horizon

Paragraph 12 is admitted. Until 2010, Horizon was a distributed system in which
transactions were undertaken within branches, whose terminals transmitted transaction
data to a central Post Office data centre and also to Post Office clients. Once Horizon
Online was introduced in 2010, transactions were effected through real time exchanges of
data from branches to a central Post Office data centre, and transaction data was also
transmitted to Post Office Clients. Save where otherwise indicated, Post Office uses the
term “Horizon” to refer both to the pre-2010 version of Horizon and to Horizon Online
as the context may require, without prejudice to its ability to plead more fully as to
Horizon’s features and operations as may be relevant to any individual claim (should such a

claim raise any specific issues in that regard).

As to paragraph 13, the vast majority of Subpostmasters and their Assistants who have
worked in agency branches since the introduction of Horizon in those branches would

have been users of Horizon. Save as aforesaid, paragraph 13 is not admitted.

As to paragraph 14 (which appears to relate simply to Claimants who were

Subpostmasters):

(1) Itis admitted that, if and to the extent that any Claimant Subpostmasters worked in a
Post Office branch prior to the introduction of Horizon to that branch and
continued working in that branch thereafter, the introduction significantly changed
how they were required to work in that branch. Save as aforesaid, paragraph 14.1 is

denied.

(2) Paragraphs 14.2 and 14.3 fail to identify any of the limitations apparently relied on
[and are denied?}. However, the introduction of Horizon increased, rather than

red, the ability of Subpostmasters to access, identify, obtain and reconcile

transaction records and to investigate shortfalls. [Before the introduction of
Horizon, Subpostmasters had access to several separate hand-written ledgers to
particular products or services. ‘These ledgers had various limitations, including that

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000006
35.

36.

37.

38.

it was not possible to know how much cash should be in the branch without first
reconciling all the ledgers together, which was a time-consuming process. After the
introduction of Horizon, Subpostmasters had the ability at any time to obtain a
"Balance Snapshot" that showed them how much cash should be in a branch,
making it much easier to identify any shortfalls. Subpostmasters also had the ability
to obtain an extensive range of other reports and information from Horizon, as

pleaded farther in paragraph [XX] below].

Paragraph 15 is embarrassing for lack of particularity. In the absence of any indication as

to the actual changes the Claimants intend to rely on and as to the effect(s) each such

change is alleged to have had, Post Office cannot plead to this paragraph.

Post Office notes that, on the Claimants’ pleaded case, any changes in the Claimants’ ability
to access records and investigate shortfalls caused by the introduction of Horizon or by
subsequent changes to Horizon or to products and services offered has no apparent
relevance to any of the breach of contract or other claims advanced in the GPoC. As

regards such changes, paragraph [XX](3) above is repeated, mutatis mutandis.

‘The first sentence of paragraph 16 is admitted. As to the second sentence, Post Office’s

use of the terms “Horizon” and “Horizon Online” similarly does not include training.
The operation of Horizon
As to paragraph 17:

(1) _ Save for the “others” referred to, whom the Claimants do not identify, the first
sentence is admitted. ‘The process for transferring transaction data from branch to
Post Office's central data centre, and the controls that ensure the accuracy of that

data transfer, are described at paragraph [XX@40] below.
(2) Regarding the second sentence:

(@) The Claimants would be able to generate printable reports from Horizon
which would, for example, show the remittances in and out of a branch,
outstanding/processed transaction corrections, enable the Claimants to

reconcile transfers between stock units and produce a balance snapshot report.

(b) Further, prior to the introduction of Horizon Online, the Claimants had access

to a hard-copy manuals in their branches which subsequently, with the

1

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000007
introduction of Horizon Online, were converted into electronic documents

accessible through Horizon.

(© On the introduction of Horizon, transaction data was freely available to
Subpostmasters for 42 days from the date of the relevant transaction, Since

the introduction of Horizon Online, such data has been free!

days.

(@ While such transaction data is available, Subpostmasters can search for,

identify, organise and analyse data by means of wide range of reports, including

a transaction log report which identifies each and every transaction undertaken

in the relevant branch in the entire period. ‘This report can be focused in a

variety of ways if desired, including by reference to date ranges, transaction

types, stock items, value ranges and even particular users or terminals

(©) Thus, invaddition to the paper Fecords available in branches, Horizon provides

Subpostmasters with powerful tools for searching, checking and reviewing all

aspects of the transactions undertaken in the branches for which they were

responsible.
Transaction Corrections

Paragraph 18 refers to transaction corrections, One of the safeguards against errors by

Subpostmasters (or their staff) is a process by which Post Office proposes corrections to a

branch's accounts (“Transaction Corrections”). ‘These are typically generated in the

following way:

(1) Post Office checks Horizon transaction data (i, data as keyed into branch terminals

by branch staff) against data taken from separate sources. For example, Post Office

client banks provide their own records of transactions carried out in Post Office
branches (transmitted directly from the chip and pin devices used in branches),

allowing Post Office to compare these to the transaction data on Horizon.

(2) Where there is a discrepancy between the two sets of data, Post Office reviews the
available data with a view to determining whether the branch staff have probably

made an error that requires correction (and it may contact the Subpostmaster for

further information to assist in that determination). Where this is the case, Post

Office will generate a Transaction Correction notification which is sent to the

y available for 62

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

‘Commented [ALP13]: This is being tested inthe test centre on
‘Monday 10 July and FY checking whether there the data is available
for 60 0 62 days.

‘Commented [AV]: This reads as presumptuous. I suggest
removing “probably”

WBD_001023.000008
@

©

relevant branch via Horizon, For example, where a cheque deposit into a bank
account is keyed in on Horizon as a £100 credit but the true amount of the cheque is

‘£90, a Transaction Correction with a value of £10 debit is generated.

A Transaction Correction notification includes (i) a description of the transaction to
be corrected, (i) the contact details of an employee of Post Office who will provide

the outline reason for or nature of the

further detail if required, (ii) typically

correction, and (iv) Sometimes, evidence substantiating the proposed correction.

A Transaction Correction notification sent by Post Office to a branch is a proposal,
not an instruction, and it does not take effect unless and until accepted by the
Subpostmaster concerned. On receiving a ‘Transaction Correction notification, the

Subpostmaster can either accept the correction or dispute it.

On the Horizon screen, there are two ways for a Subpostmaster to accept a
‘Transaction Correction. He or she may “accept” the Transaction Correction: this,
immediately increases or decreases the cash or stock position (as appropriate) in the
branch's accounts as recorded on Horizon, Alternatively, he or she may “settle
centrally” any ‘Transaction Correction worth more than £150: this causes the value
of the Transaction Correction to be transferred to his or her personal account with
Post Office. Unless a dispute is lodged with Post Office (see below), Post Office
assumes that the Subpostmaster accepts the validity of the Transaction Correction
that has been settled centrally and will in due course pay or collect any money due to
or from the Subpostmaster. ‘This process is addressed in 30 of the operating manual
entitled “Branch Trading: balancing and dispatch of documents” (“Branch Trading
Manual’).

If the Subpostmaster wishes to query or dispute the Transaction Correction, he or she
should contact the person identified in the Transaction Correction notification. ‘This
process is identified in page 34 of the Branch Trading Manual. If, having discussed the
matter and reviewed any further information provided by the person identified, the
Subpostmaster wishes to dispute the proposed Transaction Correction, he or she
should accept it or settle it centrally and then lodge a dispute with the Post Office by
contacting the Helpline. This process, in effect, transfers the value of the
‘Transaction Correction to the Subpostmaster’s personal account with Post Office
and causes a block to be placed of the value transferred to the personal account
whilst the dispute is resolved (see paragraph [XX2134(4)] below).

9

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

‘Commented [A\
££100 keyed as £10 or £10 keyed as £100 with £90 being the
difference whether creditor debit as appropriate

VS]! This an odd ample. Mow ily tobe

e= TAV6]: Sometimes doesn’t accurately describe
‘what happened? Standard practice was (i) andor (iv).

WBD_001023.000009
40.

al.

As to paragraph 18:

0)

2

‘The first sentence is denied, Post Office does not require that a Transaction
Correction be accepted without dispute unless proven by the Subpostmaster not to

be correct.

Save for the reference to “limited” reports (as to which see paragraph [XX] above),

the second sentence is admitted. However:

(@) every Transaction Correction comes with contact details for a person at Post
Office who can provide more information and a Subpostmaster can in any

event contact the Helpline referred to below to obtain more information;

(b) depending on the subject matter of the Transaction Correction, the
Subpostmaster may hold corresponding paper records in his or her branch

which he or she can and should check; and

(© not all Transaction Corrections require further information (for example, a
‘Transaction Correction could be generated for a missing cheque and the

cheque might be found in the branch).

In paragraph 19, the Claimants combine many allegations together. Post Office separates

out and addresses those allegations in paragraphs [XX] below. In the interests of clarity

and consistency, in this Generic Defence Post Office uses the following defined terms:

0)

@

A “discrepancy” refers to any difference between (j) the actual cash and stock
position of a branch and (ii) the cash and stock position shown on Horizon as

derived from transactions input by branch staff into the branch’s terminals.

A “gain” refers to an event that causes a positive discrepancy (ie. the situation
where the branch has more cash and/or stock than the derived figures for cash
and/or stock on Horizon). For example, a Subpostmaster carrying out a bank

account withdrawal of £100 for a customer, entering that withdrawal into Horizon

but providing only £90 in cash to the customer would generate a gain of £10.

A “loss” refers to an event that causes a negative discrepancy (ie. the situation
where the branch has less cash and/or stock than the derived figures for cash and/or

stock on Horizon). For example, a Subpostmaster carrying out a bank account

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000010
42.

43.

withdrawal of £100 for a customer, entering that withdrawal into Horizon but

providing £110 in cash to the customer would generate a loss of £10.

(4) A“shortfall” refers to a negative net discrepancy at the end of a trading period (i.e.

the amount by which losses (if any) exceed gains (if any) in the period).

() A“net gain” refers to a positive net discrepancy at the end of a trading period (ie.

the amount by which gains (if any) exceed losses (if any) in the period).

toa shortfall that is attributable to errors

(0) A“Horizon-generated shortfall” ref

and/or bugs in Horizon.
Branch Trading Statements, making good and disputing shortfalls

As to the first sentence of paragraph 19, itis denied that the matters addressed in
paragraphs 19.1 to 19.3 “accentuated the importance of the accuracy of Horizon”.
Paragraph 19 addresses requirements whose purpose is to ensure the proper discharge of
the Subpostmaster’s contractual and common law duties to account to Post Office for the
transactions they entered into on its behalf and for the cash and stock it has entrusted to
their care, Such requirements are to the mutual benefit of Subpostmasters and Post Office
in that (amongst other things) they ensure the early identification and correction of any
errors and defaults relating to the transactions carried out and/or to the cash and stock

held in the branches for which the Subpostmasters are responsible.
‘These requirements are as follows:

(1) Subpostmasters are required to perform a regular “balancing process”, which
involves counting all stock and cash at their branches, comparing it with the cash and
stock indicated on Horizon and producing (and confirming) an account of the
transactions undertaken since the last balancing process and of the cash and stock
held. Initially, Subpostmasters were required to do this weekly, but since 2005, they
have been required to do so at the end of each “Branch Trading Period” (Post
Office-specified periods of 4 or 5 weeks, of which there are 12 in the year and which,

for convenience, are referred to herein as “trading periods”).

2) Where this process discloses a shortfall and the Subpostmaster accepts liability for
the shortfall, he or she is required to make it good (1) by adding cash or a cheque

from his or her own personal funds to the branch or (2) by settling it centrally. ‘This

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000011
WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

election is made on the Horizon terminal in branch. By "settling centrally", a new,
separate entry is added to the branch accounts which offsets the value of the
shortfall, thereby bringing the derived cash figure on Horizon in line with the actual
cash on hand figure. ‘The value of the shortfall is transferred to the Subpostmaster's
personal account with Post Office. Arrangements can then be made to pay off the

shortfall.

(3) Where the Subpostmaster disputes liability for the shortfall, he or she is required to
settle the shortfall centrally (thereby bringing the branch accounts into balance) and
to raise a dispute by calling the Helpline. Raising a dispute causes a block to be
placed on the value of the shortfall that has been transferred to the Subpostmaster's
personal account with Post Office. The blocked value is not (and is not treated as) a
debt due to Post Office.

(4) These processes are addressed in pages 92 -99 of the Branch Trading Manual.
Equivalent processes are followed where the Subpostmaster accepts or disputes a net
gain, with the relevant transactions being the removal of cash from the branch or the

creation of a credit on the Subpostmaster's’ personal account with Post Office.

(©) Having followed these processes, Subpostmasters are required to produce and sign a
statement setting out the quantities and values of the various receipt and payment
transactions that have been carried out in the branch during the relevant period and
the cash and stock held in the branch at the end of the trading period (called a “Cash
Account” until 2005 and a “Branch Trading Statement” from 2005). Branch
‘Trading Statements contain the following statement by the Subpostmaster: “I confirm
that the content of this balancing and trading statement is an accurate reflection of the cash amd stock.

on hand at this branch”.

(©) Abranch cannot enter (or “toll over” into) a new Branch Trading Period without

the Subpostmaster declaring to Post Office the completion of the Branch Trading

Statement as aforesaid. However, although Subpostmasters are required to produce
Branch Trading Statements at the end of each trading period, if they do not do this,
their branches can continue to trade within the previous trading period. However,

Post Office does not allow branches to do this indefinitely.

Branch Trading Statements

WBD_001023.000012
44,

45.

46.

As to paragraph 19.1, subject as set out in paragraphs [XX] above:
(1) The first and second sentences are admitted.

(2) The third and fourth sentences are denied. Paragraphs [XX] above are repeated as
regards the comparison between the derived figures for cash and stock shown on
Horizon and the actual cash and stock as counted by the Subpostmaster; paragraph

[XX] abov

cash and stock as counted; and paragraph [XX] above is repeated as regards the

is repeated as regards bringing Horizon’s figures into balance with the

ability to continue trading without entering a new trading period.
Making good

Paragraph 19.2 appears to be intended to allege that, whenever there is a shortfall between
Horizon’s figures and the cash and stock counted by the Subpostmaster: (1) unless some
special arrangement is made, the Subpostmaster is required to make good the difference;
and (2) if he or she does so by settling centrally, the amount of the shortfall is treated as a
debt due to Post Office. These allegations are specifically denied. As explained in
paragraph [XX] above (and in particular paragraph [XXJ), Post Office’s procedures provide

Subpostmasters with the opportunity to dispute liability for shortfalls.
Disputing shorfalls
As to paragraph 19.3:

(1) Itis admitted that there is no “option within Horizon” to dispute a shortfall, in the
sense that the process of raising and resolving a dispute does not take place through
the Horizon system. ‘The process for disputing a shortfall requires the dispute to be

lodged by calling the Helpline.

(2) Itis specifically denied that Subpostmasters are unable to carry out effective
investigations into the disputed amounts. So is the allegation that there were
unspecified “limitations” on Subpostmasters’ ability to access, identify and reconcile
transactions in Horizon and that Horizon had no “adequate report-writing feature”,
as to which paragraph [XX] above is repeated. As indicated in that paragraph,
Horizon provides Subpostmasters with powerful tools for searching, checking and

reviewing the transactions undertaken in the branches for which they are responsible.

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000013
@

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

‘There are provisions in Post Office’s Operating Manual as to the process for
disputing discrepancies (see, for example, pages 30 and 99 of the Branch Trading
Manual) and it is denied that these provisions give insufficient guidance regarding
that process. In any event, the process involves calling the Helpline and, if further

guidance is needed, it is available directly from the Helpline.

As to the last sentence of paragraph 19.3, itis denied that Post Office fails to carry
out any, or any fair or adequate investigations into disputed amounts. Where a
shortfall is disputed then the Claimants' first point of contact would be with the
Helpline. In the case of a Transaction Correction, the dispute would first be raised
with the individual within Post Office who issued the Transaction Correction and
then (if necessary) with the Helpline, Disputes are generally resolved at this stage, by

Post Office and Subpostmaster reaching a common understanding of the position,

does not happen, the dispute can be escalated. ‘The steps in the
escalation process, and the Post Office teams involved, have changed over time and
the specific escalation route can differ depending on the nature of each issue raised.

broad terms:

However,

(@) After it is raised with the Helpline, the issue is generally escalated to more
experienced and senior personnel within the Helpline staff (or the team issuing

the disputed Transaction Correction) for further investigation.

(b) Following this, the matter would be referred to a senior person responsible for
investigating branch matters, which is currently the Support Service Resolution
Team. This team undertakes a further investigation into the disputed amount,
seeks to identify the reason for it arising and communicates with the

Subpostmaster concerned.

(© _ If following the above investigation Post Office believes that the
Subpostmaster is liable for the shortfall or Transaction Correction but the

Subpostmaster does not accept that liability, the matter would be raised with

his or her line manager. This would then be dealt with as a contractual ‘Commented [AV7]: This implies employee status? Whilst the
‘name of this role has changed over time ~ Retail Network Manager;

management issue, and discussions would be held with the Subpostmaster Retail Line Manager; Business Development Management; Sales
janagement issue, and disc Id be held with the Subpostmaste sree sty a

about why he or she was not meeting his or her contractual obligations to Sears nee ee

make good a shortfall (or accept the Transaction Correction). ‘This role is

currently undertaken by Post Office staff known as Contract Advisors.

WBD_001023.000014
@

©

Following these discussions, Post Office can sometimes decide to terminate
the Subpostmaster's contract in accordance with its terms. In such cases, the
Subpostmaster is provided with the opportunity to seek further investigations
into the disputed amount via an appeal mechanism (for example, see section 18

of the SPMC.

satisfied

If the appeal mechanism is not followed or if the Subpostmaster is di
with the outcome of their appeal, he or she may sometimes raise any concerns

with Post Office's senior management team,

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000015
A4 Helpline
61. Paragraph 29 is admitted. Calls to the Helpline are handled in accordance with the

62.

following process

@

2

1)

@

6)

Helpline operators categorise the caller’s query using an online system (now called
“Dynamics”, previously called “Remedy”) and then provide advice by reference to
the Post Office “Knowledge Base”, an online resource which contains numerous

articles and other guidance documents on various matters (but is not scripted).

If the Knowledge Base does not contain sufficient information to allow the operator
to address the query, the next step is for the query to be escalated to a second tier of

more experienced staff.

If the second-tier adviser cannot respond in a satisfactory way to the query, he or she

may seek assistance from the relevant Post Office product team, For example,

issue relates to a lottery product, assistance could be sought from the team at Post
Office who manage the operational processes for that product. Further, where
assistance is required in relation to reviewing Horizon data then they may seek
assistance from the Support Services Resolution Team. For issues relating to the
technical operation of Horizon (e.g, a broken printer), the matter could be referred to
Post Office's IT support partner, which was originally Fujitsu and is now a company

called Atos.

If, after these steps, a satisfactory response has not been given, Post Office will
consider whether to organise a visit to the branch and/or further training for the

Subpostmaster and/or Assistant(s) concerned,

Post Office is willing and able to provide further assistance to Subpostmasters whose
problems are not addressed adequately through the Helpline. It is for any Claimant
who asserts that inadequate assistance was provided to identify, amongst other
things, the steps that he or she took to obtain further advice, assistance and/or

training.

Paragraph 30 makes allegations to which Post Office cannot meaningfully respond at the

pleaded level of generality. Post Office will respond to properly particularised claims if and

when they are made by particular Claimants, but the general thrust of the allegations is

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000016
AS

63.

2

®)

@

6)

©

‘The Helpline’s hours of operation have changed over time to meet demand and
there have been periods where the Helpline was more difficult to contact than in
other periods. It currently operates from 8am to 8pm on weekdays other than
‘Wednesdays (the usual day for branch balancing processes), 8am to 9pm on

‘Wednesdays, 8am to 6pm on Saturdays and Yam to 5pm on Sundays and most bank

holidays.
Helpline operators do not give script-based responses.

Helpline operators are not instructed to provide misleading information or advice

and they would have had no reason to do so.

Whether it is appropriate to advise a Subpostmaster that a discrepancy should sort
itself out depends on the context. For example, the branch could be awaiting a

‘Transaction Correction that should correct an issue.

Helpline operators are not instructed to encourage a Subpostmaster to produce and
confirm a Branch Trading Statement which the Subpostmaster did not believe to be
true and Post Office cannot conceive of a situation in which they would be so

instructed.

Helpline operators are not instructed (and are not in a position) to review and advise
callers as to the experience of and the incidence of particular problems suffered by all
users of Horizon or of the Helpline of as to the incidence of such problems suffered

by all such users. Post Office cannot conceive of a situation in which Hel

operators would do these things, or would have the knowledge to be able to make

such statements.

Post Office notes that, in the GPoC, the Claimants have not indicated whether and,
if so, how each of the matters alleged in paragraphs 30.1 to 30.7 is alleged to have

caused any Claimants any loss.

Investigati

Post Office cannot meaningfully respond to the allegations in paragraph 31 for the

following reasons:

(a

‘The paragraph makes allegations said to apply generally across “investigations, audits
or similar enquiry” in circumstances where investigations are fundamentally different

fa

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000017
64.

io)

@

processes (involving different Post Office personnel, procedures and guidance) from

audits and where the use of the term “similar enquiry” is embarrassing for vagueness

and (depending on what it is intended to mean) may be misleading.

‘The reference to “investigators” is misplaced and/or so ambiguous as to make the

allegations incapable of meaningful response.

‘The information and instructions that are alleged to have been provided to
“investigators” are expressed at such a high a level of generality that it is impossible
to assert a generic case as to what “investigators” were told and/or otherwise knew

in any potentially relevant period.

Post Office will, as appropriate, respond to any particularised allegations as to
specific enquiries, audits and investigations if and when such allegations are made by

particular Claimants.

Without prejudice to the foregoing:

io)

@

‘The people undertaking Post Office’s various audits, enquiries and investigations are
experienced individuals with a good knowledge of the operation of Horizon and of

the experience of Horizon users.

‘The nature of their instructions varies depending on whether they are undertaking an

audit, enquiry ot investi

ion and the reasons why they are doing so. For example:

(@) — Anaudit is a process conducted by the field support team within Post Office.

‘The people undertaking audits are not called investigators. An audit is typically

ordered where Post Office is concerned that a branch is failing properly to
account to Post Office, though some are randomly selected branches. ‘The
purpose of an audit is principally to check the level of cash and stock in a

branch; it is generally not to determine the root cause of any shortfalls.

(b) Fora wide variety of purposes (including the purposes referred to in paragraph,
[XX234] above, Post Office can make a wide variety of enquirie:

toa
branch’s operations without undertaking an audit. ‘The people undertaking

such enquiries are not called investigators.

(© Post Office has a security team whose main role is to investigate (and/or to

assist the police to investigate) suspected criminal offences. Persons in the

Is

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000018
AG

65.

66.

@

6)

security team sent to branches to carry out such investigations are often called
investigators. In many instances, their enquiries focus on suspected criminal
offences by Subpostmasters and Assistants (such as theft or rendering false
accounts), which may or may not require them to determine the root cause of a

shortfall.

None of these "investigators" were instructed to disregard possible problems with
Horizon as a possible cause of shortfalls, nor was information deliberately withheld

from them about bugs or errors in Horizon or the alleged remote alteration of data.
The alleged “organisational culture or practice” is specifically denied.

Save as aforesaid, the general thrust of paragraph 31 is denied.

Terminations

Paragraph 32 makes allegations to which Post Office cannot meaningfully respond at the

pleaded level of generality. For example, the paragraph overlooks the critical distinctions

between summary termination of appointments, termination of appointments on notice

and suspension of appointments. However:

0)

2)

@

Post Office has terminated Subpostmasters’ appointments summarily where it was of

the view that they have acted dishonestly in relation to their functions (e.g, by falsely

accounting to Post Office with a view to concealing a shortfall from it) and where i
was of the view that they were otherwise in material, irremediable and/or repudiatory

breach of their obligations;

Post Office has suspended Subpostmasters when it has suspected them of acting as

set out in sub-paragraph [(1)] above; and

Post Office has terminated Subpostmasters on notice where it did not wish continue

its relationship of principal and agent with them; but

Post Office has not terminated Subpostmasters summarily or suspended them

merely because they have challenged shortfalls or have alleged inadequacies in the

Horizon system or difficulties in interrogating data.

Regarding the importance of dishonesty in the conduct of its business, Post Office notes

that:

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000019
67.

AT

68.

(1) Clause 19.1 of the SPMC provides that dishonesty is viewed most seriously and any

Subpostmaster involved in an act of dishonesty against Post Office Ltd renders

himself liable to summary termination of his contract.

(2) Clause 3.1.2 of the NTC provides that: “The Operator shall ... act honestly at all times in
the operation of the Branch. Any failure by the Operator to comply with this clause 3.1.2 shall be

deemed to be a material breach of the Agreement which cannot be remedied”

As to paragraph 33, Post Office will respond to properly particularised claims of wrongful

termination or suspension if and when they are made.
Context and Effect on Claimants

In Section A.7 of the GPoC, the Claimants set out what they contend to be relevant
contextual matters, and these are addressed in paragraphs [XX] below. However, they
overlook the importance of false accounting to and its effect on Post Office.
Subpostmasters are obliged (a) each working day to count the cash in their branches and
make “cash declarations” to Post Office and (b) at the end of each trading period to
make Branch Trading Statements to Post Office confirming the transactions undertaken
and cash and stock held in their branches. Unless it undertakes an audit, these accounts are
Post Office's only information about the amount of cash and stock actually held in the
branch. In all cases in which a Claimant Subpostmaster makes a false cash declaration or a
false Branch Trading Statement (ie. a cash declaration or Branch ‘Trading Statement he or

she does not believe to be true):

(1) Where a shortfall is subsequently uncovered at a branch, the fact of this false
accounting invariably makes it impossible or alternatively excessively difficult for
Post Office to identify or assist in the identification of the likely cause(s) of the
shortfall. Post Office is unable to place reliance on the declarations and the branch’s
accounts in seeking to identify the date(s) on which the discrepancy (or
discrepancies) giving rise to the shortfall are likely to have arisen or the cause(s) of

the shortfall.

2) As regards any enquiries it might make into the cause(s) of a shortfall, Post Office
cannot reasonably be expected and is not obliged to devote significant resources to
investigating factual circumstances that were, as a result of false accounting,

impossible or excessively difficult properly to investigate.

Et)

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000020
69.

() Asis noted above, false accounting or other similar conduct by a Subpostmaster
represents a material, irremediable and repudiatory breach of his or her contractual
obligations entitling Post Office to terminate the Subpostmaster’s appointment

summarily. Further, whe

c Post Office suspects that a Subpostmaster is guilty of

such conduct, it is contractually entitled to suspend the Subpostmaster’s

appointment.

(4 Inrelation to any issue arising in these proceedings as to the true state of account in
the relevant branch, the Court should make all presumptions of fact against that

Subpostmaster as are consistent with the other facts as proven or admitted.

Paragraph 34 appears to address a situation where a balancing process has been undertaken
at the end of a trading period and this process has disclosed a shortfall in the cash or stock

held at the branch which is disputed by the relevant Subpostmaster. It appears to be the

Claimants’ case that, in this situation, some Claimants felt that they had no choice but (a) to

sign off Branch Trading Statements disclosing the shortfall, to accept liability for the
shortfall and to make it good by paying or crediting the relevant amount to Post Office or
(b) to sign off incorrect Branch Trading Statements which misrepresented the cash and
stock held at the branch and thereby concealed the shortfall from Post Office. Post Office
will respond to properly particularised allegations of that sort if and when they are made by

particular Claimants, However:

(1) _ Itis denied that Subpostmasters had no choice but to proceed in this way or that it
was reasonable for them to feel that they had no such choice. As indicated in
paragraphs [XX] above, Post Office’s procedures provided Subpostmasters with the
opportunity to dispute liability for shortfalls and render accurate accounts whilst any

disputed shortfall was resolved.

2) Itwould never have be:

reasonable for a Subpostmaster to sign off a Branch
‘Trading Statement — and thus to confirm to Post Office that the cash and stock
recorded by Horizon as being held at his or her branch it was correct — in
circumstances where he or she did not believe that it was true. Amongst other

things, in that situation the Subpostmaster would have:

(a) deceived Post Office as to the true level of cash and/or stock at his or her

branch, as to the true transactions undertaken at the branch in the relevant

trading period, and to the true state of his or her branch account;

2

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000021
70.

®)

@

(b) made it impossible or at least extremely difficult for anyone to identify when or

how the shortfall arose; and

(© committed (i) a material, irremediable and repudiatory breach of the contract
pursuant to which the Subpostmaster was appointed (including, amongst other
things, section 12.3 of the SPMC and/or clause 3.6 of the NTC and/or clause

12 of the Franchise Agreement), and (ji) a fundamental breach of the fiduciary

duties the Subpostmaster owed Post Office as its agent.

Asis pleaded further in paragraphs [XX] below, all Subpostmasters who signed
Branch ‘Trading Statements in that situation may not reopen the accounts that they
signed off. Alternatively, they may not now challenge, seek to avoid or seek any
relief in relation to the payment(s) made to Post Office in accordance with those
accounts (including in making good shortfalls), without pleading and proving such

accounts to be mistaken.

‘The principles referred to in sub-paragraphs [XX] applies to false cash declarations

made by the Subpostmaster to Post Office, mutatis mutandis.

Regarding paragraph 35:

@

ic)

8

@

6)

As to paragraph 35.1, paragraph [XX] above is repeated.

As to paragraph 35.2, the Horizon system did not allow a Subpostmaster to roll his

or her branch over into a new trading period until he or she had signed off and

submitted to Post Office a branch account for the previous trading period

As to paragraph 35.3, Subpostmasters were contractually required to use the Horizon
system but that system did not require them to roll over into a new trading period:
that requirement was contractual, being contained in "A Quick Guide to Balancing -
Reconciling your Cash and Stock with Horizon" and page 93 of the Branch Trading

Manual.
Paragraph 35.4 and 35.5 are denied and paragraphs [XX] above are repeated.

As to paragraph 35.6, at this generic level, Post Office cannot admit or deny what
any Claimants may have hoped. However, Post Office denies (if it be alleged) that it
advised or encouraged Claimants to believe that it was appropriate to sign off

incorrect Branch Trading Statements and thereby deceive Post Office.

2

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000022
n.

72.

©

0)

As to

()

)

8

As to paragraph 35.7, at this generic level, Post Office cannot admit or deny any
Claimant's individual financial circumstances. However, Post Office denies (if it be
alleged) that a desire to ensure that a Subpostmaster’s appointment is not terminated

justifies rendering false accounts to and deceiving Post Office.
Subparagraph 35.8 is denied and paragraph [XX] below is repeated.
paragraph 36:

‘The act of intentionally submitting false accounts is, of itself, a dishonest act.

In some circumstances (for example where a Subpostmaster refuses to give any
explanation for possible root cause of a shortfall in his or her branch), it is an

appropriate inference that, where the Subpostmaster has deliberately rendered false
accounts, he or she has done so in order to cover up some dishonest conduct (such

as theft).

It is denied that it was unfair, flawed or irrational to infer dishonesty from the
submission of false accounts, ‘The natural inference from an agent’s decision to
render false accounts to his principal is that the agent wishes to deceive his principal
and conceal a shortfall in his accounts. Rendering false accounts is a breach of the

fundamental duty of loyalty owed by an agent to his principal.

Paragraph 37 is denied. In particular:

0)

@

8)

@

©)

©

Post Office did not exert illegitimate pressure on Claimants.

Post Office did not exert “unfair” pressure on Claimants (whatever that means).

It is not clear to Post Office what it is alleged to have done that constitutes economic

duress exerted or unconscionable dealing by Post Office, but in any event (a) Post
Office denies that it exerted economic duress on Claimants and (b) Post Office

denies that it is guilty of unconscionable dealing with Claimants.
Post Office denies that it was in material breach of contract.
Post Office denies it wrongfully failed to disclose material facts.

Post Office does not understand and cannot address the relevance of the legal

concepts pleaded in paragraph 37 to any cause of action asserted by the Claimants.

a

WBONO0001 153
WBON0001153

WBD_001023.000023
WBON0001153
WBON0001153

However, it denies that these legal concepts can be invoked so as to justify false

accounting of the sort described in paragraphs [XX] above.

WBD_001023.000024
