From: Rodric Williams {~

WBONO000741
WBON0000741

To: "Parsons, Andrew")

GRO_

Subject: RE: Spot Review summary

Date: Thu, 27 Jun 2013 14:37:40 +0000

Importance: Normal

Inline-Images: image001 jpg; image002.png; image003.png; image004.png; image005.png;
image006.gif; image010.gif; image011.png; image012.jpg; image013.jpg; image014.jpg

Perfect Andy - thanks

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer,

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

Post Office stories

@postofficenews

©O0®OGO®

From: Parsons, Andrew
Sent: 27 June 2013 14:05

To: Rodric Williams

Subject: Spot Review summary
Rodric

As discussed.

Kind regards

Andy

Spot Issue Response

Review No.

1 What happens when there is a The in-branch terminal has a back-up and recovery
communications failure between a system that prevents there being an discrepancies or
branch and POL's servers? errors in the event of a communication or power failure.

5 SPMR claims to have witnessed a The Fujitsu employee only had access to a test version
Fujitsu employee manipulating live of Horizon which had no physical or technological
Horizon data. connection to live Horizon data.

6 Can transactions be logged against an On suspension a SPMR's user ID is automatically
SPMR's user ID after they are revoked preventing any further transactions against that
suspended? ID. The Horizon records show that the user ID of the

SPMR submitting this SR was revoked in accordance
with this standard practice.

10 Could a power failure cause Horizon to The Horizon logs for the particular events raised in this
print duplicate postage labels? SR do not show any additional labels being printed.

Further, those logs show that there was no power failure
at this particular branch during the period under review.

11 SPMRs cannot follow an audit trail for SPMRs will have a complete audit trail of all Giro
Giro transactions. transactions if they retain the automatically printed

WBD_000611.000001

WBONO000741

WBON0000741
receipts and reports produced by Horizon. Standard
operating procedures clearly require SPMRs to retain
these documents.

12 SPMRs are liable for lost cheques even POL absorbs the cost of all lost cheques that cannot be
though the root cause of the loss is explained. The cost of a lost cheque is only passed to
never explained. an SPMR where (1) there is clear evidence that the

SPMR has failed to follow proper remittance processes
and (2) POL has exhausted all other possibilities of
recovering the missing cheque.

In any event, this SR does not raise any issue with
Horizon.

13 SPMR was charged for a TV licence due I Due to the incident occurring in 2005, POL no longer has

to the loss of a cheque. records to investigate this matter. However, from the
information provided by the SPMR it does not appear
that the SPMR has suffered a loss.
In any event, this SR does not raise any issue with
Horizon.

21 Does Horizon make automatic stock Horizon does not make automatic stock adjustments.
adjustments that are hidden from This functionality does not exist in Horizon. The raw
SPMRs? Horizon data shows that all the stock adjustments

questioned in this SR were logged against the SPMR's
user ID.

22 Are remittances of Lottery Scratch Cards I The scratch card discrepancy raised in this SR was

into Horizon incorrectly recorded? caused by the SPMR retaining incomplete paper
records. The raw Horizon data shows that all remittance
transactions were recorded correctly.

23 Can spoilt postage transactions be All spoilt postage transactions are logged against the ID
logged against a user's ID even if that of the user who is logged into Horizon. The raw Horizon
user does not conduct those data shows that all the transactions questioned in this
transactions? SR were logged in branch.

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

kinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential a
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rodric,williams!

Tonly is authorised to

privileged and protected by law. rodrie. william:
please notify andrew,parsonst

's soon as possible and delete any

copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this Communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful,
Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or
damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

WBD_00061 1.000002

WBONO000741
WBON0000741

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

stered
nber

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our r
office is St Ann’s Wharf, 112 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where alist of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a
of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

WBD_00061 1.000003
