WBONO000659
WBON0000659

From: Rob Smith
To: 'Amy Prime’; _ GRO .
Ce: Andrew Parsons! GRO I Tom Beezer! GRO

Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation - Appeal [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2019 14:57:39 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png
Dear Amy,

Thank you for the below.

David has spoken to Lord Neuberger and has provided some documents for him to review. They are also
meeting again tomorrow.

I will get back to you about timescale and fees asap.

In relation to Lord Grabiner. I will of course make a note that you have first refusal on his time and I have
mentioned this matter to him. He is interested but it will all depend on when the application is needed. If it is
at a critical stage in his current preparation or significantly close to his trial we may need to reassess.

I will be in touch.

Kind regards

Rob

Robert Smith

www.oeclaw.co.uk

From: Amy Prime:

Sent: 12 March
To: Rob Smith

Direct dial:
Switchboard:
Mobile:

WBD_000529.000001
WBONO000659
WBON0000659

Ce: Andrew Parsons

Subject: Post Office Group Litigation - Appeal [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Hi Rob

Further to our discussion, Post Office would like to instruct Lord Neuberger to:

Provide advice on the merits of a recusal application and whether such an application should be made.

If the answer to (1) is that Post Office should make a recusal application, then please could Post Office be advised on
the process and procedure for making a recusal application, and the approach that the Court would take in
determining such a matter.

Provide an opinion on the appeal of contractual issues and the implication of terms.

Questions (1) and (2) are more urgent and we would appreciate if this advice could be provided before (3). Once Lord
Neuberger has had an opportunity to consider the papers, it would be appreciated if he could provide estimated
timings for the advice being produced and confirm fee estimates.

Electronic reading bundles will follow shortly, with hard copies to be couriered to One Essex Court. In the meantime,
please could you could discuss with David Cavender QC providing a verbal briefing to Lord Neuberger.

In relation to Lord Grabiner QC, as discussed please could Lord Grabiner QC be placed onto a first right of refusal for
the potential to attend on behalf of Post Office at a recusal hearing. Please could this arrangement be put in place up
until his trial which begin on 30 April 2019. If availability does become an issue, please could you let either Andy, Tom
or me know. It would be appreciated if this arrangement could be confirmed by email?

If there are any questions on the above, please let me know.

Kind regards

Amy

Amy Prime
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP.

‘Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

WBD_000529.000002
WBONO000659
WBON0000659

Join us for Disrupting Disputes 2.0
20 March 2019 at the British Library

Book your place here

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com

BOND
DICKINSON ID)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

‘The information in this e-mail and any attachmet I and may be legally privil ted by law. gsmithf "GRO" only is authorised to a this
e-mail and any attachments. If you are not rsmit please notify amy.prim« {as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised u
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how we use personal data is in

our Privacy Policy on our website

Any 1ed to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LL
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

-epts no liability for

Content of this email which does not rel

to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

's under number 0C317661. Our registered
artner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership r
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspe
employee o consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

din England and
jon. We use the term

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separ entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. P
www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

WBD_000529.000003
