WBONO0000704
WBON0000704

From: Anthony de Garr Robinson <{.
To: 'Andrew Parsons' <
Ce: Katie Simmonds <. }

GR __..P» Owain Draper

Subject: RE: Worden 3 [WBDUK-AC.FID 123887118]
Date: Mon, 8 Apr 2019 10:15:03 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png

Jonathan Gribben

Dear Andy,

I’m not surprised. I imagine that, if we serve a Worden 3, the claimants will claim that we are acting
tactically — they may even link it to our recusal application (but for that application, there would not have
been time for RW to wrestle with these questions etc).

There is no problem-free way of addressing this issue. Even if we tell him not to, RW takes the view that as
an independent expert he is obliged to tell the parties and the court that his view has changed on material
matters. I’ve asked Owain (to whom I have copied this email) whether the exercises that RW has (half) done
and the conclusions to which he thinks they lead count as changes of view requiring the parties and the court
to be told pursuant to para 2.5 of PD35. If they do, the matter is out of our hands, and the question becomes
whether the parties and the court should be told via a supplemental report or in a more subtle way, maybe via
meetings between the experts and joint statements following those meetings. But even if they don’t, RW
will discuss these things when taxed in cross examination, and the fact that he is only doing so then will
create its own problems, both for him and for us. I suspect that the “change of view” question isn't clear
either way, which makes our situation even more awkward. I doubt that RW would agree to say nothing in
that situation, even if we instructed him to, and I also doubt that we would feel safe in giving such an
instruction.

It seems to me that his ever-expanding views as to the number of Horizon bugs which were branch-affecting
do count as changes of view, but that could probably be addressed in the course of the expert meeting that
the experts have agreed to have anyway.

I share the instinct not to say anything until judgment in the recusal application, but as I think Owain pointed
out at our con with RW on Friday, if the parties and the court are to be told of RW’s changes of view, this
needs to be done sooner rather than later. Putting the point another way, the later we leave it, the easier it
will be for the claimants to portray it as tactical.

Best wishes,

Tony

WBD_000574.000001
WBONO0000704
WBON0000704

From: Andrew Parsons <_
Sent: 07 April 2019 21:16
To: Anthony de Garr Robinson <
Katie Simmonds <
GRO >

Subject: Worden 3 [WBDUK-AC.FID 123887118]

>; Jonathan Gribben

Tony

Worden 3 has gone down like a lead balloon at PO. I will work through the problem tomorrow. The one firm
instruction I have is that nothing should happen on this until after the recusal outcome on Tuesday. PO (Rodric) wants
to understand the lie of the land before making decisions.

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP.

Manage your e-alert preferences

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com

DICKINSON O®

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

‘The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confi
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not arobinsort
use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communic:
is in our Privacy Policy on our website

privileged and prote

please notify andrew.parsonsf

jon or attachments is prohibited and mi

arobinsorf nly is authorised to a
iis soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised
‘Be unlawful. Information about how we use personal data

hed to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus det
which may be caused by software viruses and you should

Any file:
any loss or dam

ction software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
ry out your own virus checks before opening any

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in F
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393

ind and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
jon. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson.comvlegal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

WBD_000574.000002
WBONO0000704
WBON0000704

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

WBD_000574.000003
