From: "Defence Legal (Chris Jay)"

To: Andrew Parsons + GRO
i GRO +, Godeseth Torstein
GRO }
Ce: Amy Prime { GRO}
Subject: RE: Legally Privileged - Access to Information
Date: Mon, 5 Mar 2018 11:31:33 +0000

Importance: Normal

Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png; image004.png; image005.png;

image006.png; image007.png

Newsome Pete

WBON0001966
WBON0001966

Andrew,

Thank you for this.

I will liaise with the team on the points you raise/your proposed action plan, and we will revert as soon as we

can.
Best Regards

Christopher Jay, Senior Counsel

FUJITSU

Jays Close, Viables Business Park, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG22 4BY

or internally

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

I fF, OR winI

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children.

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Andrew Parsons [mailto:
a 05 March 2018 10: 04

b Newsome Pete

SRO.

Subject: Access to Information

All

WBON0001966
WBON0001966

Thank you for your time on the call yesterday. Please find below a summary of the actions:

Known Error Log

FJ to confirm that the NDAs in place are broad enough to cover disclosure of the KEL to the Cs solicitors and Jason
Coyne.

FJ to consider and discuss with WBD any concerns about whether a waiver / confirmation is required from Post
Office's Information Security team to enable FJ to disclose the KEL.

WBD and Freeths to discuss how the KEL is placed into the Court record and protections to be put in place.

FJ to confirm the number of historic KEL entries and provide time and costs estimates for extracting all entries.

Unfiltered transaction and event data
FJ to confirm time and costs estimates for extracting 400 months of unfiltered transaction data.

WBD and FJ to discuss the other data which is available in Horizon.

It would be appreciated if 1, 2, 4 & 5 could be finalised during the course of this week so as we progress the
discussions with the Claimants.

Kind regards

Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com.
BOND
DICKINSON ¥0O

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential y privileged and protected by Jamlenal.detence(@, nly is authorised to
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not legal.defey please notify andrew,parsor {as soon as possible and delete any copies.
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawfial

sched to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for

amage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out yourown virus checks before opening any attachment,
