WBONO001256
WBON0001256

From: Andrew Parsons. «GRO.
To: Chris Emery ¢

Ce:

Subject: RE:
Date: Sat, 30 Jun 2018 09:49:48 +0000
Importance: Normal

Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png; image004.png; image018c68.PNG;
image7c67da.PNG; image7522f4.PNG

Chris

Thanks — this sounds productive.

Our approach is that you will get everything (documents and information) that Coyne has. If we miss something, then
that is just a mistake by us so please call us out on it.

The same will obviously not be true the other way around — your and Robert's requests for information are privileged.
That said, to the extent possible we will look to ensure parity between the experts and but clearly this will not be
possible at all times due to the need for you and Robert to work behind a shield of privilege until your report is filed.

Kind regards

Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP.

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON ¥®

From: Chris Emery
Sent: 29 June 2018 12:27
To: Jonathan Gribben

WBD_001126.000001
WBONO001256
WBON0001256

Cc: robert worden i Andrew Parsons; Lucy Bremner
Subject: RE: PEAK and TFS Inspections [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Jonny

Overall yesterday went well. We achieved all of our objectives and learned a great deal about Peak and TfS.
We can consider those systems well and truly inspected! It was particularly useful to meet Mark Wright,
who has been supporting Horizon since the year 2000. His knowledge of the system is broad, and deep in
places. Ata later stage, we think it might be important to confirm with him our interpretation of Peaks and
KELs. As Robert said though, the value of the meeting was overlaid with a decent helping of Coynery.

We spent almost two hours with Sandie on TfS and three with Mark on Peak. Jason led the questioning and
asked for a lot of detail. In the afternoon, he went through a list of Peaks (and we asked to see a few). Pete
seemed to be trying to steer Jason, without appearing uncooperative. Jason followed threads of inquiry, for
instance asking the meaning of individual codes. One of the Peaks referred to release notes and he started to
ask about that, but Pete and Mark resisted on the grounds that they know very little about the subject.

FJ confirmed that both Peak and TfS entries can be exported and shared with the experts. We will need to
agree lists of references. Robert is expecting to receive one from Jason later today.

We discussed a number of specific requests for Fujitsu, but agreed that they all need to be in writing and
routed via you and Pete. The meeting was attended by Dave Ibbett, an experienced FJ Project Manager who
is helping Pete to respond to all of the various requests he receives. Peter stressed a few times how busy
they are.

Here are the first two requests: please supply lists of TfS classification codes and Peak call types (with
meanings). More generally, is there any reason why information disclosed to Jason could not be shared
automatically with us from now? As well as giving us access to the same documents as him, it would show
how his approach is evolving.

We look forward to hearing from you soon

Chris

From: Jonathan Gribben +
Sent: 29 June 2018 1 :
To: robert worden j _ GRO +; Chris Emery
Ce: Andrew Parsons < ; Lucy Bremner +
Subject: PEAK and TFS Inspections [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Robert, Chris,

WBD_001126.000002
WBONO001256
WBON0001256

How did it go yesterday? Did you find it useful? Was there any Conynery that you think we should be aware of?

Kind regards

Jonny

Jonathan Gribben
Managing Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP.

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

é
i=
ecxurtco
DICKINSON biti

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information inthis e-mail and any attachments is confjdentiaL aul may be legally privileged and protested-bylasuchyjs.eme only is authorised to access.
this emai and any attachments If you are not chi.eme }please notyjanthnenbbed I GRO fs soon as possible a delete any copies
personal data is in our pana Policy on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing, Our VAT registration number is GB12339362

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
. the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

services in the US

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

WBD_001126.000003
