WBONO000177
WBON0000177

From: Thomas P Moran

To: Andrew Parsons Jane MacLeod

GRO +, Mark Underwood1

: Rodric Williams Amy Prime ¢
}, Jonathan Gribben < ~~ "Lucy Bremner"
GRO.

Subject: RE: URGENT: CMC on Friday [BD-4A.FID26896945]
Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2018 15:44:59 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png

Andy

Thanks for this. A very clear summary of what’s a very complex issue.

On the basis of the information set out, I fully support your recommendation.

Items 1, 2 and 4 seem to me to be further applications of the principles we have established through the SG,
albeit implicitly, of being constructive, helpful and reasonable.

Item 3 is different. I would be completely opposed to the request under Item 3 for the reasons you have
outlined below but also because, to a non-expert, this feels far more to me like the kind of activity that would
be done by either the police in investigating a crime, or in court once people are called as witnesses. It would
be disrupting and unsettling to our business and the people involved and, as you say we are justified in
disputing it, I agree we should.

I’m hopeful that my views will be consistent with others and we can therefore instruct you on this basis.
Mark — please can you let me know asap if not as we would need to have an urgent discussion if so.

Regards

Tom

From: Andrew Parsons [mailto:
Sent: 16 April 2018 14:55

} Thomas P Moran
ark Underwood 1 + GRO
Ce: Rodric Williams { 7 GRO Amy Prime + _GRO

ext

WBD_000047.000001
WBONO000177
WBON0000177

Jonathan Gribben {~~ - 5 Lucy Bremner {
Subject: URGENT: CMC on Friday [BD-4A.FID26896945]

Jane, Tom, Mark

We have a CMC scheduled for Friday that is principally focused on whether any further Orders are needed for the
Horizon Issues trial. This email sets out our proposed plan of action, as already discussed with Mark. I apologise but
this requires your urgent input.

Decision

Do you support the approach below?

Background

The starting point is to note that POL does not need any further Court Orders in relation to the Horizon Issues trial —
we can give our expert, Robert, whatever he needs from POL and FJ voluntarily. It is the Cs who need further Orders
to compel POL to handover information. The CMC on Friday is therefore very much about further Court Orders against
POL.

Last Wednesday, we met with the Cs expert, Jason Coyne, to discuss what further documents and information he
needed. Prior to this meeting, we had heard nothing from Freeths on the further Court Orders they wanted. We spent
about 5 hours going through each of the Horizon Issues, with Jason setting out the lines of enquiry that he would like
to explore. This was actually quite useful, although it highlighted the extremely wide approach the Cs are adopting. It
was agreed that Jason would produce a matrix setting out his lines of enquiry and what documents / information he
would like in relation to each of them. At the meeting, both sides thought that a CMC on Friday would be premature as
there was a sensible way forward on the table that might be agreed if given a little more time. It was agreed that we
would to take instructions on adjourning the CMC for 4-6 weeks.

On Friday, we received the attached letter from Freeths, in which they changed their position, did not provide the
agreed matrix and made various requests for information and documents. It now looks as if the CMC will go ahead on
Friday.

Options

POL's options are:

1. Refuse all requests for documents / information. Not recommended — its overwhelming clear that further
information on Horizon is needed, it's a question of how much and how to deliver it.

2. Seek to adjourn the CMC — Not recommended — our judge does not like delay and this will look obstructive.

3. Provide what is reasonable — Recommended — POL provides what it considers reasonable in the
circumstances and stands it grounds on the unreasonable requests.

WBD_000047.000002
Freeths position v our position

WBONO000177
WBON0000177

CMC Issue

Freeths position

Our recommended position

1. Freeths want more documents
from POL

Wide requests for lots of documents

Re-draft the requests so that they
are narrower following the strategy
adopted at previous CMCs and then
agree to give those narrower
classes of document.

Only oppose requests that are
plainly unreasonable.

2. Access to FJ systems

Freeths want access to the "PEAK"
system and FJ's "change
management" systems

Agree to this so long as it is done in
controlled circumstances. This is
similar to the access we provided
previously for the Known Error Log.

Position to be confirmed with FJ.

3. Access to people / further
information

Freeths want to gather further
information by interviewing POL
and FJ staff.

This should be opposed.

Instead, POL should offer to
respond in writing to any
reasonable requests for information.

See further below.

4. Information from Claimants

Freeths do not want to provide any
further information from the
Claimants.

Seek an Order that the Cs need to
explain the general trends of
problems they encountered with
Horizon so to narrow future
requests for documents /
information to targeted issues.

The key issue is number 3 above — giving Freeths direct access to FJ and POL employees.

Freeths will say that direct interviews are the most efficient way to proceed.

We believe this approach creates a major risk for POL. Allowing FJ to speak freely to Freeths would give us (i) no
control over the message and (ii) allow Freeths to go on an uncontrolled fishing expedition. In my experience, FJ will

WBD_000047.000003

WBONO000177
WBON0000177

(accidentally) say something unhelpful.

This request is quite unusual. Typically, further information is provided in writing, either by way of further documents
or witness statements. Indeed, there is a Court rule that expressly deals with providing further information in writing to
experts. That said, Freeths request is not so unreasonable that it would be automatically dismissed by the Court.

We suspect that this issue will be highly contentious and will make it impossible to reach any agreement before the
CMC on Friday. There is a serious risk that Freeths will paint POL as being obstructive (particularly as we will be
giving Robert direct access to FJ). Nevertheless, the dangers of allowing FJ and POL staff to talk to Freeths is very
high. Our recommendation is that POL contests this access, even if it puts us offside with the Judge.

To try to counteract the impression that POL is being obstructive, we would recommend that POL generously (but
within sensible bounds) discloses more Horizon documents and gives the Cs expert direct access to certain systems
(but not people).

Next steps

The CMC is on Friday. We will need to file skeleton arguments by cob on Wednesday. We therefore need to respond
to Freeths by midday tomorrow at the latest, hence we need instructions asap.

Counsel has approved the above approach and so has our expert. We are speaking to FJ at 10am tomorrow.
Please do feel free to call with any questions. If you would like a con call to discuss, please let me know.

Kind regards

Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

" GRO

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON ¥®

WBD_000047.000004
WBONO000177
WBON0000177

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this,

mail and any attachments is confidential

sd and protected by law. thomas,

of this communication or attachments is prohibited and

Jonly is authorised to

moran”

access this e-mail and a

attachments. If you are not thomas.p.moranf
, dissemination, distribution, publication or copyin;

is soon as possible and delete any

copies. Unauthorised u: ay be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for

any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before openit fachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

‘This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership reg
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standi stration number is GB12339362;

gistered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
spection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

JACI O CIOS AIO ICES CIO O I TOO O I TORI IOI O IO IOI TORI AAR AAI AA IAA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Jee edcicidideci dia iidci ioieok iaidciciiceciciciceick idcicickiddek icici idkdciccdek k acai dk

WBD_000047.000005
