WBON0000773
WBON0000773

From: "Hunter, Tracy X (UK - Bristol)
To: "Andrew.Parsons(_ — GRO. _ - : !
Ce: "Hill, Greg (UK - Bristol)" I GRO }, "Smith, Adam (UK - Birmingham)'

Subject: Proposal document
Date: Thu, 18 Jul 2013 16:54:01 +0000
Importance: Normal
Attachments: Post_Office_Ltd_-_Proposal_Document.pdf

Hi Andy

Please find attached our proposal document for Post Office Ltd. Once again thank you very much for this
opportunity and for thinking of us. If you do have a look at the document, please let me know if we need to add or
change anything, we would welcome your thoughts.

I have copied Greg in as I am out of the office all day tomorrow, if you do have any suggested changes, Greg can
deal with those and resend the document.

Also, please let me know if you think they would prefer a printed and bound document and we can arrange for that
to be couriered to them tomorrow.

Otherwise, I will leave for you to send the attached pdf across to them.

Any questions, just give me a shout,

Thanks
Tracy

Tracy Hunter
Director IDeloitte Forensic

Deloitte LLP

3 Rivergate, Temple Quay, Bristol. BS1 6GD.

5 Callaghan Square, Cardiff CF10 5BT

Abbots House, Abbey Street, Reading, RG1 3BD

Del
for the latest financial services research and insight

Please consider the environment before printing,
Privileged & Confidential - Subject to Attorney Work Product and Attorney Client Privilege

PORTANT NOTICE

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C303675. Its registered office is
2, New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL"), a UK
private company limited by guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed
description of the legal structure of DTTL and its member firms,

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient{s). If you are not the
intended recipient(s), please (1) notify it ecurity.uké by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure,
distribution, copying or use of this communication is strictly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses,
All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended
recipient(s) to the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

WBD_000643.000001
WBON0000773
WBON0000773

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by
it.

WBD_000643.000002
