WBONO000958

WBON0000958
From: "Parsons, Andrew" } i
To: Patrick Bourke <__
Leena GRO
Ce: Steve Allchorn { GRO.
Subject: RE: Request for help in respect of the Chairman's report: Subject to Legal Privilege [BD-

4A.FID20472253]
Date: Wed, 10 Feb 2016 09:46:57 +0000
Importance: Normal
Attachments: _DOC_32303427(1) Helpline Complaints -_2nd_Review.DOCX
Inline-Images: image001 jpg; image002.jpg; image003 jpg

Patrick

Please find attached the updated schedule of helpline complaints which now includes (i) comments on helplines from
the POIRs and CRRs and (ii) NBSC call refs where available.

I think the cases to focus on are M007, M045 and M144 where there are direct allegation of incompetence in the
helpline staff (allegations are highlighted in green).

The next step is to identify the call handlers at NBSC from the call ref numbers. The call logs I have seen don't show
the name of the call handler. I suspect this info needs to be pulled from the call logging system in NBSC. If we can
help with this, please let me know but I suspect that this is probably an internal job for POL.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Patrick Bourke [mailto:
Sent: 01 February 2016 10:32"
To: Parsons, Andrew; Mark Underwood=}

Cc: Steve Allchorn

Subject: RE: Request for help in respect of the Chairman's report: Subject to Legal Privilege [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Dear Andy
Long time etc — hope you’re well.

Many thanks for this and I agree with your recommendations and we will, please, take you up on the paralegal
support to perform 1 and 2.

Best wishes

Patrick

WBD_000828.000001
WBONO000958
WBON0000958

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailto; _ GRO. ]

Sent: 01 February 2016 09:49

To: Mark Underwood

Cc: Patrick Bourke; Steve Allchorn

Subject: RE: Request for help in respect of the Chairman's report: Subject to Legal Privilege [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Mark
Please find attached a schedule showing those cases where a specific helpline complaint has been made.
16 of the cases provide sufficiently detailed information to allow a further investigation (highlighted in green).

11 more cases elude to a call happening in a particular week or month from which one could probably try to find the
details of the call from the POL call logs but this could require a lot of extra work (highlighted in yellow).

I would just look at the green cases as the yellow ones will require a degree of guesswork to identify the exact call. I
would also only look for calls to NBSC as I suspect POL will not have access to the HR records of employees on the
HSD (as this was operated by Fujitsu; now ATOS).

In terms of next steps, my suggestion would be:

1. Review the NBSC call logs for each green case to try to identify any relevant NBSC call reference ID numbers.

2. For each identified call, review the POIR and CRR to determine what has been said about these calls / issues
already.

3. From the call ref number POL should then be able to identify the call handler at NBSC and can make enquiries
about those call handlers.

I can offer some paralegals to help conduct 1 and 2 above if that would help.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Managing Associate

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin)

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Mark Underwood} [mailto} GRO
Sent: 26 January 2016 09:34
To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Patrick Bourke; Steve Allchorn

Subject: Request for help in respect of the Chairman's report: Subject to Legal Privilege
Importance: High

Hi Andy,
I just tried to call but went through to your voicemail so, in the first instance, I thought I would send you a note.

As I think you are aware, the Chairman has now received the report from Jonathan Swift QC. This report contains a
number of recommendations, including for us to:

“cross reference specific complaints about misleading advice from NBSC call-handlers with the possible employees

who provided that advice and consider their personnel files, where available, for evidence as to the likelihood that
the complaint may be well founded”.

WBD_000828.000002
WBONO000958
WBON0000958

Our proposal to address this, as agreed with Jonathan, is for those Applicants who raised complaints in respect of
helpline:

e — Identify those who have particularised their complaint e.g. given a specific date
e Cross reference these calls against the call handler who would have taken the call

eCheck these call handlers PDRs to see if they had had any complaints made against them, in respect of the
advice they were providing.

Where we need your help, or rather your team of paralegal’s, is for them to trawl through the 107 cases that make
complaints in respect of the helpline (see column N of the attached spread sheet) and identify those which have
actually made particularised complaints rather than just generic ones.

As this is for the Chairman, we would like this done ASAP. When do you think you would be able to provide this
analysis by?

Mark

Mark Underwood
Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

JESS SSS SS SOE ODS DESDE OS IS ISDS SSSI SISSIES SSIS IESG n Eason or
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Zs SSE SSSA SISSIES I SIES IESG ARI SCIISIACI EAC ICK AIG I IK A aaa acai ok ok ac ako

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

patrick bourke(

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law “only is authorised to

} please notify andrewparsonsi

munication or attachments i

access this e-mail and any possible and delete any

achments. If you are not patrick bourke,
copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or 6

be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or
damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office is 4 More

London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or
consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors R

lation Authority,

WBD_000828.000003
