WBONO001192
WBON0001192

From: "Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)" ¢ GRO. }
To: "mark.underwood1i GRO _
Ce: Andrew Parsons < GRO : +, Jonathan Gribben
a GRO. _
Subject: Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege - DRAFT Bramble Report Phases 1-
4

Date: Fri, 1 Sep 2017 10:24:12 +0000
Importance: Normal

Attachments: Bramble_Report_DRAFT_01092017_-_Private_and_Confidential_-
_Subject_to_Legal_Privilege.pdf

Hello Mark,
Please find attached the draft Bramble report for Phases 1-4 as promised.
Thanks,

Mark

Mark Westbrook

Senior Manager I Risk Advisory I Deloitte LLP
P O Box 500, 2 Hardman Street, Manchester,
D: M GRO

M60 2AT, United Kingdom

T Winw-delsittE. co.uk

IMPORTA

NO’

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C30367S. Its registered office is 2
New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom affiliate of Deloitte NWE LLP, a member firm of Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”). DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL
and Deloitte NWE LLP do not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte,com/about to learn more about our global network of member firms,

This communication contains information which is confidential and may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipients). If you are not the
intended recipient(s), please notify itsecurity.ull ind destroy this message immediately. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be
secure or free from error or viruses. All emails sent to or from 4 @deloitte.co.uk email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the
European Union.

Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended recipient(s) to the extent agreed in
a Deloitte LLP engagement contract.

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by
it.

WBD_001062.000001
