WBONO0000137
WBON0000137

Lucy Bremner
i

Jonathan Gribbe:
Subject: FW: KELs - query [WBDUK-AC.FID27103746]
Date: Tue, I Oct 2019 14:37:35 +0000
Importance: Normal

Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png; image7b926d.PNG; imagel5b409.PNG;
image05f2a9.PNG

All

Notes below from my call with Matthew Lenton:

e When FJ revise the contents of an existing KEL they would not overwrite the KEL but take a copy of the
KEL, make the changes and save as a new document. The previous versions of the KELs would be kept for
version control and sit underneath [ie. how new versions in WBD's filesite works]

e The previous versions are held in the same database as the latest version of the KELs. They are not
actively archived off to a different location.

« When providing us with the documents for disclosure, FJ just extracted the latest version of each KEL.

« Without doing some further investigations, FJ do not know whether all sequential KEL versions are there.

o Current and deprecated KELS should have previous versions but would need to double-check

o Deleted KELs were flattened, meaning that the previous versions which were held under the latest
version were "knocked out".

e Matthew did not remember FJ reviewing the wording previously which Lucy had sent to him and asked
whether this was FJ drafting. I confirmed that it had been drafted by WBD and reviewed by FJ. [I did not
bring up the EDQ point, this was raised by Matthew]

Matthew thinks that the extraction of the previous versions of the KELs may be a large task and take a
couple of days, requiring a new script to be produced.

Thanks

A

WBD_000007.000001
WBONO0000137
WBON0000137

Amy Prime
Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

d:
m:
itt
e:

Sign up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON i) (in)

From: Matthew.Lenton( ~ GRO

Sent: 01 October 2
To: Lucy Bremner
Ce: pete.newsome > Amy amy.primet...
<andrew.parsons¢__ ; Jonathan Gribben <jonathan.gribben{—
Torstein.O.Godeseth} GRO ; ParkerSPé GRO
Subject: RE: KELs - query [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

; Andrew Parsons

Lucy,

This part: “/t/he KEL only contains the current database entries’— I’m not completely clear what that is
intended to mean, but it may be clarified by the following:

This is correct: “is constantly updated and so the current version will not necessarily reflect the version that
was in place at the relevant time”

The second sentence is not correct: “The previous entries / versions of the current entries are no longer
available".

You may recall that there are three status categories of KEL: current, deprecated and deleted. For those that
are current or deprecated, they have been updated in such a way that previous content is not permanently
overwritten, but instead a new version is created, with the previous versions being retained and accessible.
For those that have been deleted, only the last version at the point of deletion has been retained.

Matthew Lenton
Document Manager

Post Office Account

Fujitsu

WBD_000007.000002
WBONO0000137
WBON0000137

Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN

Web: https:/www fujitsu.com/globall

From: Lucy Bremner
Sent: Monday, September 30, 2019 6:37 PM
To: Lenton, Matthew ¢
Ce: Newsome, Pete
Parsons
Subjec'

‘Amy Prim
oe jonathan Gribben {7
KELs - query [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Matthew,

Post Office is seeking to quote from its Electronic Documents Questionnaire submitted back in 2017. It is seeking to
rely on the following quote in relation to KELs:

"(t]he KEL only contains the current database entries and is constantly updated and so the current version
will not necessarily reflect the version that was in place at the relevant time. The previous entries / versions
of the current entries are no longer available".

Can you confirm that this is definitely the correct position (i.e. that previous entries are no longer available)? We need
to respond to Freeths by 10am tomorrow, so confirmation ASAP would be appreciated.

Kind regards,

Lucy

Lucy Bremner
Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Sign up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON @) (in)

WBD_000007.000003
WBONO0000137
WBON0000137

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not matthew.lentor{™
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying «
personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website.

nly is authorised to
soon a possible and delete any copies.

-d and protected by law. matthew lentot
please notify lucy.bremner™
ication or attachments is profil

ay be unlawful, Information about how we use

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

ind and Wales under number 0C317661. Our
use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in E tered
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. \

employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No
96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker
Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu
Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes
Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and
may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it
is virus-free.

WBD_000007.000004
