From:
To:

a
ig

Subject:

Date:
Importance:
Inline-Images:

WBONO0000461
WBON0000461

"pete.newsom¢
"Parsons, Andrew’
"Rodric Williams ¢ GRO i
<_. GRO
"Michael.Harvey __.
RE: Quick query [BD-4A.FID26896945]

Wed, 21 Sep 2016 11:35:36 +0000

Normal

image001.gif; image002.gif; image003.gif; image004.gif; image005.png; image006.gif;
image007.jpg; image008.jpg; image009.png; image010.png

Andrew

As requested, please find below our answers to the 6 questions posed.

We would, however, like to first point out our concern regarding the underlying, erroneous, theme that these questions
(and the previous questions we've provided answers to you on) seem to be driving at. At the risk of sounding like a
“broken record”, the key premise of the HNG-X (and Horizon) system is the Core Audit Log. This comprises the only

source of the “truth”.

. And to our knowledge there has been no identified issues with the Core Audit Log and there are

no KELs in respect of this log. To this end, the questions regarding the existence or otherwise of issues with other
elements of the system are, in our opinion, a distraction to the key premise and could be used to create an erroneous
view of HNG-X / Horizon. It is our view that a strong rebuttal is required and a shift of focus from a view that we
should somehow constantly need to “prove the negative” to a focus on the fact that the Core Audit Log provides a true
source of the data entered and transactions performed at the relevant terminals. Any subsequent use of said data by
the system does not impact on this “truth” and as such we often determine the existence or otherwise of errors by
reference to the Core Audit Log.

The answers (highlighted in yellow) to your questions are:

1. What format do these logs take and where are they held? The logs (referred to as the Known Error Log or

2. What level of detail is included within the logs (i.e. are they generic logs for all Horizon errors or linked to
specific branches, do the logs explain the consequences of the error and the fix which was applied, etc.)?

3. When did Fujitsu begin to maintain these logs and are they still maintained? The log was implemented from

4. Are the logs capable of being extracted and provided to us? Yes via excel data extract

5. Have Post Office previously been provided with a copy of these and, if so, to whom and when? We don’t
believe Post Office has ever asked for this before but it is available if required.

6. Has there been any correspondence between Post Office and Fujitsu concerning these logs? _ I suspect
loads— but it would be good to just understand in high level terms how they are used.

Hope this helps

WBD_000331.000001
Pete
Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager
AC It, Fujitsu UK&l
Fujitsu named as usa 10
“ - we
Responsible Business —3saiav
go
of the Year ¥
Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children
-CIO: Global Intelligence for the CIO. Fujitsu's online resource for ICT leaders
Sponsors of the 2015 Rugby World Cup
= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?
From: Newsome, Pete
Sent: 19 September 2016 13:57
To: 'Parsons, Andrew' GRO b
Cc: Rodric Williams! GRO ; Prime, Amy

Subject:
Andrew

Will check with colleagues and get back with an update.
Regards

Pete

Pete Newsome
Business Change Manager

San sponse
© Fujitsu named as pots
ness

Responsible Business 3%
of the Year

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children
-CIO: Global Intelligence for the CIO. Fujitsu's online resource for ICT leaders
Sponsors of the 2015 Rugby World Cup

WBONO0000461
WBON0000461

WBD_000331.000002
WBONO0000461
WBON0000461

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Parsons, Andrew [mailto!
Sent: 19 September 2016 1
To: Newsome, Pete
Ce: Rodric Williams (

Prime, Amy

Pete

Hope you're well. Would you mind hoping with what is hopefully a quick query?

The solicitors for the postmasters have asked us to provide them with a copy of the 'known error logs' kept by Fujitsu
and all correspondence between Fujitsu and Post Office relating to the same. So we can respond to this request it
would be appreciated if you could confirm whether a Horizon "known error log" or a similar documents exist. We've not
decided yet on whether to provide this information (and so don't need any documents from you at this stage) — we're
just trying to scope out what might be covered by the request.

We would appreciate if you could help with the following:

1. What format do these logs take and where are they held?

2. What level of detail is included within the logs (i.e. are they generic logs for all Horizon errors or linked to
specific branches, do the logs explain the consequences of the error and the fix which was applied, etc)?

3. When did Fujitsu begin to maintain these logs and are they still maintained?
4. Are the logs capable of being extracted and provided to us?
5. Have Post Office previously been provided with a copy of these and, if so, to whom and when?

6. Has there been any correspondence between Post Office and Fujitsu concerning these logs? _I suspect loads
— but it would be good to just understand in high level terms how they are used.

I'm hoping that this questions are fairly easy to address but if they do need more careful thought, please let me know
and we can discuss how to tackle them.

If possible, a response by close of business on Wednesday would be useful.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Bond Dickinson LLP

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

WBD_000331.000003
WBONO0000461
WBON0000461

‘The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not petenewson
copies. Unauthorised us

privileged and protected by law. petenewsomé,... GRO____J only is authorised to
i please notify andrew.parsong GRO Tas soon as possible and delete any
dissemination, distribution, publication or Copying of this communication or attachment’ ®pHORIDItEN TAU HAA be unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software befor

hich may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus check

mission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or
ye opening any attachment,

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP
London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, wh
consultant who is of equivalent standing.

and Wales under number 0C317661. Our
inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the L
393627.

mited liability partnership

or an employee or

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No
96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker
Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu
Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes
Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and
may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it
is virus-free.

WBD_000331.000004
