WBONO000951

WBON0000951
Notice of Issue In the
(specified amount) Northampton (CC MC C)
County Court
Claim Number =I 3 YU26462

001014/¢5 Claimant Post Office Limited

Bond Dickinson Lip Solicitors (including ref.) RB10/RB10/364065.346

Ballard House Defendant(s) Mr Terence Walters

West Hoe Road

Plymouth Issue Fee £245.00

eee Claim Received I 28 November 2013

DX 8251 PLYMOUTH

‘Your claim was issued on 9 December 2013. The court sent it to the defendant by first class post on 10 December 2013 and it will be deemed to be served
on 12 December 2013. The defendant has until 26 December 2013 to reply.

‘The defendant may + Admit that only part of your claim is owed. The court will
+ Pay you your total claim. send you a copy of the reply form and you will have to decide
+ File an acknowledgement of service. This will allow the defendant 28 days what to do next.
FS} from the date of service of your particulars of claim to file adefence or contest + Not reply at all. You may ask the court to enter judgment using
5 the court's jurisdiction. the request below.
ay; sc pebuee tue bole clatnn: The cout: will send yous copy, of the defence, Note: If the claim is disputed and the defendant is an individual,
= + Admit that all the money is owed. The defendant will send you a completed
3 Fe : : the claim may be transferred to the defendant's local court.
2 admission form and you may ask the court to enter judgment using the request
8 below.
& For further information please turn over
B The court office at Northampton (C C M CC) County Court, County Court Money Claims Centre, Po Box 527, Salford, M5 OBY is open between 8:30 am and 5:00 pm
8 Monday to Friday. When corresponding with the court, please address forms or letters to the Court Manager and quote the claim number. Tel: 0300 123 1372 Fax: 0161
743 4023
° Produced by:C Wadsworth SBC
N205A Notice of issue (specified amount) (& request for judgment) CJROOZ
Request for Judgment In the
Northampton (C CMC C)
* Tick and complete either A or B. Remember to sign and date the form. County Court
Your signature certifies that the information you have given is correct.
* If the defendant has given an address on the form of admission to Claim Number 3YU26462
which correspondence should be sent, which is different from the i —
address shown on the claim form, you must tell the court. Claimant Post Office Limited
* Complete all the judgment details at D Defendant(s) Mr Terence Walters

AL] The defendant has not filed an admission or defence to my
claim or an application to contest the court's jurisdiction.
Decide how and when you want the defendant to pay. You can ask for

the judgment to be paid by instalments or in one payment. D Judgment Details
B[_] The defendant admits that all the money is owed. I would like the defendant to be ordered to pay
Tick only one box below and return the completed slip to the court.  Gimmediately)

I accept the defendant's proposal for payment A
J Say how the defendant intends to pay. The court will send the defendant an order to LI (by instalments of £ per month)
pay. You will also be sent a copy. Gin fut by )
([] The defendant has not made any proposal for payment
Say how you want the defendant to pay. You can ask for the judgment to be paid by
instalments or in one payment. The court will send the defendant an order to pay. You
will also be sent a copy. Interest since date of claim (if any) ...
[J] 1 do NOT accept the defendant's proposal for payment ;
Say how you want the defendant to pay. Give your reasons for objecting to the Period
defendants offer of payment in Part E overleaf. Return this slip to the court with the From...
defendant's admission (or a copy). The court will fix a rate of payment and send the Rate,
defendant an order to pay. You will also be sent a copy.
C Defendant's date of birth, if known ‘Court fees shown on claim

PEPE bs) Solicitor's costs (if any) on issuing claim ..
Sub Total

Solicitor's costs (if any) on entering judgment I”
Sub Total [~

Deduct amount (if any) paid since issue
Amount payable by defendant

Amount of claim as stated in claim form
(including interest at date of issue) ...

iba

ae

I certify that the information given is correct

Signed Date

Claimani(s Solicitory(Litigation fiend (where the claimant is a child or a patient) 001014/01/¢5

WBD_000821.000001
a

WBONO000951

WBONO0000951

Notes for Guidance

The claim form must be served on the defendant within 4
months of the date of issue (6 months if you are serving
outside England or Wales). You may be able to apply to
extend the time for serving the claim form but the
application must generally be made before the 4 month or
6 month period expires.

If the defendant does not file an admission, defence or
counterclaim; or if the defendant admits the whole claim
with or without an offer of payment, you may ask for
judgment. If you do not request judgment within 6 months
of the end of the period for filing a defence, your claim will
be stayed. This means that the only action you can take is
to apply to a judge for an order lifting the stay.

* You should keep a record of any payments you
receive from the defendant. If there is a hearing
or you wish to take steps to enforce the judgment,
you will need to satisfy the court about the
balance outstanding. You should give the
defendant a receipt and payment in cash should
always be acknowledged. You should tell the
defendant how much he owes if he asks.

* You must inform the court IMMEDIATELY
if you receive any payment before a hearing
date or after you have sent a request for
enforcement to the court.

* Further information in leaflet form can be
obtained free of charge from the court.

PartE

Objections to the defendant's proposal for payment

Claim Number 3YU26462

WBD_000821.000002
