WBONO001961
WBONO001961

From: Amy Prime!
To: Andrew Parsons I GRO } Michael Wharton

Subject: FW: Legally Privileged - Fujitsu documents [BD-4A.FID26896945]
Date: Wed, 29 Nov 2017 19:53:06 +0000
Importance: Normal
Attachments: DISPUTERESOLUTION_36810957(5) AP_fourth_witness_statement.nrl

Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png; imageabf71c.PNG; imagec7d2d2.PNG;
image] fa6e0.PNG

Both

I have put a call in our diaries to speak with FJ tomorrow at 10:30am. I may be able to join some of this call but not all
of it.

The purpose of the call is to discuss with FJ them providing a list of locations in which they hold documents which are
potentially relevant to the Group Action and also to provide a heads up on any issues there may be with extracting
these from these locations. It would also be helpful if FJ could provide a list of 4 or 5 individuals who have contact with
the POL IT team who we could list in the EDQ as Fu's key custodians. This list of documents and custodians would
then be inserted as a Schedule to the EDQ.

The current documents / locations I am aware of are:

Technical documents in Dimensions

Known Error Log (do not know what database/software hosts this)

Peaks System (do not know what database/software hosts this)

HSD call logs before June 2014 (note — we are aware of issues with extracting them due to Windows 2003
issues due to be hosted in Powehelp)

Transaction and event data in the Data Centre

Counter logs which had held on the Horizon terminals

SharePoint

Emails (assume Outlook)

Michael — please could you join this call with Andy and then going forward liaise with FJ to produce the schedule of
documents to be included in the EDQ. The EDQ is going to Rod on Monday evening so it would be good to have the
list from FJ by Monday lunchtime. If you read through paragraphs 42, 134 — 152 and 165 -170 of the attached witness
statement you will get a good overview of the current knowledge.

Thank you both
Amy

Amy Prime
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON . Ain)

From: Defence Legal (Chris Jay) I GRO

Sent: 29 November 2017 09:18

To: Amy Prime; Lenton Matthew; Newsome Pete

Cc: Michael Wharton; Andrew Parsons; Mark Underwood:
Subject: RE: Legally Privileged - Fujitsu documents [BD-4A\ pibseuseoesy =

Amy,
WBONO001961
WBONO001961

11.00 am tomorrow is confirmed.
Look forward to receiving the MI.

Kind regards,
Chris

From: Amy Prime,
Sent: 28 November 2017 14:50
To: Defence Legal (Chris Jay):
i GRO.
Cc: Michael Whartor,

Mark

Subject: Legaliy Privileged - Fujitsu documents [BD-4A.FID26896945]

Chris, Matthew, Pete

Post Office are required to inform the Court of the location in which potentially relevant documents are located.
"Relevant document" is a very broad term and will encompass pretty much all dealings which Fujitsu have had with
Post Office in relation to Horizon and HNG-X spanning emails (both with POL and internally), documents stored in
Dimension, Transaction and Event data, HSD logs, Peaks system and any other document produced by Fujitsu which
relates to Horizon. I appreciate that this may be a large volume of documents.

So as we can understand the documents held by Fujitsu and where they are stored, it would be helpful if we could
have call. Would you be available at 11am on Thursday?

Kind regards
Amy

Amy Prime
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com.
BOND
DICKINSON Ain)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

ly is authorised to
any copies.

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidentia ly privileged and prote
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not Jegal,defencel {please notify amy pri
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying OT Wis cofiidnication or attachments i PFO

soon i possible aid del
id may be unlawful

bi

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
tachment.

any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP w
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, whi
ent standing. Our VAT

is a limited liability partnership r d and Wales under number OC317661. Our re
‘of members’ names is open to inspection. Wé use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an
istration number is GB123393627.

employee or consultant who is of equiv

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No
96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker
WBONO001961
WBONO0001961

Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu
Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes
Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and
may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it

is virus-free.
