WBONO0001965
WBONO0001965

From: Amy Prime
To: Amy Prime
Subject: Notes from call with FJ, Freeths, Elevate, WBD and Jason Coyne
Date: Thu, I Mar 2018 17:46:17 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: imagefa8ef4.PNG; image6591cd.PNG; image90edcc.PNG

Notes from call with FJ, Freeths, Elevate, WBD and Jason Coyne

KEL

AP - Purpose of call to discuss access to KEL and how to extract information from KEL.
FJ position — agree that can give access.
JH - confidentiality agreement in Nov 17 which hope provide re-assurance and comfort needed.

SP — KEL system is proprietary system in Fj which used to store support knowledge which use to assist with
answering incident which occurred in live service, Stored in esque service database and presented on a web-based
service which in FH private servers and private network which not intended for consummation outside FJ.

How viewed and how info taken from KEL?

JC — viewed via web browser interfaces, hundreds if not thousands or KEL records which can viewed. Once click then
displayed in browser with problems comments. List of changes made to the document since first raised which builds
on knowledge build by FJ. Good thing is that because in browser can press print and rather than paper print can print
to PDF and produce a PDF version of KEL record. When at FJ did searching and printed approx. 100. Bit of a pain it
is to unsurmountable process and would expect this do be done for a couple of thousand. PDF of KEL in a couple of
days.

FJ issues with following this procedure — no, happy with procedure but concerns about security info,
JH — happen to extend confidentially agreements to agree this,

AP — FJ happy to print screen KEL? Yes, commercial arrangement with finance with POL. FJ to work out time and
costs.

AP - What controls around use of information? NDA good enough? FJ need to check this - make sure that not
expose live service.
WBON0001965
WBONO0001965

JH — POL happy to sign off on confidential then no barriers?

P — info security people need assurance about where hold info and who use — practical control measures.

JC — do not think saw anything which close to security sensitivity and would be surprised if anything in there which
security sensitive.

FJ — looking at branch KEL rather than data centre KELS. They are written with expectation that people only internal
would read them — IP addresses which should not be exposed.

AP - NDA enough to protect is the question? FJ and WBD to look at this.

JC - when withdrawn only a status indicator, they are archived so would want archived ones. Not just one KEL, split
between legacy and HNG-X, would want both KELs.

Steve — 4,007 active and another lot on top of this which are archived. FJ to look into this.

Unfiltered T&E data

FJ -— problem is pure volume of data. ARQ process is a lookup table for where stored audit data and pull data for a
branch. Raw data base is unstructured, jump between branches data for different days. Raw data is the haystack and
making sense of it uncomplicated.

JC - Filtered data just transactions, unfiltered data was same transactions (branch and day) but also included
handshaking information.

FJ — second level of filtering, to provide data relevant to branch which include everything from audit trial is particularly
complicated technically but what looking at is messages from branch and gives complete picture of baskets and
transactions sent from branch to DC to capture what branch done. If looking for other events such as did something
happen (disc fail) then looking in enough part of database.

JC — possible to craft a select command to pull all data together for a branch for a day?

Fj — if looking for all events then would get complex and would need to check precisely how do it. Events such as
discs failures go into a different file. Unsure how retrieve it.
WBONO0001965
WBONO0001965

JC — sounds look unfiltered was middle stage and enough set of even more detailed data which want to get.

FJ — not relevant as data which get from branch (unfiltered) gives true picture of every basket from branch that day.
Fact that had a disc forewarning would not have impacted on those messages.

JH — recovery process?

AP - restrictions on pulling volume of data — explain limitation on pulling large volumes in bulk.

FJ — 10TB of data which needs to presented in a format which makes sense, extract a month for a particular branch in
as/s. Can pick up unfiltered data but running process which means insert parameters and produce data.

JC — this is manual time in selecting branch and months and system processing time to create a text file. Not
recommend text file as data is xml structure. Might be case that only after looking after filtered that need to look at
unfiltered data. Searching in unfiltered data and create xml passes to do this. Don't think need targeted requests if
given corresponding unfiltered data sets.

FJ — 400 months of unfiltered data

if already provided filtered data then chance that have unfiltered data on disk. Do
not think have due to volume of data. FJ to work out bal park costs and time for united data,

JC — resource man hours, not volumes to store?
FJ - Yes
JC — some other data as well, even when get unfiltered, this a cut of the data.

JH — FJ to provide complete pull of data?

AP — WAD to discuss with FJ offine about the remaining data.

Amy Prime
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

womblebonddickinson.com

¥0
WBON0001965
WBON0001965

WOMBLE
BOND
DICKINSON
