WBONO0001989
WBONO0001989

From: "Andrew Parsons'
To: "Amy Prime"
Subject: Re: Horizon disclosure [HS-London_11.FID2156898]
Date: Tue, 01 Oct 2019 17:40:01 -0000
Importance: Normal

Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png; image4bbf42.PNG; image6dcd7c.PNG;
image521427.PNG; image003(1).png; image002(1).png; image001(1).png;
image521427(1).PNG; image6dcd7c(1).PNG; image4bbf42(1).PNG

Good to go
Well done.

A

From: Amy Prime

Sent: Tuesday, 1 October, 18:27

Subject: RE: Horizon disclosure [HS-London_11.FID2156898]
To: Andrew Parsons

Andy

Draft email below and revised letter attached — just double checking if TRQC is around tomorrow, but Simon
thought he was.

Thanks
A

[DRAFT]
All

Further to the draft letter, we have learnt from FJ this morning that the below statement contained with Post
Office's EDQ is factually incorrect, with the correct position being that previous versions of the KELs are
held within the KEL database and are available.

"The KEL only contains the current database entries and is constantly updated and so the current version
will not necessarily reflect the version that was in place at the relevant time. The previous entries /
versions of the current entries are no longer available." (emphasis added)

We have spoken with FJ today to double-check the position and they have confirmed that when FJ revise
the contents of an existing KEL they would not overwrite the KEL but take a copy of it, make the changes
and save as anew document. The previous versions of the KELs would be kept for version control and sit
underneath the latest KEL.

Advice has been sought from Simon Henderson (Horizon Trial Junior Counsel) on the disclosure of these
documents, who recommends that since the judgment is imminent and given the importance of KELs to the
trial, Post Office should not delay in bringing the existence of the previous versions of the KELs to the
attention of the Cs, with a detailed explanation of the circumstances to follow urgently. It should be noted
that Simon's view is that this is going to very uncomfortable for Post Office, with the worst outcome being
that the Judge seeks further expert evidence from Coyne/Worden as to whether these previous versions of
the KELs impact upon their evidence.

In light of Simon's advice, we would therefore recommend that the letter to Freeths be amended to explain
that as a result of our investigations into responding to Freeths' queries the existence of these documents
was brought to our attention, and that we were previously under a misapprehension. A further letter would
then follow as soon as possible which explains the circumstances and the proposals for providing disclosure
of these documents. Please find attached an amended letter which reflects this position.
WBON0001989
WBON0001989

Further, Counsel advises that we should seek to adopt a tone that shows Post Office are as annoyed with
FJ about the late knowledge of these documents as the Cs are. This is of course a sensitive matter and
further consideration needs to be given to whether this position is adopted given the ongoing commercial
relationship with FJ.

Given the sensitivity surrounding disclosure of the KEL, we will setting up a call with Tony Robinson QC
tomorrow to discuss this matter and the invite will be extended to all on this email chain.

If there are any questions on the recommended approach, please feel free to call.

Kind regards

Amy Prime
Associate

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

d:

Sign up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

WOMBLE
BOND
DICKINSON

womblebonddickinson.com

®

From: Lerner, Alex
Sent: 01 October 201
To: Andrew Parson
Emanuel, Catherin

WBONO0001989
WBONO0001989

Ce: Lucy Bremner. GRO JonathanGribben¢ SC GRO—
Amy Prime j..

Subject: RE: Horizon disclosure [HS-London_11.FID2156898]

Hi Andy

Thanks for this. My comments attached. Happy to discuss any questions/queries by phone if that is the
quickest way of getting this out. I am at my desk.

Kind regards
Alex
Alexander Lerner

Senior Associate, Dispute Resolution
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP

From: Andrew Parsons
Sent: 01 October 2019
To: Rodric Williams ¢

Jonathan Gribben <_ GR

Ce: Lucy Bremnel
Amy Prime :_
Subject: Horizon disclosure

All

Please find attached the draft response to Freeths' recent letter on disclosure for your approval. All
comments welcomed.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

WBONO0001989
WBONO0001989

Sign _up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

VF WOMBLE
BOND

N
\ * DICKINSON

womblebonddickinson.com
3

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail y. attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and
protected by law. alex.lerner}_ GRO only is authorised to.accass.this.e-mail and any attachments. If you
are not alex.lerner: please notify andrew.parsons: _ GRO __jas soon as possible and delete
any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or
attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how we use personal data is in our

Privacy Policy on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be
caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is
neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in
England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office is 4 More London Riverside, London,
SE1 2AU, where a list of members' names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer toa
member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration
number is GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which
consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere
around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for
the acts or omissions of, nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond
Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal
notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and its subsidiaries and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are
separate member firms of the international legal practice known as Herbert Smith Freehills.

This message is confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. If you are not the intended
recipient you must not disclose or use the information contained in it. If you have received this email in error
please notify us immediately by return email or by calling our main switchboard on
delete the email.

Further information is available from www.herbertsmithfreehills.com, including our Privacy Policy which
describes how we handle personal information.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales with
registered number OC310989. It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors' Regulation Authority of
England and Wales whose rules can be accessed via www.sra.org.uk/code-of-conduct.page. A list of the
members and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at the registered office, Exchange
House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EG. We use the word partner of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP to
refer to a member of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, or an employee or consultant with equivalent standing
and qualifications. Herbert Smith Freehills LLP's registration number for Value Added Tax in the United
Kingdom is GB 927 1996 83.

