WBONO0001487

WBONO001487
From: Johann Appel < GRO !
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd I GRO !, Ben Cooke
H GRO I
Ce: Catherine Hamilton: GRO } Lucy Bremner

Subject: RE: - Information needed for GLO Horizon issues Trial
Date: Tue, 6 Nov 2018 10:35:56 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image010.png; image011.jpg; image012.png; image013.png; image014.png;
image015.png; image016.png; image001 jpg

Hi Angela,

Lucy has informed me that Thursday 8 November is the absolute deadline for this information. We are still
waiting on RMG to search for their archives for documents related to the FY2010 ARC and EY report.

It is important to note that the 2011 EY report in question refers to the Credence issue only as part of an
update of the 2010 audit findings. This means the audit finding was identified during the audit of the
FY2010 accounts. In their 2011 report, EY actually state that the Credence application was out of scope for
the FY2011 audit and they do not conclude whether the control issues identified in 2010 were remediated.

The approach I followed was to scrutinize subsequent audit reports, board minutes and audit committee
minutes to identify if this control issue was re-reported. We reviewed the following documents:

e POL ARC 23 May 2012 - First official meeting of the new Board Audit committee following separation
from RMG. EY audit results report presented at this meeting.

¢ POL ARC 13 November 2012

¢ POL Board Meeting 27 May 2011

¢ POL Board Meeting 4 July 2011

¢ POL Board Meeting 22 September 2011, also the POL IT Audit Update (SAS70) paper.
e POL Board Meeting 10 November 2011

e POL Board Meeting 12 January 2012

We found no reference whatsoever to Credence or specifically to change controls over the Credence
application. Given that auditors report by exception, I conclude that the Credence issue was resolved or if
any issues continued to exist, this was not significant enough to be reported to and actioned by the ARC or
the Board.

WBD_001357.000001
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

I will continue to chase RMG to try and find the original 2010 EY report and hopefully a confirmation in the
2010 ARC minutes that the controls issues were remediated.

Hope this helps.

Best regards,

Johann

Johann Appel
Head of Internal Audit

Ground Floor

20 Finsbury Street
LONDON EC2Y 9AQ

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Sent: 30 October 2018 19:52

To: Johann Appel +. ~
Ce: Catherine Hamilton <

Hi Ben

Thanks for the response. Johann is pulling together a response on the Credence point. Johann - for
completeness would you please touch base with Ben on this to ensure we have everything covered.

Thanks,

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd

Business Improvement Director

WBD_001357.000002
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

Atlantic Close,Llansamlet
Swansea SA7 9FJ

& 1° Floor, Ty Brwydran,

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. Ifyou are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Ben Cooke
Sent: 30 October 2018 14:59
To: Catherine Hamilton < GRO

+; Michael Austin < GRO. }
Subject: RE: URGENT” PLEASES TS oRSaHGR needed for GLO Horizon issues Trial

Catherine, Angela

Apologies for the time taken to respond — it’s taken me a while to have the time to get my head around the
ask. I have some views on the below (which I’ve given) and I’m not entirely clear what argument the
opposition are trying to make — which makes it hard to respond correctly, I’m happy to re-respond if more
info can be provided. Unfortunately I’m almost stuck without Post Office’s audit response doc.

What more can I do?

I’ve called a contact at CGI who was involved at that time. Once he gets back to me I will respond again.

Questions

Have we asked EY? For the audit response documents? Could we? If the data team or I could see it, then we
could better respond on top.

Do finance store the audit response docs? They usually facilitated the IT audit points...

WBD_001357.000003
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

What I’ve been working to is the section from Lucy as noted, “Jason Coyne, the Claimants’ IT expert, refers to
an audit document produced by E&Y in 2011 (see attached) which identified issues with the credence application,
namely weak change controls within the back end of the systems allowing Logica developers (the third-party provider)
to move their own uncontrolled changes into the production environment. He goes on to say that "further
documentation to approve fixes and patches applied to Credence outside of the release process were lacking,
therefore linking changes to issue tickets to record the original request for the bug fix was not possible".

We need to understand whether these comments are correct and whether anything changed in light of the report.”

It’s hard to comment accurately on times before I arrived in the organization but I know the CGI team who
managed this service — and am reaching out to see if they have some info. I understand that Mark Hotson and
co only arrived in Mar/Apr 2012 and hence also don’t have anything from the time the audit was completed.

Things I can say:
General Comment
Credence is a data warehouse that takes information from Horizon and 3 party sources and reports on it. I

don’t believe information is fed from Credence back into Horizon at any point — hence it would not have
impacted Post Master financials. Here I’m not clear the point that the Expert Witness is driving at.

Credence did/does report on Horizon data — but Agents are also able to see this data through Horizon.

Credence back end change process
The auditors point out:

1. Access rights to the production environment and the database that would permit developers
to move their own changes

= Whilst access rights allowed this, it does not mean that it happened, or that there is
actually a lack of control. Only that uncontrolled change could exist. There can be
perfectly legitimate resources for these types of access to exist, and
reactive/monitoring controls to ensure that they are not exploited.

= I can state for certain that by 2016 CGI had change control and release processes as one
would expect under ITIL with changes going through an approval process prior to
being released into the live environment.

= I will see whether I can get support from CGI to respond to this comment

2. Documentation to approve fixes and patches that are applied to Credence outside of the
release process does not always exist

= From the sample selected documentation was provided for some changes and not others.
Without re-reviewing the selected changes it’s hard to say the magnitude of this audit
finding. It may be that certain basic settings did not require documentation. We would
need to see the Post Office response to the audit.

Credence Front End change & configuration

These points relate to people creating/changing business objects reports which sit on top of the core data
sources. It is not uncommon for super users within organizations to be able to create or amend reports and

WBD_001357.000004
this is used by analysts to create new reporting.

WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

As the report points out there should have been better controls around reports used for reconciliations (as
opposed to business analysis — which is where the majority of new reports tend to be created). However it
should be noted that whilst people technically could have modified tested reconciliation reports, there is no

evidence that they did.

environment and
the database that
would permit
developers to
move their own
changes into the
production
environment.

2. Documentation to
approve fixes and
patches that are
applied to
Credence outside
of the release
process does not
always exist. We
were advised by
Logica personnel
that for a sample
of four changes
selected evidence
of approval to
move into
production did not
exist and that it
would not be
possible to link
the changes to
problem tickets to
record the original
request for the fix
/ patch.

of changes,
approval to move
into production
and the separation
of developer and
implementer.
Management
should
periodically audit
the achievement
of service level
agreements.

, . Management I Current
Issue Location I Background Recommendation Comment Year Update
12I Credence IT During our Management This is clearly I Application
(back end) walkthrough and should require documented I not in audit
change testing of the change I that their third in OCP. scope for
Process control procedures for I party service i FY11.
f There will be I Therefore
the Credence provider further work 4
application we segregate the fl Obl so hot
became aware of the I roles of developer to look at ania 2.
reel eA iri comment on
following issues: and implementer. I Tequiring whether
Management Logica to mana
igement
1. Developers at should also comply and has fully
Logica, the third require that their I ensure addressed
party provider of I third party service appropriate our comment
application provider maintain I pojg as raised in
development and I complete and separation the prior
support for accurate records P . year.
Credence, had that support the To be .
access rights to requests for retested in 3
the production changes, testing months.

WBD_001357.000005
WBONO0001487

WBONO001487
Developers have
access to move their
own changes into
production and
documentation is not
retained to
substantiate those
changes there is a risk
of loss of data and
application integrity
due to either
unauthorized,
erroneous or
inappropriate
changeng made to the
production
environment.

13] Credence IT During our Changes to Whilst users are I Application
(front end) walkthrough of user I Credence should I able to make not in audit
change administration of the I be requested, changes to scope for
process front end of Credence I tested and reports they FY11.

we noted several users I approved by the ‘own’, those Therefore,
with administrator business users. which are used I we are not
rights, including some I Changes should for business able to t
generic users (this is _ I be identifiable proceasee are pera on
noted below as a through system created globally I management
separate point). logsandan I and owned by has fully
These users have the I appropriate audit I one of the addressed
access rights to create I trail maintained administrators. I our comment
and amend reports, of request, testing I Users may be as raised in
including those which I and approval able to design the prior
may be relied upon documentation, their own year.
for audit evidence. Access to make versions of the
These users can such changes reports but
change report design, I should be limited I these would not
and processing to authorised be available
without documented _ I individuals. globally, nor
request, test or used for itical
approval. usiness critical

processes.
When users have the
rights to change
reports that are used
by the business for
reconciliation,
exception reporting or
other processing,
there is the risk that
the reports are
manipulated either
intentionally or
accidentally.

14] Credence IT We noted several Management Users are not Application
(front end) control weakness in should enhance generic, but role I not in audit
configuration Credence front end password controls I accounts which I scope for

user administration onthe Credence I are allocated to I FY11.

and security web portal to the I individuals and I Therefore,

configuration: same standards for which an we are not
applied to other audit trail is able to

WBD_001357.000006
The password
configuration is
not aligned with
network settings
or those settings
required by Post
Office. We noted:

a.

there is no
minimum
password
length

Password
complexity
rules are
not applied

users are
not
required to
change
their
password

password
history is
not
retained

idle
session
time-outs
are not in
place

There are three
generic
administrator
accounts without
specific users
assigned to these
accounts. One of
the three accounts
has not been used
since April 2009.

The process for
requesting and
granting user
access rights to
Credence does not
maintain
documentation to
record evidence of
request or
approval of access

rights.

There is no
process in place
for the revocation
of user access
rights when a user
separates from the

Post Office
environments.

Management
should consider
disabling generic
administrator
accounts, or
assigning the
accounts to
specific
individuals to
ensure
accountability
over the use of
the administrator
accounts.

Management
should consider
establishing user
administration
controls which are
in-line with the
processes used for
other Post Office
applications.

available. The
correct
procedure to be
followed for the
allocation and
use of these
roles is being re-
emphasised. A
full risk
assessment of
the Credence
system is being
undertaken later
this year and
this aspect will
be reviewed.

Although
system-based
credential
control does not
fully match POL
standards, user
guidelines and
procedures do.
The whole user
management
piece is due to
be reviewed
during the
planned risk
assessment.

WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

comment on
whether
management
has fully
addressed
our comment
as raised in
the prior
year.

WBD_001357.000007
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

organisation or
moves to a new
role no longer
requiring access
rights to
Credence.

Without effective
logical access controls
there is the risk of
inappropriate or
unauthorised access to
the Credence reports.

From: Catherine Hamilton

Sent: 26 October 2018 14:22
To: Peter St
Ben Cooke
Subject: FW:
Importance: High

Michael Austin <

ion needed for GLO Horizon issues Trial

Confidential; not to be forwarded.

Hi Peter,

As you were at POL in 2011, I’m wondering if you could take a read of this and let me know if you are able
to comment, and whether you think anyone else could>

Hi Michael, Ben, would you have any views on this from good practice perspective?

Hi Ben, do you know of anyone who was involved in Credence at the time?

Thanks

Catherine

WBD_001357.000008
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Sent: 26 October 2018 12:22,
To: Catherine Hamilton ¢ __._GRO _ >; Johann Appel

Ce: Garry Hooton ¢°
Underwood! <77~~ :
Subject: URGENT PLEASE- Information needed for GLO Horizon issues Trial
Importance: High

Catherine, Johann,

As part of the Post Office litigation, WBD our external lawyers are drafting our witness statements with us in
response to allegations made by the other side. The one I need your help with in is respect of Jason Coyne,
the Claimants’ IT expert who refers to an audit document produced by E&Y in 2011 (see attached) which
identified issues with the credence application, namely weak change controls within the back end of the
systems allowing Logica developers (the third-party provider) to move their own uncontrolled changes into
the production environment. He goes on to say that "further documentation to approve fixes and patches
applied to Credence outside of the release process were lacking, therefore linking changes to issue tickets to
record the original request for the bug fix was not possible".

We need to understand whether these comments are correct and whether anything changed in light of the
report.

My expectation is that we as a business would have taken action as a result of these findings by E&Y and
would have documented what that action was. I understand from speaking with Garry that we didn’t have
own POL internal audit function at the time as this was within the Royal Mail group structures.

Mark Hotson has already provided some information (email below) but that is about current practices rather
than in 2011 following the E&Y report.

evidence we provide to the Court.

As I’m sure you’ll understand this is urgent as we are on a court deadline to submit our witness statements

by 4pm on 13!" November but we need to get our draft statements to our Counsel early next week. So could I
request that you give this your most urgent attention.

Any queries please come back to me in the first instance.

WBD_001357.000009
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

Thanks,

Angela

1° Floor,Ty Brwydran,

4 Angela Van Den Bogerd
Business Improvement Director

Atlantic Close,Llansamlet
Swansea SA7 9FJ

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Mark Hotson

Sent: 25 October 2018 18:56 I
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd +
Ce: Somita Yogi <
Subject: Fwd: Hori

DUK-AC.FID27032497]

Hi Angela,

Just picked your email exchange up with Lucy.

Please find enclosed the response that I provided her with earlier today.
Regards,

Mark

WBD_001357.000010
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

Get Outlook for Androi

From: Mark Hotson

Sent: Thursday, October 25, 2018 11:17:24 AM

To: Lucy Bremner

Ce: Mark Underwood]; Jonathan Gribben

Subject: RE: Horizon issues - witness evidence [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Morning Lucy,

Further to the below, I have discussed the attached document, specifically items referenced “12”, “13” and
“14”, internally and provide the following updates. These responses are based on current knowledge as those
consulted were also not employed by POL at the time when the audit report was written:

Generally, since the report was written there has been:
1. A change to the IT Supplier (from: CMG Logica to: Accenture).
2. An upgrade to the application (from: Business Objects v3.1 to: v4.1).

3. A re-platform of the underlying database (from: a mix of CMG Logica locally-hosted (non-
production) environment and a Fujitsu hosted (production) environment to: Microsoft Azure
cloud hosting for non-production and production.

“12 - Credence (back end) change process”

e “Developers at Logica, the third party provider of application development and support for Credence,
had access rights to the production environment and the database that would permit developers to
move their own changes into the production environment.”

e “Documentation to approve fixes and patches that are applied to Credence outside of the release
process does not always exist. We were advised by Logica personnel that for a sample of four changes
selected evidence of approval to move into production did not exist and that it would not be possible to
link the changes to problem tickets to record the original request for the fix / patch.”

All changes* are under the control of Accenture and are subject to a robust Change Management
process. *These changes include: fixes — planned and emergency, project changes and security changes.
Each change is subject to approval at the “CAB” (Change Approval Board)

Further to this, as the hosting is now Microsoft Azure the implementation of patches and fixes are
subject to Microsoft security best practices.

WBD_001357.000011
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

“13 - Credence (front end) change process”

e = “During our walkthrough of user administration of the front end of Credence we noted several users with
administrator rights, including some generic users (this is noted below as a separate point). These users
have the access rights to create and amend reports, including those which may be relied upon for audit
evidence. These users can change report design, and processing without documented request, test or
approval.”

e “When users have the rights to change reports that are used by the business for reconciliation, exception
reporting or other processing, there is the risk that the reports are manipulated either intentionally or
accidentally.”

Users with administrator rights now purely carry out administrator tasks only, i.e. no reports are created
or amended by users with such rights.

In addition, a Power App has been implemented which logs and controls requests for change (new and

existing reports) carried out by POL personnel. Similarly, requests for changes/new reports that are
assigned to Atos information Services are logged and controlled via the Atos Service Catalogue.

“14 - Credence (front end) configuration”

“We noted several control weakness in Credence front end user administration and security configuration:

1. The password configuration is not aligned with network settings or those settings required by Post Office. We
noted:

a. there is no minimum password length

b. Password complexity rules are not applied

¢. users are not required to change their password
d. password history is not retained

e. idle session time-outs are not in place”

The below screenshot provides the current (as at 25/10/2018) Business Objects Central Management Console
enterprise settings relating to passwords — this addresses the above:

WBD_001357.000012
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

Enterprise

Password Restrictions
[& Enforce mixed-case passwords

Enforce numeral in passwords

(O)_ Enforce special character in passwords

[Must contain at least N characters where Nis: 6

User Restrictions

[Must change password every N day(s): 0
[© The system cannot reuse the N most recent password(s): 3
[& Must wait N minute(s) to change password: 5
Logon Restrictions

[Disable account after N failed attempts to log on: 10
Reset failed logon count after N minute(s): s
© Re-enable account after N minute(s): s
Synchronize Data Source Credentials with Log On

(2 Enable and update user’s Data Source Credentials at logon time

‘Trusted Authentication

(5) Trusted Authentication is enabled

No shared secret available. New d SecretI Download Shared Secret!

Shared Secret Validity Period (days):
Trusted logon request is timeout after N milisecond(s) (0 means no limit):

Update] Reset]

e = “There are three generic administrator accounts without specific users assigned to these accounts. One of

the three accounts has not been used since April 2009.”

Only 1 full Administrator account remains which is used for administrative activities only by the POL

Credence Administrator.

e “The process for requesting and granting user access rights to Credence does not maintain documentation

to record evidence of request or approval of access rights.”

This activity is now governed and controlled by the IT Service Desk. Service tickets are used to log and

control requests.

e = “There is no process in place for the revocation of user access rights when a user separates from the

organisation or moves to a new role no longer requiring access rights to Credence.”

Housekeeping is actively performed on a regular basis and redundant user accounts are terminated

accordingly.

With regards,

Mark

WBD_001357.000013
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

Mark Hotson
Senior Data & Process Specialist

Hen

@&
Winner of the
Global Postal Award

for Customer West Bars,
Experience CHESTERFIELD

Data Centre of Excellence

Not Future Walk,

Derbyshire, S49 1PF

Annual Leave Advanced Notification:

24" December 18 — 11" January 19

From: Mark Hotson
Sent: 24 October 20
To: 'Lucy Bremner' 4
Ce: Mark Underwood! + GRO >; Jonathan Gribben

Subject: RE: Horizon issues - witness evidence [VBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Hi Lucy,

Whilst I am more than willing to try and help I wasn’t working in POL in 2011!

I'll come back to you in the morning after I’ve had some conversations internally.

Regards,
Mark
2017 Winner of the Mark Hotson
Global Postal Award Senior Data & Process Specialist
for Customer

WBD_001357.000014
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

® Data Centre of Excellence

Not Future Walk,

West Bars,
Experience CHESTERFIELD

Derbyshire, S49 1PF

24" December 18 — 11" January 19

b; Jonathan Gribben {

‘Subjec Horizon issues - witness evidence [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]

Dear Mark,

As part of the Post Office litigation we are drafting witness statements in response to allegations made by the other
side. I have been in contact with Paul Smith, who has pointed me in your direction in relation to one of the issues we
need to respond to.

Jason Coyne, the Claimants’ IT expert, refers to an audit document produced by E&Y in 2011 (see attached) which
identified issues with the credence application, namely weak change controls within the back end of the systems
allowing Logica developers (the third-party provider) to move their own uncontrolled changes into the production
environment. He goes on to say that "further documentation to approve fixes and patches applied to Credence outside
of the release process were lacking, therefore linking changes to issue tickets to record the original request for the bug
fix was not possible".

We need to understand whether these comments are correct and whether anything changed in light of the report.

As we need this information urgently, can you let me know if you are the right person to answer this and if so, can we
set up a call for later today/tomorrow morning to discuss?

Kind regards,

WBD_001357.000015
WBONO0001487
WBON0001487

Lucy

Lucy Bremner
Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com

BOND
DICKINSON bin)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

be ley

only is authorised to
"Js soon as possible and delete any copies.
iy be unlawful, Information about how we use

information in this e-mail and any attachments is co
cess this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying
personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website

lly privileged and protected by law,
ase notify
ation or attachments is pr

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate tity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

WBD_001357.000016
