WBONO000952
WBON0000952

From: Mark Underwood;_
To: "Parsons, Andrew"
Ce: Patrick Bourke:

Steve Allchorn

Subject: Request for help in respect of the Chairman's report: Subject to Legal Privilege
Date: Tue, 26 Jan 2016 09:34:08 +0000
Importance: High
Embedded: unnamed

Hi Andy,

I just tried to call but went through to your voicemail so, in the first instance, I thought I would send you a
note.

As I think you are aware, the Chairman has now received the report from Jonathan Swift QC. This report
contains a number of recommendations, including for us to:

“cross reference specific complaints about misleading advice from NBSC call-handlers with the possible
employees who provided that advice and consider their personnel files, where available, for evidence as to
the likelihood that the complaint may be well founded”.

Our proposal to address this, as agreed with Jonathan, is for those Applicants who raised complaints in
respect of helpline:

Identify those who have particularised their complaint e.g. given a specific date
Cross reference these calls against the call handler who would have taken the call

Check these call handlers PDRs to see if they had had any complaints made against them, in respect of the
advice they were providing.

Where we need your help, or rather your team of paralegal’s, is for them to trawl through the 107 cases that
make complaints in respect of the helpline (see column N of the attached spread sheet) and identify those
which have actually made particularised complaints rather than just generic ones.

As this is for the Chairman, we would like this done ASAP. When do you think you would be able to provide
this analysis by?

Mark

WBD_000822.000001
WBONO000952
WBON0000952

Mark Underwood

Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

AS EE SISSIES SIGS SISSIES I EIGIOICI ACI I ICI KI ACI SI A IGR ACACIA AR ACR aca A ok oa ak a

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

AE SEIS CISIIEI SI ICICISIOI SIGE IC ICIGR ICICI IC AIGR CICA KCI AE oR ACA IK AAR ACR A A A AR

WBD_000822.000002
