WBON0001983
WBON0001983

From: Simon Henderson
To: 'Amy Prime’ +

Ce: Andrew Parson: GRO 4 Jonathan Gribben

p, Lucy Bremner
Subject: RE: Horizon Issues Trial - KEL disclosure [WBDUK-AC.FID27 103746]
Date: Tue, I Oct 2019 15:17:25 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png

Amy

Ihave left you a vm: please call when convenient.

This is a very concerning development and while I of course recognise the need for damage control, I think
we need to address this as a matter of urgency. Where did we first get the information that earlier entries
were not kept?

Best

Simon

From: Amy Prime [mailto:
Sent: 01 October 2019 1
To: Simon Henderso1
rew Parsons <

; Lucy Bremner
Subject: Horizon Issues Trial - KEL disclosure [WBDUK-AC.FID27103746]

>
Jonathan Gribben {7

Simon

Further to my voicemail, and following on from the discussions about the disclosure of the Horizon adverse
documents, we have received the attached letter from Freeths. In the paragraph named "Previously disclosed KELs",
on page 4/5, Freeths have raised a number of points about the disclosure of previous versions and amendments
made to the KEL entries. In drafting a response to this letter we intended to rely upon Post Office's EDQ which stated:

"The KEL only contains the current database entries and is constantly updated and so the current version will not
necessarily reflect the version that was in place at the relevant time. The previous entries / versions of the current

entries are no longer available." (emphasis added)

We have this morning learnt from FJ that this statement is incorrect and that when FJ revise the contents of an existing
KEL they would not overwrite the KEL (and lose the previous version) but take a copy of the KEL, make the changes
and save as a new document. The previous versions of the KEL would then be kept for version control and are still
held in the KEL database.
WBON0001983
WBON0001983

There is some urgency to respond to the attached letter since Freeths are due to file at 4:30pm on Thursday, 3
October a document (a) identifying any challenges as to the source or basis of assertions made in the new 3 pages of
submissions; and (b) in no more than 5 pages, identify any points arising in relation to the late disclosed documents
(although there has been no response from Fraser J on this request to file submissions).

We are therefore proposing to respond to the remainder of the letter but include a holding response in relation to the
disclosure of the previous versions of KELs. It would however be helpful to discuss with you how to best tackle the
requiremenvor not to disclose these documents and the approaches which could be adopted.

If you are free today, please could you give me a call to discuss?

Kind regards

Amy

Amy Prime
Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

‘Sign up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON ® ()

Please consider the em

‘onment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this ‘and any attachments is confi
cess this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not shenderso
, dissemination, distribution, publication or cop
personal data is in our

Jonly is authorised to
ff elete any copies
ay be unlawful, Informatiombout how we use

on our website

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for

any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out yourown virus checks before opening any attachment,

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a lim
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of m

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providin
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world, Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law Please see

www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

Simon Henderson
WBONO0001983
WBONO0001983

4 Pump Court, Temple, London, EC4Y 7AN I www.4pumpcourt.com

1 Follow us on twitter @4PumpCourt
}I View Profile Connect with us on Linkedin

Pump Court International I www.pumpcourtinternational.com

Terms of Work: Barristers at 4 Pump Court carry out services on 4 Pump Court Terms, which are available on our website,
unless otherwise agreed in writing. I View Terms

Privacy: Your attention is drawn to our Privacy Notice in relation to any personal data that we may obtain and/or otherwise
process about you. I View Privacy Notice

Notice of Confidentiality and Privilege: This email (including attachments) is confidential to the addressee, and may be subject
to legal professional privilege. If you are not the addressee, you must not copy distribute or otherwise use it or any information
contained in this email. Please delete it, and destroy all copies

