WBONO0000719
WBON0000719

From: Rodric Williams < GRO >
To: "Emanuel, i

_ Andrew Parsons
Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
‘k Underwood1 <
_ ©, Jonathan Gribben
"Lerner, Alex" <j
Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation: Horizon Issues Judgment [WBDUK-
AC.FID26896945]
Date: Mon, 30 Sep 2019 11:05:09 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png; image004.png; image005.png;
image006.png; image007.png

Thanks Andy — my views below:

At its last meeting, the Board SubCo (which included UKGI’s Tom Cooper as shareholder representative and
Richard Watson as an observer) confirmed that we could replicate for the Horizon Issues judgment the
approach taken to receipt of the Common Issues judgment.

We do not therefore need to request that UKGI be given the embargoed judgment.

Richard also reminded us not to include him on any communications we have with the SubCo about the
draft. We will therefore need to check email distribution lists to make sure he is omitted from any
communications to the SubCo about the judgment.

I do not think we should ask to share the draft judgment with Fujitsu. I think that would be inconsistent with
their position as a third-party supplier to Post Office. Has anyone from Fujitsu/their lawyers asked us for
early sight of the judgment?

Rod

WBD_000589.000001
WBONO0000719
WBON0000719

From: Emanuel, Catherine: GRO
Sent: 30 September 2019 11

To: andrew.parsons <" z ic Williams < ~ GRO
Mark UnderwoodT

Angela Van-Den-Bogerd <
<< - GRO 5
Ce: Lucy Bremner <
Lerner, Alex <
Subject: RE: Post Office Group Litigation: Horizon Issues Judgment [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Copying Alex Lerner — grateful if you all could keep him copied on all email traffic relating to this matter.

From: Andrew Parsons < :
Sent: 30 September 2019

Angela Van-Den-Bogerd <

GRO
Mark Underwood 1

manuel, Catherine

>

All

FYI below.

I think we should go back to confirm that we are content with the standard order that the Judgment should be restricted
to the lawyers and Post Office Limited (ie. the client).

We could ask for this to be extended to:

1. UKGI but we would almost certainly need to nominate names and I don't like the optics of that shortly before
a mediation.

2. FJ as that would be for obvious reasons, but I would almost prefer to be able to keep FJ at arm's length when
the draft Judgment lands.

Thoughts?

Kind regards
Andy

WBD_000589.000002
WBONO0000719
WBON0000719

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

‘Sign up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com

DICKINSON Ow)

From: Angélique Richardson
Sent: 30 September
To: Fraser, Angela <;
Ce: James Hartley
Andrew Parsons <
Subject: Post Office Group Litig:

>; Imogen Randall

Horizon Issues Judgment

Dear Angela,

We write ahead of the Managing Judge issuing, in due course, what we anticipate will be an embargoed draft
of the Horizon Issues Judgment.

When the Common Issues Judgment was handed down in March 2019, we sought permission for the
embargoed draft judgment to be provided to two members of the Claimants’ Steering Committee. The
Managing Judge granted this permission, subject to conditions which are noted in the transcript produced on
Day I of the Horizon Issues Trial {Day1/1:19} — (Day1/2:8} as follows:

“Right and my position on this is as follows. I have no difficulty with two members of the steering
committee seeing the draft, subject to conditions. One is the names of those two people have to be
notified to my clerk in an email and that email should come from one of the claimants' legal advisors.
It should identify who they are by name and the fact that they have been specifically told the terms of
the embargo and that to breach the terms is a contempt and what the possible consequences of the
contempt are... If those three elements are satisfied then they can be shown the draft under terms of
the embargo.”

Please see attached an email from our Counsel to the Court dated 11 March 2019 pursuant to this direction
made by the Managing Judge. We would be grateful if the Managing Judge could indicate whether he would
be content to make the same direction in respect of the Horizon Issues Judgment.

WBD_000589.000003
WBONO0000719
WBON0000719

We have copied in the Defendant's solicitors, to give them the opportunity to make any comments, if they so
wish.

Kind regards,

Angelique

Angélique Richardson
Freeths LLP

Floor 3, 100 Wellington Street
Legal 500 Guide 2019: "Top Tier" in 24 categories I 164 Recommended’ Lawyers I 24 ‘Elite Leading Lawyers"

Leeds LS1 4LT

Chambers UK Guide 2019: ‘Ranked’ in 38 categories I 67 Lawyers ‘Leaders in the field’

To see our additional awards, please click here

Please read our Data Protection Notice at wi

s freeths.co.uk

Please be aware of the increasing risk of cybercrime and online fraud. If you ever receive an email stating a change in bank account details
purporting to be from Freeths LLP, do not send any funds to the account and contact us immediately. We will never send you an email telling you
that we have changed our bank account details.

ich includes the SRA Code of Conduct at wwrw.sra.org.ub/handbook You can inspect a list of t
is ine lease delete this message us ” Postmaster, j tele

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

¢ information in this e-mai

and any a

ichments is confi and may be legally privileged and protected by la

attachments. If you are not gatherine.emanuef™ "I please notify andrew.parsons*
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and May be unlawful. Information about how we use

Tonly is authorised to

access this e-mail and an

as soon as possible and delete any copies.

personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our reg
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of member jon. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP,
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB12339362

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor ean bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

WBD_000589.000004
WBONO0000719
WBON0000719

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and its subsidiaries and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are
separate member firms of the international legal practice known as Herbert Smith Freehills.

This message is confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. If you are not the intended
recipient you must not disclose or use the information contained in it. If you have received this email in error
please notify us immediately by return email or by calling our main switchboard on}
delete the email.

Further information is available from www.herbertsmithfreehills.com, including our Privacy Policy which
describes how we handle personal information.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales with
registered number OC310989. It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors' Regulation Authority of
England and Wales whose rules can be accessed via www.sra.org.uk/code-of-conduct.page. A list of the
members and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at the registered office, Exchange House,
Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EG. We use the word partner of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP to refer to a
member of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, or an employee or consultant with equivalent standing and
qualifications. Herbert Smith Freehills LLP's registration number for Value Added Tax in the United
Kingdom is GB 927 1996 83.

Joibiepinicioioicioioiciolpioiaioioiioiniioioiciaioicioloioiaoioioioieiininiciainiciainicialnioialniniainini ionic inkiaoii tot
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Je SESSA ES GIS EGGS ES AEGIS GRCIIIGIGICR ACIICK AICI A ASAE ACC aca Rca A ko a ok

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be
found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

WBD_000589.000005
