WBON0002012

WBON0002012
From: "Matthew.Lenton,__ GRO :
To: Lucy Bremner},
Ce: "pete.newsome: GRO ‘Amy Prime
! GRO Andrew Parsons I }
"Jonathan Gribben", GRO i
"Torstein.O.Godeseth¢ GRO i
"ParkerSP; GRO }

Subject: RE: KELs - query [WBDUK-AC.FID27032497]
Date: Tue, 1 Oct 2019 09:14:57 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png

Lucy,

This part: “/t/he KEL only contains the current database entries’”— 1’ m not completely clear what that is
intended to mean, but it may be clarified by the following:

This is correct: “is constantly updated and so the current version will not necessarily reflect the version that
was in place at the relevant time”

The second sentence is not correct: “The previous entries / versions of the current entries are no longer
available".

You may recall that there are three status categories of KEL: current, deprecated and deleted. For those that
are current or deprecated, they have been updated in such a way that previous content is not permanently
overwritten, but instead a new version is created, with the previous versions being retained and accessible.
For those that have been deleted, only the last version at the point of deletion has been retained.

Matthew Lenton
Document Manager

Post Office Account

Fujitsu

Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN

Web: https://www fujitsu.com/global/

From: Lucy Bremner
Sent: Monday, September 30, 2019 6:37 PM
To: Lenton, Matthew { GRO H

WBON0002012
WBON0002012

Amy Prime! {Andrew

jonathan Gribben }

Matthew,

Post Office is seeking to quote from its Electronic Documents Questionnaire submitted back in 2017. It is seeking to
rely on the following quote in relation to KELs:

"[t]he KEL only contains the current database entries and is constantly updated and so the current version
will not necessarily reflect the version that was in place at the relevant time. The previous entries / versions
of the current entries are no longer available".

Can you confirm that this is definitely the correct position (i.e. that previous entries are no longer available)? We need
to respond to Freeths by 10am tomorrow, so confirmation ASAP would be appreciated.

Kind regards,

Lucy

Lucy Bremner
Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Sign up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND -
DICKINSON ® @)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this

ail and any attachments is confidential a

and protected by “Jonly is authorised to
access this e-mail and hments. If you are not matthew.lent “SRO. “Iplease notify lucy.bremner! 3S possible and delete any copies:
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this comication or attachments i prohibited and may be unlawful. Informationabout how we use
personal data is in our Privacy Poliey on our website

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
WBON0002012
WBON0002012

any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out yourown virus checks before opening any attachment.
Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it
This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered

office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open toinspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

ble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Int. al) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
sin the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond n entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www.womblebonddickinson,com/legal notices for further detail,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No
96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker
Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu
Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes
Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and
may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it
is virus-free.
