WBONO0000682
WBON0000682

From: Tom Beezer +
To: Jane MacLeod

I, Dave Panaech

“Amy Prime!
Subject: RE: recusal [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Date: Wed, 20 Mar 2019 10:15:25 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001 .jpg; imaged8237b.PNG; image4b9db4.PNG; image8a6793.PNG

Jane

As requested, Counsel team response below:

Dear Tom,

This proposal does not work. Indeed, if made, this application would make matters (even worse).
Even if PO decide not to seek to recuse Fraser J I would advise strongly against the proposed course.
I say this for the following reasons:

(1) The immediate (and likely irreversible) prejudice PO are suffering is the effects of the
apparent bias Fraser J showed in the CIT upon his current handling of the Horizon issues
trial. There is also the future prejudice of him handling the breach trial in November 2019.

(2) The only way of seeking to deal with the prejudice is to seek his recusal on an urgent basis.

(3) Seeking to appear before him indicating that PO is going to appeal against his CIT
judgment on grounds of procedural unfairness — will assuredly not result in him adjourning
the Horizon trial. He will not do so because the unfairness in the CIT trial itself does not
infect the Horizon trial. It is the apparent bias of Fraser J that infects the Horizon trial. The
only remedy for that is recusal.

(4) If, on this proposal, Fraser J’s refusal to adjourn the Horizon trial is then appealed to the
Court of Appeal — they would assuredly not adjourn that trial and would not recuse him-
because there would not application before them to do so.

(5,

Furthermore, an appeal against a refusal to recuse is much more likely to come on as an
urgent appeal — than an appeal against the refusal of a judge to adjourn a trial on the basis
that he showed procedural unfairness in an earlier trial between the same parties. Indeed
the latter appeal is very likely to come on after the Horizon trial is completed and the
Judgment handed down. This fact would make it more unlikely the Court of Appeal would
intervene.

(6)

And, if all this comes to pass (as it most assuredly would) is the proposal that then PO
applies to the judge to recuse himself ? And then appeal him if he does not ? This make no
sense- and would all come too late to be effective to deal with the prejudice in (1). Indeed,
this course of action would look very much as if PO were seeking to delay matters and
behave badly- in the manner presently charged by the Judge.

WBD_000552.000001
WBONO0000682
WBON0000682

(7) If there are good grounds for a recusal (and clearly there are) and good prospects of
success (as advised) then the Court of Appeal would expect PO to apply to the Judge to
recuse himself and then appeal him if he did not. There is no middle ground here.

Best,

D.

David Cavender Q.C.
0
—_ ( ) ONE ESSEX COURT

London EC4Y 9AR

Tom Beezer
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

Join us for Disrupting Disputes 2.0
20 March 2019 at the British Library

Book your place here
WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON J) (in)

From: Jane MacLeod [mailto:
Sent: 20 March 2019 07:14
To: Tom Beezer

Cc: Andrew Parsons; Rodric Williams
Subject: recusal

Tom

I have been asked to see whether an approach along the following lines (as an alternative to recusal) would

be possible procedurally:

WBD_000552.000002
WBONO0000682
WBON0000682

“1. inform the judge that the company is appealing on the law and unfair procedure

2. ask the judge to stop the Horizon trial until the outcome of the appeal is determined on the grounds that if

the unfairness claim is upheld it would also put the fairness of the Horizon trial at risk

3. If the judge refuses 2, seek and order from a higher court to the same effect and ask the judge at least to
stop the Horizon trial until such an order can be obtained (or not)

Tf the remedy in 3 is sought but isn’t obtained we will at least have tested the relevance and implications of
unfairness issues on the second trial. And effectively a higher court will have told us that any unfairness in

the first trial would not impact the Horizon trial (obviously contrary to POL’s view).

If the remedy in 3 doesn’t exist in law then recusal would be an alternative at that point. It seems to me the
judge’s refusal to agree to 2 would support a recusal application as he would be unwilling to accept that if
unfairness took place in the first trial the nature of it would necessarily affect the conduct and fairness of the
Horizon trial - a view which logically suggests bias as it is absurd.”

Could we please test this with the Counsel team? It may have the outcome that the judge is asked to recuse
himself, but not necessarily. And seems to assume that we could get an appeal quite quickly, which must be
uncertain. I’m also not sure that the logic in 2. holds up, and 3 means arguing procedural unfairness without

(necessarily) arguing mis-application of the law etc.

Thanks,

Jane

Jane MacLeod

WBD_000552.000003
WBONO0000682
WBON0000682

Group Director Legal, Risk & Governance

Post Office

GRO “—

Jed oeiebdaiicciciick dani iciieis dat iciieiick dei dei aciiiiok detail dear ao
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

JESS I BISISIS I CISISI ICICISIOR ICICISI I ICICI AC CIO CI ICI I CA HOR ICICI RCAC A OC ASH CASIO CAC AOR ECAH EA

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be
found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

WBD_000552.000004
