WBONO0000657
WBON0000657

To: Andrew Parsons ¢

Ce: Amy Prime {° GRO _ >, Tom Beezer <
Subject: RE: Lord Pannick ~
Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2019 09:38:33 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png

Andrew

Thank you for your email.

T have spoken to David and I’m afraid that due to his other commitments, including potential hearings
outside the jurisdiction, he is unable to take on anything new at the moment. If you, or Amy would like me
to look at other options within chambers do let me know.

Kind regards

Adam

Adam Sloane

Deputy Senior Clerk
Blackstone Chambers
Blackstone House

and Confident This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are confidential and legally privileged. This e-mail is intended to be read only by the
addressee. If you are not the intended re ‘you are notified that any review, dissemination or copying of this e-mail is prohibited and that privilege has not been waived.
Ifyou have received this e-mail in error, please notify the sender by replying by e-mail or by telephone (+44 (0)20 7583 1770) and then delete the e-mail. Blackstone
Chambers, Blackstone House, Temple, London, EC4Y 9BW England. A copy of the Blackstone Chambers external privacy policy can be found here.A list of members of
chambers is available for inspection at this address on our web site: www-blackstonechambers.com

WBD_000527.000001
WBONO0000657
WBON0000657

From: Andrew Parsons [mailto:
Sent: 12 March 2019 07:45
To: Adam Sloane +
Ce: Amy Prime «.
Subject: Lord Pannick

Adam

Hope you are well?

We are running a huge piece of Group Litigation and have just received a draft Judgment that it not good for my client.
We have two silks currently engaged (David Cavender and Tony Robinson at OEC) and both consider that there is a
possibility of a recusal application against the Judge on the grounds that he lacks impartiality.

That is obviously the nuclear option!

The client would like a second opinion, plus if it goes ahead it would probably like the application to be made by a new
silk who's independent from the current team.

By any chance, is Lord Pannick available in the next week or so? We'll need to move urgently for obvious reasons.

I appreciate that you will likely get lots of people asking for David, but trust me, this is a big one. We're going to have
appeals flying off in all directions on a some major points of law. It's all in the contract / commercial space. Our client
is the Post Office.

I'm about to go back into Court today (we're mid-way through the second trial in the same matter!). Would you mind
liaising with Amy copied?

Thanks
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP.

‘Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

Join us for Disrupting Disputes 2.0
20 March 2019 at the British Library

WBD_000527.000002
WBONO0000657
WBON0000657

Book your place here

DICKINSON IG)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally p_
authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not adamsloane@”

and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication
Information about how we use personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website

se notify andrew.paRsoag~~G
ion or alachiente it ORO

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

WBD_000527.000003
