WBON0001278
WBON0001278

WOMBLE
BOND
DICKINSON

Request I Mr Coyne's Information Request Post Office response
i) Monthly service reports from HSD — Similar I [(RESPOnSelaWaited)
to the SLA report in NBSC. This will allow
the required analysis of the high-level
problem types and periods.
ii) Screenshots for TfS and Peak (During the Fujitsu have provided screenshots of the
meeting Sandie offered two for TfS) TfS system from the inspection on [insert
date]. Screenshots of the PEAK inspection
are not available[ but Fujitsu have provided
copies of PEAKs referred to during the
inspection.] [TBC]
iii) List of TfS classification codes and Peak call I Fujitsu have provided a list of TfS
types (with meanings) classification codes and a list of PEAK call
types.
iv) A full list of TfS’s ‘closed’ from ‘Live’ and I
where Classification was = ‘S. Software
SD?? * (plus others that may follow after we
have the list from above)
v) PEAK and/or TfS records where the error or I While all incidents are recorded the system
issue resulted in financial impact to either was designed to manage individual
Post Office or a Subpostmaster. operations, not for statistical reporting for
when a particular action has been taken by
a Support Consultant. Fujitsu will be able
to answer questions on individual branch
queries where the data is still available.
vi) PEAK and/or TfS records for any Claimant This information has not been pooled or
who has a record including any audit data collated: the records would have to be
for the period (at least a month) of the reviewed manually.
vii) The ‘filtered’ data (ARQ's). We have the [Dave to ask Torstein]
unfiltered data but PO was making TC.
decisions based on the filtered not the
unfiltered. I need to understand the delta of
the two. [Already requested in Freeths 15
and 22 June 2018 Letters]
viii) A ccopy of any Master Service Change There are in excess of 18,000 MSCs and
("MSC") OR Operational Corrective Fujitsu predict that there are similar
Requests ("OCR") OR Operation Control number of OCPs, but they would need to
Procedures ("OCP") [as outlined in POL- carry out manual analysis to answer these
0074909] where the data to be changed has _ I questions.
had a financial impact on Post Office or
where they relate to fixing a peak. OCRs would not be used for any such
change and are therefore not relevant.

‘AC_151199951_1

WBD_001148.000001

