WBON0000838
WBON0000838

From: "Parsons, Andrew" < GRO i
To: Belinda Crowe <f

GRO
Rodric Williams ‘ Co :
Ce: Chris Aujard 4 GRO }, David Oliver=j
H GRO i
Subject: RE: Post Office Mediation Claims. [BD-4A.FID20472253]
Date: Mon, 14 Apr 2014 14:00:05 +0000
Importance: Normal
Attachments: Lepton_Report_-_Appendix_1_(redacted).pdf; Lepton_credence_data_for_04-10-12.xls;
Lepton_fujitsu_data_for_04-10-12_GJ.XLSX; Lepton_4 to_25_Oct_12.xls;

Lepton_Events_4 to_25 Oct_12.xls; Spot_Review_1_Response_-_redacted.PDF
Inline-Images: image008.jpg; image009.jpg; image010.jpg; image011.jpg; image012.png;
image013.png; image014.png; image015.png; image016.png; image017.png

All

I've reviewed the appendix to the HR report. This contains no information that causes me any concerns and therefore
my suggestion is that appendix is disclosed to Howe & Co. I also think it is worth disclosing Spot Review 1 to Howe &
Co as this goes through the issues in the HR report in more detail before reaching the conclusion that there is no
problem with Horizon. Disclosing Spot Review 1 may therefore help close down this line of enquiry.

To that end, please find attached:
e Redacted version of Appendix 1 — removing any personal data
* 4x spreadsheets — being the spreadsheets embedded in Appendix 1 but with the data in the "user id"
columns having been deleted so to remove personal data. I've also purged the meta-data from these files.
e Redacted version of Spot Review 1 — removing any personal data.

Below is an amended draft email to Howe & Co for your approval. My suggestion is that this should come from Rodric
so to discourage Howe from contacting Chris direct in the future.

Chris — as discussed last week, you may wish to foreshadow this email with a call by you or Rodric to Howe.

Kind regards
Andy

Dear Ms Maru-Singh
I refer to your email of 7 April 2014 to Chris Aujard.

The version of the report sent to Ms Robinson ("the Lepton Report") was redacted to protect the privacy and personal
information of the individuals named in that Report. This was done to ensure compliance with the Data Protection Act
1998. We will therefore not be providing an un-redacted copy of the Lepton Report.

As requested, please find attached a copy of Appendix 1 to the Lepton Report along with copies of the spreadsheets
embedded in Appendix 1. To protect the privacy of those referred to in these documents we have again redacted any
personal data. In particular, in the spreadsheets we have deleted the data from the "user id" and "employee id"
columns.

I also attach a copy of Post Office's response to Second Sight's Spot Review 1, which was prepared and disclosed to
Second Sight before the publication of its interim report. Again, this document has been redacted to protect the
privacy of the individuals involved. This Spot Review addresses the same transactions as raised in the Lepton

Report. However, whereas the Lepton Report is focused on the presentation of data from Horizon, the Spot Review 1
Response directly addresses the issue raised in your email about reversal transactions. I trust that this document
helps demonstrate that the reversal transactions in question did not occur without the knowledge of the subpostmaster.

For the sake of good order, I note that Post Office disagrees with the statements in your email about the integrity of
data on Horizon and the safety of convictions. Further, Post Office maintains that the disclosure of the un-redacted

WBD_000708.000001
WBON0000838
WBON0000838

Lepton Report or Appendix 1 to that report was not required for it to comply with its prosecution disclosure duties.

I do not believe that this matter should delay the submission of your clients' CQRs. However, should you require
further time on any particular case you may of course apply in the usual way to the Working Group for an extension —
please make this request in writing to schemeenquiriesf

Yours sincerely

Rodric Williams

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Bond Didingow

Hobie GRO

Fax:

Follow Bond Dickinson:

STin)

www.bonddickinson.com

From: Belinda Crowe: GRO I

Sent: 14 April 2014 11:20

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Parsons, Andrew; Andy Holt; Rodric Williams
Cc: Chris Aujard; David Oliver bd Belinda Crowe

Subject: RE: Post Office Mediation Claims.

Thanks Angela
I have spoken to Rod. He is not familiar with this but Andy Parsons is going to speak to Andy Wynn about it.

There are a few questions we need to answer, I think:
1. What is the explanation?
2. Has this statement been used publicly (in Court or otherwise)
3. Have the contents of this email been disclosed? Either:
a. through the ‘criminal’ disclosure process, or
b. to Second Sight through responses to Spot Reviews, or
c. as part of one of our investigations, or
d. to Second Sight in other misc material we have provided in the past
4. If this email has not been disclosed publicly, regardless of what our response is we need to consider how it
came into Howe and Co’s possession.

This is linked to the other issue arising from the Howe and Co emails — one formally to Chris and one that came to
us via Ron. That is the Helen Rose report.

Andy parsons is looking at the ‘appendix’ which was not disclosed and CK do not think was relevant for disclosure
and will revisit the advice and draft response he provided for Chris. I think we need to have dealt with all of this in
advance of the next WG call and so we can, if possible, put it to bed. I know that our view is that this is not an
issue for the Working Group but it will be raised and we need to be able to say that we have dealt with it. Another
timing issue is that Tony offered to look at the information and we agreed. However, what I sent him was the
information as sent to Chris originally, before we found the appendix. I would like, as a matter of courtesy, be able
to go back to him before the WG meeting.

All, please say if I have missed something.

WBD_000708.000002
WBON0000838
WBON0000838

Andy, would you be able to get a revised not to Chris which covers these points (insofar as possible) by CoP today?

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Sent: 14 April 2014 08:22

To: Belinda Crowe; Andrew Parsons; Andy Holt; Rodric Williams
Ce: Chris Aujard; David Oliveri:

Subject: RE: Post Office Mediation Claims.

All,

I believe the attached is the e-mail chain referred to by Steve Darlington. In terms of transaction
corrections/acknowledgements we have explained these in the factfile so it should be clear that these need the branch
to accept the TC/TA on the Horizon system as it doesn’t automatically make any adjustments. It is the statement below
that does in my view require further explanation. Red — do we already have this explanation logged somewhere? Andy
Winn infers that we have used this in court at some time?

“Fujitsu have the ability to impact branch records via the message store but have extremely rigorous procedures in

place to prevent adjustments being made without prior authorisation - within POL and Fujitsu These controls form
the core of our court defence if we get to that stage.”

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd I Head of Partnershi

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

Post Office stories

©0BOO®

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Belinda Crowe

Sent: 08 April 2014 19:42

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Andrew Parsons; Andy Holt; Rodric Williams
Ce: Chris Aujard; David Oliveri:
Subject: Fwd: Post Office Mediation Claims.

WBD_000708.000003
WBON0000838
WBON0000838

Please see below. Not yet decided about whether to postpone this week's WG call but does anyone know anything
about the email being quoted below about remote alteration of figures in branch? I think that this is a new one on
me.

Andy P, can we please chase CK for a response on the Rose report point.

Best wishes
Belinda

Belinda Crowe

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
[ GRO Postline:! GRO}

GRO. i

From: Ron Warmington one GRO
Date: 8 April 2014 17:30:57 BST
To: ‘Beli

Subject: FW: Post Office Mediation Claims.

Agenda item for this week's WG call perhaps?

Regards, Ron.

From: Steve Darlington [1__
Sent: Tuesday, April 08, 2014
To: 'Ron Warmington’

Cc: Post Office Group
Subject: FW: Post Office Mediation Claims.
Importance: High

Dear Ron,

As Priti has stated in her last sentence we are seeking a stay on the time limits on all cases under review due to the
implications of POL’s non-disclosure of system-generated transactions and Horizon’s integrity issues.

The ‘Helen Rose Report’ is of critical significance to all cases. The information contained within it is a compelling
case for such a stay in its own right. When combined with the Andy Winn/Alan Lusher email in the case of Ward
which explicitly states that Fujitsu can remotely change the figures in the branches without the SPMs’ knowledge
or authority, the case for a general stay is overwhelming.

We ask that the Working Party considers this request as a matter of urgency In order that we do not prejudice our
clients’ cases by omitting what is clearly information of the utmost general significance,.

We also request that the Working Party demands that POL acts quickly to provide the information requested in
Priti’s email immediately so that the mediation process is not hindered further.

Regards

WBD_000708.000004
WBON0000838
WBON0000838

Steve Darlington BA (Hons) ACA
Finance Director

1010 Great West Road, Brentford, TW8 9BA
www.howe.co.uk

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

WBD_000708.000005
