From: "
To:
: Andrew Parsons.

Subject:

Date:
Importance:
Attachments:
Inline-Images:

WBONO0000174
WBON0000174

‘pete.newsomet GRO
Elisa Lukas {7

"Legal.Defencet,, - -
"Torstein.O.Godesetht, ieee GRO i
RE: Post Office: Horizon Group Action [BD-4A.FID26896945] Legally Privileged and
Confidential

Fri, 8 Sep 2017 11:06:06 +0000

Normal

Defect_Management_V1_080917.pptx
image001.gif; image002.gif; image003.gif; image004.gif; image005.png; image006. gif;
image007.jpg; image008.jpg; image009.png; image010.png; image011.png

Elisa

I have answered the questions below in blue.

Happy to discuss further if required.

Pete

IMPORTANT - This email or attached documents contains legal advice (or relates to litigation or anticipated lit
circumstances for which Legal Privilege may be claimed. Do not copy or forward this document without permi

Pete Newsome
Account Manager

n) and is being provided in
n.

Fujitsu UK&l

“Fujitsu Named as
Responsible Business
of the Year

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Action for Children

-CIO: Global Intelligence for the CIO. Fujitsu's online resource for ICT leaders
Sponsors of the 2015 Rugby World Cup

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Elisa Lukas [mailte

Cc: Andrew Parsons { GRO,
Subject: Post Office: Horizon Group Action [BD- 4A, £026896045}

Pete

I'm currently working with Andy on preparing a detailed witness statement on all documents / data that Post Office has
access to that is relevant to the Group Action.

WBD_000044.000001
WBONO0000174
WBON0000174

I'd really appreciate your input on a couple of points. Do you have any availability in the next few days for a call to
discuss the following?

¢ — How long it would take for FJ to extract all of the branch data for all 515 Claimants, who have 612 branches
between them

The Audit Store has data within it starting from October 2007 so we could extract data for a branch from that date
onwards. It takes a couple of days effort (could be spread over up to 10 days elapsed)to extract 2 weeks data for
one branch so the time to retrieve would dependent on the number of weeks data required and from which
period.

e How many different changes have been made to Horizon since it was introduced — is there a total number of
change requests or a version number for the software code?

Many thousands of changes have been introduced since the solution went live 20 years ago. In the original Horizon
system before it was retired these were in releases managed for different parts of the solution dozens of major
releases on the main system, with additional network banking releases in BI1, BI2 and then BI3 with sub-
increments. Since the introduction of HNGX there have been 15 major releases each with up to 10 sub releases
each of which could contain a number of changes in functionality driven by code changes.

There is also a programme of patching and updating of operating systems and associated code changes, where
required, to keep the system in supportable versions of third party systems.

Horizon has also been designed to be driven from reference data which is release by Post Offices Agent AtoS (over
1000 changes can be implemented per month) which include the ability to change pricing, introduce new products
and change branch standing data through the Post offices Operational Business Change (OBC) process.

How many manuals, system documents, technical documents etc. do you hold that explain Horizon and are
there different versions of these?

There are 3011 live technical documents. The total number of versions of those is 22035.

e  Asense of scale of how many people at FJ have worked on Horizon and how many data / documents they
will have produced

The number of people at any one time varies from 250 to 350 Fujitsu resources aligned with the Post Office
Account. The composition varies dependant on project work.

e What records are kept about bugs, how they are kept and whether these are searchable by branch affected

Whenever an issue is reported by a branch to the Post Office Call Centre (NBSC) and it is deemed to be a technical
issue it is passed via the AtoS Service desk to the Fujitsu SSC Support Team. Once the call has been passed to the
Fujitsu SSC support team it is logged in the TfS support system against a the individual branch and updated at every
stage of investigation and to its conclusion. These records are kept for at least 7 years and recoverable by branch.

If on investigation an issue is identified which the team member deems to need further investigation and cannot
be solved either by following the instructions in the Knowledge base or by the experience of the Service Staff then

it is logged with the 4" line support team. If an the issue is identified that requires a programmatic fix the it is
logged in a separate system (the Peak System) and given the generic term a ‘Peak’. If it is deemed to need new
code to fix the issue (a bug) then this is produced and fully regression tested before release into the estate via the
process outlined below. If an issue is identified which affects a number of branches a master call record is created
to consolidate any fixes or workarounds need to be issued.

Below is the standard process:
Business Impact Forum (BIF)
A list of Peaks for consideration in the BIF will be circulated prior to the meeting.

. Any request for maintenance content to be included in a release must be represented by a ‘Peak
Incident’.

WBD_000044.000002
WBONO0000174

WBON0000174
. The request should be made, or sponsored, by a recognised stream lead and placed on the ‘BIF’
stack
. Detailed justification for the Peak to be included in the release
. The requester should attend the BIF session considering the Peak
. The forum will consider the dependencies, effort, timescales and risk of resolving the issue.
. For each PEAK being considered there should be one of the following outcomes:
5 Approved — to be targeted in the next part of the meeting (PTF)
Ze Request further information (from originator or other) and defer to a subsequent BIF
Sy Add to the Known Error Log (KEL) and close the Peak.
Peak Targeting Forum (PTF)
A list of Peaks for consideration in the PTF will be circulated prior to the meeting.
. Peaks set to Approved status in the BIF will go on to be targeted to a specific maintenance release
in the second part of the meeting (the PTF).
. Peaks will go directly to the PTF stack (missing out the BIF approval) only for very specific

circumstances, i.e. MSC catch ups — where the defect has already been resolved in Live via an MSC change request.

Emergency Peak Targeting Forum (E-PTF).

At any time, if a fault Peak is an ‘A’ priority and deemed business critical, the Release Manager should be advised
so that an immediate fix may be considered and an Emergency PTF convened to discuss and agree the need and
progress the Peak.

e What the bug escalation process is

The emergency fix process for a ‘bug’ is described above and described in the presentation above along with the
major incident process.

Kind regards,
Elisa

Elisa Lukas

Solicitor
Bond Dickinson LLP

GRO

Follow Bond Dickinson:

www.bonddickinson.com

A new-breed of — Goud Diclcinger
transatlantic law firm

WOMBLE
Find obt rh > " CARLYLE

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential a ly privileged and protected
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not petesnewsor ase notify elisa.lukag” a8 SOoH as POTD
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful

only is authorised to
nd delete any copies.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no liability for any loss or

WBD_000044.000003
WBONO0000174
WBON0000174

damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership re
London Riverside, London, SEI 2AL
consultant who is of equivalent stand

tered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office is 4 More
n. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited (registered in England No
96056); Fujitsu EMEA PLC (registered in England No 2216100) both with registered offices at: 22 Baker
Street, London W1U 3BW; PFU (EMEA) Limited, (registered in England No 1578652) and Fujitsu
Laboratories of Europe Limited (registered in England No. 4153469) both with registered offices at: Hayes
Park Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and
may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it
is virus-free.

WBD_000044.000004
