WBONO001660
WBON0001660

From:

: Andrew Parsons >, "Emanuel, Catherine"

Subject: FW: Post Office Group Litigation - Draft Judgment [HS-London_11.FID2156898]

Date: Thu, 28 Nov 2019 16:55:30 +0000
Importance: Normal

Attachments: Judgment_No.6_FINAL_TO_SEND_OUT_28 Nov_19.docx;
Technical_Appendix_FINAL_TO_SEND_OUT_28 November_19.doc

Inline-Images: image] 13232.PNG; image98b669.PNG; imagec03107.PNG

Brian

Please find attached the embargoed, draft Horizon judgment, as received. You will note a final section is still
being drafted.

We will be in touch shortly to arrange a Con.

Kind regards

Will

William Lord
Associate

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP

GRO} Fi GRO

www.herbertsmithfreehills.com

From: Andrew Parsons

“b; Rodrie Williams

Ainslie Cranwell

Lord, William
>

Jonathan Gribben i
Subject: FW: Post Office Group Litigation = Draft Judgment

WBD_001530.000001
WBONO001660
WBON0001660

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP.

Sign up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com

DICKINSON Ow

From: Fraser, Angela

GRO pe; Andrew Parsons<j} GRO
st Office Group Litigation - Draft Judgment

Dear all,

Please find attached the draft Judgment with the exception of Part M — Final Section, which is currently
being drafted. This will not be ready for a few days and will be circulated in draft form when it is ready.

The reason for distributing now is because, as set out in the reasons provided by the Single Lord Justice

when he dismissed the Permission to Appeal Application, the court is aware that 28" and 29" November are
being used by the parties to meet to discuss the litigation going forward.

There will also be some further, isolated changes to the draft, including some limited reference to
submissions.

WBD_001530.000002
WBONO001660
WBON0001660

Parties are asked to note specifically the embargo and are requested to send an email (as occurred last time in
March 2019) before this can be provided to the two (only) members of the steering committee.

The Technical Appendix does not have any diagrams inserted yet and this exercise is also underway. The
Trial Bundle references are however provided in this draft.

Kind regards

Angela Fraser
Clerk to the Hon. Mr Justice Fraser

Judge in Charge of the Technology and Construction Court

The Royal Courts of Justice
Pod 10, 4' Floor

Rolls Building

Fetter Lane

London

EC4A INL

“For information on how HMCTS uses personal data about you, please see:

https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/hm-courts-and-tribunals-service/about/personal-information-charter

This e-mail and any attachments is intended only for the attention of the addressee(s). Its unauthorised use,
disclosure, storage or copying is not permitted. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy all copies
and inform the sender by return e-mail. Internet e-mail is not a secure medium. Any reply to this message
could be intercepted and read by someone else. Please bear that in mind when deciding whether to send
material in response to this message by e-mail. This e-mail (whether you are the sender or the recipient) may
be monitored, recorded and retained by the Ministry of Justice. Monitoring / blocking software may be used,
and e-mail content may be read at any time. You have a responsibility to ensure laws are not broken when
composing or forwarding e-mails and their contents.

WBD_001530.000003
WBONO001660
WBON0001660

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

"Jonly is authorised to a

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is cor and may be legally privileged and protected by law. william.lord
¢-mail and any attachments. Ifyou re not iim lease notify andrenanond "Gi soon as possible aid delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
our Privacy Policy on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

‘This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and its subsidiaries and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are separate member firms of the
international legal practice known as Herbert Smith Freehills.

This message is confidential and may be covered by legal professional privilege. If you are not the intended recipient you must not disclose or
use the informati d in it. If you have received this email in error please notify us immediately by return email or by calling our main
switchboard o Jand delete the email.

Further information is available from www.herbertsmithfreehills.com, including our Privacy Policy which describes how we handle personal
information.

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C310989. It is authorised
and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority of England and Wales (https://www.sra.org.uk), authorisation number 419682. A list of the
members and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at the registered office, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A
2EG. We use the word partner of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP to refer to a member of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, or an employee or consultant
with equivalent standing and qualifications. Herbert Smith Freehills LP's registration number for Value Added Tax in the United Kingdom is GB
927 1996 83.

WBD_001530.000004
