WBONO0000705
WBON0000705

From: Jane MacLeod <.

To: >, Rodric Williams

Ce:

, Charlie Temperley <:

Subject: RE: Meeting with Al - draft paper
Date: Thu, 11 Apr 2019 07:15:02 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png

Thanks Andy

I would like to circulate the paper ahead of the meeting (this morning if possible) so as to give as much
opportunity as possible for people to think about this issues (although I don’t think Al will have much time,
but it would be helpful for NRF and Richard Watson of UKGI).

Thad originally said that the briefing would address both appeal strategy and early views on the approach to
settlement options. However if the appeal discussion runs on, then I think it will be more important to allow
that discussion to run its course, and then have the settlement discussion at another time.

Does that work for you and DCQC?

Jane MacLeod

From: Andrew Parsons <
Sent: 11 April 2019 08:11
To: Rodric Williams <
Ce: Amy Prime
Subject: RE: Meeting with Al - draft paper

>; Jane MacLeod <
; Charlie Temperley <

Thanks both. We will work in these changes and circulate a final version this morning.

Jane — do you intend to provide this to Al and others before / at the meeting or shall we just use this as a speaking
note? Knowing this will help David plan what to say.

Also, we were going to brief Al on settlement after the appeal discussion. Is that still the plan?

A

WBD_000575.000001
WBONO0000705
WBON0000705

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Manage your e-alert preferences

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON &) (in)

From: Rodric Williams
Sent: 11 April 2019 00:45
To: Jane MacLe
Ce: Amy Prime
Subject: RE: Meet

>; Andrew Pars
_}>; Charlie Temperley
er [WBDUK-AC.FID268

All— my comments now added to Jane’:

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 10 April 2019 20:39

To: andrew.parsons<{ GROSS

Ce: Amy Prime < Charlie Temperley
Subject: RE: Meeting with Al - draft paper [WBDUK-AC.FID268

All

Please find attached the draft paper — no material typos (!) however I have inserted a couple of comments in
mark-up for consideration.

I will read the grounds of appeal at a more leisurely pace ....

Many thanks,

WBD_000575.000002
WBONO0000705
WBON0000705

Jane

Jane MacLeod

From: Andrew Parsons <
Sent: 10 April 2019 1
To: Jane MacLeod <~
Ce: Amy Prime <_

Subject: Meeting with Al -

Jane, Rodric

As promised, please find attached a draft paper from WBD and DCQC on the main appeal for the meeting with Al
tomorrow. We are happy for this paper to be circulated in advance of the meeting or kept to this group and used as a
speaking note, whichever you think best.

All comments on the attached welcomed, particularly as to tone and the overall approach.

If the paper is to be circulated, please can you let Charlie (cc'd) know and he will proof read (I'm useless at spotting
typos!) and pdf before it is sent out.

I've also attached an email from DCQC earlier today with the current draft of the Grounds of Appeal. This is just for
your information; I doubt those at the meeting tomorrow will care for this much detail and these grounds are only draft

anyway.

Kind regards

Andy

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

WBD_000575.000003
WBONO0000705
WBON0000705

Manage your e-alert preferences

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND

DICKINSON J) (in)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and am
acess this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not jane.macl
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copyiny
personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website.

attachments is confidential and ma

ly privileged and protected by law, japemacleod” “pnly is authorised to
Se "

© notily andrew,parsonsf ~ Soom as possible and delete any copies.

Any files
any loss or d

1ed to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for

ge which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before openit fachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where ali umes is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT r jon number is GB123393627.

fmembers!

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

Jolpiegpinicoioicioioiciolpioiiipiniipiniaioioiciaioicioloioiatoiniaipieinioiciaioioioioicialbioiaininiaibiniaioioiciinisiotoistiot
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

AEE IE EIOISISIEI OI ICICISIOI ICICI ICC SIOR AICI AIR ACCA AAA A AE aK ACA AK AAR ACR A A Ao

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be
found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

WBD_000575.000004
