WBONO0000468
WBON0000468

"Westbrook, Mark (UK - Manchester)" <
"Parsons, Andrew" <j) GRO
Keating, Lewis (UK - Leeds)"<_ GRO. }
Subject: Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege - DRAFT Bramble Report
Date: Mon, 10 Oct 2016 11:31:21 +0000
Importance: Normal
Attachments: Bramble_Draft_Report_10102016.pdf

Hello Andy,

Please find attached the Draft Bramble report, updated version to be provided on conclusion of
outstanding evidence areas from FJ.

Please do give me a call should you wish to discuss any aspects of the draft.
Thanks,
Mark

Mark Westbrook
Senior Manager I Risk Advisory I Deloitte LLP
di

PO Box 500, 2H 2AT, United Kingdom

IMPORTANT NOTICE,

This communication is from Deloitte LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number 0C30367S. Its registered office is
2, New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ, United Kingdom. Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), a UK
private company limited by guarantee, whose member firms are legally separate and independent entities. Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a detailed
description of the legal structure of DTTL and its member firms.

may also be privileged. It is for the exclusive use of the intended recipient(s). If you are not the
intended recipient(s), please (1) notify it.security.uk_ by forwarding this email and delete all copies from your system and (2) note that disclosure,
distribution, copying or use of this communication i ly prohibited. Email communications cannot be guaranteed to be secure or free from error or viruses.
All emails sent to or from a Deloitte UK email account are securely archived and stored by an external supplier within the European Union

This communication contains information which is c

To the extent permitted by law, Deloitte LLP does not accept any liability for use of or reliance on the contents of this email by any person save by the intended
recipient(s) to the extent agreed in a Deloitte LLP engagement contract

Opinions, conclusions and other information in this email which have not been delivered by way of the business of Deloitte LLP are neither given nor endorsed by
it.

WBD_000338.000001
