From: Tom Beezer
To: Jane MacLeod <
Ce: Andrew Parsons <~

Subject: RE: Post Office Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL

PRIVILEGE [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Date: Wed, 20 Mar 2019 07:40:36 +0000

Importance: Normal

Attachments: AGQCconf note 18-3-2019.docx

Inline-Images: image001.png; imagebcl fed.PNG; imagee767c3.PNG; imagefea385.PNG

WBONO001801
WBONO0001801

Jane

Version attached with your comments of just now made.

Also Gideon says "No corrections or changes from me. Not sure Lord Grabiner will have a chance to review
this morning, but no doubt he will expand on his view on the call."

Tom Beezer
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

d:
m:
t:
e:

‘Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

Join us for Disrupting Disputes 2.0
20 March 2019 at the British Library

Book your place here

WOMBLE
BOND
DICKINSON

From: Tom Beezer
Sent: 20 March 2019 06:48
To: ‘Jane MacLeod'

Cc: Andrew Parsons; Rodric Williams; Amy Prime; Ben.Foaté.,

womblebonddickinson.com

OK)

Subject: RE: Post Office Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Jane, all

WBONO0001800_0001
WBONO001801
WBONO0001801

Lord Grabiner Note of Conference of 18" March 2019:

See attached. Jane, this is my note based on your notes (thanks for the PDF) and my own notes. This is a formatted
version of what was said. I have sought to make the note a more "normal" note of a con’ but some very strident
comments were made by Lord Grabiner (in your favour). I attach the draft now so you can circulate it if you wish. You
and I have a level of confidence that we captured accurately what was said to us so I think it is capable of circulation
as a draft. What was said was quite stark and simple, hence the note being quite short. In terms of getting it blessed
by Lord Grabiner, I have sent the note to Gideon for his comments and (if possible) an "OK" from Lord Grabiner this
morning.

The note is the Word Doc' attached. The PDFs are the Lord Neuberger note and the DCQC note. Once finalised I will
have all 3 made into one PDF so it stands as one document as each refers to, and in integral to, the other (hence my
attaching the PDFs again here).

Documents needed for recusal application:

For a recusal application the moving parts are:

- Application Notice — draft has been done.
- Draft Order — draft has been done.
- Letter to Freeths to put on notice and serve — to be done. This is a short piece of work.

- Draft witness statement in support — large work stream. Early draft is in circulation as of late last night.
This is substantially underway. The witness statement is essentially a central repository and record of
"who said what" on trial sequencing, disclosure and scope of CIT in historic hearings to show this Judge
has gone way beyond what he said he would do, and then criticises POL for sticking to the rules he set up.

- Skeleton Argument — an update from Gideon on this is that "/ spent much of [yesterday] drafting it with
AGQC. We are well advanced - and anyway we will obviously not be putting this in with the application
notice."

Possible Timings.

Looking at the above list of moving parts I think that (if POL Board say "go") we could be in a position to serve the
Application Notice on Thursday. That service of the Application Notice on the Court and Freeths is a private matter and
it would not become public (save for potential leaks/briefings) until the Application was heard. As to when it could be
heard, Gideon comments:

"[Hearing] Won't be Friday, because it will be contested and the other side will want to put in a skeleton
argument. I think back end of next week would be the very earliest. [And in a further e mail] The immediate
question to consider, following discussion with AGQC (cc'ed), is whether we should be putting in a WS at all.
Interested to know what others' views are on that. If not, I think we will have to beef up the Application Notice a
bit to spell out our key contentions, at least by listing the areas in which the Judge made improper findings.

So there are still pieces moving around as to scope and format on witness statement verses Application Notice etc but
what I take from the above is as follows:

WBONO0001800_0002
WBONO001801
WBONO0001801

- If Post Office Board say "yes" then we will be serving an Application this week.
- There will be no hearing on the recusal this week.

- Its likely that the Judge will make time in his diary next week (being "Brexit Week" at the Courts, so the
Horizon Trial is paused anyway) to hear this matter.

- _ Itis likely he will refuse to recuse himself and I think it unlikely he will adjourn the Horizon Trial of his own
volition.

- Weill then seek an appeal of the refusal to recuse to the Court of Appeal on an urgent basis and that
could be in week commencing 1* April, although the further out we go the less firm my predictions are.

The caveat here is that I have Andy's warnings ringing in my ears that this Judge makes some odd orders and it is not
beyond him to make some strange orders as to timing and sequencing. With that in mind I have alerted the Clerks at
OEC to be all over the listing of any hearing issue to make sure (so far as is humanly possible) that any hearing of the
Application for recusal happens when Lord Grabiner is free to attend Court. We cannot guarantee that, but we can do
all in our collective power to make it happen and I am onto that issue.

One point to be aware of is lege. Here we do have Litigation Privilege in existence (for the obvious reason...
but please do make sure that your interaction with people in the business (outside the client
group) and with (say) UKGI is for the dominant purpose of the litigation. That is a vitally important point as we
cannot lose privilege in these documents.

All comments gratefully received.

From: Jane MacLeod [mailto:
Sent: 19 March 2019 20:05
To: Tom Beezer

Cc: Andrew Parsons; Rodric Williams; Amy Prime

Subject: FW: Post Office Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Tom

See correspondence below from the UKGI GC requesting:

Update on proposed timing — could we get an update on readiness please - that is tomorrow morning can we say
whether we'll be ready to serve immediately/ Thursday /later? And

Written advice from LGQC by way of confirmation of our con yesterday.

Many thanks,

WBONO0001800_0003
WBONO001801
WBON0001801

Jane

® Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street

LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number:

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: 19 March 2019 20:00
To: 'Watson, Richard - UKGI'
Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGI <f”
Subject: RE: Post Office Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Thanks Richard

Our advice is that the application should be made this week. Ideally if we approve it tomorrow, then (I think) the
earliest timing is as follows:

the application would be served on the claimants and the judge on Thursday

application to be heard on Friday.

At that point the judge could accept and recuse himself, reject the application (in which case we would appeal) , or
he might ask to consider it over the weekend and/or suggest another judge hears the application. Counsels’ view
is that he will say ‘no’ either immediately or after consideration.

So, the point at which it would become public is definitely at the hearing, and potentially earlier following service
of the notice of the application on the Claimants (if they choose to make it public) — so Thursday on the above
timetable.

I will get confirmation on the state readiness and recommended timing for the calls for tomorrow.

Kind regards,

Jane

WBONO0001800_0004
WBONO001801
WBON0001801

e Jane MacLeod

Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor.
20 Finsbury Street

LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI [mailtd
Sent: 19 March 2019 19:50

Cc: Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Subject: Re: Post Office Litigation -

AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Jane

If a decision to make the application is made tomorrow when do you think the application will be lodged
with the court, and presumably the claimants at the same time - good to understand when it would become
public?

Kind regards

Richard

Sent from my BlackBerry — the most secure mobile device

From: Richard.Watso!

Sent: 19 March 2019 7:24 pm

To: jane.macleod; GRO } rodric.williams GRO

Subject: Re: Post Office Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Jane

WBONO0001800_0005
WBONO001801
WBONO0001801

Thanks for the call earlier. As discussed I think it is essential that the board have the clearest possible advice
on the recusal application and its merits from Lord Grabiner in writing. It needn't be long, could refer to Lord
Neuberger's advice and could be a note approved by him.

kind regards

Richard

Sent from my BlackBerry — the most secure mobile device

From: Richard.Watso!

Sent: 19 March 2019 4:37 pm

Cc: Tom.Coopet"--

Subject: Re: Post Office Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Jane

I understand from Tom that Neuberger's advice is to the effect that if POL want to appeal on procedural
unfairness then they must make a recusal application. Is the legal advice being updated in advance of
tomorrow's board meeting to reflect this? Does Lord Grabiner agree with Neuberger's advice? So far the
lawyers appear to say the prospects of success are "reasonable". Is Counsel willing to express that in
percentage terms?

Sorry for the questions but it will help handling at our end to have a clearer understanding of what legal
advice the board are being given regarding recusal and what the prospects of success are

Happy to discuss. I'm o1

Kind regards

Richard

WBONO0001800_0006
WBONO001801
WBON0001801

Sent from my BlackBerry — the most secure mobile device

From: jane.macleod.

Sent: 18 March 2019 9:57 am

To: Richard.Watsof.

Cc: Tom.Cooper}

Subject: RE: Post Office Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Thanks for the clarification Richard — my apologies if I misunderstood.

I will separately forward over the relevant information.

Kind regards,

Jane

® Jane MacLeod
Group Director of Legal, Risk & Governance

Ground Floor
20 Finsbury Street

LONDON
EC2Y 9AQ

Mobile number

From: Watson, Richard - UKGI [mailto:
Sent: 18 March 2019 09:49

To: Jane MacLeod <
Ce: Cooper, Tom - UKGI
Subject: RE: Post Office Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Rode Williams <, ‘GRO

Jane

WBONO0001800_0007
WBONO001801
WBONO0001801

Tom has forwarded your below email.

As I explained when we spoke, the concern from our end is HMG being seen as not upholding the
independence and integrity of the judiciary, hence the concern about Tom making a decision as a Director of
POL on whether to make a recusal application. However, it is perfectly proper that Tom, as a director, should
to ensure the Board fully realised the seriousness of what was proposed including the impact on the
shareholder (and the difficulties of distinguishing between strategic direction and operational matters in
Parliament and the media) as well as the wider litigation strategy, that the Board had taken and properly
considered legal advice, and finally has reflected properly on whether there was bias or (painful as it is)
inferences/findings drawn ultimately properly from hearing the evidence expressed in pithy and robust
language. In supporting Tom I would like to receive the information relating to the recusal issues.

Apologies if I suggested otherwise in our call.
Happy to discuss

Kind regards

Richard

Richard WatsonIGeneral Counsel

UK Government Investments

1 Victoria Street I London I SW1H 0OET

W: https://www.ukgi.org.uk/

Get Outlook for iOS

WBONO0001800_0008
WBONO001801
WBON0001801

From: Jane MacLeod

Sent: Monday, March 18, 2019 8:32:12 AM

To: Thomas Cooper

Ce: Rodric Williams

Subject: Post Office Litigation - CONFIDENTIAL AND SUBJECT TO LEGAL PRIVILEGE

Tom

Please find attached the note referred to.

In my call with Richard on Friday, he gave me the impression that the UKGI legal team would not want to
be seen to have received the information relating to the Recusal issues. To that end I have not provided any
of the advice to him. If that position has changed, would you please ask him to let me know?

Kind regards,

Jane

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom they
are addressed. If you are not the intended recipient and have received this email in error, please notify the
sender and delete the email. This footnote also confirms that our email communications may be monitored to
ensure the secure and effective operation of our systems and for other lawful purposes, and that this email
has been swept for malware and viruses.

JMS SE SSSA ISISESIE IGSECISE ISIS SIS SS ISISE IE ISSIR ISIS ICI AAI RE Ao Aa
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

Js dciodeici icici cdg iodo aici ci gcc gcc oR GIGI ORES AEGIS I ARIAC RIGS R aca Ck ao

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be
found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

WBONO0001800_0009
WBONO001801
WBON0001801

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

WBONO0001800_0010
