WBONO0000687
WBON0000687

From: Jane MacLeod
To: Tom Beezer }_
Ce: Mark Underwood

Subject: Re: Recusal application - draft documents [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Date: Thu, 21 Mar 2019 07:38:50 +0000
Importance: Normal

Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png; imageedd7fl.PNG; image155c9b.PNG;
image06c446.PNG

Thanks for the explanation Tom - as I said in my email, I suspected I had missed the point! It will be for
AGQC to direct how the various documents are constructed to give him the best chance of winning the case.

On Comms - yes, we have a response in draft which will be finalised during the day. I will send over shortly.
To that end, I need to be aware of proposed timings, so please let m know as this develops.

Jane

Jane MacLeod
Group Director Legal, Risk & Governance
Post Office

From: Tom Beezer ¢
Sent: Thursday, March 21, 2019 7:29 am

To: Jane MacLeod; Amy Prime

Cc: Mark Underwood1; Rodric Williams; Ben Foat; andrew.parsons; Dave Panaech
Subject: RE: Recusal application - draft documents [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Jane

The answer to this Q gets into how the subject matter of the application is presented to the court and (most
importantly) what evidence can be given on in a witness statement. Points that go through my mind are as follows:

- We had initially done a much more fulsome w/s so I suspect our initial reactions are somewhat aligned

- Lord Grabiner initially wanted no w/s and wanted to develop the narrative through the content of the
Application Notice and mostly through oral argument. There are points in here about not wanting to give
Green too much advance notice and about Lord Grabiner's faith in his own advocacy

- The "test" or bar that we have to meet for bias (real or apparent) is:

WBD_000557.000001
WBONO0000687
WBON0000687

o "whether the fair minded and informed observer, having considered the facts, would conclude that
there was a real possibility that the tribunal was biased" [Porter —v- Magill 2 AC 357, para 103]

- When looking at whether that test is met the court (and the Court of Appeal) will look hard at the procedure
adopted here. In other words the sequential trial structure and timings (and warnings given historically)
that have got us to this point. That is something a witness statement can deal with as it is "story". We can
set out (in short form) that narrative. Lord Grabiner's point is at one level you don't need to as it is all there
in the court records and transcripts — one just needs to point to it during oral argument. That debate has
been had, and the shorter witness statement you have seen is suggested to POL notwithstanding it gives
Green a partial roadmap to our complaint.

- The important point to recognise is that a witness statement can say nothing really about the witnesses
own view on whether the procedure adopted and what happened in the past amounts to bias as that is
opinion. It is the court that has to form the view that historic actions meet the test (see above) not the
witness. In this regard the court is the fair minded observer looking in. So the witness statement (and
application notice) do deal mostly with procedure and backstory as the overlay (put another way, the
second half of the argument) being "and so that must be biased" comes in oral argument to a degree but
really is the function of the court to make that conclusion and not the witness.

One last non legal point — it is possible that once the recusal application is served it gets mentioned by the judge or
Green. That could theoretically occur today. Unlikely but possible. If it does get mentioned is POL Comms’'/PR ready to
deal and brief both at court and more widely ?

Tom Beezer
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

Join us for Disrupting Disputes 2.0
20 March 2019 at the British Library

Book your place here

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON @&) (in)

From: Jane MacLeod [mailto:
Sent: 20 March 2019 23:29
To: Amy Prime

Cc: Mark Underwood1; Rodric Williams; Ben Foat; Andrew Parsons; Tom Beezer; Dave Panaech
Subject: Re: Recusal application - draft documents [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Amy

WBD_000557.000002
WBONO0000687
WBON0000687

I have read these quickly and suspect that I have missed the point of the witness statement. Reading it
however suggests that The foundation of our claim is procedural unfairness. There is little about why we
believe that there is the potential for bias (I have not correctly stated the test).

Sorry ...

Jane

Jane MacLeod

Group Director Legal, Risk & Governance

Post Office

From: Amy Prime} GRO

Sent: Wednesday, March 20, 2019 9:33 pm

To: Jane MacLeod

Ce: Mark Underwood1; Rodric Williams; Ben Foat; andrew.parsons; Tom Beezer; Dave Panaech
Subject: Recusal application - draft documents [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Jane

Please find attached the papers for the recusal application, on which we would welcome any comments. These are
subject to a careful proofread by us in the morning.

Application notice

Standard form document explaining at high level the order sought.

Draft Order

Order which Post Office will be seeking from the Judge (recusal and Horizon Trial to be adjourned)

Witness Statement

The witness statement has evolved to become a simple, concise document which introduces (i) structure of the
litigation; (ii) how the scope of the Common Issus Trial was set up; (iii) the dispute over admissibility of evidence; and
then from these draws a conclusion that the judgment made findings / observations which fall to be decided at future
trials and these findings give the impression that the judge has formed a view on these matters which will prevent him
from taking an impartial view in future trials.

WBD_000557.000003
WBONO0000687
WBON0000687

We have been discussing with Counsel whether a witness statement was required, but a short statement has
been seen as a convenient method by which to provide the Court with the required information.

This also connects into the approach being taken with the skeleton. The skeleton will cover the law /
procedural matters but also itemise in more detail then the witness statement the paragraphs of the judgment
where the judge has offended the principles, with cross reference to how the judge set up these issues. A
shorter witness statements therefore prevents too much cross over with the matters to be dealt with in the
skeleton argument. Lord Grabiner would then also expand on these points in his oral submissions.

If there are any questions please let either Tom or me know.

Kind regards

Amy

Amy Prime
Solicitor
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Stay informed: sign up to our e-alerts

Join us for Disrupting Disputes 2.0
20 March 2019 at the British Library

Book your place here
WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND
DICKINSON &) (in)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential ivileged and protecte only is authorised to
access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not jane.macleog”” se notify amy.primef 3s soon as possible and delete any copies.
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how we use
personal data is in our Privacy Policy on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for

WBD_000557.000004
WBONO0000687
WBON0000687

any loss or dam any attachment.

1¢ which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before ope!

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered
office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an

employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (Inter

services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dic!
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson
www.womblebonddickinso

ational) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
nson entity is a separate le

entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Ple:

-onvlegal notices for further details.

I entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

Jobin bindoidcioiociolbioiipiniaiietioioiiaioicioloiopioiaibietinioisiinciinicialbioaibiniiiniaoioi iintsiotokstaiot
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete
this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the
sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: Finsbury
Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

AE SEIS CISIIEI SI ICICISIOI SIGE IC ICIGR ICICI IC AIGR CICA KCI AE oR ACA IK AAR ACR A A A AR

“Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this can be
found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy”

WBD_000557.000005
