WBON0001996
WBON0001996

From:

To:

Ce:

Subject: RE: Draft letter to Freeths - KEL Disclosure [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Date: Thu, 3 Oct 2019 12:49:39 +0000
Importance: Normal
Attachments: 595 Bates _LETTER_158110136(1)_Letter_to Freeths 2 Oct_2019_-
_HIT_Disclosure.docx
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png; image003.png

Dear Amy,

I enclose my proposed amendments for the letter, which are so considerable that I do not think it would be
helpful to copy them to everyone. Tone and clarity are particularly important in this letter, hence the scale
and scope of my suggested changes.

I have included a few questions but experience suggests that these are not the only areas where my
understanding of the position =is incomplete or wrong: you will have to check everything.

SH and RW’s changes are included, to the extent that they remain relevant.

Best wishes,

Tony

From: Amy Prime
Sent: 03 October 2019 10:34

thony de Garr Robin: Simon Henderson

Tom Beezer

Rodric Williams
Subject: RE: Draft letter to Freeths - KEL Dis:

Tony, Simon

Apologises for chasing, but if possible we would like to send the letter to Freeths before mid-day today. Would it be
possible for any comments on the letter to be provided this morning?
WBON0001996
WBON0001996

Many thanks
Amy

Amy Prime
Associate
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

‘Sign up for legal updates, e-newsletters and event invitations

WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
BOND ()\
\ DICKINSON ) @)

From: Amy Prime
Sent: 02 October 2019 20:02

Simon Henderson

Ce: Emanuel, Catherine}
Parsons

Andrew
I Tom Beezer

Lerner, Alex
Lucy Bremner!_
odric Williams I GRO Hi
Draft letter to Freeths - KEL Disclosure [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

Subjec

Tony, Simon, HSF, Rodric

Please find attached a revised letter to Freeths which I hope takes into account the matters discussed on the call,
along with a compare to the previous version of the letter. We would welcome any proposed amendments to the
letter.

It may be easiest if Tony/Simon provide their comments first, following which HSF/Rod can provide any further input,
but please feel free to provide comments earlier if it would be more convenient or if there is anything which is pressing.

Many thanks

Amy

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?
WBON0001996
WBON0001996

only is authorised to access
jete any copies. Unauthorised use,
jonabout how we use personal data is in

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and protected by law arobinsonf
this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not arobinson, please notify amy,primd Tas soon as possi
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Informa

our Privacy Policy, on our website.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for
any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out yourown virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.
This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered

office is 4 More London Riverside, London, SEI 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open toinspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an
employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing,
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts
nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see
www.womblebonddickinson,com/legal notices for further details,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

