WBONO0001575
WBON0001575

From: David Cavender <
To: Andrew Parsons

Ce: Owain Draper >, Gideon Cohen

Prime ¢
Subject: RE: Implied terms to be conceded [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]
Date: Tue, 16 Apr 2019 18:55:15 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image3 19cab.PNG; image432e91.PNG; imagebSbf44.PNG

Amy

Andy,
Many thanks for this.

I think it depends on how far "....transactions using Horizon...." goes. My assumption was that Horizon was
effectively a point of sale system and so the transactions using Horizon covered by this term would be those
carried out by SPM'S in branch and would not necessarily extend to all the onward transactions PO does
with its clients. From your question - it seems as though my assumption is incorrect and the two species are
in practice one- in which case we would need to narrow down the wording to make that point clear.

Standing back from the wording of what is their implied term - on the face of it - it is difficult to argue
against duty to do that work "accurately" - in the real world.

That said, the approach urged by DN and AG is not to actually concede any of these implied terms - whether
as narrowed by me or at all. And to seek to hold the line at Necessary Co-Operation and Stirling v. Maitland
and then make warm noises about the possibility of some of these "necessary" implied terms (if sufficiently
defined /narrowed as i have suggested) coming in under the umbrella of those Agreed Implied terms- in the
skeleton argument. As such, points such as the one you raise should become less stark ?

Best,

D.

From: Andrew Parsons
Sent: 16 April 2019 16:07

To: David Cavender

Ce: Owain Draper; Gideon Cohen; Amy Prime

Subject: Implied terms to be conceded [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

David

I've been thinking about the implied terms to concede, in particular:

"properly and accurately to effect all transactions using Horizon and to maintain and keep records of such
transactions for a reasonable time"

The second bit (to keep records) is fine.

The first bit is more difficult, because it really makes no difference in branch whether PO effects the

WBD_001445.000001
WBONO0001575
WBON0001575

transactions with the end client or customer. But doing that work accurately is very hard. Also, this would
fetter PO's ability to conduct business with its clients. What if it has a big dispute with a bank and wants to
do some deal with it that results in some transactions being written off? PO would be in breach of the SPM
contracts.

Ialso think this implied term waters down our argument on liability for losses. Our case is that an SPMs
liability for losses is limited to the losses shown in their accounts. PO does not need to show that the loss in
the accounts reflects a real financial loss to PO. Otherwise it would need to reconcile every loss in every
branch with a corresponding loss with a client or customer. That task would be very burdensome, probably
impossible.

I think we need to drop this bit of this implied term.

Thoughts?
A
Andrew Parsons

Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Kmailto! GRO P

Manage your e-alert preferences<https://www.womblebonddickinson.com/uk/preferences>

[Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP]<UrlBlockedError.aspx>
womblebonddickinson.com<https://www.womblebonddickinson.com>

[Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP Twiter]<https://www.twitter.com/wbd_uk> [Womble Bond Dickinson
(UK) LLP LinkedIn] <https://www.linkedin.com/company/womble-bond-dickinson-uk-IIp/>

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and
protected by law. deavender “jonly is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If

lease notify andrew, parsons@

dissemination, or copying of this communication or attachments i is prohibited and
may be unlawful. Information about how we use personal data is in our Privacy

Policy<https://www.womblebonddickinson.com/uk/privacy-policy> on our website.

WBD_001445.000002
WBONO0001575
WBON0001575

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be
caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is
neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered
in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office is 4 More London Riverside, London,
SEI 2AU, where a list of members' names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a
member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration
number is GB123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which
consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere
around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for
the acts or omissions of, nor can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond
Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see www.womblebonddickinson.com/legal
notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

WOMBLE
BOND
DICKINSON

WBD_001445.000003
