WITNO0910100

Witness Name: Ms Elizabeth Stockdale
Statement No.: WITN091_01

Exhibits: None

Dated: 28/01/2022

IN THE POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF ELIZABETH STOCKDALE

I, MS ELIZABETH STOCKDALE, will say as follows

INTRODUCTION

1. lam grateful to the Chair to be invited to provide a “human impact” statement,
concerning the physical, psychological, emotional, reputational and financial
consequences to me and my family of being held responsible for shortfalls shown by
the Horizon IT system and Post Office Limited’s actions toward me and my family.
The initial paragraphs below provide a brief summary of my background, and provide
context to the detail of the human impact of the Horizon scandal on me and my
family. This statement does not reflect a full account of my experiences or those of
my family and if necessary or required I will provide further witness statement

evidence.

2 I am from Bridlington, East Yorkshire. I am married to my husbani

have two sons, Luke is my eldest son and'groi is my youngest son.

BACKGROUND

Page 1 of 22
10.

I worked for a Temping agency, Castle Employment Services in Scarborough for

about 18 months doing various jobs in various business.

One of the jobs that I did with the agency was working for East Riding of Yorkshire
council. I was working in reception for a place where underprivileged adult with

learning difficulties went for learning.

The job that I was doing temporary for Castle Employment services was made

redundant.
I could have changed roles in Castle Employment Services and found another job,
but when everything started up with the post office I decided to leave the agency as

I thought that I was going to be employed for the rest of my life with the Post Office.

Because I also ran a shop alongside the post office, I thought I would be there until I

retired and pass on the business to my son Luke.

I decided to become a subpostmistress because my eldest son, Luke, worked in the

retail shop connected to the Wheatley Drive Post Office, which at the time was being

take over the Post Office. Luke approached me and said ‘I think you would quite like

it mum’.

lam quite sociable and chatty and so I thought the post office and shop would be for

me as I would self-employed, working for a good institution and it would be a firm

job.

Page 2 of 22

WITNO0910100
11. I was attracted to being a big part of the community as the shop was situated in the
housing estate surrounded by elderly people. I thought I would enjoy chatting to
people and I did love it.

12. I thought running the post office would be the right thing to do as Post Office Limited
is a big institution.

13. I thought that being a subpostmistress would be my last job until retirement and
that my son Luke would take over the post office after me.

14. I paid £3,000 for the post office and retail shop attached. GRO! had actually wanted
more money for it but because the post office was being changed from ‘Rural’ to a
‘Local’ post office and so the Post Office paid lot of money to walk away.
Because of this pay off from the Post Office,iGRO‘let me have the post office and
shop for the price of the stock in the shop.

15. I was the subpostmistress of Wheatley Drive, Bridlington, YO16 6TN, from 2014 until
2017.

TRAINING

16. When I became a subpostmistress, I attended a three day training course at Post
Office Limited’s head office in Leeds with my son Luke in May 2014.

17. When I opened the post office branch, three Post Office trainers, one of them being

David Longbottom, shadowed me in my first week. Their role was more observant

rather than actually training me and my staff on how to use the Horizon system.

Page 3 of 22

WITNO0910100
18.

is.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

I do not think having the trainers on site particularly increased my understanding

about how to use the Horizon system

When I was balancing, the trainers did not pick up on anything I was doing wrong so I

assumed I was doing the balance correctly.

The training was very basic and only provided an overview of how to operate the

branch.

I do not recall receiving any training about how to do more technical aspects, such as

balancing or cashing up.

Mr Longbottom did the first roll over with me and the balance was wrong from the

start.

Mr Longbottom printed off some paperwork and said he would look into it and it
would get sorted. He said that I had to roll the balance over and put it into the
suspense account. I ended up having to pay back this amount as a shortfall. You

would have to pay the suspense account after 4 weeks.

I did request further training from the Helpline on multiple occasions, however, I was
repeatedly told that I had received the standard training which should have been

sufficient. I was not offered any additional training despite my requests.

The Helpline kept saying “if you need extra training we will send someone to
shadow”. I did not think shadowing would be sufficient as my experience with
shadowing was merely trainers standing around and watching what I was doing.
They would not provide any guidance or tell me how a problem had arisen and how

to fix it.

It was very basic training and there was nothing spectacular about it.

Page 4 of 22

WITNO0910100
27. I was told that if I had a problem I should ring the helpline.

28. I do not think the training adequately prepared me to operate the Horizon system.

29. I took a lot of lead from my assistant, Dianna Daniels. Dianna had also previously

HELPLINE

30. After 6pm, the Helpline would not answer your call or would cut you off even though
it was meant to be a 24 hour service.

31. It could be difficult to get an answer from the Helpline as the post office didn’t shut
until 6pm. I often would be balancing until 7pm and if I called the Helpline after 6pm
I often got no answer, or if I did get through and the call went beyond 6pm, the call
would be cut off.

32. On one occasion I phoned the helpline as I had £3,640.52 missing. The women from
the helpline told me “it’s your problem”, that it was “not happening to anyone else”
and that “it’s you”. The blame was placed firmly on me.

33. The Helpline operator also told me “What’s the problem, it’s only £3,000” and "that's
just drop in the ocean compared to some people’s problem”. I found it very offensive
and upsetting that she thought £3,000 was not a big deal and a lot of money. I found
the operators reaction bizarre and I was shocked and surprised by her saying and
thinking that.

34. I would regularly phone the Helpline, sometimes up to 3 times per week, when I

experienced shortfalls.

Page 5 of 22

WITNO0910100
35. I found the Helpline to be very dismissive.

36. The Helpline would tell me that they would be looking into the shortfalls, however,
nothing would be resolved.

37. I would often be told by the Helpline staff that they would call me back, but they
would not call me back.

38. All the Helpline would say is that it is ‘only happening to you’, ‘you must be doing
something wrong, I don’t know what your problem is’. This resulted in me losing
confidence in my ability to run the branch and led to me accusing my own family
members of stealing from the branch.

39. On one Occasion Diana had input an incorrect transaction. When I telephoned the
Helpline to explain this they promised to send me a transaction correction and told
me that this would then be resolved. I never received the transaction correction and
I believe I most likely repaid this money as part of the alleged shortfalls I was
experiencing at the time.

40. Very often it felt as if the Helpline staff could only offer very standardised advice,
which would not really help to alleviate any of the problems I was having.

41. Overall, I found the Helpline were completely inadequate and did not have the
necessary knowledge to help me with the majority of my issues.

SHORTFALLS

42. In this section, I set out in very brief detail my experience of shortfalls arising from

deficiencies in the Horizon system, and Post Office Limited’s actions as a result. This
is only a brief introduction to those matters, in order to provide necessary context

for the explanation of the human impact which follows.

Page 6 of 22

WITNO0910100
43.

44.

4S.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

I started experiencing trouble with the Horizon system from the very beginning.

From the very first roll over I did with Mr Longbottom, which happened in my first

week when Mr Longbottom was shadowing me, I had a shortfall.

Mr Longbottom said he would look into the shortfall, however, he did not get any
answers. He told me to ‘roll it over’ and put the shortfall amount into the suspense
account in the meantime and start again. I followed his instructions immediately that

day.

I estimate that throughout my position in the branch I paid or the Post Office

deducted money in excess of £10,000 due to the alleged shortfalls.

I would either settle the shortfall difference in cash from my own funds the same day
so that I could roll over to the next month’s trading period, or I would repay the

monies over monthly instalments or deduction from my wages.

By way of examples, I experienced significant shortfalls on the following dates:

28 May 2014 I had a shortfall of £172.50. I settled the difference in cash from my
own funds the same day so I could roll over to the next month's trading period. I
moved the alleged shortfall into the 'Suspense Account' and so declared the alleged

shortfall as a loss and settled the loss in cash.

15 October 2014 I had a shortfall of £3,640.52. Upon discovering the alleged shortfall

I telephoned the Helpline but they were very dismissive

The Post Office sent me a letter on 3 November 2014 demanding repayment. I

therefore agreed to a monthly deduction of £455 from my wages for around 6

months. I repaid these monies in full. I declared the loss and because I could not

Page 7 of 22

WITNO0910100
52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

settle the monies in cash as I had done previously, I selected the option to settle the

shortfall centrally on the Horizon system.

15 April 2015 I had a shortfall of £512. I settled the difference in cash from my own
funds the same day so I could roll over to the next month's trading period. Dianna
had incorrectly entered a transaction using the lottery terminal. I telephoned the
Helpline to let them know and they told me they would send me a transaction

correction. However, they did not send me a correction.

29 April 2015 I had a shortfall of £2,692.80. The Post Office sent me a letter on 12
May 2015 demanding repayment for a total alleged shortfall of £3,204.80. I agreed

to repay the monies over 12 monthly instalments of around £471.

I suspected this alleged shortfall was because I had accidentally entered a surplus of
£4,000 stamps into the system. I telephoned the Chesterfield team and they talked
me through how to rectify it on the system. I followed the steps they told me to, but
lam not convinced that it was resolved and suspect part of this alleged shortfall is

related to that error.

3 May 2016 I had a shortfall of £95.37. I cannot remember whether I repaid this
shortfall, although I presume that I would have made this good in cash as I would
with the smaller amounts. It is likely that I declared the monies as missing on the

system.

27 May 2015 I had a shortfall of £2,451.08. I declared the loss and because I could
not settle the monies in cash as I had done previously, I selected the option to settle

the shortfall centrally on the Horizon system.

As a result of shortfalls the shortfalls on 15 April 2015, 29 April 2015 and 27 May
2015 there was an alleged shortfall of £5,655.88.

Page 8 of 22

WITNO0910100
58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

On 18 August 2015 1 received a letter from the Post Office demanding repayment of

the alleged shortfalls.

I reiterated in a letter to the Post Office on 23 August 2016 that I found no evidence
of wrongdoing and reluctantly I agreed to repay the monies in 11 monthly
instalments of £471.32 and one further instalment of £471.36 to be deducted from

my monthly wages.

27 January 2016 I had a shortfall of £702.90. As I was struggling to keep afloat
following the deductions from my wages to pay the shortfalls, I was unable to make

this alleged shortfall good.

I moved the alleged shortfall into the ‘Suspense Account' and so declared the alleged

shortfall as a loss and settled the loss in cash.

Eventually the alleged shortfalls began occurring so regularly that I was left feeling as
if I had no option but to confirm that I had settled the alleged discrepancies in cash
when in fact I had not. I would keep a log of the alleged shortfalls and this eventually

amounted to the final alleged shortfall that I felt unable to hide any longer.

I had my final shortfall on 27 April 2016; I had a shortfall of £18,891.47. I did not pay
the shortfall back, because I was already paying the Post Office back from my wages
and I was told by the Post Office by letter and orally by the Helpline that I was not
allowed to pay back any other shortfalls.

I was told that I was not allowed to set up two payback schemes and that I had to

pay one shortfall first and then sort out the next shortfall.

Because I could not afford to pay back monies that were missing, I was rolling over

and saying that I was paying the money back when I was not. I was hiding money

that was missing by keeping a note of what was missing. I did this out of fear.

Page 9 of 22

WITNO0910100
66.

67.

68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

73.

I also knew at this stage of a further accumulation of alleged shortfalls of
approximately £5,000 would be discovered in due course and be demanded from

me.

When I got money delivered, my money was getting less and less. The Post Office

were delivering less money as they thought I had the missing money.

I was applying for emergency funds but the Post Office stopped sending the funds
and were saying that I had the money. I was running out of money before my next
delivery. I knew hiding that money was missing was wrong. It made me feel guilty
and like a criminal. This especially weighed on me as my dad was a policeman.

I was running out of money and the guilt was getting too much and I said to! GRO {

that I will have to tell the Post Office what is going on and then that is when the Post

Office sent an Auditor to my post office.

When the shortfalls started to appear, my husband and I put a paper trail in place
and set up CCTV.

When I first opened the shop and post office I did not have CCTV and I felt awful
having it installed but I told my staff it was to cover them as well as myself. This was

a direct result of the shortfalls.

When I did the cashing up, the system would say it was wrong but the paper trail
would come up correct, bar a couple of pounds. I found this very confusing and I
would bring the print outs home and myself and my husband would stay up until the

early hours of morning trying to make sense of it and find the problem.

I became so paranoid that I would make my employees show me their transactions.

Page 10 of 22

WITNO0910100
74.

pin

76.

My employees had to write down everything that they put in to and took out of the
till and safe. I had a folder that had different forms for my employees to fill in and
document their transactions, such as whether they had taken any stamps, pennies,
pounds or notes. Everything was documented in this folder and the folder was kept

in the safe.

My husband and I would monitor my employees’ transactions, we would look at the
folder and printout the paperwork on a Wednesday when we did the roll over. If
there was a big discrepancy we would go back through the paperwork.

It was very frustrating, I GRO and I would stay up until 12 am looking through the

paperwork trying to find discrepancies. This would prevent me from being able to

have dinner with my family or go through my sons’ homework with them.

AUDITS AND INVESTIGATIONS

a7.

78.

79.

80.

Auditors attended my branch 13 May 2016 at around 8.30 am without notice.

One of the auditors was Mr Longbottom and the other was a lady called Debbie Hall.
I could see the Auditors discussing something about the balances once they had
counted everything for the first time. At this point I tried to explain the additional
alleged shortfall of £5,000 would be discovered and that I had intended to declare
the alleged shortfall at the next balancing period, but the Auditors would not listen.

Following this, Mr Longbottom spoke to someone on the telephone and then at
around 12pm I was told by Mr Longbottom that my contract had been suspended

and the counter was closed until further notice.

Mr Longbottom then began re-counting the monies in the branch in front of me. I
felt like this was done to deliberately humiliate me and prolong the stress I was

suffering at the time.

Page 11 of 22

WITNO0910100
81.

82.

83.

84,

85.

86.

87.

I requested that Mr Longbottom provide me with the audit paperwork, and after he
initially refused he promised to provide me with the final trading statement and the

suspense account as at 13 May 2016.

I also asked Mr Longbottom what would happen next and he told me that “it didn't
look good”. I was very worried and stressed by the whole situation and do not feel as
if the Auditors made any attempt to support or provide me with any information

that could have helped me.

As this audit was the first carried out, I was extremely shocked by the way the
Auditors carried out the process. They refused to listen to my explanation and
seemed to intentionally prolong the process even though they could see that I was

visibly upset and shaken following the process.

When the alleged shortfalls began arising I investigated my staff, including my son

Luke.

As the Post Office had not shown any intention to investigate the cause of the
alleged shortfalls, I telephoned my Agents Contracts Manager, David Southall, to ask
him to investigate the alleged shortfalls and explained what I thought the causes

were.

On 01 July 2015 Mr Southall wrote to me to confirm that he had spoken to the
Finance Service Centre and Stock Team but could find no anomalies recorded and
informed me that no further action would be taken to recover the outstanding

amount from me whilst the dispute was ongoing.

In the meantime Gary, another Post Office employee, attended my branch to see if
he could get to the bottom of what was causing the alleged shortfalls and he found

nothing and simply advised me to “sack all of your staff’.

Page 12 of 22

WITNO0910100
88.

I received a letter from the Post Office on 18 August 2016 confirming that they could
not identify any outstanding discrepancies and therefore I was to make good the

loss.

SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION

89.

90.

91,

92.

93.

I was suspended on the day of the audit of my branch on 13 May 2016. This was
later confirmed by a letter from the Post Office on 15 May 2016.

When I was suspended, Mr Longbottom told me that it ‘didn't look good’, and when I
asked what would happened if my contract was terminated he said the equipment
would have to be agreed to be removed or left outside and that “you wouldn't be the
first”. From this I felt completely upset and stressed about how this issue would be

resolved.

Throughout my suspension, I repeatedly tried to contact my Contracts Manager,

Andy Carpenter to try to discuss my suspension and the alleged shortfalls.

My correspondence was repeatedly ignored and when Mr Carpenter did respond the

responses he sent were holding responses.

Prior to me receiving my termination letter, Mr Carpenter came to my branch to
discuss what had happened at the branch. I told him everything and he was
completely unhelpful and acted as if he was not allowed to say anything. This
meeting did nothing to support or assist me with resolving the issues surrounding my

suspension.

Page 13 of 22

WITNO0910100
94.

95:

96.

I asked a National Federation for Subpostmasters representative to contact Mr
Carpenter on my behalf, but he also got a holding response and did not help me any

further.

I do not feel as if Mr Carpenter demonstrated any genuine intention to engage with

me to help to investigate the alleged shortfalls.

Whilst I was suspended I asked the Post Office for copies of documents so I could
investigate the alleged shortfalls further. My solicitors at the time, Freeths, also
requested specific disclosure of related documents in their correspondence with the
Post Offices solicitors, Bond Dickinson. Eventually the Post Office disclosed this

information.

CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PROCEEDING

97. The Post Office did not pursue civil or criminal proceedings against me, however,
they had threatened to take civil action to recover the final outstanding amount.

LOSSES

98. I estimate I have repaid at least £10,000 to the Post Office in relation to alleged
shortfalls.

99. I lost the value of the business (Post Office and retail shop).

100. I lost approximately £9,000 whilst I was suspended.

101. I lost approximately £29,000 from my earnings from the Post Office counters and

approximately £15,000 from the retail business to date which is increasing every

day.

Page 14 of 22

WITNO0910100
102.

103.

104.

105.

106.

107.

108.

109.

The Post Office also deducted an additional £1,352.06 from my final wage on 31 May
2016. To date I have had no explanation as to why this money was deducted or what
it related to. I believe it is likely that this was the remaining amount which was

outstanding after my contract was suspended.

I suffered stigma and reputational damage. Whilst the branch was shut my
customers were getting mixed messages from the Post Office surrounding the

closure of the branch.

Eventually rumours suggesting me and/or my staff had stolen the monies from the
Post Office began going around the town. I think this has left some of the community

unable to trust me and so has also impacted the prosperity of the newsagents.

In addition, the branch had many elderly customers, and I know it has a significant
impact on the majority of them. I even know that one now has to pay £6 for a taxi to

get to the nearest branch as a result.

As a result of the stress of the whole situation I have been struggling to cope and I
began using alcohol to help me deal with the situation. I have now sought help on

this but at the time it caused a significant strain on my marriage.

Ever since the alleged shortfalls began arising, I felt under high pressure and my

confidence and self-esteem fell because I felt I was not good enough for the job.

When I was working in the branch, I managed to get a car on a hire purchase
agreement. However, as a result of losing the branch I was forced to sell the car

which led to a loss of approximately £2,000.

up with our mortgage repayments. I was left with no alternative but to look for a

second job to support myself and my family.

Page 15 of 22

WITNO0910100
110. It was always my intention to keep the business for the rest of my working life, and
then the intention was to pass the business on to my son. We have lost our
livelihood and any further opportunities to invest and grow the business as a result
of the alleged shortfalls.

HUMAN IMPACT

111. At first, as result of having to make good shortfalls shown by the Horizon IT System, I
was putting the money back from my news agency business and from my own
pocket but soon I found I could no longer afford to keep doing this.

112. I then had to set up a payment plan with the Post Office, which came out of my
remuneration every month. I found it all frustrating and very unfair, as there were no
real explanations as to where the money was actually going. This had an effect on
my general lifestyle, as I was working fulltime but not earning a fulltime wage.

113. I was confused as I did not know why the shortfalls and discrepancies shown by the
Horizon IT System were happening and no one could explain how to put it right.

114. I lost confidence in my ability to run a business. I lied and hid things from my family, I
did not trust anyone and I was suspicious of everyone, including friends and family.

115. I was paranoid if one of my friends came into the shop or went into the back room
and wondered if they had been in the safe and taken money.

116. I knew in my own mind I was not doing anything so I was always trying to rationalise
and figure out where the money went, which made me paranoid.

117. When I was alleged to be responsible for the shortfalls I felt like I was working for

nothing. I was confused; I doubted myself and thought I was to blame.

Page 16 of 22

WITNO0910100
118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

124.

125.

126.

‘GR

the shop and by the tills and introduced a paper trail where everything going in or

out had to be signed for.

I told my landlord of the shop what had happened with the Post Office when they
closed the post office. I told him that I no longer had an income from the Post Office.
He told me ‘if I found out you had done it Ill come down on you’. I had asked for
respite and reduce rent as I was suspended but my landlord did not reduce the rent

or help me. The rent just stayed the same.

I had to take on a second job in a hotel as a receptionist, after I closed the shop in
the evenings; I would work in the hotel until 10 pm, 5 days a week to pay my own

bills as the news agency, which I had to keep running due to the lease, only covered

the costs for my shop rent.

On average, I worked 60 hours a week over 7 days just to keep things afloat.

Being accused of committing an offence as a result of the shortfalls made me afraid.

My whole personality changed, I used to be outgoing, loud, and opinionated but I

got to the point that I would keep my mouth shut during conversation.

I started drinking a lot to try and drown my sorrows.

I felt like my life was out of control because of the shortfalls and then because of my
suspension. I became obsessed with trying to work out how the shortfalls had

occurred. It made me paranoid. I worked until 10 better with a bottle in my hand.

I found that I did not trust anyone, I doubted everything my colleagues did, and it got

to a point that I was so paranoid that I would make my employees show me their

Page 17 of 22

WITNO0910100
127.

128.

129.

130.

132.

133.

transactions. I was convinced somebody else was doing something to cause the

shortfalls.

My paranoia had gotten so bad that I did not even trust my own son, and on one
occasion I physically pinned my son Luke down on the bed and asked him what he’d

done and swear that he was not stealing from me. I was totally confused.

Luke was around 22 years old at the time and he was still living with me but he had a
child at the time and it crossed my mind if he was taking the money to support his
daughter. I would always question Luke if he had money and where he had gotten it

from. I was nervous and I did not trust anybody.

After this had happened, Luke got a bit upset about it but I think he understood

because I was open about what was happening with the post office.

I had asked Luke 2 or 3 times if he had taken the money, I would wonder where he

had gotten money from as he was only working for me at the time.

on our marriage and i GRO almost left me.

GRO ‘would find the bottle but I would say that it was not me.

Page 18 of 22

WITNO0910100
134.

135.

136.

137.

138.

139.

140.

141.

142.

My youngest son, 'GROI who was around 19/20 at the time, was living at home and
he would see me drinking. I used to get angry when I drank and that impacted on my

son.

RO: nd I would argue because he would get mad that I was drinking and I would

deny that I was drinking, he would storm up to his bedroom and I would not see him

again. Our relationship can be frosty.

My family did not like that I was being argumentative, lying, hiding and drinking

often.

I look back now and think why did I do it, but I do not know.

My family can still be a bit funny now if they see me with a drink. If I as!
can have a glass of wine he rolls his eyes and I will say ‘don’t worry’ and do not get a

drink. Before it would be fine.

I never had a problem with drinking before the Post Office issues. I now sometimes

have a drink but not to the same extent.

Some of my customers were talking about me. Our shop was located in a small
seaside town where everybody knew everything about everyone. When they moved
the post office from my shop to the Co-Operative people started thinking that there
must be something wrong with me because they had re-opened the post office in

another shop.

Some of our customers boycotted my shop and stopped getting newspapers

delivered.

Some of my customers stuck up for me, and would say that I had not been convicted

when people were whispering about me and the rumours.

Page 19 of 22

WITNO0910100
143.

144.

145.

146.

147.

148.

149.

150.

151.

Even now people will make comments about me and the Post Office scandal and

people comment on articles that they have read about the Post Office

One of my friends, who I have known since I was 10 years old, checks up on me

because she knows how the Post Office scandal affected me.

Some people think because of the money that was paid out following the Group
Litigation, that we all have thousands of pounds and they say to me ‘you probably

won't be working Liz because of all the money you’ve got’.

I have a nice car and people comment ‘have you bought your car with the money

from the Post Office’.

As a result of the issues with the Post Office I stopped trusting my family and we

would have arguments.

My family had to put up with my moods. I was always in a bad mood because I was

not sure what was happening.

I would be very defensive when I was drinking.

Around October 2014, I started drinking when the big rollovers of £2000/3000

appeared. I would go home have a bath and drink. This was about a year or so after I

took on the post office.

I did not tell;

RO} the full impact at first because I thought it was me causing the

shortfalls and did not want to admit I was an idiot.

Page 20 of 22

WITNO0910100
152. I was hoping to keep the business going for as long as I could and I was going to pass
it onto my son Luke when I retired. I think if it had worked out, my sons possibly
would have run it together because they were quite close.

153. My son Luke enjoyed working at the post office and wanted to take it over once I
retired. We were planning on running it together. Whenever: GRO: and I went on
holiday, Luke and Dianna would look after the post office.

CONCLUSION

154. 1am lucky that I kept my house separate to my business. I now work as a carer and
work nights. I feel aggrieved that I have to work nights as I would not have had to if I
did not have the problems with the Post Office.

155. I still get upset, I have so many regrets that I took the post office. The post office led
to me drinking and nearly ruined my marriage.

156. My dad was an ex-policeman, and I did not want to tell him and that I was a failure.
My dad got cancer and died never knowing I was innocent.

157. My dad died in November before we got the judgment for the Group Litigation.
Although he always backed me, I wish he was still here and heard it for himself. This
causes me a lot of pain.

158. In my mind I hate the Post Office because I think they knew about all of the
problems with Horizon when I did my initial interview and business plan. I feel that
they knew about the issues and still let me walk into it.

159. I do not like people even mentioning the name Post Office and I have not even been

in a post office since this has happened. If I need something posted, I will send

someone else to post the letters.

Page 21 of 22

WITNO0910100
160. I think Post Office Limited are evil and they could have stopped all these problems
and suffering everyone went through.

161. Standing up in court during the Group Litigation was one of worst days of life. It was
scary and I had to try and prove my innocence even though I had not done anything
wrong.

162. Sometimes I think to myself ‘will this ever go away’. I have days where I can cry
about the Post Office.

163. I want an apology from the Post Office. I really wish the Post Office would write in
big letters in every newspaper ‘I’m sorry, they never did it, leave them alone.’

164. I want justice for everybody not just for myself.

165. I want vindication.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Signed:

G RO I Dated: 28/01/2022

Elizabeth Stockdale

Page 22 of 22

WITNO0910100
