WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

Witness Name: Mark Russell

Statement Number:

Dated: 13 June 2024

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF MARK RUSSELL

|, MARK RUSSELL, will say as follows:

Background and career history

1. lam the Chair of the Ministry of Defence’s procurement organisation, Defence
Equipment & Support and the Chair of Angel Trains, a privately owned train
rolling stock company. | am also a Senior Adviser with UK Government
Investments (“UKGI”) and have a temporary non-executive position on the
board of Great British Nuclear, an arms-length body (“ALB”) of the Department
for Energy Security and Net Zero (this is a newly created body and all

permanent non-executive positions are still to be competed).

2. My career history is as follows. After graduating with a degree in Economics &
Management Science from the University of Stirling, | worked as a Research
Associate at the management consulting firm A T Kearney. From there | went

into a career in Corporate Finance, initially with Lazard Brothers and then, after

Page 1 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

gaining an MBAat Cranfield University, Robert Fleming, PwC and KPMG, where

| was a Corporate Finance Partner in the London and Frankfurt offices.

In 2004 | joined the Shareholder Executive (“ShEx”) as Director of Corporate
Finance. ShEx sat within the Department of Trade & Industry (“DTI”) at that
time, and so my employment contract was with DTI. | was recruited for the
purpose of establishing a Government corporate finance capability that would
sit alongside ShEx’s existing shareholder governance function. “Corporate
finance” in this context refers primarily to asset sales, investments and fund

raisings, and advising on “distressed” company situations.

In 2007, | was appointed Deputy Chief Executive of ShEx. My principal
additional responsibility as Deputy Chief Executive was to deputise for the Chief
Executive (“CEO”) when this was (occasionally) required. In practice, this

largely meant attending in his stead at internal ShEx or Government meetings.

In February 2013, | was appointed as interim CEO of ShEx, and | became CEO

in April 2013. | describe the responsibilities of the CEO of ShEx below.

Between my joining ShEx in 2004, and my appointment as CEO in 2013, | was
responsible for a number of different portfolio assets, the largest of which was
the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority. In addition, a significant part of my role
was to represent the Government in connection with ad hoc distressed asset
situations. These included MG Rover, Vauxhall/Opel, Jaguar Land Rover,

Bombardier and Southern Cross. | was involved in other corporate finance

Page 2 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

situations including the Government's engagement with Airbus in connection
with its financial support of the large aircraft programme in which the UK
participated. During this time period | did not have any responsibility for Post
Office Limited (“POL”) matters until around 2012, when | became involved in the

Royal Mail (“RM”) asset sale process, as | describe further below.

In 2016, ShEx combined with UK Financial Investments (“UKFI”) (a subsidiary
of His Majesty's Treasury (“HMT”), established to manage the Government's
shareholdings in banks) to form UKGI. | served as CEO of UKGI, until stepping
down from this position in 2019, at which point | became Vice-Chair and

subsequently a Senior Advisor for UKGI.

While CEO, | held one external non-executive position at any one time and any
associated fees were given to my employer or to charity. This never occupied
more than, on average, a day and a half per month of my time. Over my career,
| have held seven non-executive positions and chaired two audit and risk

committees.

This witness statement is made to assist the Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry (the
“Inquiry”) with the matters set out in the Rule 9 Request dated 7 May 2024 (the
“Request”). In making this statement, | have been assisted by Eversheds
Sutherland (International) LLP, the recognised legal representative for UKGI, a
Core Participant (as defined in paragraph 5(a) of the Inquiry’s Protocol on

Witness Statements) in the Inquiry.

Page 3 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

10. As the Inquiry is aware, certain information relevant to this Request, in particular

11.

in relation to the historical governance, structure and role of ShEx and UKGI,
has already been provided by UKGI. | have reviewed these responses to aid
my own recollections and, in some instances, | have adopted relevant wording

where | considered it appropriate.

At the start of this statement | would like to recognise that the matters being
investigated by this Inquiry have caused immense harm and distress to sub-
postmasters and their families. The damage caused to so many is truly
appalling. As the former CEO of ShEx/UKGI, irrespective of the POL-related
responsibilities that | delegated, | remain accountable for the acts and omissions
of the organisation during the period of my tenure. | have reflected in this
statement on specific areas in which, in my view, ShEx/UKGI and | could have
done things differently. | am sorry to all affected by these awful events that we

did not.

The Government'’s role and interest regarding POL

12. POL is wholly owned by the Government, operated as an ALB. A significant

proportion of Government spending passes through such ALBs, especially
those involved in the specialised delivery of Govemment activity. ALBs are seen
as necessary delivery mechanisms in instances where it is difficult for
Government to contract-out a delivery activity to the private sector or “insource”
the activity to a Department to be carried out by Departmental officials. ALBs
typically have freedoms to recruit individuals with private sector expertise on

remuneration packages above those available in the Civil Service. ALBs are

Page 4 of 118
13.

14.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

also typically given freedoms to carry out delivery activities, free from

operational interference from central Government.

Best practice for ALBs such as POL is to adopt governance regimes similar to
private sector companies. This applies regardless of whether the ALB is an
Agency, a Non-Departmental Public Body, or a Government Corporation. Key
to this is the use of Boards to oversee the work of the Executive and to hold the
Executive to account on behalf of Ministers and their Departments. This reflects
the fact that Departments (and ShEx/UKGI which act on the behalf of
Departments) are not resourced to be able effectively to scrutinise the work of
a specialised Executive and to hold them to account (as is discussed further

below).

Although ALBs are operated at arms-length from Departments, Ministers retain
responsibility and accountability for the activity of ALBs. They retain key rights
such as the right to approve Board members, other senior appointees, annual
business plans, and funding agreements. They may also have further rights,
such as information rights. The extent of those rights varies depending on the
ALB. Importantly, although Ministers and Departments will maintain a distance
from operational matters (see my comments on this below), there will be
instances where both will seek to become more involved, especially if issues
are concerning enough for direct engagement, but not judged so severe to
warrant the removal of Executives or the Board. In my experience, however,
these instances are rare. Direct Ministerial involvement in security matters

concerning nuclear decommissioning is one example of this. Another example,

Page 5 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

which | discuss further below, is Ministerial involvement in POL concerning

Horizon.

15. Typically, where UKGI has a shareholder role on behalf of a Department for a
significant asset, a UKGI employee will now be appointed as a non-executive
director (“NED”) on the Board of the entity established. This was not common
practice when ShEx was established, as Ministers felt this could interfere with
the autonomy of the ALB model. However, as instances occurred where ALBs
were not engaging sufficiently with the wishes of Ministers and Departments
(especially understanding, and reacting to, their priorities for the organisations),
the practice of appointing ShEx/UKGI NEDs became increasingly common.
From my perspective, the primary objective of these appointments was to
ensure that ALBs understood and acted in accordance with the objectives and
wishes of Ministers and their Departments. There were also other advantages
to these appointments, such as bringing a greater understanding of what was

being discussed at Board level.

16. The appointment of Shareholder NEDs complements but does not replace the
primary points of Departmental contact. In the case of POL, the key contacts
were between the POL CEO and (i) the Minister, and (ii) the Permanent
Secretary/Accounting Officer (“AO”). Such meetings provide senior members
of the Department with a direct line of sight into the ALB, and are a key

mechanism for reinforcing Departmental objectives for the ALB.

Page 6 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

17. The other key feature of ALBs in a Government setting is the practice of
separating the shareholder role (focussing on the governance and performance
of the asset) from the policy role (focussing on the Government's preferred
outcomes from the asset's activities). This has a number of advantages but, in
particular, it allows there to be clearer exposure of the potential costs of policy
demands on the economics of the entity. It also allows for there to be a focus
on the shareholder role, leaving policy advice and stakeholder, including
Parliamentary, engagement to a separate team. This shareholder/policy
separation did not happen with POL until 2018, in part because of Departmental
resourcing constraints. In August 2018, a new policy team within the
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (“BEIS”) was formed
to deal with POL policy-related issues, and the policy function for POL moved

to the Department.

Alternative Models

18. When considering the reason for establishing ALBs, it is helpful to consider the
two principal alternative models. The first is outsourcing the asset's activities,
through privatisation or contractual means. For privatisation to be achieved, it
is necessary to make the proposition attractive to private investors, both
economically and in terms of governance. Economically, if the organisation is
loss making, this is likely to mean either accepting rationalisation, for example
by closing loss-making elements, or paying a subsidy from public funds to a
maintain a particular service. In respect of governance, private companies will
be wary of political interference, meaning that the Government's policy

ambitions would be likely to carry less weight than in an ALB.

Page 7 of 118
19.

20.

21.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

As an alternative to privatisation, Government can contract with the private
sector to provide management (the Government owned, contractor operated
model — “GoCo”). This can be contractually challenging, not least in ensuring
that contractual arrangements manage to keep the interests of the owner and

contractor aligned.

The second alternative model is “insourcing”, that is bringing the asset's
activities within the management and control of a relevant Government
Department. This would mean that key strategic and operational decisions are
taken by Ministers and civil servants. The challenges are that Ministers and civil
servants will not necessarily have the relevant skills or expertise to run the
asset; the activities undertaken by assets managed by ShEx range from nuclear
decommissioning to broadcasting to highly technical services such as
Ordinance Survey and Urenco (which provides enrichment services for use in
civil nuclear energy). Nor will civil servants and Ministers have the time or
resource to undertake the day-to-day management of the assets. As | have
mentioned above, civil service pay structures are uncompetitive, often highly
so, with private sector equivalents when looking to recruit executives for the
assets. Finally, there is a risk that short-term decisions will be taken (or not
taken) for political reasons that may conflict with the longer-term effectiveness

and efficiency of the asset.

ALBs represent the alternative to these approaches. The ALB model does not

Quarantee good governance. Whether that is achieved will be down to the

Page 8 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

efforts and interactions of the Executives, the Board and the Government
Shareholder. However, it is important to distinguish shortcomings in the
execution of the ALB model from a fundamental flaw in the model itself. Where
it is suggested that the model itself has failed, or is otherwise inappropriate to
the asset concerned, it is essential to ask the questions: what are the
alternatives, would the alternatives resolve or improve the weaknesses of the

ALB model, and would the alternatives result in different weaknesses?

POL ALB Model

22. POL is, constitutionally, the most independent version of an ALB. Since 2012,

1

it has been classified as a Public Non-Financial Corporation (a “Public
Corporation”) by the Office for National Statistics’ national account system on
the basis, essentially, that it derives a substantial amount of its income from
selling goods and services on the open market. Such corporations tend to be

more commercial in nature than other Government ALBs.

23.Under POL’s updated Articles of Association’ (“Articles”) dated 2 April 2012
(UKG100043216), the Secretary of State was the sole shareholder of POL and
had certain rights, including to receive information from POL, and to appoint or
remove POL’s directors, including CEO and chair. The Secretary of State is

also ultimately accountable and responsible for POL.

The Articles have subsequently been updated a number of times:

20221216 pol articlesofassociation clean _final.pdf (postoffice.co.uk)

(UKGI00044318).

Page 9 of 118
24.

25.

26.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

However, Public Corporations such as POL are designed to operate at a
distance from Ministers and Departments, with responsibility for day-to-day
operations delegated to the Executive Team, overseen by the Board, the
members of which are appointed based on their relevant expertise and
specialisms. The POL Board is accountable to the Shareholder, i.e., the
Secretary of State. This devolved governance model is intended to enable more
efficient delivery of public services. Acore tenet of the classification is the ability
of the Public Corporation to have “appropriate levels of freedom to exercise
commercial judgements, with appropriate delegated authority arrangements

that protect Departments” (UKGI00043214, p.133).

It is not simply a consequence of being a Public Corporation that neither the
Secretary of State, nor the Department for Business and Trade (“DBT”), nor the
Minister, nor ShEx/UKGI, acting on their behalf, has direct responsibility for POL
day-to-day operational or contractual matters. This is instead a specific
objective. It is a safeguard against central Government micromanagement
which is likely to lack the necessary expertise and experience and be vulnerable
to potential political conflicts of interest. That said, as | have noted, in some

cases it will be appropriate for all of these parties to become more involved.

As explained above, the Secretary of State is ultimately accountable and
responsible for POL. However, the Secretary of State is supported in this task
by other Ministers in the Department, and the Permanent Secretary for the
Department is their principal policy advisor. The Secretary of State, Ministers,

and Department are aided by internal reporting from UKGI, which includes

Page 10 of 118
27.

28.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

reporting on POL. This was also the case at the times relevant to this Inquiry

and | describe this in further detail below.

Since 2012, the Secretary of State has appointed an official from ShEx/UKGI to
the Board of POL. The rationale for this is outlined above, but in essence, there
was a recognition that ALBs may, at times, be losing sight of the objectives of
Ministers and Departments. The appointment of a shareholder representative
provides the Department with greater insight into POL and a further mechanism
to convey the views and priorities of Ministers and Department, although this
representative cannot exercise any shareholder rights on behalf of the
Department. Importantly, though, the position is non-executive and subject to
the limitations of all non-executive positions with respect to the visibility of, and
control of, a company’s operations. NEDs, by definition, are not responsible for
day-to-day operations. Since 2014, the ShEx/UKGI Shareholder NED on the

POL Board has been the head of the ShEx/UKGI shareholder team.

With respect to the potential benefits of POL’s arms-length position, a strategy
document from 2008 (UKGI00017317) highlights the importance of
commercially generated income to reduce financial losses and achieve long-
term sustainability. One of the advantages of being at arms-length from
Government is operational freedoms, in particular the freedom and ability to
recruit commercial management, which for example undoubtably assisted POL

to explore wider service offerings than may have otherwise been possible.

Page 11 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

29. | have been asked to comment on the minutes of a ShEx Board meeting of 15

September 2010 (UKGI00001339). This captured the discussion around the
policy and commercial objectives of Government with respect to ALBs. There
can be a tension where a policy objective of Government gives rise to a direct
cost for the ALB and so reduces the organisation’s profitability. The discussion
on 15 September 2010 concluded that it was ShEx’s role to explain such costs
so that Ministers understood the “price” of the policy. Ultimately, though, it was
for Ministers to make the trade-off. With respect to POL, Government policy is
to maintain a minimum number of Post Offices, including those making loses.
This is, | believe, the principal area where POL’s commercial position and

Government's policy objectives could be in conflict.

Role and organisation of ShEx/UKGI and strategy of oversight of POL

30. ShEx was established in 2002 with the aim of professionalising the

31.

Government's stewardship of its various commercial shareholdings. Over time,
and as many of these shareholdings were sold, its stewardship role expanded
to include Government's ALBs, many of which were technically agencies of
Departments with no legal identity. There was a recognition that the skill-set
and experience that ShEx had developed in its original role was of use to
Departments in their sponsorship of ALBs and was difficult to replicate within

Departments.

The Corporate Finance activity of SnEx/UKGI has predominantly focussed on
advising Government on investments and realisations. A significant activity

advising Government on “distressed” situations also developed, that is,

Page 12 of 118
32.

33.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

consideration of intervention in companies of strategic interest to the UK
Government that are in crisis and facing liquidation or takeover (such as the MG

Rover Group shortly after | joined ShEx).

When | became CEO in 2013, ShEx employed approximately 150 people, a
mixture of individuals from the private sector (typically with a background in
finance) and the civil service, employed either full-time or on secondment. The
group was advising on approximately 20 organisations, in its shareholder role,
and was managing approximately the same number again of Corporate Finance
projects. Some of these projects were very large (such as the privatisation of
RM, the sale of the Student Loan book and the establishment of the Green
Investment Bank and the British Business Bank) and some were small

(examining ownership options for an ALB).

ShEx, and then UKGI, was and is regarded as a pan-Whitehall resource; the
group works for most of the 15 main Departments. Our role is essentially
“advisory” to the Department and its Ministers. ShEx/UKGI does not directly
own any shareholding. Departments, however, do not simply “outsource” their
shareholder or corporate finance functions in a way that they might to a private
sector advisor or contractor. It has always been important that Departments
regard ShEx/UKGI staff who work on their assets and projects as though they
were staff of their own Department (and so with some characteristics of
secondment), with similar rights to information and the ability to advise Ministers
directly via submission or in person, etc. This has been important so that our

freedom to operate is similar to Departmental officials and potentially in contrast

Page 13 of 118
34.

35.

36.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

to private sector advisers. It has also been important from a Department's point
of view; for example if ShEx/UKGI employees were seen simply as employees
of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (“BIS”), or BEIS (as the
Department was known from July 2016) (while ShEx) or HMT employees (as

UKGI) then this could further limit our impact in the relevant Department.

Each of the Shareholder, or Corporate Finance activities is overseen by a
ShEx/UKGI Director. In 2013 there were approximately 30 Executive
Directors/Deputy Directors (“ED” and “DD” respectively), and four Directors (all
34 being Senior Civil Service level) overseeing the 40 or so Shareholder or

Corporate Finance activities. Each ED/DD reported to a Director on any activity.

As CEO | would get directly involved in a few of the 40 activities; these would
often be the Corporate Finance projects where | had relevant expertise and
experience. My personal involvement was often driven by instances of
technical complexity and complex stakeholder management (the establishment
of the two banks and the sale of the Student Loan portfolio are good examples
of this). As CEO, | engaged with other Departments frequently, typically at
Permanent Secretary level, about where ShEx/UKGI could best engage, and
then working with these Departments to scope and resource the work

appropriately.

When | became CEO of ShEx in early 2013, | reorganised reporting lines within
the group so that all EDs reported to a Director for line management purposes,

and all Directors reported to me. Previously this had been done ona less formal

Page 14 of 118
37.

38.

39.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

basis. The exceptions to this were the Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) and

Chief Financial Officer, both EDs, who reported directly to me.

| would have regular catch-up sessions with each of the Directors. These would
be ad hoc but at least weekly and often, daily, depending on the circumstances.
We physically worked close to each other and in an open-plan office, making

this interaction relatively easy.

In parallel with this, | started a process to ensure that every ShEx activity, be it
Shareholder or Corporate Finance was identified (and that we withdrew from
smaller ones) and allocated to a Director, and ultimately supervised by this
Director. This reflected the reality that | could not personally supervise all ShEx
activity, even if | was directly involved in some of it. Not all ED activity reporting

was to the ED’s line manager, but in most cases it was.

ShEx gradually formalised its activities with Departments (i.e., became clearer
about what advice and activity we were providing) but we were (and remain)
keen to ensure that this didn’t change the perception amongst Departments that
ShEx was a pan-Whitehall resource that generally looked for reasons to assist
Departments rather than not, even where that meant going outside of activities
that had formally been identified. Key to this was also that we typically didn’t
ask Departments to pay us for our assistance unless the resourcing requirement

was such that a budget transfer to ShEx was warranted.

Page 15 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

40. ShEx, and now UKGI, operates in a relatively delegated manner. This is made
possible by that fact that there are an unusually high proportion of senior civil
servants within the group, as compared to other Whitehall structures. It would
be rare to find in other parts of Government departments a Senior Civil Service
(“SCS”) to non-SCS ratio as high as ShEx. This meant that we expected, and
were comfortable with, significant autonomy of the portfolio and corporate
finance teams. This is also, practically, how a model that has characteristics of
secondment (as mentioned above), where Departmental officials can direct
ShEx/UKGI staff (within reason) without recourse to ShEx/UKGI management,
has to work. Formal advice to Ministers could be cdeared by EDs (the lowest of
the SCS grades) without any further escalation, as long as the ED felt confident
in the advice. We put much emphasis, however, on a culture of openness, and
there being an imperative for colleagues to consult and escalate issues if there
was doubt about a particular course of action or piece of advice being given. |
would impress upon colleagues that, if in- doubt, they must consult and escalate
and that senior colleagues must be available to be consulted. This was a
protocol drilled into me when | was a partner at KPMG, where the power of
individual partners to bind the firm was considerable. | included my own
personal accessibility in this; colleagues could nearly always contact me by
email or phone. The importance of openness within UKGI was reflected in the
Board paper on values dated 14 January 2015. The paper, which | endorsed,
noted that “openness and honesty” was voted by UKGI employees as their
favourite value within UKGI. This was formalised as one of four key sets of
values, the others being: (i) professionalism and integrity; (ii) collegiality and

being committed to improvement; and (iii) being focused on outcomes. The

Page 16 of 118
41.

42.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

formalisation of these values meant that they were to be expressly raised in staff
appraisals. The overarching theme of all of these values was trust

(UKGI00045859).

The ShEx Board formally came into existence in 2009. It met six times a year
and initially comprised three executives and six non-executives, including the
Chair. The Chair reported jointly to BIS and HMT Ministers. The non-executives
reported to the Chair. Two of the executives reported to the CEO and the CEO,
in turn, reported to the BIS Permanent Secretary. ShEx was not a company, and
so its Board was not a corporate board (and its Directors did not have fiduciary
duties under the Companies Act 2006). Its key functions were helpfully set out
in a Board note drafted by Phillip Remnant in August 2010 (UKGI00041953),
which explains that they include: (i) overseeing the work of ShEx; (ii) setting
strategic direction in light of Ministerial objectives; (iii) periodically reviewing the
delivery of objectives as set out in the Business Plan; and (iv) considering any
specific issues referred to it by the Executive Committee (“ExCo”). The AO for

ShEx was the BIS Permanent Secretary.

In May 2015, it was announced that: (i) ShEx would form the basis of UK
Government Investments Limited (“UKGI Ltd”), a new Government company
owned by HM Treasury; (ii) UKFI, a company owned by HM Treasury would
become a subsidiary of the new company; and (iii) the two would merge over
time. On 1 April 2016, the functions and operations of ShEx were transferred
to the Company, and HMT’s shareholding in UKFI was transferred to UKGI Ltd.

On 31 March 2018 the operations and staff of UKFI were transferred to UKGI

Page 17 of 118
43.

44.

45.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

and UKFI ceased operations as outlined in a UKGI framework document dated

April 2018 (the “UKGI Framework Document”) (UKGI00043215).

The combined group employed 125 people. UKGI had annual revenue
(provided principally by HMT, but supplemented by on-going budget transfers
from some “client” Departments) of approximately £20m and similar operating
costs, the majority of which comprised staff and accommodation costs. It had
negligible net assets and, as with ShEx, owned none of the portfolio assets that

it advised Departments on.

The Board of ShEx was disbanded and joined with the former board of UKFI, to
become the Board of UKGI. This was now a fiduciary board with its directors
having the responsibilities of a corporate Board. Directors of the Board were

appointed by HMT.

The terms of reference for the Board of UKGI (the “Terms of Reference”)
mandated the roles, responsibilities and reporting lines of the Board, as well as
the other members (UKGI00045858). The Board was to be comprised of up to
10 directors, with at least one is to be an Executive (to include the CEO), a
majority of non-executives including the Chair, a representative of the
Shareholder, and the UKFI Chair. The Board received delegated authority from
HMT and was accountable to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and ultimately to

Parliament.

Page 18 of 118
46.

47.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The Board was required to meet at least eight times a year, and was required
to: (i) adhere to HMT’s budget; (ii) ensure that the Company monitored its
progress and delivered against its objectives, as prescribed in the UKGI
Framework Document; (iii) ensure that the Company provided the highest
quality independent professional advice; and (iv) monitored the Company's
resources, management and risks. The Terms of Reference also specified that
HMT may give the Board specific directions, with which the Board must either
comply or resign. The UKGI Board was supported by three committees; the
Nominations Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration
committee. The requirements of the Board are specified in greater detail over

pages two to four of the Terms of Reference (UKGI00045858).

The role of the Chair of the UKGI Board is set out in the formal Terms of
Reference for the Chair, and includes the requirement that the Chair promotes
the highest standards of corporate governance, be accountable to UKGI's
stakeholders for the effectiveness of the Board, build a sustainable respected
business that met the requirements of UKGI’s stakeholders, and to facilitate and
encourage engagement and challenge (particularly on business strategy,
project and governance oversight and risk) (UKGI00045860). The
responsibilities of the Chair of the UKGI Board were expanded on in the draft
UKGI Framework Document (UKGI00045857), discussed by the UKGI board
on 27 January 2016 (UKGI00016724), and which was published in substantially

the same form in April 2018 with amendments made to specific sub-sections.

Page 19 of 118
48.

49.

50.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

As CEO of UKGI, | was a member of the Board and reported to the Chair of
UKGI. | would provide CEO Reports to the Board of UKGI which would provide
a high-level overview of key workstreams. These reports would refer to and be
accompanied by the dashboard for each of the Shareholder/Corporate Finance
or other workstreams. The dashboards would include summary risk
assessments for each workstream. | was ultimately accountable for this internal
reporting as well as external Departmental reporting. | discuss UKGI's

performance and risk reporting in further detail below.

As CEO, | also became AO and, in this capacity, reported to HMT’s Principal
AO. My responsibilities in this regard were set out at paragraph 4.5 onwards of
the draft UKGI Framework Document, and paragraph 4.6 onwards of the 2018
UKGI Framework Document (UKGI00043215). They included responsibility for
the day-to-day operations and management of UKGI, agreeing with the
Department UKGI's corporate and business plans, and ensuring that UKGI is
run on the basis of the standards set out in the HMT Managing Public Money
Guidance (“Managing Public Money”). My AO responsibilities only covered
UKGI and its operations. | had no AO responsibilities for any other Government

entity that UKGI was involved in.

| now explain the individuals with responsibility for oversight of POL or RM. |
have done so from the date that | took over as CEO in 2013. | understand that
the Inquiry has called witnesses who will be better placed to explain which

individuals had responsibility for POL/RM before that time.

Page 20 of 118
51.

52.

53.

54.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The teams within ShEx and UKGI responsible for POL and RM were distinct,
and to the best of my understanding, this had always been the case. Other than
ongoing governance roles, the RM team, in the period up to and following
separation also had responsibility, inter alia, for the sponsorship of the Postal
Services Bill, the realisation of the RM pension assets (as RM’s pension
liabilities where taken on by Government), the application for State Aid approval

and for the privatisation of RM itself, undertaken in three parts.

From December 2013, Anthony Odgers became the ShEx Director with
responsibility for POL and for the Government's remaining RM shareholding. In
October 2015, this responsibility passed to Justin Manson and, in January 2018,
to Tom Cooper. ED responsibility for POL (reporting to the RM Directors) was
Richard Callard (January 2013-April 2018), and Tom Aldred (May 2018-

February 2020).

On separation from RM in April 2012, Susannah Storey joined the POL Board
as ShEx’s first Shareholder NED, remaining on it until March 2014. From this
point, ShEx’s Shareholder NED had responsibility for POL’s shareholder team
within UKGI. These positions were occupied by Richard Callard (ED
responsible for POL/RM) from April 2014, and Tom Cooper (Director with

responsibility for POL/RM) from March 2018.

Susannah Storey, for line management purposes and in her capacity as
Shareholder NED on POL, reported to Stephen Lovegrove up to March 2013,

at which point she transferred to the Department of Energy and Climate Change

Page 21 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

(‘DECC’). Thereafter, as | recall, she reported to me on her POL position but
continued to be line managed by Stephen Lovegrove, who had also transferred

to DECC, on other matters.

55.The responsibilities of the POL shareholder team in relation to POL, including
advice to Ministers and interactions with POL are well described at paragraphs
26 and 27 of Charles Donald's first witness statement, dated 6 February 2024,
which | have had the benefit of reviewing (WITN10770100). | would only add
that, in common with all portfolio assets where ShEx was performing a
shareholder role on behalf of a Department, the shareholder team sought to
gain a reasonably detailed understanding of the business of the organisation,
its long-term strategy, its Board and management capability, its financial
position and its key risks. The annual reviews (an example is UKGI00043215)
illustrate this focus and level of detail. | should also note that ShEx did not
oversee contractual or personnel management at POL (save for appointments

to the POL Board).

56. The ED responsible for POL led and managed the POL shareholder team. The
individuals within the POL shareholder team would have spent the majority of
their time working on POL matters, and would have had separate focuses of
responsibility, for example: government funding, strategy, stakeholder
management, financial monitoring, POL network, and mutualisation. The exact
division of responsibilities would have changed over time, as would the

composition of the team.

Page 22 of 118
57.

58.

59.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The ED would be responsible to the ShEx Director for delivering the shareholder
role as outlined above. The ShEx Director would, in turn, be responsible to me

as CEO of ShEx/UKGI.

The ShEx Director with responsibility for POL would be overseeing a number of
ShEx Portfolio assets and may, additionally, be involved in ShEx’s Corporate
Finance activity. The time spent by the ShEx Director on POL activity would
vary depending on the need at the time. The Director would be the first port of
call for advice for the ED. The Director would be expected to have personal
relationships with the POL Chair, CEO and CFO and be known to the relevant
Minister overseeing POL. The Director would be expected to attend the regular
POL reviews and be available to the ED and shareholder team to assist on any
significant issue (such as key appointments, funding, Ministerial engagement

etc).

The ExCo was the committee comprising the senior members of ShEx,
responsible for the day to day running of the organisation. Resourcing,
particularly human resourcing, was a key area of discussion and decision.
Decisions on work we should take on and work we should seek to reject were
also central to the activity of the ExCo. These decisions would depend on the
resources required and whether the ShEx/UKGI “value-add” was sufficient. The
processes and procedures (HR, risk, portfolio reviews (see below), conflicts of
interest etc) of the organisation were also discussed by the ExCo. The financial
position and budgets of the group were regularly discussed. Also the traffic light

system of portfolio oversight (“Traffic Light”) (and, from 2015, the UKGI

Page 23 of 118
60.

61.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Dashboard) was regularly reviewed as was the ShEx risk register (referred to
below). Meeting and interactions with Departments and other stakeholders

were often discussed.

There was discussion on specific portfolio and transaction matters if there was
a significant issue or event, especially if there was a need to socialise the matter.
With respect to RM and POL, ExCo would be aware of major strands of activity
and any associated problems and issues. It would also regularly review the
Traffic Lights/Dashboard entries relevant to POL. Absent particular issues of
concern, ExCo’s primary focus would be the resourcing of our governance and

whether this was sufficient.

| have been asked to comment on the concern noted in an ExCo discussion on
27 April 2010 regarding the compatibility of combined CEO and AO roles
(UKG100016656). A number of Portfolio CEOs were, and are, also AOs. The
two roles have separate responsibility and reporting lines — the CEO to the
Board or the organisation; the AO to the principal AO of the owning Department,
and then to Parliament. The concern discussed was whether the two would
ever be in conflict. A Board may seek a particular course of action that in the
AO’s view is contrary to the course of action they should be taking as AO. This
is largely a theoretical issue and rarely becomes an issue in practice.
Managing Public Money now gives provides clear guidance on this, as outlined

in chapter 3.10.6 of the most recent version (UKGI00043211).

Page 24 of 118
62.

63.

64.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Although the CEO of POL is not, technically an AO (the AO for POL is the DBT
Permanent Secretary in line with HMG guidance at the time), the CEO was
formally appointed as an “accountable person” from 2019 (UKGI00010163).
Prior to that point, the CEO was considered, in essence, to have similar
responsibilities and so obliged to observe the principles of Managing Public
Money (as an accountable person or AO would be). This accountability can be
seen within actions and responsibilities delegated to the CEO including, for
example, their attendance at numerous Parliamentary select committee
hearings. | cannot recall any instance where the POL CEO and accountable

person roles have been in conflict.

The rights and powers of ShEx/UKGI derive from the rights of the Secretary of
State as POL Shareholder, to the extent those rights and powers were
delegated by the Department to ShEx/UKGI. On separation, the governance
arrangements that DBT had over RM were effectively replicated for POL. These
included: (i) the Articles, which set out the Shareholder’s consent rights; (ii) a
funding agreement (which contained details of the policy conditions to which
public funding was attached); (iii) an entrustment letter (which contained state
aid approval to enable POL to receive public funding); and (iv) a working capital
facility. The key terms of these agreements are set out at paragraphs 39 and

40 of Mr Donald's first witness statement (WITN10770100).

From late 2017, UKGI began work on a POL framework document (the “POL
Framework Document’) that would set out these rights in one place. A

framework document, as defined in Managing Public Money, is a document

Page 25 of 118
65.

66.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

which sets out the arrangements by which departments are to monitor and
understand their ALB’s strategy, performance and delivery. Such documents
are not generally required for government ownership of public companies,
because (as with POL), the relevant rights are clearly set out in corporate
governance documentation (as described above). Nonetheless, UKGI and
BEIS commenced the work of drafting a framework agreement in 2017, and this
was finalised in March 2020 (UKGI00013241). Much of the content of the POL
Framework Document reflects the rights in the pre-existing governance

documentation described above.

| have been asked to explain ShEx’s strategy and / or plan as to how it oversaw
POL and POL’s operations. As with all of its assets, ShEx, as an organisation,
oversaw POL through its portfolio review process and its risk management
processes. This was in addition to the overall supervision provided by the ShEx
Director (as outlined above), portfolio reviews, project monitoring, performance

management and risk processes.

A Traffic Light monitoring mechanism was established early in the life of ShEx
to provide group-wide assessment of each Portfolio organisation by reference
to the following criteria: (i) shareholder relationship; (ii) implementation of the
shareholder model; (iii) quality of management team and board; (iv) strategy;
(v) financial performance; and (vi) balance sheet/risk. The Traffic Light
assessments would include a summary of the actions being taken by the asset
shareholder team to mitigate the issues flagged. These Traffic Light

assessments were produced on a quarterly basis by the asset shareholder

Page 26 of 118
67.

68.

69.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

teams. This exercise provided the process and discipline for shareholder teams
to make individual assessments but also, importantly, to socialise these

assessments amongst the senior ShEx team for discussion and challenge.

Portfolio reviews were an opportunity to expand on the Traffic Light
assessments discussed above, providing considerably more detail on
performance, objectives and risks. These were subject to peer review within
ShEx. Portfolio reviews would typically be annual events but, for more
significant assets such as POL, would often be quarterly. They would be
produced by the relevant shareholder team and reviewed by peers within ShEx,
to provide advice and challenge from different perspectives. The annual review
of the year was intended to provide a more in-depth view of the asset. In addition
to the topics covered as part of the quarterly reviews, the annual review included
commentary on the asset's long term strategy and objectives for the upcoming

year.

In addition, from 2015, Dashboard reports were produced, to support the UKGI
Board and ExCo in tracking the performance of ShEx/UKGI’s main activities,
and in challenging teams for individual assets as required. These included a
summary of the top priorities for each asset, their Traffic Light assessment, and
the relevant extract from the ShEx risk register. The Board and ExCo would

receive regular Dashboard updates as part of their briefing packs.

ShEx and UKGI’s risk-management processes have developed over time. This

was a key objective of mine as CEO in 2013 and thereafter. We continued to

Page 27 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

reflect on our risk management and reporting processes, and to improve and
adapt over time. The key steps in the process in UKGI’s evolution of risk

reporting management from 2013 were as follows:

a. In January 2013 a Group Level Risk Register was reintroduced, (which
was not mandated in the Department's reporting processes at the time),
which would draw on specific asset risks, alongside specific corporate
ShEx risks. In part, the creation of this Register resulted from a recognition
that, as ShEx, we were reporting into a myriad of individual Departmental
risk registers (all slightly different) and not viewing risk across our
combined portfolio of activity sufficiently. ExCo also agreed to the

appointment of a ShEx “Risk Champion” (UKGI00016638);

b. An updated risk management proposal was presented to ExCo on 23 May
2013 (UKGI00045853), alongside a revised summary risk register. The
minutes note that risk reporting had become too voluminous for ExCo to
review in its entirety and therefore the committee agreed to establish a
new Risk Committee to review high level risks and report into ExCo

(UKGI00016563);

c. The ShEx Risk and Assurance Committee (“RAC”) was established in July
2013 chaired by the COO (or another member of ExCo in the absence of
the COO). The Terms of Reference for the RAC outline its structure and
responsibilities (UKG1I00045874). Its purpose was to review key risks

across the portfolio and ensure consistency of approach. The RAC (either

Page 28 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

at its own instigation or the request of a specific team) would also conduct
“deep dives” into projects one or two times per year, bringing the outcomes
to ExCo for review. The RAC met regularly focusing on a specific
topic/project at each session, reporting to ExCo the outcome of the groups

discussions (UKGI00045875 and UKGI00045883);

. The papers from the meeting of the ShEx Board meeting of 13 November
2013 included a comment that the RAC had “received very positive
feedback from attendees both on the presenting teams and also from
members of the committee about how the meetings have helped to provide
both valuable advice and challenge to those involved. Feedback from
ExCo has also been positive and they feel more sighted on the risks of the
different projects being undertaken by ShEx. ShEx is also fully plugged
into the BIS risk process which is currently under review and will ensure

the outcomes are reflected in any ShEx process” (UKGI00016714);

. In February 2014 ExCo agreed a new risk review process template with
the intent of ensuring consistency in approach across all assets
(UKG1I00045871). These individual registers were aggregated into an
overarching ShEx risk register, including summary heatmap allowing the
reader to easily assess the spread of risk across the portfolio

(UKGI00016846). These registers were regularly reviewed by ExCo;

. By May 2014, Risk Registers were included as a standing item on the

ShEx Board agenda (UKGI00016750). Risk updates included the overall

Page 29 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

ShEx Heatmap, and a summary of each asset's ‘Overall Risk’ rating and

‘Reputational Risk’ rating (UKGI00016850). The top risks for each project

continued to be included in the core pack as part of project updates and

discussed during ‘deep dives’ conducted by the Board; and

. On 27 January 2016 the newly established UKGI Audit and Risk

Committee (ARC) agreed a revised approach to risk management for the

new organisation (UKGI00016669 and UKGI00016675). Key elements of

this, included that:

ARC would receive two quarterly risk registers. The first would
combine operational & strategic risk register covering people,
UKGI transition, IT & infrastructure and UKGI objectives
reputational/relationship risks. The second would cover UKGI

asset sales, corporate finance and governance risk register;

. These Risk Registers formed part of overall UKGI Board reporting

pack also including the KPIs tracker and dashboard documents;

ARC would consider (and sign-off) on an annual basis the full risk
register, with any supporting project or asset level risk registers as

needed in this regard;

On a quarterly basis, ARC would consider those projects or assets

which are either moving from, or moving to, a red RAG rating

Page 30 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

versus the previous quarters risk register with a written summary

supporting the change in rating; and

v. Overall responsibility for the UKGI risk register rested with the

CEO supported by the COO.

h. In July 2016, the UKGI Board agreed a risk appetite statement. This
included express reference to the importance of the open culture that |
have described above: “the culture of open and proactive communication
and continuous learning and training, throughout UKGI underpins UKGI's

ability to control risks that do arise” (UKG100016765); and

i. The UKGI Risk Review process was reviewed again in June 2018 with
several refinements introduced to help drive consistency in risk reporting
and enable the Board and ExCo to understand each risk assessment more
effectively (UKGI00017501 and UKGI00017502). These included a
revised ‘Risk Summary’ (UKGI00021408) and ‘Heat Map’
(UKGI00021409). It was agreed that the Board would focus their risk
discussions on those assets with risks in the ‘top right’ of the heat map
(i.e., those risks with a high probably and high impact) and any with
significant changes in reputational or delivery risk. Under the new
process, individual risk registers were reviewed by a risk review panel,
rather than the RAC, and subsequently summarised for ExCo by a
designated UKGI Risk Lead. However, ExCo or individual projects could

still request a deep dive by the Committee if it was required.

Page 31 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

70. External (to ShEx/UKGI) oversight of POL was predominantly through the

71.

shareholder Department. The formal processes for this oversight were through
the Department's finance group (including Finance Director General) and
through the Department’s Risk Committee and Department Board on which the
CEO of ShEx sat until the creation of UKGI in 2016. The Department's
Permanent Secretary (and POL AO) also exercised oversight although, by its
nature, this was more ad hoc. The National Audit Office, and through this,
Parliament's Public Accounts Committee could also provide oversight and

challenge as could Parliament’s Business Select Committee.

The Department was aided in its oversight of POL through regular risk reporting

produced by UGKI in respect of BIS assets (including POL). This included:

a. delivery reports, which summarised various matter including performance
against each Delivery Goal in the Departmental Plan, as well as key risks
and mitigations. Delivery Goals were reviewed by the Department on a
quarterly basis to coincide with the Department's central ‘Performance,

Finance and Risk Committee’ (PFR);

b. from 2013, annual and quarterly assurance assessments of “partner
organisations”, which included POL. This provided a narrative
assessment of the relationship between the two organisations and an
assessment of POL’s performance against various criteria, including

operational performance, financial management, policy delivery, risk

Page 32 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

management and internal governance. The Assurance Statements were
aggregated by the department's PFR for review by the BIS Executive
Board as part of the wider BIS performance and risk management
framework. This included the production of a department level risk

summary;

c. from 2016, weekly updates from the CEO, on UKGI’s overall priorities for
the week, and “Live Issues” being tracked (which could include POL-
related issues). This would be consolidated by the Department with other

such Director-General level reports into a single report for Ministers; and

d. ad-hoc reporting, including submissions to ministers on risk and

performance issues.

72. | have been asked to explain the codes/principle of corporate guidance that
ShEx/UKGI considered POL to be bound by. This is set out in the ShEx
Handbook, published in 2007 (UKGI00044314), which explains that
governance of Government-owned businesses should, wherever possible,
reflect commercial best practice, and in particular the principles of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (noting that Government-owned
businesses generally must also take into account a broader political/social
purpose which may not always align with a fully commercial stance e.g. meeting
government's commitment to maintaining a set number of Post Office branches
even where unprofitable). This was echoed in POL’s post-separation annual

reports. For example, the 2012-2013 Annual Report explained that whilst POL

Page 33 of 118
73.

74.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

was “not formally required to report on its compliance with the UK corporate
Governance Code (the Code). [...] the Board of the Post Office believes this is
an appropriate benchmark for reporting on corporate governance. The Post
Office’s corporate governance structure follows the spirit of the provisions of the
Code in so far as they can apply to a Government-owned entity, which has no

private or institutional external shareholders’.

In addition, the Corporate Governance Code for Central Government
Departments would have also been applicable, complementing the principles
set out in Managing Public Money. | did not believe that there were material
differences in governance between a publicly listed company and a publicly
owned company, other than that the latter is accountable to Ministers, who were
accountable to Parliament. Additionally, all publicly owned companies will have
an AO or accountable person responsible to Parliament for ensuring that the
principles and practices of Managing Public Money are appropriately applied

(the AO arrangements for POL are detailed in paragraph 62).

| have been asked to comment on why, in April 2018, UKGI assessed POL as
red for departmental relationship (UKGI00007909). This was on the basis that
we were increasingly anxious for the policy role on POL to return to the
Department, leaving UKGI with just the shareholder role. This was an atypical
arrangement, and POL was the only asset for which UKGI had a policy function.
This lasted until August 2018 when the policy function for POL was transferred
to BEIS. There was concern, as the minute notes, that there wasn’t sufficient

senior sponsorship resource within BEIS.

Page 34 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

ShEx/UKGI actual oversight of POL prior to separation

75.

76.

77.

My direct role in the oversight of POL before its separation from RM was very
limited. With regard to RM, | was involved in the sale of its pension assets ahead

of privatisation but, other than that, | again had little direct role in its oversight.

As can be seen from the minutes of the ShEx Board of 15 September 2010,
ShEx was re-organised at that time into three units. Anthony Odgers took
responsibility for managing the assets in ShEx’s portfolio, a task for which he
had been brought into ShEx. | led on “Corporate Finance — focussing on
transactions of non-portfolio assets and special projects” (UKGI00001339). In
this context “transactions of non-portfolio assets” is a reference to investments
and sales; and “special projects” is a reference to work on companies in distress
situations. This formalised the kinds of work that | was doing in any event, and

which | have described above.

| did attend various meetings at which matters relating to RM and POL were
discussed, including ShEx Board meetings (an example being that of 15
September 2010, cited above). The most prominent issues concerning RM and
POL at that time was the privatisation of RM, which is unsurprising given the
many difficulties involved and the need for primary legislation. A ShEx Board
Briefing on RM, which was sent to me and others on 25 June 2010
(UKG100041941), is typical in this respect. This set out in detail the tasks facing
ShEx in respect of RM privatisation. A relatively short section dealt with POL; it

was noted that it would remain in public ownership and emphasis was placed

Page 35 of 118
78.

79.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

on public concerns about Post Office branch closures that had derailed the

previous effort to sell RM (UKGI00041943).

The same paper set out the resource then available to ShEx for work on these
projects. The RM team comprised two members of the SCS, four civil servants
at Grade 6 (one tier below the SCS), one at Grade 7 (two tiers below SCS), and
a more junior civil servant. There was a separate team for the POL comprising
one member of the SCS, one Grade 6, one Grade 7, one fast-streamer (i.e., a
relatively new graduate recruit to the Civil Service Fast Stream), and one Higher
Executive Officer (‘HEO”). Recruitment was ongoing for a further Grade 7 and
HEO. There was also a bill team working on the relevant legislation (the Postal
Services Bill). The author of the paper considered that the teams were
“probably adequately resourced’ but commented that the project will “consume
a considerable proportion of the ShEx team over the next 2-3 years”
(UKG100041943). There was a lot of work to do. Others will be better placed
than me to describe how, at that time, the teams worked with one another and
how, in practice, they reported up through ShEx and into the Department. |
have outlined the relevant structures for this reporting earlier in this statement;
| add here that ShEx had no role in overseeing the conduct of prosecutions by

POL or the RM.

| have no recollection of being made aware of the Computer Weekly article in

May 2009 that set out the cases of seven sub-postmasters who were in conflict

with POL about losses that they attributed (as we now know, correctly) to

Page 36 of 118
80.

81.

82.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Horizon (POL00041564). | would not have expected that article to have been

brought to my attention given my role at that time.

Nor was | aware of, or involved in, the advice to Ed Davey MP, then
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for Employment Relations and Postal
Affairs, ahead of his meeting with Alan Bates on 7 October 2010
(UKG100000062). Again, | would not have expected to have been sent this
advice as the issue was being dealt with by the POL team and the Minister's

private office.

In the lead up to POL’s separation from RM, several issues had to be worked
through. First, the Government subsidy for the period after March 2012 had to
be agreed and State Aid approval granted. Second, and related, plans had to
be developed for the size of the branch network and a commercial strategy that
would (with the subsidy) sustain that network. Third, governance structures had
to be put in place for the newly independent POL. In particular, it would need a
new Board and a new Chair. Finally, questions had begun to be asked about
possible future ownership structures for POL. Following the 2010 General
Election, the new Ministerial team expressed interest in the idea of
mutualisation (i.e. a company that was largely owned by the sub-postmasters

and POL employees).

| did not have a direct role in the work ShEx did on these issues, but | did receive
updates through the ShEx Board. | can see from Board papers that the funding

settlement of £1.34 billion (for the four years from April 2011) was agreed by

Page 37 of 118
83.

84.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

December 2010, and was accompanied by discussions on the future growth
strategy, and on what would become known as Network Transformation. The
Board was also informed that the Postal Services Bill had created a framework
that allowed for mutualisation and that Ministers hoped this would “better align
the interests of POL staff, sub postmasters, and potentially customers”

(UKGI00001342).

On governance, ShEx’s preferred approach was that set out by Anthony Odgers
in his paper to the Board on 5 May 2011 (UKGI00043224). Anthony identified
POL as one of ShEx’s “core assets” and made the following proposal for its

future:

“As POL disengages from RMPS, we would look to take a more
active role, and have already agreed with ministers and RMPS to
take a Board seat once the business separates from Royal Mail. We
have also agreed with the Chair of RMPS that we will select a new

Chair for POL.”

| was in favour of the Department appointing a Shareholder NED, for reasons |
have discussed above. Elsewhere in the paper, Anthony wrote that as POL
separates from RM, ShEx would “take a more significant direct role in the
governance of POL.” This was in part the result of RM no longer acting as an
intermediary between ShEx and POL, but it also reflected ShEx’s intention, in
line with Anthony's paper, to play a more active role in governance, notably by

taking a seat on the Board.

Page 38 of 118
85.

86.

87.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The ShEx Board update on RM and POL of 5 May 2011 referred to the need to
appoint a “suitably robust and independent POL Board, to be constituted
following the appointment of a new POL Chair.” At that time, no suitable
candidate had been identified for the Chair position, despite a shortlisting
process (UKGI00043228). My recollection is that recruitment to the POL Chair
post was difficult in this period, because the remuneration package was not
competitive. By 11 October 2011, the ShEx Board was informed of the
appointment of Alice Perkins as Chair (UKGI00045863). | do not think | played
any role in her recruitment. The same minutes record that a consultation on

mutualisation had been opened.

The following month, November 2011, saw the POL Annual Review within ShEx.
| did not attend this meeting (UKGI00041970), but | have now seen the slides
provided to it (UKGI00042628). The first bullet point under the heading “Long
term strategy’ was: “Strengthen POL’s Board, in particular through appointment
of anew Chair and Non Executive Directors to give increased levels of oversight
and challenge.” Again, | do not believe that | had any direct involvement in these
NED appointments but | am not surprised that ShEx had highlighted this as a

priority.

| do not now recall what role, if any, | played in the appointment of the
Shareholder NED. Papers provided to me by the Inquiry (which do not appear
to have been copied to me at the time) show that there was some resistance to

this from Alice Perkins and (reportedly) at least one other member of the Board,

Page 39 of 118
88.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

although this did not ultimately prevent the appointment of Susannah Storey
(UKG100042588). | am not sure what, if anything, | knew of this at the time,
though it seems to me now that this resistance probably resulted from the RM
Board's desire to keep as independent as possible from Government, albeit that

the new POL Chair was new to the Group.

| am asked the extent to which ShEx exercised oversight of the pilot or rollout
of Horizon Online. This was not something that | oversaw and | do not think
ShEx would have been closely involved as this was an operational matter that

would be left to POL and RM to implement in line with the ALB model.

ShEx/UKGI actual oversight of POL post-separation: to May 2015

Prior to my becoming CEO of ShEx

89.

| attended the ShEx Quarterly Review for POL on 13 August 2012 as an
unconnected Director, to bring a fresh pair of eyes, which was standard practice
for these reviews. | would have expected the meeting to be led by Anthony
Odgers, who had responsibility for portfolios and who was listed first in the
minutes of the meeting. Those minutes, recorded the following under the

heading “Board” (UKGI00001448):

“Susannah Storey, has noted that she is gaining traction with other directors

and that the board is generally running well. Capability in certain areas could

be enhanced.

Page 40 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The senior management team was good at defending revenues and
managing costs. Delivery of future revenue milestones would indicate the

ability of the executive team."

90. My recollection here is that much of the positive opinion of the POL Board was

91.

in contrast to RM. It was welcome that they have proved receptive to the
Shareholder NED. | cannot now remember what Board capabilities could have
been enhanced, though | can see from papers prepared for the next ShEx Board
meeting that a final NED, Tim Franklin (who had experience in financial
services), was identified and put forward for approval the following month,
September 2012 (UKGI00045870). The CEO’s Report to the ShEx Board for
November 2012 confirmed that the POL Board had become fully constituted,
and noted that: “A number of very able and suitable NED candidates turned
down appointments as they did not think POL could offer sufficiently high
remuneration to attract the quality of people we needed to deliver our
challenging agenda.” Recruitment to the Executive Team had seen the
recruitment of people “stepping up” rather than attracting those with experience
of the posts they were being asked to fill: this, too, was said to be “a direct result
of POL salary levels.” Such problems were not uncommon in ShEx’s attem pts

to recruit to commercial ALBs (UKGI00016715).

The Traffic Light analysis for the ShEx Annual Review of POL, dated December

2012, rated the Shareholder Relationship between ShEx and POL as Green

(UKG100017385):

Page 41 of 118
92.

93.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

“There is a good and constructive relationship with the new Chair, and a
strong relationship with the CEO who had demonstrated her clear
commitment to POL’s strategic plan. The new NEDs are challenging
management, and this has been further improved by the recent appointment
of Tim Franklin, who brings with him financial services and mutual

experience.”

The impression was clearly a positive one, perhaps reflecting the “good year’
POL was assessed to have had (UKGI00017385). | cannot now recall the
extent to which | knew of this view or shared it at the time as | was still not
closely involved with POL. | do not think that | knew, then, that Susannah Storey
had been prohibited from sharing Board papers with ShEx and I cannot say how

much that prevented the flow of information from POL to the shareholder team.

The quality of the Management Team and Board was rated only as Amber. My
impression from reading the slides now is that the concern was about whether
they had the correct skillsets and capabilities to meet the challenge of a
transformational strategy for POL, which would require them to generate
considerable new revenues as well as defending existing ones. As | discuss
below, the concerns about the quality of the Executive Team grew in the
subsequent months and years. The analysis also recorded: “ShEx are working
closely with management to monitor the performance of the business and
provide support where appropriate / possible” (UKG1I00017385). |! was not

closely enough involved to know what support was being provided and | would

Page 42 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

not have expected to have been involved myself. However, the context of the

comment suggests this was to do with POL’s future commercial strategy.

The Appointment of Second Sight

94.

95.

96.

| was not involved in the appointment of Second Sight to review cases in which
Horizon had been challenged by sub-postmasters. | cannot now recall when |
first became aware of this investigation although, as | discuss below, it became
increasingly prominent after | became CEO of ShEx and | was then copied into
relevant submissions and minutes. | do not remember what | knew, or thought,
about the merits of the claims and complaints made by sub-postmasters that

led to the establishment of the Second Sight review.

| can see from the papers made available to me that the then Minister with
responsibility for POL, Norman Lamb MP, was briefed in June 2012 about the
decision taken by POL that month to commission the Second Sight review
(UKG100014165). This submission was made ahead of Mr Lamb's meeting with
Mr Bates on 28 June 2012, which would be attended by two members of the
ShEx POL team, one of whom was a member of the Senior Civil Service. |
would not expect to have been copied in on the submission given my role at

that time and | have no recollection of seeing it.

Having reviewed the contents of the submission now, | do not find the approach
that it was recommending surprising. The issues raised by the Justice For
Subpostmaster Alliance (“JFSA”) were seen at that time as “operational and

contractual” matters between the sub-postmasters and POL. That being so, it

Page 43 of 118
97.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

was appropriate that they were handled primarily by POL, rather than the
Government, in line with the ALB model. There was a clear dispute between
JFSA and POL about Horizon and the decision to call in external, independent
investigators to try to get to the bottom of at least some of the cases raised by
the JFSA would have seemed a sensible one. It would have made sense to
allow that investigation to conclude before contemplating any wider-scale
review or audit which, depending on the scope of the exercise, would have

required an adviser with greater resource than Second Sight.

The submission reflects how Horizon was understood by ShEx at the time. This
was informed by the information provided by POL. As the submission recorded,
“POL’s view continues to be that the system is fully robust’, citing both the low
level of incidence of complaints and the supposed absence of problems in
Crown offices (p.3). It was also noted that the National Federation of
Subpostmasters (“NFSP”) were “dismissive” of the JFSA‘s claims about Horizon
(p.5). However, ShEx was aware of the JFSAcomplaints and was here advising

that the Minister should listen to them.

My appointment as CEO of ShEx

98.

| was appointed Acting CEO of ShEx in or around January 2013, and Permanent
CEO in April 2013. On taking up these roles | became more involved with the
oversight of POL, although detailed work was still delegated to the relevant

Director and shareholder team.

Page 44 of 118
99.

100.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

One of my tasks was to produce the CEO’s Report for Board meetings. This
was written by a number of people across ShEx, each providing information
about their assets, which | would then review. For POL, the section would
usually be written by an ED (Grade 5, and so a member of the SCS). At the
Board meeting, | would speak to the higher-level elements of the written report,
or to any areas about which | had particular knowledge. | would leave the more
detailed discussion to the Director with responsibility for POL (Roger Lowe until

December 2013, then Anthony Odgers).

One of my earliest CEO Reports was produced for the Board meeting on 16
May 2013 (UKGI00016730). This included information on the three ShEx
assets that were due to be considered in detail at the Board meeting — the Green
Investment Bank, POL, the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority — and also
reported on an internal survey of its employees that ShEx had commissioned.
The section on POL concentrated on branch modernisation, changes to Crown
branches and the accompanying risk of industrial action, progress towards
mutualisation proposals, and the expectation that POL would exceed its profit
targets in the current financial year. These were typical of the types of matters
that were being brought to my attention, and that of the Board, concerning the
POL at this time. A further issue that arose in 2013 was the development of a
strategy (the Network Transformation plan) for the POL network size and the
related question of Government subsidy. This continued to be discussed into
the autumn, when an agreement was reached for £640 million funding

commitment for 2015-2018 which would see the network maintained at its

Page 45 of 118
101.

102.

103.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

existing size and geographical reach. The funding was announced in

Parliament on 27 November 2013.?

In May 2013 | met with the POL Board. | have little specific recollection of this
meeting and my evidence about it is based on the papers that have been
provided to me. | believe that this meeting was arranged — it seems over lunch
— as an opportunity for me to meet the Board in my capacity as the new CEO of
ShEx. | have seen an email dated 20 May 2013 in which Paula Vennells, the

CEO of POL, said that POL’s objective was for me to leave (POL00098321)

“with a clear sense that this is a strong, commercially-focussed and
independently minded Board which Minister need to take very seriously. But
not one which is politically naive — we know we need to mange our
political/stakeholder environment effectively in order to deliver our

commercial objectives” .

| did not, of course, see that email at the time, and unfortunately | cannot
remember whether | left the meeting with the impression that Ms Vennells was
hoping to convey. However, | do remember a very engaged Board eager to

understand the priorities of Ministers with respect to POL.

Having seen a POL note of the meeting (POL00144750), it seems that the main

discussion was about mutualisation and handling the relationship between POL

Hansard, House of Commons Debate Volume 571: debated on Wednesday
27 November 2013 (RLIT0000203).

Page 46 of 118
104.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

and Ministers. The advice that | am recorded as giving was that POL had to
work on both financial sustainability and showing progress towards
mutualisation at the same time, and that they had to go some way to meeting
Ministerial ambitions on mutualisation. | have no reason to doubt that this is
what | said. | was aware that many within POL, and elsewhere, were sceptical
about the mutualisation model of ownership and | was trying to explain that they
had to work with the Government — the sole Shareholder — on this point. The
reference to things getting “more fraught politically’ in the next two years is, |
think, a reference to the increased political tension that would come with a
General Election in 2015. There was also some discussion of industrial
relations. | have seen no records that suggests that Horizon was raised as an
issue when | was present. | do not believe that | stayed for the whole Board

meeting.

The note of the meeting raised the possibility of repeating my session with the
POL Board later in the year. To the best of my knowledge, this did not happen

— 1am not sure why.

Second Sight Interim Report

105.

Jo Swinson MP, Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Employment
Relations and Consumer Affairs, made a Parliamentary statement welcoming
the publication of the Second Sight interim report on 9 July 2013
(UKG100001822). The Minister referred to the finding by Second Sight that “we
have so far found no evidence of system-wide problems with the Horizon

software,” but noted that they had identified “scope for the Post Office to

Page 47 of 118
106.

107.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

improve aspects of its support and training for subpostmasters.” The Minister
referred to the establishment of a Working Party to review all 47 cases
presented by JFSA, to be chaired by an independent figure following a process

involving JFSA and other stakeholders.

| cannot remember whether | saw this statement at the time, either before it was
given or afterwards. | would expect the ShEx POL team would have provided
the Minister with a submission on this topic and would have worked with her
Private Office on the terms of the Parliamentary announcement. | would not
expect to have been directly involved in drafting or approving such a submission
as CEO. There would be no need for this; the Minister was receiving the
appropriate information from the people who knew the issue best. As | have said
earlier in this statement, ShEx was not a hierarchical Department in which
submissions had to be funnelled through multiple layers of management. Had
the Minister wanted my input then she could have asked for it, but to the best of

my recollection she did not.

As the statement indicated, the process of dealing with the Horizon dispute was
ongoing and was entering a new phase in which all 47 cases would be
considered by a Working Party chaired by an independent figure. This had been
welcomed by MPs campaigning on this issue and, as the Minister said, the JFSA
were to be involved in establishing the relevant processes. Given what was
known within ShEx at the time about the extent and nature of the Horizon issue,
this seemed to be a reasonable and indeed welcome approach. As such, there

was no need to escalate the matter to the Board or to me as CEO.

Page 48 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Concerns about POL Executive Management Team, 2014

108.

109.

110.

The POL annual review, which took place in January 2014 raised concerns
about the strength of the POL Management Team. The slides for the meeting
(UKG100042083) referred to considerable progress being made but with
headwinds and risks emerging (p.4). The management team was assessed as
Amber in the Traffic Light analysis, with observations made about the high
turnover of senior executives and whether those that remained had the ability

to deliver POL's strategy effectively (p.44).

The review meeting took place on 10 January 2014. | did not attend but have
seen the minutes while preparing this statement. The review team “discussed
the suitability of the current management team (i.e. capability and capacity) and
in particular whether Paula Vennells was the right person to hold the CEO
position long term. Questions were raised and it was agreed that a confidential
and internal review would be undertaken to assess her suitability’

(UKG100042089, p.2).

This was picked up on the 19 February 2014 at the ShEx Risk and Assurance
Committee (UKGI00042124). The meeting was intended to consider the “major
risks” in relation to POL. | attended the meeting, which was chaired by Fiona-
Jane Macgregor. Richard Callard, the head of the ShEx shareholder team, led

the presentation.

Page 49 of 118
111.

112.

113.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Richard set out the advice from the team that had conducted the Annual Review.
The minutes record that there had been a “general consensus that there is an
issue with the leadership of POL however there had only been anecdotal
evidence.” As Richard was taking on the role of Shareholder NED, he was
asked by the Committee to investigate the matter further with the Chair and

other POL NEDs (UKGI00042124).

The discussion in the Committee that followed showed that the concerns of Ms
Vennells’ leadership were about the lack of delivery on the POL transformation
plan. There were points in her favour; it was her first CEO role, the objective of
commercial sustainability was being achieved, and there was “little hard
evidence of poor performance”. A mentoring arrangement was suggested.
Concerns were expressed that a change of leadership might be untimely and
increase risk. Presciently, the minutes recorded that “the current remuneration
package is fairly small in comparison, so would it attract the right calibre of
applicant.” Richard was invited to meet with NEDs and the Chair and push them
to decide on “whether they feel the CEO is capable of the job in hand.” The

meeting also recommended an independent review of the POL Board.

These minutes suggest that this discussion had been sparked by the
commercial and strategic elements of Ms Vennells’ role, not by her handling of
matters relating to Horizon (although, as | discuss below, Project Sparrow was

subsequently discussed).

Page 50 of 118
114.

115.

116.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

To the best of my recollection, | did not play any significant role in examining Ms
Vennells’ position over the months that followed, but | discussed with Richard
what he was hearing and the matter was raised at the POL Quarterly Review in
April 2014 (UKGI00042615). Richard engaged with the POL Chair and Senior
Independent Director around both the CEO and CFO positions. My memory is
that Richard also worked with a recruitment consultancy to take soundings of
potential successors for the CEO, although | cannot remember when in the
sequence of events he did this. The result was disappointing, as no suitable
candidate was found who could be recruited on the terms that were on offer. As
had been foreseen in the earlier discussion, the restraints on remuneration

limited the options that were available to the Board.

By August, a view had emerged from the POL non-executives that the CFO at
POL should be replaced, and that the Board had concerns over Ms Vennells,
which had been growing for some time and had “recently got to the point where
it feels it needs to act in due course” (UKGI00002441 and UKGI00002440). My
memory is that there was a clear view from the non-executives that the CFO
needed to be replaced imminently; their view on the CEO was more nuanced.
The collective view of the ShEx team, with which | agreed, was that it would be
destabilising to replace the CFO and the CEO at the same time, and that the
priority should be recruiting a new CFO, to “give them time to get their feet under

the table before acting on the CEO.”

The principal issue about the CFO was that while he was competent, had done

nothing wrong and had fulfilled the job asked of him in overseeing separation,

Page 51 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

he was not the right person to take the company forward given the ambitious
strategic plan it had (UKGI00002440, p.3). Regarding Ms Vennells, there were
a wider range of concerns. The briefing note on 20 August 2014, among other
things, anticipated questions we might be asked by the Minister about why the
question of replacing her as CEO had not been raised before. The briefing
emphasised the “dangerous and destabilising’ nature of changing the CEO,
said that the Board had been monitoring the situation for some time and that it
had until recently felt that the balance points toward keeping her in place. It went

on:

“There are number of reasons why this balance has now changed:

. Efforts to improve her performance have failed.

. The Board is increasingly frustrated with the lack of
progress on various areas, primarily the lack of ‘grip and pace’
applied revenue growth, cost cutting, specific business areas
like Horizon, and the strategy in general

. This crystallised for the Board at the June away day,
where Paula very much sat back and let her team lead — she
acts more like a NED than someone who leads from the front’

(UKGI00002440).

117.The briefing went on to note that she had many strengths, but reiterated
concerns about “grip” and “pace”, despite extensive mentoring from the Chair.
POL, it was thought, needed stronger leadership and vision. Various examples

were given, including:

Page 52 of 118
118.

119.

120.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

“Issues like the Horizon mediation scheme and financial services
have required significantly more oversight by the board than one
might expect as things haven't been gripped (to the point where the
Board have set up sub committees when it should be Paula or the

CFO)” (UKG100002440).

At various points in the paper, it was suggested that recruiting a new CEO would
require higher remuneration: “A decent external candidate would still be taking
a pay cut to come, even though we would have to increase remuneration”
(UKG100002440). This was a matter of some political sensitivity, particularly as
the existing CEO and CFO would be contractually entitled to severance

payments.

A decision on whether to replace the CFO and the CEO lay with the Board, but
subject to the approval of the Minister. For this reason, it was appropriate to
inform the Minister of the position and because of the sensitivities (both political
and commercial) involved and the likelihood that HM Treasury would have to

approve the settlement package.

Ultimately, the decision was taken to replace the CFO, which led to the
recruitment of Alasdair Cameron who took up his post in January 2015. Ms
Vennells was not, of course, replaced. | think there are a number of reasons for
this. First, it is a big step for a company to remove its CEO and it should only

be done where it is confident that the replacement will be an improvement. At

Page 53 of 118
121.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

that time, the POL Board could not be confident that a better candidate could
be found given the remuneration on offer. Second, it would have been highly
destabilising to replace the CEO and the CFO at the same time. Adecision was
taken that recruiting a new CFO was the priority, and this was done (although |
believe it took some time, in part because of Ministerial reluctance to agree to
a severance package). Third, by November 2014 it was apparent that Alice
Perkins intended to step down as Chair of the POL Board in July 2015, which
again supported the retention of the CEO during a period of change in the
business (UKGI00042592). Fourth, there was optimism that the recruitment of
a new, and stronger, CFO, and additional support and mentoring, would help
Ms Vennells in her role. | feel sure | would have tested with Richard Callard that
the Chair (and the Board) were confident enough in Ms Vennells to continue as

CEO.

The concerns ShEx had about Ms Vennells and the Executive Team were again
reflected in the Traffic Light analysis dated 8 January 2015 (UKGI00042778),
where the Quality of Management Team and Board was rated as Red. The
Board was said to share the concerns around the CEO and were monitoring the
situation, although other gaps in the senior management team were seen as
the priority. The assessment of the Board itself was more positive, with the
Board thought to be “settled and ... placing increased scrutiny on, in addition to
providing support to, POL’s executives — this is seen as a positive step”. In the
Quarterly Review for October 2015, the quality of management team and Board
was again assessed as Red, with the comment: “ShEx has questions in respect

of POL’s management team and whether they are right/capable of delivering

Page 54 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

the strategic plan. The Board are dealing with this, although they have prioritised
some recruitment activities over others.” It was noted that recent arrivals
seemed to be settling in well, although they had yet to be tested fully

(UKGI00006108).

122.My recollection is that when Tim Parker became Chair later in 2015, he was
positive about Ms Vennells, at least initially. One document that supports that
memory is a record of a meeting that Mr Parker had with the Secretary of State
in November 2015 in which he suggested that she deserved a pay rise

(UKG100045854).

The Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme

123. Over the course of 2014, issues concerning the Initial Complaint Review and
Mediation Scheme, and the Board’s Project Sparrow, began to be escalated
through ShEx’s internal processes. Consequently, | became more sighted on

these matters.

124. Project Sparrow was included in the ShEx risk register that was considered at
the ShEx Risk and Assurance Committee on 19 February 2014 (UKGI00042124
and UKG1I00016846). The minutes of the meeting record the Committee asking
the presenting team to explain this reference; the minutes contain a truncated

account of the dispute between POL and some of the affected sub-postmasters.

125.Alan Bates wrote to Ministers expressing concerns at delays in the Complaint

Review and Mediation Schemes on 16 April 2014 (UKGI00002264). A

Page 55 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

submission went to the Minister, then Jenny Willott MP, on 25 April 2014
providing background, offering advice and suggesting a response
(UKG100006671). The Permanent Secretary was copied into this submission,
but | was not. For the reasons | have given above, | would not have expected

to have been involved in this submission and the accompanying advice.

126.1 am aware now that Deloitte presented its initial findings on Project Zebra to
the POL Board in April 2014. | have been shown an email sent from Alice

Perkins to Paula Vennells dated 3 June 2014 (POL00116581) that recorded:

“I have just come away from my meeting with Mark who has made
two helpful offers. On Deloitte, he says they often have difficulty
with the Big Four over things like this and he thinks they might be
able to help if we need them to. Second, he is willing to help us
with Ministers over our recommendations/options when we are

ready.

We went over pretty much all the ground we covered on Monday.
He was interested to test the option of bringing in alternative
investigators. Am | right in thinking you believe they would be no
cheaper (tho better and faster)?? No need to reply but to consider
as part of the menu of options on Friday. Otherwise, all fine. No

mention of the M word. Very friendly and supportive”

Page 56 of 118
127.

128.

129.

130.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

| have no recollection of this meeting with Ms Perkins, or of what | said to her.
Looking at her message, and other comments in the email chain, the reference
to Deloitte concerns Ms Perkins’ wish to publicise Deloitte’s conclusions in
Project Zebra. From the comments later in the chain about whether Deloitte
“agreed to being named in any disclosure of the report’, | think my reported
comments reflect my general experience of professional services firms being
unwilling to release their advice publicly if either their original engagement letter
never required this or the advice requires an unambiguous statement that the
firm is only willing to stand behind following the conduct of extensive audit
procedures. My offer was to test with Deloitte, at a senior level, whether they

were prepared to be flexible on this matter.

The “recommendations/options” which are referred to are, | presume, the
options that POL were debating with respect to the Mediation Scheme. When
they had decided which option to recommend, | was offering to help explain the

option to Ministers.

Neither offer was taken up. | was not further involved, so far as | can recall, with
the instruction of either Deloitte or Linklaters between March and June 2014.
Looking back now, it appears that the reassurance that was given to the Board
by Deloitte meant that, regrettably, the full Project Zebra report was not

scrutinised by the Board or by ShEx.

The comment on bringing in alternative investigators was, | believe, me

encouraging Ms Perkins to consider alternatives to Second Sight if this was

Page 57 of 118
131.

132.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

necessary. The view within ShEx at the time was that Second Sight, being a
small firm of two full-time employees, lacked the capacity to conduct the
necessary work as quickly as was required. | now know that the view of both
POL and the ShEx shareholder team was that Second Sight had lost objectivity,
but | am not sure if | was aware of that at the time of this conversation. The
suggestion of alternative investigators was to ensure that the process could
continue in a way that was more efficient. There is a reference further up the
email chain to “GT”, which is likely to be to Grant Thornton. This could well have
been my suggestion; at the time, | was keen to encourage the use of audit firms

outside the Big Four so that the market for these services was opened.

The reference to the “M word” is almost certainly to mutualisation. This
suggests that this was a general catch-up meeting between me and Ms Perkins,
rather than a meeting specific to Horizon issues. | do not recall having a specific
meeting on Horizon and | do not think that | would have done so given my limited

involvement in the matter to that date.

The Working Party and Mediation Scheme were discussed in the POL Quarterly
Review meetings in June 2014, which | did not attend (UKGI00002501 and
UKGI00013659). The panel considered whether Project Sparrow should be
raised with the RAC: they agreed that it should not for now, “but due to
reputational risks progress should be closely monitored.” | do not understand
the reference to the RAC as the issue had been discussed at the committee on
19 February 2014 (as | have said above). A decision on what should be

escalated is always a matter of judgement and | can see why the panel in June

Page 58 of 118
133.

134.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

2014 opted to monitor closely rather than refer; there was still an ongoing
process, and external agencies were involved. Given that the RAC were
already appraised of this matter, | am not sure whether a further referral would

have made any difference, but in hindsight that would have been appropriate.

The next Quarterly Review meeting, on 16 October 2014, again discussed the
Working Party and Mediation Scheme under the heading “Project Sparrow”
(UKG1I00002502 and UKGI00045856). | did not attend this meeting and |
cannot now recall what | was told about it. While the Quarterly Review slides
express, in blunt terms, the frustration of the ShEx shareholder team with
Second Sight and the progress and costs of the scheme, it was thought that the

process was, slowly, moving to resolution.

Throughout this time, ShEx continued to work with and monitor POL’s progress
against the Department's wider policy objectives. A helpful summary of ShEx’s
business priorities for POL at this time is contained in an email from Fiona-Jane
MacGregor to the Secretary of State and his Ministers on 21 October 2014,
presumably in response to a request across the Department for such updates
(UKG100016744, p. 57). This referred to the maintenance of the network of post
offices, the network transformation plan, progress towards mutualisation,
obtaining State Aid approval for the November 2013 funding settlement, and
implementing the wider commercial strategy. This was an ambitious
programme of work, which had to continue alongside the monitoring of the

Horizon/Project Sparrow issue.

Page 59 of 118
135.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

During this period | believe there was regular monitoring of the Working Party
and Mediation Scheme by the Shareholder NED and shareholder team, and the
Minister was kept informed through submissions. ShEx clearly shared the
growing frustration with Second Sight and the overall slow progress but there

was, as | remember it, some confidence that progress was being made.

The Breakdown of the Mediation Scheme

136.

137.

By early 2015 it was, however, apparent that sub-postmasters’ trust in and
engagement with the Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme was
breaking down. Members of Parliament had publicly expressed a loss of faith
in the scheme in December 2014. This was reported in the Quarterly Review
for POL in January 2015 (UKGI00019551). On 3 February 2015 the
Parliamentary Business, Innovation and Skills Committee heard evidence about
the Post Office Mediation from Mr Bates, Kay Linnell, representatives of the
Communications Workers Union and NFSP, Ms Vennells, Angela van den

Bogerd and lan Henderson of Second Sight (UKGI00003231).

On 4 March 2015 a submission went to the Minister, Jo Swinson, on the POL’s
proposed change of approach to the mediation scheme, which was to adopt a
presumption of mediating all non-criminal cases without an initial review. Given
this position, the Working Group would be closed and the original engagement
with Second Sight terminated, although POL would continue to fund any
applicant who wished to have Second Sight or any other forensic accountants
produce a report before mediation (UKGI00014168). While emphasising that

the decisions on the scheme were commercial matters for POL, ShEx

Page 60 of 118
138.

139.

140.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

considered that its revised position met the commitments that the Minister had
given in Parliament (which were listed in an Annex). The submission anticipated
a hostile reaction from the JFSA, Parliamentarians and parts of the media. |
was copied in to this submission but would not have contributed to its drafting

or sign-off for the reasons | have discussed above.

In the email exchanges that followed the submission, the Minister was informed
that 106 cases were still live within the Mediation Scheme: 26 were with the
Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution (“CEDR”), 43 were non-criminal and
hence would be subject to the presumption to mediate under POL’s proposals,

and 37 were criminal cases (UKGI00000923).

Following the announcement by POL of its new approach, and the hostile
reaction to it, a further submission went to the Secretary of State and his
Ministers on 11 March 2015 (UKGI00001184). On 19 March, another
submission went to the Secretary of State attaching a proposed response to the
Parliamentary Select Committee report on the Mediation Scheme
(UKG1I00001055). Again | was copied in to these submissions (

UKGI00001184) but | did not have a role in drafting them.

lam asked about the nature and extent of my knowledge of or involvement with
the decision making within POL to terminate the Working Group. |! was not
involved in the POL decision making and knew about it only through what was
reported back into ShEx through the Shareholder NED and the ShEx

shareholder team.

Page 61 of 118
141.

142.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

| am not able to say what | thought at the time about the breakdown of the
Mediation Scheme in 2015, or to the complaints made by the sub-postmasters.
| had not been directly involved in the Scheme or the advice that was given
following its failure. Looking at the submissions now, | can see that there was
a clear view within ShEx that it was essential to respect and preserve the
independence of the Scheme, and that decisions on the Scheme were
considered to be matters for POL in which the Department should not intervene.
ShEx’s view at the time was that this was primarily a dispute between POL and
a significant, but still relatively small, group of sub-postmasters. The information
that the ShEx team had received from POL was that neither Second Sight nor
Deloitte had identified any systemic problems with Horizon, although there had
been failures in terms of training and support. That information informed
submissions made to Ministers at this time. ShEx, acting on behalf of the
Shareholder, was entitled to expect full and accurate information to be provided
by POL. POL would also have known that the information would be used to

make statements to Parliament and the public.

A process had been put in place that had, initially, commanded the support of
JFSA, its supporters, and POL. Now that this process had broken down, there
was a need to consider what further options should be explored. Electoral timing
added to the complexity; the Fixed Term Parliaments Act 2011 had set the date

for the dissolution of Parliament for 30 March 2015.

Page 62 of 118
143.

144.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

| can understand, therefore, why in these circumstances ShEx did not
recommend, and Ministers did not take, a more interventionist approach at this
stage. The issue was being monitored by the ShEx team and had been
escalated at various stages to Ministers and the Permanent Secretary, which
was appropriate. It had also been considered at least once by the RAC,
although it would have been reasonable to escalate it again later in 2014. A
degree of faith was also placed in the knowledge that the POL Board was
appraised of the issue and had taken steps to address it, through Project

Sparrow and the instruction of Deloitte and Linklaters.

That said, looking back at these (and other) submissions and documents now,
is uncomfortable. Some of the language used is too dogmatic and dismissive
of the JFSA and its supporters. There was also, at points, a failure to explain
that the view of the evidence that is being presented to Ministers was derived
largely or solely from POL. It would have been better to have set out and clearly
attribute the JFSA view, the POL view and then add a comment on whether
ShEx had an opinion on where the better argument lay. It is easy to say this
with hindsight, though. Ministers value concision and clarity in submissions.

Time spent describing conflicting views is not always welcome.

145. The most troubling reflection | have looking back on these documents is about

the significance of the allegations of wrongful convictions. It was not surprising
to me that there would be some convictions of those working at post offices; any
business is vulnerable to theft by its employees and agents, the more so when

it handles large amounts of cash. | would have taken comfort from the fact that

Page 63 of 118
146.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

the convictions came after a trial before a judge and jury with a verdict returned
to the criminal standard of proof. | would also have expected the appeal system
to rectify mistakes. | did not know at that time of the failures by POL to follow
due process and provide proper disclosure in those cases. Knowing that now
makes it easy to see why more should have been done then to conduct a full

and thorough review of Horizon.

| am asked about whether | think now, and thought at the time, that POL handled
the Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme appropriately. At the time
the establishment of the Working Group and the Mediation Scheme seemed a
sensible and pragmatic response to Second Sight’s Interim report and one that
appeared to have the support of most involved. Being independent of POL and
Government, and overseen by a retired judge, also appeared to give the
process the best chance of success. It was very disappointing, therefore, to
learn that the Scheme ultimately wasn’t achieving its objectives. | understand
now that the reasons for lack of progress were many and varied depending on
whose view was being sought. Greater complexity than at first anticipated was
clearly one reason so the POL option to proceed on the basis of mediating all
non-criminal cases (so removing one of the key reasons for the Working Group)
appeared a good one, especially if Second Sight were continued to be retained
to assist with the support of individual cases and CEDR also remained directly
involved. That ultimately this route failed to work because stakeholders,
especially the JFSA, had lost the initial confidence they had in a mediation
scheme is now not surprising. A mediation scheme built on a process of

investigating individual cases was unlikely ever to get the root of the problems

Page 64 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

of Horizon. What we know now is that a far more comprehensive investigation

of Horizon, and the processes that went with it, was necessary.

ShEx/UKGI actual oversight of POL post-separation: after May 2015

Baroness Neville-Rolfe Becomes Minister

147.

148.

Following the election on 7 May 2015, Baroness Neville-Rolfe was appointed
as the Minister with responsibility for POL. Of note, she had a background in
business and had acted as an executive on the Board of a major company.
Baroness Neville-Rolfe received a series of briefings and introductory meetings
concerning POL, including specifically on Horizon issues (briefing:
UKGI00004402; submission: UKG100004448 and cover email: UKGI00000936;
and meeting read-out: UKGI00004469). Again, and for the reasons | have
given, | was not involved in producing these submissions (although | was copied
in on some of them) and | did not attend the meeting between Baroness Neville-

Rolfe and the ShEx POL team.

By this time, the Second Sight report of April 2015 had been provided to ShEx,
as had the POL response. JFSA and Parliamentarians continued to express
their disapproval of POL’s position on mediation and were pushing for an
independent Inquiry. The ShEx advice to the incoming Minister was to maintain
the Government's position that Horizon was a matter for POL as an ALB, and to
resist the calls for a further independent inquiry. Central to this argument was
the understanding that two years of scrutiny by external investigators who were
hostile to POL had not revealed any systemic failings in the Horizon computer

system. It was noted that POL continued to offer to mediate (non-criminal)

Page 65 of 118
149.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

cases, and that where there were concerns about unsafe convictions these
could be addressed to the Criminal Cases Review Commission (“CCRC”).
Officials pointed out that POL was under a duty to disclose any new material
that could assist a sub-postmaster’s defence, and we had no reason then to
doubt that POL would take that duty seriously. From what we know now, this

confidence was wholly misplaced, which is a matter of great regret to me.

Although these submissions expressed, clearly and strongly, a view that
Government should not intervene, they provided the Minister with both an
outline of the concerns expressed by the JFSA and Parliamentarians, and with

a letter written to her by Mr Bates on 19 May 2015 UKGI00004438).

150. Although | was not involved in drafting these submissions or the advice that they

151.

contained, | can see the logic, based on what ShEx knew at the time, of
maintaining the position that the Government should keep its distance. There
was still a mediation process going on, which in the view of the officials offered
the best prospect of resolving these matters. If the Government had indicated
that it was considering an alternative scheme, then there would have been little

or no incentive for sub-postmasters to continue to engage with the mediation.

In June 2015, ShEx also became aware of the forthcoming Panorama
programme on the Horizon issue. This was referred to in the earlier submission
received by Baroness Neville-Rolfe and was the subject of a separate
submission on 24 June 2015 (UKGI00006582). This anticipated (as it turned

out, incorrectly) that the programme would be shown on 29 June 2015, the

Page 66 of 118
152.

153.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

same day as an Adjournment Debate in the House of Commons called by
Andrew Bridgen MP. The submission again contained strong advice that there
was no evidence of systemic flaws and suggested that the allegations in
Panorama had been made before. POL was expected to defend itself
“robustly”. The submission annexed short case studies taken from public
sources of the cases of Seema Misra, Noel Thomas and Jo Hamilton, again
allowing the Minister to understand something of the case that the JFSA was

making.

George Freeman MP, the Departmental Minister in the Commons, attended the
adjournment debate on the Government's behalf. During the debate he made a
commitment to convene a meeting between concerned MPs, POL and sub-
postmasters to discuss how to resolve the outstanding Horizon issues
(UKG100019314). That commitment was repeated by the Prime Minister two

days later in answer to a Parliamentary Question from Mr Bridgen.>

On 1 July 2015, the same day the Prime Minister made his commitment, a
submission went to Baroness Neville-Rolfe and Mr Freeman giving options on
how this could be honoured. The submission repeated the view that an
independent inquiry would be “unnecessary and disproportionate” given the
perceived lack of evidence of any systemic flaws in Horizon despite the scrutiny
of the past two years. Instead, it was proposed that the Government host a

meeting in which the various sides could seek to understand one another's

Hansard, House of Commons Debate Volume 597: debated on Wednesday 1
July 2015 (RLIT0000204).

Page 67 of 118
154.

155.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

views. Officials advised against involving Second Sight given concerns about
their respecting confidentiality and because their views could be seen from the
reports. They also recommended against inviting the JFSA again due to
concerns about confidentiality and because they had cases in the ongoing
mediation schemes. | was not involved in drafting these submissions. In
general, in a situation of this complexity it must be right to expose Ministers
directly to all sides of a debate. While the Minister did meet Second Sight and
a number of MPs in the coming weeks and months, | still think that, in hindsight,
we should have advised earlier that all parties should be included in spite of

reservations around confidentiality (UKGI00000063).

Mr Freeman pushed back against the advice not to meet Second Sight.
Baroness Neville-Rolfe indicated that she was content with an initial meeting
between Ministers, POL and MPs to explore “key issues and next steps — which
may include follow up meetings” (UKGI00000942). | was one of many copied

into these emails, but | did not (so far as | am aware) participate in the debate.

The meeting between Mr Bridgen, Kevan Jones MP, senior POL executives, and
Baroness Neville-Rolfe took place on 15 July 2015. | did not attend, nor would
| have expected to have done so. A submission following the meeting
(UKGI00015226) recorded that, among other outcomes, Baroness Neville-Rolfe
had agreed to meet James Arbuthnot and had indicated a desire to meet Sir
Anthony Hooper (who, it was noted had “guarded his independence and
previously declined to meet with BIS Ministers as he felt it would be inappropriate

given his role.”).

Page 68 of 118
156.

157.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

On 22 July 2015, Ron Warmington of Second Sight emailed Mr Freeman at his
constituency office, challenging his assertion in Parliament that Second Sight
had produced two reports that found no evidence of systemic faults
(UKGI00005133). This letter, and accompanying advice, was sent to Baroness
Neville-Rolfe’s private office by a member of the ShEx team on 24 July 2015. A
suggestion that the House had been misled is taken seriously and, as | would
have expected, the ShEx team had gone back to consider what had been said
against Mr Warmington’s email. They remained confident that the Ministers
words had been correct (while emphasising that it was not the Government's
role to arbitrate in this matter). | was not copied into the original email, and | do
not recall being briefed on it; | think | would have remembered if | had been as

misleading the House is such a serious matter.

A few days later, on 27 July 2015, Baroness Neville-Rolfe asked for a high level
meeting “on Post Office and issues surrounding the Horizon system” and
requested that | attend (UKGI00005136). Having consulted my diary, | can see
that | was on holiday and out of the country at the time, hence | was not able to
go. | can see from the surrounding papers that Anthony Odgers in effect took
my place, and that the meeting was also attended by Richard Callard and Laura
Thompson from the ShEx POL team . Later, a senior BIS lawyer, Patrick
Kilgarriff, was added as an attendee following the Minister's request

(UKGI00005190).

Further Meetings and the letter to Tim Parker

Page 69 of 118
158.

159.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The meeting took place on 4 August 2015 as is shown by the meeting note
(UKGI00005677). It was informed by a submission sent to Baroness Neville-
Rolfe on 31 July 2015 (UKGI00019376) and a paper containing a table of options
for consideration (UKG1I00019300). As | was away, | would not have seen these
at the time. The submission and the options table considered ways of allowing
for a degree of independent scrutiny of outstanding Horizon cases. The
submission stated that the proposals were focussed on cases where an
individual did not have a criminal conviction, on the basis that the CCRC was
the “suitable independent route of appeal’ for the “around 20 individuals ...
pursuing that option”. The options table listed four ways of introducing review or
oversight for the existing mediation process: review by a senior civil servant;
review by an independent person such as a judge; review by a professional law
firm; and a greater role for CEDR. The advantages and disadvantages of each
course were set out. The option of maintaining the status quo was included,
though it was noted that this would not “provide reassurance for Minister or
individuals” and would lead the Government open to criticism of inaction or wilful

ignorance.

| was not involved in the drafting of these documents, but | understand that the
table of options was the result of work done by the ShEx team with the input of
Anthony Odgers. Reviewing it now (UKGI00019300), it seems to me an
appropriate approach, providing the Minister with a range of options for her
consideration, with the pros and cons of each described. It was intended to form
the basis of a discussion and so should not be seen as being a comprehensive

list.

Page 70 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

160.1 have only seen a short note of the meeting, but the key action that emerged
from it was the decision that Baroness Neville-Rolfe would “speak with incoming
Post Office Limited Chairman Tim Parker, to encourage him to take a fresh look
at these issues and engage with those who are still raising concerns”
(UKGI00005677). This was the genesis of the Minister's letter that was sent to

Mr Parker on 10 September 2015 (POL00102551), which stated:

“The Government takes seriously the concerns raised by individuals
and MPs regarding the Post Office Horizon system and suggestions
that there may have been miscarriages of justice as a result of
issues with Horizon.
LJ]

As the sole shareholder of Post Office Limited, the Government
wants to make sure that the Post Office network is successful and
sustainable across the country. We recognise that the Post Office is
a commercial business and we allow it to operate as such, but of
course, we expect it to behave fairly and responsibly in doing so. |
am therefore requesting that, on assuming your role as Chair, you
give this matter your earliest attention and, if you determine that any

further action is necessary, will take steps to ensure that happens.”

161.1 expect that | was updated on the outcome of the meeting verbally on my return
to work, though | cannot remember now when this happened or what was said.

| cannot recall what | saw of or contributed to the drafting of the letter to Mr

Page 71 of 118
162.

163.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Parker but would be very surprised if | had not discussed it with Anthony, Richard

and other members of the ShEx team.

| was supportive of this approach. It seemed to me at the time, and it seems to
me now, that the decision to use the new Chair as the way of getting to the
bottom of the matter was a good one. Tim Parker came to the issue without
history and baggage and so had a degree of independence on the matter. It was
in his interests to resolve the issue fairly and efficiently so that the company
could move forward from it. That would also represent good governance and |
trusted Mr Parker to take that approach. He was a highly respected
businessman with an excellent reputation. The references received were very
positive, and his appointment as Chair was regarded in Whitehall as something
of acoup. | thought that he would have the necessary energy and determination

to conduct a thorough and effective review.

There was also much to be said for this approach structurally as well as
personally. The Chair of a company has a direct line of authority into the
business and so is able to ask (or demand) to see whatever he or she chooses
to see. If an external individual or firm had been brought in, they would lack that
direct authority and would have to go through a POL team to facilitate access to
the records and information held by the company. That risked the possibility that
the POL team would end up “managing” the external auditors and controlling or
restricting their access to materials. Placing the Chair in charge bypassed such

an arrangement.

Page 72 of 118
164.

165.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The potential disadvantage of having the Chair in charge of the review could be
the lack of an external perspective, as the Chair is still part of POL. This was
mitigated in this instance by the fact that Mr Parker was, as | have said, newly
appointed and so not implicated in past conduct. There was also a relatively
new General Counsel, which also provided some comfort at that time. Further,
the Chair brought in two highly respected independent barristers to assist in his
review. Although this was not something that the Minister had required, it was
unsurprising and welcome. The Chair also had the freedom to bring in an
external law firm, financial investigators or IT experts should that prove

necessary.

This degree of Government intervention seemed to me appropriate at the time.
There was a process of mediation that was continuing, but which faced a loss of
trust and engagement. The Minister sought to address this by requesting a
further element of review from the POL Chair, a move that was intended to
increase the confidence both of those involved in it and the Parliamentarians
who had campaigned on their behalf. The Minister had personally intervened to
work through the options and had decided which to pursue. In doing so she had
gone beyond the initial advice given to her by her officials, in part because of
Parliamentary pressure, media interest and other lobbying. In a democracy this
is the system operating as it should do. It was also typical of the way in which
Baroness Neville-Rolfe worked. She was an independently minded Minister who
would challenge the advice that she was given by civil servants and take her

own decisions on matters.

Page 73 of 118
166.

167.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The focus on non-criminal cases was understandable, given what was known at
the time. As can be seen from the 31 July 2015 submission (UKGI00019376),
the view was taken that the appropriate route to challenge criminal convictions
was the CCRC. A Minister had no power to overturn a criminal conviction and it
would have been constitutionally improper for her to have sought to intervene to
do so. The figure given in the July submission — of around 20 cases going to the
CCRC - was of a magnitude similar to that contained in the email exchange in
March 2015 that | have referred to above (where it was said that there were 37
criminal cases still “live” in the Mediation Scheme). The prospect of any wrongful
convictions is of course worrying, but the numbers then did not suggest that the
CCRC mechanism would be overwhelmed or otherwise inappropriate. Again,
there was a process that was in place and which would not obviously be

improved by further Government intervention.

Having taken the decision to approach the Chair, Baroness Neville-Rolfe then
attended several meetings to encourage engagement from all parties. On 6
August 2015 she met Ms Vennells, Jane MacLeod (POL General Counsel) and
Mark Davies (POL Communications Director) (UKGI00019376). | was not
present at the meeting, but two members of the ShEx team were. The briefing
to the Minister ahead of the meeting (UKGI00000035) suggested that in her

opening remarks she make the following points:

“Explain to Post Office while Government is the shareholder and is
supportive of Post Office, we also want to ensure POL is behaving

fairly and reasonably.

Page 74 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

While Government wants to leave POL to continue to handle this,
you are looking for reassurance that they are doing so fairly and also

that they have taken the presentational risks seriously.

The Prime Minister has emphasised the importance of resolving
this. Government wants to make use that happens, and Post Office

need to do that.

Where the mediation scheme has stalled (because people are
declining to mediate) Post Office need to think more creatively about

how they engage.”

168. This is a good summary of the Department's position at this time, albeit with the
additional element of the Minister’s forthcoming request that the incoming Chair

review the matter as a priority.

169.On 14 August 2015, Baroness Neville-Rolfe wrote to Ron Warmington
(UKGI00006179, p. 9) in response to his email to Mr Freeman and subsequent
correspondence with her in which he had suggested that Mr Freeman had been
“inaccurately briefed” about the Second Sight investigation. Baroness Neville-
Rolfe’s reply made clear that she had read both the Second Sight “Part Two

briefing report’ and POL’s response to it.

Page 75 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

170. Baroness Neville-Rolfe continued to engage with concerned Parliamentarians,

171.

in particular Mr Bridgen, Mr Jones and Oliver Letwin MP, including after the
Panorama documentary “Trouble at the Post Office” which was broadcast on 17
August 2015 (UKGI00000042). At Mr Bridgen’s suggestion (UKGI00015226),
she met James Arbuthnot on 17 September 2015 to hear his concerns and ask
what outcomes and action he was seeking (UKGI00000058). A submission
following the meeting said that Mr Arbuthnot’s main request was that the Minister
meet with Second Sight and consider meeting with Sir Anthony Hooper

(BEIS0000013).

As was pointed out in the submission, there were perceived disadvantages to
the Minister meeting Second Sight. In particular, it risked undermining the
existing mediation scheme by indicating that the Government might intervene
directly. However, the official advice to the Minister was that the meeting should
go ahead, both for presentational reasons and because “It will also allow you to
understand some of the arguments against Post Office better yourself’
(BEIS0000013). As the submission foresaw, POL had “very strong concerns”
about such a meeting. On 9 October 2015, Baroness Neville-Rolfe took a call
from Ms Vennells in which Ms Vennells sought to dissuade the Minister from
meeting Second Sight (UKGI00006142). Consistent with advice given to her by
ShEx, Baroness Neville-Rolfe “noted Paula’s views but felt it important to make
the offer of a meeting to Second Sight and inform Mr Arbuthnot that she was
doing so”. The Minister’s view at that time was that the meeting with Sir Anthony
Hooper was less of a priority and a decision on whether to pursue it should be

taken after Tim Parker had met with him as part of his review. | have not seen

Page 76 of 118
172.

173.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

any papers to suggest that Baroness Neville-Rolfe did, ultimately, meet Sir

Anthony.

The meeting with Second Sight took place on 19 October 2015 and was
attended by Ron Warmington, lan Henderson, Baroness Neville-Rolfe and a
member of the ShEx team (UKGI00006179). | was not involved in the meeting
or the preparations for it. The readout note of the meeting (UKGI00007316) |
have seen when preparing this statement recorded that Second Sight focused
on what they saw as failings in POL’s behaviour with “no mention at all of actual
flaws in the system (other than things that ‘could have been better’ and ‘took a
long time to fix’)”. Baroness Neville-Rolfe encouraged Second Sight to engage
with Tim Parker and his review of Horizon issues and it appears that Mr
Warmington and Mr Henderson agreed to meet him (a later document suggests
that they did so (UKGI00000020)). At the end of the meeting, the ShEx official
thought that Baroness Neville-Rolfe seemed content that she had done what
she needed to on this matter and could now leave the process that were in place
— the Parker Review, the mediation and the CCRC consideration — to run their

course.

| met with Tim Parker on 10 November 2015, | think as a standard initial meeting
following his appointment as POL Chair. | cannot recall what was said at this
meeting, but | can see from a briefing note that among ShEx’s priorities to raise
with him was “Horizon IT issue” (UKGI00013708). The note recorded that this
was “a huge distraction for the business and we need to bring it to a conclusion.”

| agreed with that view. The matter needed to reach a proper, fair conclusion,

Page 77 of 118
174.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

which is the only way that it would cease to be an issue. The briefing also
included the entry “Paula?’. This may have been nothing more than a prompt
for a standard question asking the new Chair about his initial impressions of the
CEO. However, it may be that it reflected the previous concerns | have

discussed above.

When looking back on the six-month period from the General Election to
November 2015, | am largely reliant on the documents provided to me. My direct
role in events relevant to Horizon was limited, though | was copied into
submissions and emails, and | was also no doubt kept up to date in meetings
and conversations. The period had begun with an overwhelmingly negative
response from JFSA and Parliamentarian’s to POL’s proposals for the future of
the Mediation Scheme. It had ended with the Parker Review underway and the
Minister encouraging all relevant parties to co-operate with it. The Government
had sought to balance intervention with maintaining its position that the dispute
was a matter for POL to resolve with the sub-postmasters. In my view at the
time, this was a reasonable approach, in that it kept alive the possibility of
resolving the matter through mediation by pushing the Chair to undertake what
was expected to be a thorough (but timely) review with an external component
provided by the instruction of the independent counsel. My view now is that the
decisions that were made were understandable and sensible ones given what
was known at the time. Had ShEx been made aware of the true scale of the
flaws of Horizon and the damage caused by them, then a more fundamental

intervention would have been justified.

Page 78 of 118
175.

176.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

There were tensions during this time between the ShEx POL team and the
Minister. Baroness Neville-Rolfe pushed back against some of the advice and
drafting that was provided to her and took a more interventionist and robust line
with POL than her officials had advised. In an email sent on 18 November 2015,
| reported to others in ShEx that | had received negative feedback from
Baroness Neville-Rolfe in connection with the Green Investment Bank and
POL: “Generally she thinks we are too technocratic and not sensitive enough
on politics ... on PO similar concerns about poor political handling.”
(UKG1I00017443) | suggested that two of the ShEx Directors, Justin Manson
and Roger Lowe, joined me in a meeting with the Minister and asked to be
briefed by others ahead of it. | can see from a later submission that a meeting
did take place on 17 December 2015, which was attended by Baroness Neville-

Rolfe, Justin and me, but | cannot now recall what was said (UKGI00001020).

A further issue that arose at that time was an accounting error within POL
concerning future payments of compensation to sub-postmasters under the
Network Transformation programme. This error meant that its annual accounts
had to be restated, as was explained in submissions provided to the Minister
in December 2015 (UKGI00006419 and UKGI00001020). This was
embarrassing for POL and a source of concern for ShEx and the Minister.
Following a submission to Baroness Neville-Rolfe on this point she replied that:
“These are very disappointing developments on top of earlier difficulties in the
Post Office with the Horizon IT system. The good news is that we have a new
Chairman — Tim Parker — and two new Non-Execs — Carla Stent and Ken

McCall’ (UKGI00006366). | think this was indicative of the Minister's positive

Page 79 of 118
177.

The

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

view of these appointments at the time. There had been problems, but there
was a sense of optimism that Mr Parker and others new in post were well

placed to resolve them in the future.

Between her appointment and her letter to Mr Parker, Baroness Neville-Rolfe
was provided with and read briefings and correspondence about the JFSA’s
position, the Second Sight April 2015 report, and critical letters or emails from
Ron Warmington and campaigning Parliamentarians. She met (or spoke to)
Andrew Bridgen, Kevan Jones, Oliver Letwin, James Arbuthnot, Mr Warmington
and Mr Henderson (the latter two against the wishes of POL but on the advice
of her civil servants). She asked for and received relevant information and policy
options before deciding on the course that she wished to take, which was to

seek a further review from the new Post Office Chair.

Swift Report and Parker Review

178.

| was aware that Tim Parker had instructed Jonathan Swift QC and Christopher
Knight to assist him in his review, but | did not know the form that this assistance
would take. It was to be Mr Parker's review and he was expected to report back
to the Minister with his findings. | was not involved in their work or how it was
subsequently handled. For example, when Baroness Neville-Rolfe met Mr
Parker in January 2016 and April 2016 to discuss (among other matters) the
progress he had made in his Horizon review, | did not attend the meetings

(UKGI00000020 and UKGI00000048).

Page 80 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

179.1 understand now that Mr Swift and Mr Knight produced a report and this was

180.

18

not provided to the POL Board on the basis that it might lose privilege in the civil
litigation. Although | understand that Mr Parker received clear legal advice at
the time not to share the report, this is not a course of action | would now support
(though, at the time, my understanding of legal privilege was less developed). |
am now clear that the report should have been provided to the Board, and to
ShEx through the Shareholder NED. Had it been necessary to restrict circulation
within ShEx that process could have been managed (as it was with materials

relevant to the group litigation in the way | describe below).

| am aware that Ken McCall, the Senior Independent Director, later considered
whether Mr Parker should face any action for his decision not to escalate the
Swift report to the Board (UKGI00012703). He concluded that he should not.
Although he considered that Mr Parker had made a “significant error of
judgement,” in light of the legal advice he received and his record as Chair, he
considered that it would be “unfair/disproportionate to take action over this
specific issue”. “Action” in this context meant dismissal. The fact that the SID
had been asked to review this matter shows how seriously the Shareholder and
Board took this failing. While Mr Parker retained his post, the Permanent
Secretary wrote a letter in October 2020 expressing the Department's concern
and disappointment about the failure to share the Swift report with the Board

(UKGI00019313).

. Returning to the chronology, Mr Parker wrote to Baroness Neville-Rolfe on 4

March 2016 about his review (POL00024913). He set out what he described as

Page 81 of 118
182.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

“further information about the approach to the review, the scope of the work
undertaken so far, and my initial findings.” He also outlined his plans “to bring
the work to a conclusion.” The initial findings that he had made were expressed
in broadly reassuring terms. While he had found (he thought unsurprisingly) that
Horizon had some bugs that could have a generic impact (i.e., affect all Horizon
users, not just those who had raised a complaint), no evidence has emerged to
suggest that a technical fault in Horizon resulted in a postmaster wrongly being
held responsible for a loss.” Mr Parker outlined the further work that was to be
undertaken, including obtaining advice from criminal counsel on the conduct of
criminal prosecutions, and further evidence on unknown generic bugs, matters
relating to remote access, allegations of misleading advice being given by the
POL helplines, and whether there was a relationship between unmatched

balances in POL’s suspense account and branch discrepancies.

| would have been sent this letter shortly after it was received by ShEx. Insofar
as | can recall, the impression | took from it was, first, that Mr Parker’s review
was not yet complete and that further work was ongoing, and second, that what
he had found to date was reassuring and did not give rise to the need for further
intervention from the Government. Subsequently, the emergence of the group
litigation meant that Mr Parker’s work was overtaken by events. | believe that |
expected that his review and the further investigations he had referred to in his
letter of 4 March 2016 would feed into POL’s legal analysis and defence. As
such, it would have been covered by privilege and subject to the arrangements

that UKGI put in place for the litigation, which | discuss below.

Page 82 of 118
183.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

My expectation at the time was that if Mr Parker had uncovered matters of
concern in the course of his review, he would bring them to the Minister and to
UKGI without delay and set them out clearly and frankly. We had trusted him to
do that for the reasons | have discussed earlier. | still think | (and others) were

right to have that expectation.

The Group Litigation

184.

185.

On 3 May 2016 | was copied into a submission to Baroness Neville-Rolfe
informing her that POL had received formal Letters of Claim from 91 claimants
(BEIS0000062). The Minister had previously been told on 14 April 2016 (the
document has been incorrectly dated as 14 April 2015) that POL had received a
letter from solicitors instructed by JFSA intimating that proceedings would be
brought (BEIS0000061). The news of the claims was not surprising to me, given
the long-running and seemingly intractable dispute between POL and the sub-
postmasters. However, | would have much preferred the matter to have been
resolved without the time and expense of legal proceedings. | expect (but cannot
specifically recall) that | would have thought the number of Claimants seemed
broadly in line with the number of cases that remained outstanding from the

Mediation Scheme.

My role in the litigation was extremely limited and, in the absence of
contemporaneous documents, | struggle to remember what | knew and when.
Other than an early reference to the litigation in a briefing ahead of a meeting
with the Director General, Finance, at BIS, Howard Orme (UKGI00006727), |

have not seen any specific submissions on which | was copied that provided an

Page 83 of 118
186.

187.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

update on the litigation until May 2018. | do not know if there are, in fact, such
submissions that have not been brought to my attention, whether others were
updated without me being copied, or whether this was a function of the long

lead-in period to the litigation.

The 18 May 2018 submission was addressed to the Permanent Secretary and
was provided for information rather than action (UKGI00019311). Although |
have not seen the distribution list, | expect that | would have been copied. The
most striking thing that | notice now about the submission is the number of
claimants, which then stood at 561. Although | cannot be certain, | may not have
been aware before reading this that the number of sub-postmasters involved in
the dispute had risen to this figure. The previous number that | would have had
in my mind was the 136 applicants to the Mediation Scheme. | was, however,
aware that the group litigation was challenging the contractual relationship
between POL and sub-postmasters, and so went beyond IT issues. The
submission mentioned that 33 individuals with convictions had applied to the

CCRC (compared with around 20 in mid-2015).

Another thing that | notice about this submission is that the author(s) made clear
that paragraphs 15 to 22, which concerned the litigation process and POL’s
actions, were an account provided by POL, whereas paragraphs 23 to 26, which
concerned the Government's overview to date, were attributed to UKGI. As |
have discussed above, | think that this is a better approach to take in
submissions where a Minister is being told about criticisms that are directed at

an ALB, where that ALB is the principal source of information for ShEx/UKGI.

Page 84 of 118
188.

189.

190.

4

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The Permanent Secretary indicated by email on 22 May 2018 that he was
content that the measure put in place for handling the litigation seemed to be

correct (UKGI00008065).

The submission stated that a protocol would be established between UKGI and
POL to ensure that material relating to the litigation remained confidential and
hence retained legal professional privilege. This was finalised on 11 June 2018
(BEIS0000079). Thereafter, documents relating to the litigation were only

shared with those who had signed an undertaking to abide by the protocol.

| was not part of the UKGI team that signed the undertaking as | was not involved
in reviewing the submissions and attending the meetings at which the litigation
was discussed. For example, | did not receive the submission of 10 August 2018
in which a further update was provided to the Permanent Secretary and the other
recipients (UKGI00018266 and UKGI00008309).* Nor was | listed as an
attendee for the subsequent meetings on the litigation on 10 September 2018
(UKGI00008283). Looking at those who were involved, | can see that they
included the Minister (Kelly Tolhurst MP), the Permanent Secretary, the Director
of the UKGI POL shareholder team and Shareholder NED, the UKGI General
Counsel, and senior officials from the Departmental legal, policy, finance and
communications teams. There was sufficient knowledge and expertise in that

group to determine the Department and UKGI’s approach to the litigation and

The list of those who received the confidentiality protocol for signature on 19

August 2018 it at the end of Annex 2 to the submission. My name is not included
(UKGI00008313).

Page 85 of 118
191

192.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

hence there was no need for me to be involved as well. Had | been needed, |

could have been added to the relevant protocol and distribution lists.

.For this reason, | have few papers indicating what | knew, and when, about the

litigation and | cannot now remember what | was being told about its progress
before the end of the Common Issues Trial. Others will be better placed than
me to speak to how UKGI oversaw the litigation, and what strategy and interests
UKGI and the Department had in the litigation. | cannot offer a view on how POL
was conducting the litigation given my lack of involvement at this time. | cannot
now remember when and how | was briefed on the various judgments in the

case.

| did become involved in the litigation in two ways in the aftermath of the
judgment in the Common Issues Trial, which was handed down on 15 March
2019. The first concerned the application POL was considering to seek the
recusal of Mr Justice Fraser from the ongoing litigation. | was copied into an
email chain in which UKGI’s General Counsel, Richard Watson, the Shareholder
NED and head of the shareholder team, Tom Cooper, and the BEIS Legal
Director, Patrick Kilgarriff, discussed the role that Tom Cooper should play in
Board discussions on whether to make the application (UKGI00009208). The
consensus that emerged was that the Shareholder NED should test the Board’s
thinking on the issue and make sure that they were aware of all of the
implications (including for the Shareholder) but should then withdraw and not be

part of the formal Board decision. This was on the basis that the Department

Page 86 of 118
193.

194.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

and the Government should not — through its Shareholder NED — be seen to be

questioning the independence and integrity of the judiciary.

| remember Tom Cooper briefing me on the issue and, at the time, | thought that
this was the appropriate position and | still do now. It would not have been right
for Tom to have been involved in the decision for the reasons given. | have
reflected on whether the Government could, or should, have stepped in to insist
that the recusal application was not made. This would have been a very serious
step to take and would have risked either resignations or dismissals of Board
members (and possibly others). The Board had received legal advice supporting
a recusal application from extremely eminent legal figures, including a former
President of the Supreme Court. In those circumstances | do not think that it
would have been realistic to have expected the Government to have stepped in
to prevent the application. From memory, Tom and others were extremely
sceptical about the application, but it was reasonable to leave that decision to
the POL Board members, who each had a legal duty to act in the best interests

of the company as they perceived them to be.

The second element in which | was involved after the Common Issues judgment
was a discussion of how UKGI had overseen the litigation and whether it had
learned the lessons of the Magnox litigation, established by an inquiry in March
2017. That litigation included consideration of the way the Nuclear

Decommissioning Authority had handled the award of a major contract.

Page 87 of 118
195.

196.

197.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

| asked Richard Watson for information about the judgment by email on 15
March 2019 (an indication that | had not seen it during the period when it had
been embargoed, no doubt for the reasons discussed above (UKGI00019124)).
Richard replied that day and | forwarded his email to Robert Swannell, the Chair
of the ShEx Board. When | did so, | noted that there were some parallels with
Magnox. Robert then posed the question of whether UKGI had properly applied
the lessons of the Magnox litigation. | replied saying that | thought the two main
legal lessons from Magnox were about escalating the litigation to the Board and
obtaining alternative legal advice if necessary. | posed the question of whether

there were any others.

Richard provided a detailed answer by email on 18 March 2019
(UKGI00009276), into which he copied the “lessons learnt during litigation”
section of the UKGI review into Magnox. Richard also provided his own initial
comments on whether each lesson was relevant to the Horizon litigation and
whether it had been heeded. Richard was in a better place than me to do this
given that he had been sighted on the litigation as it had unfolded. His headline
point was that lessons had been learnt and that the issue of obtaining alternative
legal advice was under active consideration, at least in respect of the decision

to appeal the Common Issues judgment.

Looking at Richard’s reasoning in his email and keeping in mind that they were
only his initial thoughts, | agree that most of the relevant Magnox lessons had
been learned, particularly in respect of keeping the Board informed of the

litigation and putting in place processes to allow information to be shared with

Page 88 of 118
198.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

the relevant Government Department. However, | do question the speed at
which the information sharing protocol was agreed. | am conscious that | was
not (and am not) fully sighted on how the litigation was conducted. Others will
be better placed to explain why it took the time that it did, and where

responsibility for any delays lies.

| have been asked about an email exchange | had with Tom Cooper and Justin
Manson on 19 June 2019 (UKGI00010219) in which two submissions sent to
the Minister in 2015 and 2016 were considered (BEIS0000062 and
UKGI00004448). Those submissions provided updates on the Mediation
Scheme and the early stages of the litigation and advised that the Department
should continue to maintain that it was a matter for POL. | asked whether, with
hindsight, this was the appropriate advice at the time. Justin said that it was. As
| read his email, his reasoning was that there was no evidence at that time that
pointed to a fundamental problem with the Horizon system, and that there were
two processes — mediation and “the legal route” C) — for sub-postmasters who
were challenging the shortfalls ascribed to them. My response was to state that
UKGI should be clear about this in ShEx Board papers and commentary. | did
not want the ShEx Board to spend a disproportionate amount of time worrying

about ShEx’s own reputation.

Other matters

199.

| am asked to set out when | first became aware of various matters relevant to
the Inquiry. | have addressed some of these points earlier, but for completeness

| include them here as well. | emphasise that my answers are based on my

Page 89 of 118
200.

201.

202.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

imperfect recollection of events several years ago and the papers that | have
seen when preparing this statement. | have done my best to be as accurate as

| can, but inevitably there is a degree of uncertainty.

Whilst | must have had some superficial knowledge of allegations about the
integrity of the Horizon system, | probably became aware that the Horizon IT
system had actual technical faults — later labelled bugs, defects, errors and
deficiencies — at around the time when | became aware of the Second Sight

Interim Report. | cannot, though, say exactly when this was.

| do not believe | became aware of the Helen Rose report / Lepton report, or
Simon Clarke’s advices of 15 July 2013 and 2 August 2013, until after the GLO

litigation.

Based on the documents | have seen, | was made aware, at least in broad terms,
that Deloitte had undertaken work on Horizon for POL by or at the time of my
meeting with Alice Perkins in June 2014. | do not know if | knew the term “Project
Zebra” then, and | am not sure | knew that there was a formal report. It is
possible that Alice Perkins mentioned the Linklaters advice on the Mediation
Scheme at the same meeting, but this is me drawing an inference from the
papers | have seen. | do not have any actual memory of her mentioning
Linklaters, and it may be that | did not learn of their involvement until after the

GLO litigation.

Page 90 of 118
203.

204.

205.

206.

207.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

| did not know until the GLO litigation that Fujitsu could insert data into branch
accounts without the consent of sub-postmasters, or that Fujitsu may be able,
under certain circumstances, to delete and replace Horizon audit files containing

transaction data.

| knew that Jonathan Swift QC was assisting Tim Parker in his review from an
early stage, but | am not sure when | learned that he had produced a formal
report. | have discussed, above, the response of the Permanent Secretary to

the discovery in 2020 that Mr Parker had not shared the report with the Board.

!am asked whether ShEx should have been made aware of the matters referred
toin the previous paragraphs. In my view, they should have been (though others
will be better placed to say what was known when, and by whom). | think that,
given what we know now, the substance of the issues contained in those
documents should clearly have been relayed to me as CEO. However, plainly

this assumes that those in receipt of this information understood its significance.

| do not think that | saw Deloitte’s Sparrow Interim Report (8 July 2016), or the
various Bramble draft reports from 2016 to 2018, or was made aware of them

until after the Common Issues judgment.

| am asked about how Ministers discharged their responsibilities regarding POL
and the extent to which changes to Departmental and Ministerial portfolios
affected the level or quality of Government oversight of ShEx, UKGI, RMG and

POL. Speaking for the period during which | was CEO of ShEx / UKGI, | found

Page 91 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

that Ministers were very engaged on issues relevant to POL, and on matters
relating to Horizon, once these were brought to their attention. My experience
was that Ministers would consider the advice and submissions provided to them
but would make their own decisions. Inevitably, changes in Ministerial
responsibilities did result in a loss of continuity but, in my view, this did not have

any fundamental consequence for the matters that the Inquiry is considering.

Reflections

208.1 have been asked to reflect on my time at ShEx and UKGI and set out whether
there is anything | would have handled differently with hindsight, as regards the
oversight of POL. As will be clear from this statement, my involvement in the
Horizon issues, and how these issues were addressed during my time as CEO
of ShEx/UKGI, was not material, and not nearly as material as | wish now it
had been. As CEO of ShEx/UKGI various levers were available to influence
(and, where appropriate, direct) actions to be taken, either through my
ShEx/UKGI colleagues, through my relationships with the Chair and CEO of

POL and through the shareholding Department and its Ministers.

209.1 should make clear that, inevitably, many of my views have crystalised after
the GLO judgements. Moreover, the Inquiry is still hearing evidence, and it is
clearly for the Inquiry to determine what went wrong. | nonetheless hope that
my personal reflections may be of some assistance to the Inquiry in carrying

out its task.

Government Oversight

Page 92 of 118
210.

211.

212.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Given my position as CEO of ShEx, it seems necessary to begin my reflections
by considering whether there are aspects of government oversight of POL —
and in particular the role played by ShEx/UKGI that could have been handled

differently.

The UKGI Opening Statement, to which | contributed and which was put
together following considerable reflection, highlights areas where the
organisation feels it fell short. It points to some specific moments when there
could have been more probing and persistence: the Deloitte Project Zebra
report, the final Second Sight report, the Panorama whistleblowing allegations,
and the Parker review. | know that UKGI continues to reflect on the evidence
emerging from the Inquiry, but in any event the reflections in this statement are

of course my own.

At the root of this, it is clear that UKGI, as an organisation, failed to appreciate
the scale and significance of the Horizon problem. As has been explained, our
initial focus was on what we believed were the major issues facing the
organisation: long-term financial/commercial sustainability, the requirement
therefore for the network transformation programme to work, the need to
secure sufficient funding from HMT in the meantime, and Ministers’ desire for
the long-term model of mutualisation to be properly explored. Critically, | was
not aware (and to the best of my knowledge nor were the ShEx/UKGI Board
or ExCo) of the cumulative number of prosecutions and convictions until well
into the GLO. | also didn’t understand the significance (and, | believe, the

ShEx/UKGI Board and ExCo didn’t understand the significance) of POL-led

Page 93 of 118
213.

214.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

prosecutions. Finally, neither | nor the ShEx/UKGI Board and ExCo were
aware of the many and fundamental failings of the way in which POL

conducted its prosecutions.

Whilst it was clearly a very serious matter whenever a sub-postmaster was
convicted, it was not clear to me that the number of prosecutions | was aware
of was out of the ordinary in the context of the scale of the Horizon operation,
the number of sub-postmasters and their colleagues involved in the operation
of the system, the number of daily transactions and the heavily cash-based
nature of the system. | accepted that some employee theft inevitably occurs
in a retail organisation including, for example, the risk of postal theft within

Royal Mail.

When | did learn that POL was undertaking its own prosecutions, | also took
some comfort that, in spite of the POL-led prosecution policy, the courts were
making criminal convictions, with the strict standard of proof that is applied,
and that there had been few appeals. Wrongly, | did not consider the risk of
unsafe convictions as a result of failings in the Horizon system to be significant,
in large part because of the repeated and categorical assurances that POL
had provided to ShEx/UKGI and others about the Horizon system. Further, |
almost certainly took false comfort from the fact that — as far as | understood -
the CCRC in its investigations did not for a long time raise any concerns.
Looking back, it is clear that the wrongful prosecutions of so many individuals

is the most troubling part of this whole scandal.

Page 94 of 118
215.

216.

217.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Because of the assurances we were given, and the assumptions that were
made, there was insufficient challenge to the strong assertions made by POL
about the integrity of the Horizon system. | believed what we were being told
and had confidence in the quality, independence and scrutiny of the POL
Chairs and Board and the reassurances that they were providing. It now
seems from the evidence that has emerged that that the POL Board (on which
we inevitably relied) was, firstly, not receiving the full picture from POL’s
Executive (which was failing to escalate and socialise matters that the Board
should have expected to see), and, secondly, relying on important external
advice that was ambiguous and failed to draw clear conclusions on the

integrity of the Horizon system.

In spite of the above, had we had more scepticism and curiosity on our own
part, such that we interrogated further, we might have concluded that a much
fuller investigation of the system should have taken place sooner. The fact that
POL was a relatively autonomous ALB would not have stopped us
recommending a comprehensive, independent investigation if we had felt this
to be necessary albeit that this would have signalled a loss of confidence in

the POL management and Board.

The strong assertions made to Ministers in submissions around the integrity
of Horizon were wrong and make for uncomfortable reading now. At the very
least, the submissions should have been clearer that the views were the views
of POL and that they needed to be balanced by alternative points of view. The

submissions may have led to Ministers being too cautious in their engagement

Page 95 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

on Horizon but, as mentioned above, their direct involvement and clear
determination to pursue their own courses may not have meant that this advice

had any particular impact or consequence.

What | and ShEx/UKGI might have done differently

218. On the basis that the overall delivery model was the correct one (which |
believe it was and discuss further below) and that POL should be allowed the
autonomy and freedoms (including recruitment freedoms) to carry out the roles
it has been given, it must be right to examine whether the Board of POL had
the skill and experience required to oversee the executive team and to hold it
to account. It may be that a more experienced Board with wider skill-sets,
including in particular IT skills, would have made the crucial difference. A
Board better attuned to the history and culture of the organisation, particularly
in respect to the company’s relationships with its sub-postmasters, may have
spotted earlier the risks of unbalanced contractual relationships, POL’s
prosecution policies and the very long-standing relationship with its main
supplier, Fujitsu. Earlier sub-postmaster representation (albeit that
stakeholder representation like this was, and remains, unusual) may well have
made a difference, because it could have improved information flow to the
Board. Greater legal experience of Board members may also have resulted
in greater scrutiny of legal advice and greater confidence to challenge the
application of legal privilege. ShEx therefore could have worked more closely
with the Chair on what was the optimum NED skill-set and how this would be

best achieved.

Page 96 of 118
219.

220.

221.

222.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

The Board was not viewed in 2012/13 as a weak Board (it was regarded as
having a good mix or skills and experience) and it was felt that the new Chair
had the right skill-set to tackle what were then considered to be the company’s
major issues. But, as mentioned above, it proved unable to understand the

Horizon issue adequately and seek a timely resolution.

Greater challenge by us of executive capability, especially CEO capability,
after 2015 is a further reflection on what | and ShEx/UKGI could have done
differently. The CFO was replaced by someone with greater experience; a

further assessment of the CEO could have been asked for in 2016/17.

Just as there are questions around the POL Board's capability, so there could
be questions around ShEx/UKGI capability, in particular, but it is important to
remember that ShEx/UKGI was not there to replicate the job of the Board or
second guess its decisions. However, there were particular areas where | and
ShEx/UKGI colleagues might have made a difference: a greater focus on the
skill-set required of the Board (to the point above), a greater focus on the
robustness of the internal processes of POL (in particular, the role of internal
audit, the Audit and Risk Committee, whistleblowing) and an earlier split of the
shareholder and policy roles. This latter point may have helped to address the
issue of unbalanced Ministerial advice by providing another set of eyes on

some of the key issues.

ShEx and then UKGI has been a developing organisation, particularly in terms

of its own internal processes. The appointment of Anthony Odgers as head of

Page 97 of 118
223.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Portfolio in 2011 led to attempts to apply greater consistency in shareholder
role to what was a very diverse set of assets. Risk reporting and the creation
of a risk committee, the establishment of portfolio reviews and the
development of Portfolio Operating Principles all made the organisation more
capable in its shareholder roles. Its approach to significant litigation was a
further example of UKGI process change designed to identify and deal with
large potential risks at the portfolio level. Much of this was developed in the
period 2011 to 2021 and, had it been in place earlier, may have helped identify

and address the Horizon issue earlier.

Knowing what | now know, | regret not having spent more time, personally, on
the POL portfolio on becoming CEO in 2013. Recognising the POL Board was
a new one, and the challenges that it faced were significant, greater time spent
with the POL Chair (and maybe observing Board meetings) may have made a
difference although my colleague, Susannah Storey, was senior and
experienced in her own right, and very capable. Although, from memory, no
approach was made to me directly by sub-postmasters, their representatives
or any Parliamentarians, | should have taken time to meet with them and hear,
first-hand, their experiences and concerns. Whether these actions would have
made a difference and brought about earlier resolution of the Horizon issue is
unclear; however, | would have had greater insight into the Horizon issues and
potentially been able to use my position to question POL’s position and
catalyse different action. A better appreciation of the challenges facing the
organisation (considerable though | knew them already to be) may have

resulted in me pushing for other Board skill-sets to be present in the

Page 98 of 118
224.

225.

WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

Boardroom (legal and IT in particular) and recognition of the potential value of

representation of sub-postmasters on the Board.

As is now clear, a comprehensive and thorough review of the technical Horizon
system, together with the training and support offered to sub-postmasters
should have been undertaken much earlier on. As should the contractual
relationship between POL and sub-postmasters have been examined and
addressed, including the practices for dealing with the problems that a system
the size of Horizon would inevitably produce. | and my ShEx colleagues were
not involved in the choice of advisers at the time Second Sight were appointed
and, as | mention earlier, it was not then obvious that a more comprehensive
investigation was necessary. At some later point, however, when it was clear
that there were still seriously conflicting views on the integrity of the Horizon
system, we could have engaged POL on the sort of external review that was
actually necessary. This is territory | am familiar with having worked personally
for some of the large accounting and consultancy firms; | would have
understood who was capable of delivering the large piece of assurance work
we now know could have made the difference. Importantly, we should have
had investigated where the cash shortfalls in Post Offices eventually ended
up. Resolution of this would have been important to any earlier financial

settlement with sub-postmasters.

The ShEx/UKGI reporting of issues to Ministers and to the Department could
have been more balanced and, to the extent that competing evidence to

support a view of Horizon that was contrary to POL’s, we should have been

Page 99 of 118
WITNO0800100

WITNO00800100

clear on this point — and clear that what we were presenting was the POL view.
As | have mentioned earlier, my experience is that Ministers will ultimately
make their own minds up, regardless of what the official advice might be
especially if they are directly engaged on an issue. My observation is that, on
Horizon, Ministers were very engaged but they deserved better from the

advice that we provided.

The governance model going forward

226.

227.

| do not believe that the governance model for POL and UKGI assets is the
wrong one. For the reasons outlined in paragraphs 12-28, so long as Ministers
require POL to be in public ownership, then in my view, an ALB model is the
only practical alternative. “Insourcing” to the Department risks wholly
inappropriate skills-sets being applied to the management of a complex
delivery organisation. Outsourcing of the management to the private sector

would be no insurance against a Horizon-type issue arising again.

The issue, | believe, is the execution of this model — for the various reasons
outlined above. A Board with sufficient time, expertise and experience is
required to hold a commercial executive team to account on behalf of the
Department and Ministers. This needs to report through a shareholder
function and through a separated policy function. | am in little doubt that
ShEx/UKGI has proven the value of developing a shareholder function for
Whitehall Departments and am in little doubt that centralising this function (as
was the original concept of ShEx) is the right one, rather than each Department

exercising this function separately, and needing to develop their own capability

Page 100 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO0800100

and expertise. ShEx/UKGI's performance of the shareholder role on POL has,
however, shown that it is very far from infallible and that its stance of deep

reflection on the lessons of this episode is an essential one.

Statement of Truth
| believe the content of this statement to be true.

Signature

Page 101 of 118
Index to First Witness Statement of MARK RUSSELL

WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

No. Document Inquiry URN Inquiry Control
Description Number
1. Articles of | UKGI00044318 UKGI052980-
Association of 001
Post Office
Limited
2. Articles of | UKGI00043216 UKGI00043216
Association of
Post Office
Limited (adopted
by a_ written
resolution dated
2" April 2012)
3. HM Treasury — | UKGI00043214 UKGI00043214
Consolidated
Budgeting
Guidance: 2023-
2024
4. Post Office | UKGI00017317 UKG1I027324-
Limited Strategy 001
5. Meeting UKGI00001339 UKGI012153-
minutes: minutes 001
of ShEx Board
meeting held on
15 September
2010
6. UKGI Values | UKGI00045859 UKGI056827-
Paper 001
7. Report re: ShEx | UKGI00041953 UKGI050848-
Board’s Remit — 001
concerning
Board's terms of
reference
8. UK Government | UKGI00043215 UKGI00043215
Investments
Framework
Document April
2018
9. Terms of | UKGI00045858 UKGI056826-
reference for the 001
Board of UKGI
10. | Terms of | UKGI00045860 UKGI056828-
reference for the 001
Chair of UKGI
11. | Draft UKGI | UKGI00045857 UKGI056825-
Framework 001
Document

Page 102 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

12.

Meeting
minutes: minutes
of UKGI Board
meeting held on
27" January
2016

UKGI00016724

UKGI011536-
001

13.

First Witness
Statement of
Charles Hunter
Donald

WITN10770100

WITN10770100

14.

Meeting
minutes: minutes
of ShEx
Executive
Committee
Meeting held on
27" April 2010

UKGI00016656

UKGI011468-001

15.

HM Treasury —
Managing Public
Money — May
2023

UKGI00043211

UKGI00043211

16.

Letter from Alex
Chisholm to
Alisdair
Cameron re:
accountable
person:
Instruction from
BEIS permanent
secretary to the
CEO of Post
Office Ltd on
accountabilities
and
responsibilities

UKGI00010163

UKGI020971-
001

17.

Post Office
Limited:
Shareholder
Relationship
Framework
Document

UKGI00013241

UKGI024035-
001

18.

Meeting
minutes: minutes
of ShEx
Executive
Committee
Meeting held on
47% January
2013

UKGI00016638

UKGI011450-
001

Page 103 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

19.

Risk
management in
ShEx: Initial
presentation to
ExCo — April
2013

UKGI00045853

UKGI056822-
001

20.

Meeting
minutes: minutes
of ShEx
Executive
Committee
Meeting held on
234 May 2013

UKGI00016563

UKGI011375-
001

21.

Terms of
Reference __ for
ShEx Risk and
Assurance
Committee - 12!"
May 2013

UKG1I00045874

UKGI056842-
001

22.

Risk and
Assurance
Committee -
Forward Agenda
for 2014

UKGI00045875

UKGI056843-
001

23.

Risk and
Assurance
Committee -
Forward Agenda
for 2015-2016

UKGI00045883

UKGI056851-
001

24.

Agenda for ShEx
Board meeting
held on = 13h
November 2013,

UKGI00016714

UKGI011526-
001

25.

Email from Tim
Mcinnes to ShEx
Team re. ShEx
Risk Register —
Action Required
by 14 February

UKGI00045871

UKGI056839-
001

26.

ShEx Risk
Register -
February 2014

UKGI00016846

UKGI011658-
001

27.

Papers for ShEx
Board meeting
dated 21% May
2014

UKGI00016750

UKGI011562-
001

28.

ShEx Risk
Register — May
2014

UKGI00016850

UKGIO11662-
001

Page 104 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

29. |Agenda for a|UKGI00016669 UKGI011481-
meeting of the 001
UKGI Audit and
Risk Committee
held on 27%
January 2016

30. |Agenda for a/|UKGI00016675 UKGIO11487-
meeting of the 001
UKGI Audit and
Risk Committee
held on 19" May
2016

31. | Meeting UKGI00016765 UKGI011577-
minutes: minutes 001
of ShEx Board
meeting held on
13! July 2016

32. | UKGI Report on | UKGI00017501 UKGI027508-
Improving our 001
risk reporting
process dated
13 June 2018

33. | UKGI Risk and | UKGI00017502 UKGI027509-
Assurance: Risk 001
Register
guidance — July
2018

34. | Risk Summary | UKGI00021408 UKGI030303-
data up to 5 001
September 2018

35. | UKGI Risk | UKGI00021409 UKGI030304-
Summary — Heat 001
map data up to 5
September 2018

36. | Report re: UKGI | UKGI00044314 UKGI053038-
Section 3 — Part 001
5 — Corporate
Governance

37. | Draft ExCo | UKGI00007909 UKGI018722-
paper - 001
dashboard April
2018

38. | Email from Will | UKGI00041941 UKGI050836-
Gibson to 001

Claudia Arney,
Patrick Carter,

cc Gerry
Grimstone and
others re:

Papers for the

Page 105 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

ShEx Board
meeting on
Wednesday 30
June at 9am at 1
Victoria St

39.

Royal Mail policy
re: ShEx Board
Briefing

UKGI00041943

UKGI050838-
001

40.

Computer
Weekly:
Bankruptcy,
prosecution and
disrupted
livelihoods -
Postmasters tell
their story

POL00041564

POL-0038046

41.

Briefing/Update
for Edward
Davey ahead of
meeting with
Alan Bates
(JFSA) on 7th
October 2010

UKGI00000062

V1IS00001023

42.

Paper for ShEx
Board meeting
held on 8th
December 2010

UKGI00001342

UKGI012156-
001

43.

Protect -— Policy
and
Management —
ShEx Board
Portfolio Unit
Development

UKGI00043224

UKGI052835-
001

44.

Papers for ShEx
Board meeting
held on 5% May
2011

UKGI00043228

UKGI052839-
001

45.

Meeting
minutes: minutes
of ShEx Board
meeting held on
41h October
2011

UKGI00045863

UKGI056831-
001

46.

ShEx POL
Annual Review —
29 November
2011

UKGI00041970

UKGI050865-
001

47.

ShEx: HM
Government ___-

UKG1I00042628

UKGI051523-
001

Page 106 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

Post Office Ltd
Annual Review

48.

Meeting with
Alice Perkins,
Chair - Post
Office Ltd
12:45-13:30
Thursday 27
October 2011

UKGI00042588

UKGI051483-
001

49.

ShEx POL
Quarterly
Review —- 13
August 2012

UKGI00001448

UKGI012262-00

50.

Papers for ShEx
Board meeting
held on 10%
September 2012
(erroneously
dated 11 July
2012)

UKGI00045870

UKGI056838-
001

51.

Agenda for ShEx
Board Meeting
held on 21%
November 2012

UKGI00016715

UKGI011527-
001

52.

ShEx POL
Annual Review —
December 2012

UKGI00017385

UKGI027392-
001

53.

Agenda for
meeting with
Alan Bates to
discuss the
JFSA’s claims its
members are
victims of
endemic flaws in
POL’s Horizon
system

UKGI00014165

UKGI024958-
001

54.

Agenda for ShEx
Board meeting
held on 16° May
2013

UKGI00016730

UKGI011542-
001

55.

Email from Paula
Vennells to
Theresa Iles re
Board papers
briefing notes

POL00098321

POL-0097904

56.

Hansard, House
of Commons
Debate Volume
571: debated on

RLIT0000203

RLIT0000203

Page 107 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

Wednesday 27
November 2013

57.

Board and
conversation
with Mark
Russell on 21
May 2013
(notes)

POL00144750

POL-BSFF-
0003877

58.

Post Office —-
Horizon System
Statement by Jo
Swinson,
Parliamentary
Under Secretary
of State for
Employment
Relations — and
Consumer
Affairs

UKG1I00001822

UKGI012636-
001

59.

Post Office
Limited (“POL”)
Annual Review —
January 2014

UKGI00042083

UKGI050978-
001

60.

Post Office
Limited (“POL”)
Annual Review.
Attendees:
Richard Callard,
Tim Mcinnes,
Peter Batten and
others

UKGI00042089

UKGI050984-
001

61.

Notes from the
Eleventh ShEx
Risk and
Assurance
Committee
Wednesday 19
February 2014 -
ShEx’s major
risks in relation
to Post Office
Limited (POL)

UKGI00042124

UKGI051019-
001

62.

ShEx POL
Quarterly Traffic
Light Update
April 2012

UKGI00042615

UKGI051510-
001

63.

Email from
Richard Callard
to Mark Russell
re. Jo Swinson

UKGI00002441

UKGI013255-
001

Page 108 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

Meeting on 20"
August 2014

64.

Speaking note
prepared by
Richard Callard

UKGI00002440

UKGI013254-
001

65.

Briefing Note for
Mark Russell re
Meeting POL
SID Neil
McCausland on
13h November
2014

UKGI00042592

UKGI051487-
001

66.

POL Traffic Light
Update -
January 2015

UKGI00042778

UKGI051673-
001

67.

ShEx POL
Quarterly
Review October
2015

UKGI00006108

UKGI016922-
001

68.

FW: Readout -
SoS meeting
with Post Office
Chair

UKG1I00045854

UKGI056823-
001

69.

Letter from Alan
Bates from JSFA
to Jo Swinson
Minister for
Postal Affairs

UKGI00002264

UKGI013078-
001

70.

Letter from Peter
Batten to Jenny
Willott re:
Response to the
Justice for
Subpostmasters
Alliance

UKGI00006671

UKGI017485-
001

71.

Email from Chris
Aujard to Paula
Vennells cc
Martin Edwards,
Belinda Crowe
and others re
meeting with
Mark Russell

POL00116581

POL-0117506

72.

Post Office
Limited Q2
Review - 30th
June 2014

UKGI00002501

UKGI013315-
001

73.

ShEx HM
Government -
Post Office

UKGI00013659

UKG1I024452-
001

Page 109 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

Limited (POL)

Quarterly
Review June
2014.

74. | Post Office | UKGI00002502 UKGI013316-
Limited 001
Quarterly
Review -

October 2014 -
Shareholder
Executive

75. | Post Office | UKGI00045856 UKGI056824-
Limited (POL) 001
Q3 Review

76. |Papers for a|UKGI00016744 UKGI011556-
ShEx Board 001
meeting held on
12" November
2014

77. | Post Office | UKGI00019551 UKGI028446-
Limited 001
Quarterly
Review January
2015

78. | Oral Evidence: | UKGI00003231 UKGI014045-
Post Office 001
Mediation BISC
HC 935,

79. | Submission to Jo | UKGI00014168 UKGI024961-
Swinson re: Post 001
Office Mediation
Scheme: revised
approach

80. | Email from | UKGI00000923 ViS00009061
Richard Callard
to Swinson
MPST, Laura
Thompson,

Cable MPST and
others re:
Submission on
Post Office
Horizon

mediation

scheme

81. | Email from Laura | UKGI00001184 VIS00009322

Thompson with
submission to
Secretary of
State and Jo

Page 110 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

Swinson dated
11! March 2015

82.

Submission
from Laura
Thompson _ to
the Secretary of
State regarding
Post Office
Mediation:
Reply to BIS
Select
Committee
dated 19 March
2015

UKG1I00001055

VIS00009193

83.

ShEx Final Day
1 Briefing

UKGI00004402

UKGI015216-
001

84.

Submission from
Laura Thompson
to Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 2™ June
2015

UKGI00004448

UKGI015262-
001

85.

Email
correspondence
from Laura
Thompson to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe’s
office dated 2"¢
June 2015

UKGI00000936

VIS00009074

86.

Meeting minutes
RE: Post Office
Letter on
Network
Transformation
& Horizon IT
System

UKG1I00004469

UKGI015283-
001

87.

Letter from JFSA
to Minister dated
19% May 2015

UKGI00004438

UKGI015252-
001

88.

Submission from
Laura Thompson
to Baroness
Neville-Rolfe re:
BBC Panorama
programme on
Post Office
Horizon IT
system dated
24th June 2015

UKGI00006582

UKGI017396-
001

Page 111 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

89.

Post Office
Horizon System
- Adjournment
Debate

UKGI00019314

VIS00013133

90.

Hansard, House
of Commons
Debate Volume
597: debated on
Wednesday 1
July 2015

RLIT0000204

RLIT0000204

91.

Submission from
Laura Thompson
to George
Freeman and
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 1% July
2015

UKGI00000063

VIS00001024

92.

Email
correspondence
from Private
Secretary office
to Laura
Thompson dated
2nd July 2015

UKGI00000942

VIS00009080

93.

Submission from
Laura Thompson
to Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 17" July
2015

UKGI00015226

UKGI026019-
001

94.

Email from Laura
Thompson to
Richard Callard
re FW: Second
Sight's Briefing
Report - Part
Two dated 24!
July 2015

UKGI00005133

UKGI015947-
001

95.

Email
correspondence
between
Anthony Odgers
and Laura
Thompson to set
up a high level
meeting
concerning
Horizon Issues

UKGI00005136

UKGI015950-
001

Page 112 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

dated 28" July
2015

96.

Email chain from
MPST _ Neville-
Rolfe to Laura
Thompson cc'ing
MPST Javid,
MPST Javid
SpAd and others
re: Short note to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe on
Post Office
Horizon dated
3" August 2015

UKGI00005190

UKGI016004-
001

97.

Meeting minutes
dated 4" August
2015

UKGI00005677

UKGI016491-
001

98.

Submission from
Laura Thompson
to Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 31% July
2015

UKGI00019376

VIS00013205

99.

Options for
review /
oversight of the
process /
Horizon system
and = mediation
scheme

UKGI00019300

VIS00013128

100.

Letter from
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe to
Tim Parker dated
10 September
2015

POL00102551

POL-0102134

101.

Briefing to BNR
with Agenda
ahead of 6m
August 2015
Meeting

UKGI00000035

VISO0000996

102.

Submission from
Laura
Thompson,
ShEx to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 1gth
October 2015

UKGI00006179

UKGI016993-
001

Page 113 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

103. | Submission from | UKGI00000042 VIS00001003
Laura
Thompson,
ShEx to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated th
September 2015
104. | Submission from | UKGI00000058 VIS00001019
Laura
Thompson,
ShEx to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe for
meeting with
James Arbuthnot
dated 11h
September 2015
105. | Submission from | BEISO000013 VIS00000907
Laura
Thompson,
ShEx to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated st
October 2015
106. | Email UKG1I00006142 UKGI016956-
correspondence 001
from Laura
Thompson to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated th
October 2015
107. | Key points from | UKGI00007316 UKGI018130-
Second Sight 001
meeting
108. | Briefing for BNR | UKGI00000020 ViS00000981
ahead of
meeting with Tim
Parker on 26%
January 2016
109. | Note for Mark | UKGI00013708 UKGI024501-
Russell on 001
Meeting with Tim
Parker on 10%
November 2015
110. | Email UKGI00017443 UKGI027450-
Correspondence 001
from Justin

Page 114 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

Manson to Mark
Russel and
Richard Callard
re: Baroness
Neville-Rolfe

dated 27"
November 2105

111.

Update to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 220d
December 2015

UKGI00001020

VIS00009158

112.

Update to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 11h
December 2015

UKGI00006419

UKGI017233-
001

113.

Email from
Neville-Rolfe
MPST to Richard
Callard, Javid
MPST, SpAd
MPST and
others - RE:
Submission on
POL
Restatement of
Accounts and IT

UKGI00006366

UKGI017180-
001

114.

Submission from
Laura Thompson
to Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 27th April
2016

UKGI00000048

VIS00001009

115.

Email from Tom
Cooper to
Charles Donald,
Richard Watson,
Carl Creswell
and others re:
POL _ Litigation/
Governance —
Confidential

dated 16"
September 2020

UKGI00012703

UKGI023497-
001

116.

Letter from
Sarah Munby to
Tim Parker re:
preparation for

UKGI00019313

VIS00013142

Page 115 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

the BEIS Select
Committee
Hearing dated
7h October
2020

117.

Letter to
Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
from Tim Parker
dated 4" March
2016

POL00024913

POL-0021392

118.

Submission from
Laura Thompson
to Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 3 May
2016

BEIS0000062

BEIS0000042

119.

Submission from
Laura Thompson
to Baroness
Neville-Rolfe
dated 4 April
2016, incorrectly
dated 2015

BEISO000061

BEISO000041

120.

Email chain from
Richard Callard
to Olutobi
Adetimilehin re:
Howard
tomorrow -
Updates on
Supply chain
reforms and
Horizon issues
dated 10" May
2016

UKGI00006727

UKGI017541-
001

121.

BEIS - Post
Office Litigation
re Horizon IT
System report -
Submission — to
Permanent
Secretary dated
18 May 2018

UKGI00019311

VIS00013171

122.

Email
correspondence
regarding
Horizon
Litigation
Subcommittee

UKGI00008065

UKGI018877-
001

Page 116 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

from Permanent
Secretary dated
224 May 2018

123.

Project Sparrow
- Pre
Onboarding
Protocol

BE!IS0000079

BEISO000059

124.

Project Sparrow
aa Pre
Onboarding
Protocol dated
10" August 2018

UKGI00018266

VIS00011665

125.

Email from
Stephen Clarke
to Permanent
Secretary cc
Gareth Evans
RE POL
Litigation Update
Submission

dated 10%
August 2018

UKGI00008309

UKGI019121-
001

126.

Project Sparrow
- Pre-
Onboarding
Protocol -
Obligations in
Relation to
Legally
Privileged and
Confidential
Information.

UKG1I00008313

UKGI019125-
001

127.

Proposed

Agenda for
meeting on 10
September 2018

UKGI00008283

UKGI019095-
001

128.

Email
correspondence
between Richard
Watson, Tom
Cooper, Patrick
Kilgarriff and
others Re: Post
Office
judgement. RE:
Post Office
Judgement
dated 15' March
2019

UKGI00009208

UKGI020016-
001

Page 117 of 118
WITNO0800100
WITNO00800100

129.

Email from Mark
Russell to
Robert Swannell
re: Post Office
Litigation dated
15" March 2019

UKGI00019124

VIS00012523

130.

Email from
Richard Watson
to Mark Russell
re Post Office
Litigation dated
19" March 2019

UKGI00009276

UKGI020084-
001

131.

Email from Mark
Russell to Justin
Manson and
Tom Cooper re:
Sparrow subs to
BNR on litigation
approach dated
19" June 2019

UKGI00010219

UKGI021027-
001

Page 118 of 118
