WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

Witness Name: Margaret White
Statement No.: WITN0369_01
Exhibits: None
Dated:09/05/2022

IN THE POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF MARGARET WHITE

I, MARGARET WHITE, will say as follows....

INTRODUCTION

1. I am grateful to the Chair to be invited to provide a “human impact” statement,
concerning the consequences to me and my family as a result of the Horizon IT
system and Post Office Limited’s actions toward me and my family. The
introductory paragraphs below provide a brief summary of my background, and
to provide context to the detail of the human impact of the scandal on me and

my family.

2. lam now 61 years old, I live in} with my husband. We

have been together for 25 years and married for 3 years. I have two step children

that live with us, aged 28 and 25.

BACKGROUND PRIOR TO APPOINTMENT AS SPM

3. When I left school, I immediately started working. I worked in a high-pressure
company called PSINAT. I worked across various departments such as sales and

buying, I worked there for about 10 years until they went into liquidation.

Page 1 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

4. After that I worked for a company where I used to do music nights and

background music in pubs for about 5 years.

5, I then moved to Milton Keynes where I worked at Matalan and Sainsbury for

around 5 years.

6. Following this, I went on to work for a company called Reliance Security, and it

was here that I met my partner, Mark.

7. I then moved back to Berkshire because I GRO” During this time I

worked in a chemist as a counter assistant. The chemist also had a post office
counter in but I was not involved in the operating of the post office itself. I was
shown how to do some basic things in the post office, such as pulling out stamps
from the stamp book but nothing to do with the Horizon system. I worked here

for around 4-5 years.

8. After! I Mark and I decided to move to Bicester because

Mark was working up that way and

‘so it made sense for us to

move there.

9. I was travelling back and forth from Bicester to Berkshire for a while to work in

the chemist and I decided I needed a new job closer to home.

DECISION TO BECOME A SPM

Page 2 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

10. Having just relocated to Bicester with my husband we were in need of some extra
money and I wanted a job closer to home, so I applied for a job in the Oxford post
Office, Summertown branch. The job provided us with an income and as Mark’s

boys were living with us, we needed the extra money.

11. When I applied for the job, I applied for a counter assistant role, and that was the
role I thought I would be taking on. When I accepted the job offer I was accepted

under the belief I would be working as a counter assistant.

12. When I started working there, I joined a manager who was employed by the post
office and known as a ‘floater, he covered shifts as and when he was required to.

On my first day I got called away hen after a few days on

the job the manager told me that he was moving on to somewhere else so I had

to take over as manager.

13.1 did not want to take on this role, as I had no previous experience in a
managerial role. I felt that I had no option but to take on the role despite having
never done anything like it before. I was thrown in at the deep end. The manager

before me was training me but I did not feel well trained before he left.

14. It is important to say that it was never explained to me that if I became the
manager, that I would have responsibility for all and any shortfalls the post office

incurred.

15.1 had a couple of area managers that came to the branch to assist me where they
could. I tried the best I could but I never figured out how to do the end of week
figures, and no one taught me how to do it properly. I was always dragging in the

area manager for help because the staff I had could not help me.

Page 3 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

16. After the previous manager left I had another ‘floater’ join me, it was as if odd
people just kept turning up until they found someone full time. Eventually one
member of staff joined me full time and worked as a counter assistant. I had to
train her but I could only show her the most basic transactions as that is all I

knew myself.

17.1 was the Post Office Manager at the Banbury Road Post Office in Oxford for 2
years. The post office was attached to a newsagents that was run by a young

couple.

18.1 commenced my role as a Manager at Banbury Road Posy office on 4 August

2003 and I was suspended on 19 October 2005, following an audit.

TRAINING AND SUPPORT

19. In terms of training, I had a couple of weeks with a man from the Post Office who
would come into the branch and show me how to operate the office. He was a

manger floater. This training was very inconsistent because I

the time, so I was often called away. so it was left to me

20.1 was never offered to attend any training days or courses by the Post Office on
the Horizon System. When I joined the branch the man who worked there, was
the area manager at the time, and he showed me what to do for the first 3-4

weeks; but this was not sufficient training for me to take over as manager.

Page 4 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

21. When he left he told me to call if I needed help but he never left any contact

details. He also told me to contact the area manager if I experienced any issues.

22.1 often tried to contact the area managers and they would offer help over the
phone where they could. I remember saying to them I do not understand how I
have been put in a role like this with no training and they would just say I will get

used to it.

23.1 received very little support from the Post Office. The way the post office was
operated was wrong. Every night after I locked up I was told to hang the key for
the Post Office in the back of the retail office. This meant that anyone who
worked in the retail side of the business had access to the Post office keys. More
often than not, the door to the retail side was propped open so really anyone

could get to the keys.

24. The Post Office showed no care or support towards me; in fact, I felt their
attitude towards me was shocking. By way of example, one night, the post office

alarm went off at 1am and I was expected to go and deal with the matter alone.

25. I received a phone call to say the alarm was going off and I was expected to travel
from my home on Bicester to the post office in Oxford to turn the alarm off. By
the time I go there the man who ran the retail side of the business was already in
the post office trying to turn the alarm off. However, I do not believe that he had

permission to access the Post Office.

26. I would ask the Post Office to help me with the Horizon system, but I received no
help, no one seemed to care. I would often mention to my husband that the

figures did not tally up.

Page 5 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

27. When I experienced issues, I would ring the area manager and tell them I needed
help. They would come and try to assist me where they could, they became my

right hand man but he was not there permanently.
HELPLINE

28. I often made contact with the Post Office helpline.

29. Most of the time the advisors would tell me over the phone how to resolve the

issue.

30. In the end, a subpostmaster came in to show me how to run the post office and
operate the Horizon system. She was in and out for around a fortnight, she would
show me how to do transactions and operate the system but this was not formal

training.

SHORTFALLS

31. In this section, I set out in very brief detail my experience of shortfalls arising
from deficiencies in the Horizon system, and Post Office Limited’s actions as a
result. This is only a brief introduction to those matters, in order to provide

necessary context for the explanation of the human impact which follows.

32.1 experienced shortfalls from the beginning of my tenure, at the weekly balance.
It was just the odd amount here and there and I would always inform the area
manager who would tell me it has to be there somewhere and I had to find the

money.

Page 6 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

33. If I could not find the money, I would often just put in the funds out of my own
pocket. I never really told anyone about this, not even my husband knew at the

time.

34. Following an audit on Wednesday 19 October 2005 a shortfall of £22,889.72 was

discovered.

35. Further Post Office checks carried out by the auditors revealed an earlier
shortage that had occurred on 20 August 2005 in relation to £28,150 being held
in the suspense account as cash in pouches. However, Midway cash center claims
to have never received the money. As a result, the audit shortage increased to a

total of £51,039.72.

36.1 was not aware that there was such a large shortfall. I was mortified when I
heard the amount. I knew something was not quite right because the weekly

balance was often short, but I did not expect it to be such a large sum.

AUDITS AND INVESTIGATION

37.As mentioned above my post office branch was audited on Wednesday 19
October 2005. When the auditors arrived, we handed them the keys and left

them to it.

38. Initially, I was told there was a shortfall of £10,000 this went up significantly, and
at the end of the audit, the shortfall was allegedly £22,889.72.

Page 7 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

39. Following the audit further checks where conducted which supposedly revealed a
shortfall of £28,150 that was held in a suspense account. According to the Post
Office report, enquiries at chesterfield and Midway cash center revealed that the
£28,150 was never received at Midway cash centre. Therefore, the total shortfall

had increased to £51,039.72.

40. I was contacted by the Post Office and asked to attend an interview. I was advised
to not attend the interview without representation, so I contacted a Solicitor to

seek advice and arranged to attend the interview with her.

41, At this point whilst I was aware that there was a large shortage, I did not realise
how serious the situation was because I knew I had not stolen any money. I was
just a naive counter assistant unaware that I was going to be held responsible for

any missing money.

SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION

42. Following the audit conducted on 19 October 2005 I was suspended from my role
as post office manager and I was accused of stealing or being responsible for a

total shortfall of £51,039.72.

43. During subsequent investigations, Post Office limited alleged that I had falsified
accounts to hide a further £10,000 shortfall.

44, At the request of the Post Office, I attended an interview in November 2005 at
Kidlington Police station, Oxford with my solicitor, Ms Selby.

Page 8 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

45.1 was interviewed under caution by Mr Price, the investigation manager at the
Post Office, and he questioned me on the missing £28,150 cash remittance and
whether I had stolen this money from the Post Office. I repeatedly denied
stealing any money from the post office during the interview when asked. I told
the interviewer I would operate Horizon and check the system until the figures
balanced but that “if you can’t, you can’t’. I was not asked what I would do if I

could not balance the figures.

46. The interview was not a pleasant experience. Mr Price’s attitude towards me was
unfriendly and I felt he treated me as though I was a criminal and guilty of taking

the money.

47. After being pressed about adding figures on to the cash my solicitor stepped in
and said that she thought the interview had gone far enough. I think my solicitor
could see that I was becoming distressed during the interview so she told Mr

Price if they had further questions they can ask them another day.

48. During all of this my mother was dying and I was having to deal with that, I was
under a lot of stress and at this point I realised that I was not going to get my job

back.

CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS

49. The Post Office brought criminal proceedings against me, charging me with theft
and false accounting. Ms Selby, the solicitor who attend the interview under

caution with me dealt with the criminal proceedings for about 3-4 months.

Page 9 of 17
50.

51.

52.

53.

WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

However, she was promoted so had to pass my case onto her colleague who

turned out to be useless.

On 16 June 2006, I attended a plea management case hearing where I pleaded

not guilty to two counts of theft and five counts of false accounting.

When I started at the branch the Post Office sent over a young Indian man to
work in the branch, he was not there to train me but, he knew more about the
Horizon system than any of us. He tried to show me how different things worked
on the Horizon system, he was a great help to me at the time. By the time it came
to my prosecution he had gone back to India. The Post Office tracked him down
but on the day of my hearing he disappeared, and would not take part in the

proceedings.

On 5 November 2007, following discussions between the prosecution and my
counsel, two further counts were added to the indictment alleging false
accounting in relation to shortfalls of £28,150 and £10,000 respectively. On the
advice of my barrister, I pleaded guilty to these additional counts and the other

seven counts were ordered to lie on the file.

On day 3 of my court hearing my Barrister told me he really did not have time for
my case because he had a bigger case in London to focus on and that he wanted
to deal with my case quickly. My barrister advised me to plead guilty to false
accounting because that would save me from going in the dock, I wouldn’t be
prosecuted for theft and I would get a suspended sentence instead of going to

prison.

Page 10 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

54. I kept being told I could end up serving 18 months in prison, which terrified me. I
was advised that accepting the charge of false accounting would mean avoiding
prison, which provided me with some relief. I wish I had never listened to my
barrister, but at the time I did not know any better and I trusted the advice I was
given. I was completely out of my depth, I really did not understand what was

going on.

55. The thought of going to prison was killing me inside, so anything that meant I
would avoid prison sounded like a good option; and my barrister made me feel as
though pleading guilty to the charge of false accounting really was my best
option. I was naive towards the legal system and trusted his advice, all I could
think about was the fact that I have got my children and husband and mother to

look after.

56. I had no support because my husband Mark had to work and do the school run
while my hearing was taking place, but had he have been there he never would

have let me plead guilty to false accounting.

57.1 felt terrible having to plead guilty but my solicitor advised me to take the offer
and my Barrister could not wait to get out of there. Looking back, I should never

have listened to his advice.

58. On 3 December 2007, I was sentenced to 51 weeks’ imprisonment suspended for
two years with a requirement to carry out 150 hours of unpaid work and a two-
year supervision requirement. I was also ordered to pay £500 towards the costs

of the prosecution.

Page 11 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

59. Hearing my sentence made me feel guilty, like I had actually taken the money
even though I knew I had not. My life just crumbled around me, I had been

prosecuted for something I had not done, and I had no way to get out of this.

60. Last year I received a letter informing me that I could appeal my conviction, so I

started the process of getting my conviction overturned.

61. My application was heard by the Court of appeal on 22 March 2022 and on 31
March 2022 the Court of Appeal quashed my conviction.

62. It has taken me all these years to get someone to believe that I did not steal any
money and I should have felt completely elated when my conviction was quashed

however, I couldn’t help but feel too little too late.

63. Once you have been labeled a criminal and got a name like that for yourself no
one is going to believe you’re now innocent all these years later. No one believed
me in the first place and the damage has already been done. My life was

destroyed, my husband’s life was destroyed and my children’s lives were affected.

HUMAN IMPACT

64. The Post Office put me in a very awkward position from day one. I had applied for
a low level counter assistance role, but I was thrown in to a managerial role
because no one else was available to take on the role. The Post Office were aware

of my lack of experience in such a role but they did not seem to care.

Page 12 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

65.1 had no idea at the time that being made manager, also made me personally

responsible for huge sums of money. That was not the job I applied for.

66. The whole job was completely beyond my experience or ability. I struggled with
things like postal orders and the end of day balancing. Then there was the task of
ordering monies and taking monies in, dealing with driving licenses and passports
which I was not trained to do. There was so much paperwork involved and not
knowing how to do these things properly was very stressful and put me ina very

difficult position.

67. Whilst I was employed at the branch,
of weeks. I had never been away before, and Mark and I had been saving for

almost two years to go on this holiday.

68. The Post Office accused me of using post office money to book this holiday. I was
questioned about this during my interview with the investigators and I had to
inform them that I had booked through a travel agent and I was paying them

£100 - £150 over several weeks and that I did not pay for it in one go.

69. To have a day off work was unheard of; it was unbelievable and very rarely
happened. A man from London would come in most Saturdays to help cover the
hours, I felt bad bringing him in all the time but he would fill in if we did not have

anyone else to do so. This went on for about a year.

70. The impact this had on me was huge, I have lost 19 years of my life because of
the actions of the post office against me. It has affected my entire life and my
friends and family’s lives too. We lost all of our friends as a result of what

happened, and the only friends we have now know nothing about my

Page 13 of 17
71.

72.

73.

74,

75.

76.

WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

background. My husband and I both have big families but unfortunately, they all

turned their backs on us too because of the allegations against me.

It totally changed our lives. We lost our home because we rented and the
landlord wanted us out, so he gave us 6 weeks to move out. We were under so

much pressure and stress at the time and

didn’t even have the time because we had to find somewhere to

live.

We have been struggling ever since. We went from living a comfortable, happy

life to having it all taken away from us because of the actions of the Post Office.

We lost so many friends because they assumed I was guilty. I even lost my best

friend through it; it tore our friendship apart.

My reputation was destroyed because the local paper printed that I had been

charged with theft, they did not even accurately report what had happened.

My husband suffered at work due to the rumors about me, and my children
suffered because we were no longer able to give them the life they should have
had. They were too young to understand what was happening at the time so we

had to hide everything from them.

Our boys are now 28 and 25 and my husband and I have only just told them in
the last 3 weeks everything that happened to me, and it was the hardest thing I

have ever had to tell them.

Page 14 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

77. How my husband and I stayed together through all of this, I will never know, but
he is the only one who has stood by me all the way, and for that I am extremely

grateful to him.

78.I could not get another job after the conviction. My options became extremely
limited and my probation officer told me that I will struggle to find work again,
because I was now considered a thief and I will never be able to work with

children. Hearing things like that made me feel physically sick.

79. As part of my sentence, I was order to undertake unpaid work in a charity shop.
After I had completed my hours there, I stayed on for a further 5-6 years because

I knew I would not get a job anywhere else.

80. During all of thi: ‘and I was trying to look after her while

dealing with the accusations against me.

81. Over the years I have tried to block everything out because it clashed with my

i I ended up being prosecuted at the same time that

82. My mental health suffered immensely through all of this. The whole thing turned

me into a vegetable, I even tried to take my own life.

83.1 felt as though I could not go out and even now my conviction has been
overturned and the door is open, I still feel I cannot go out because I do not feel

my name has been cleared, no one knows that my conviction was quashed.

Page 15 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

CONCLUSION

84, I have lost 19 years of my life, time that I can never get back. I have been unable
to work due to my conviction, I lost my home, family and friends, the post office

took everything from me.

85. My husband and I had built a comfortable life together that the post office

completely ruined.

86.1 want the Post Office and all those who knew of the faulty system to hold their

hands up and take some accountability for the harm they have caused.

87. We have suffered for too many years and it is about time those responsible

experienced exactly what we went through.

88. The experience that we have gone through at the hands of the Post Office is

horrendous and I do not believe it has changed today.

89. Someone needs to finally put a stop to this.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Page 16 of 17
WITNO3690100
WITNO3690100

SIGNE:. brereeveneineeeerenemnerneeny Dated: 09/05/2022

Margaret White

Page 17 of 17
