WITNO1750100

WITNESS: MOHAMMAD RASUL
STATEMENT NUMBER: WITNO175_01
EXHIBITS: 0

DATED: Jan 12,2022

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WRITTEN STATEMENT OF MR MOHAMMAD RASUL

THIS STATEMENT IS PROVIDED IN RESPONSE TO THE RULE 9 REQUEST OF

THE PUBLIC INQUIRY DATED 29/10/2021 TO ADDRESS THE HUMAN IMPACT OF

THE FAILINGS OF THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM

I, MR MOHAMMAD RASUL.

nill say as follows: -

PERSONAL BACKGROUND

1. I was born in Pakistan and emigrated to the UK in 1964, at approximately 9
years of age. I had a relatively happy childhood with two brothers and five
sisters. I am the eldest child. Both of my brothers have unfortunately passed
away.

2. I settled down in the UK quickly and attended a mainstream school. I passed
my CSE exams, and left school wanting to become a Pilot. Unfortunately, my

eyesight did not meet the level required so I went on to complete my O levels

Page 1 of 12
WITNO1750100

and started an apprenticeship and an ONC in Mechanical Engineering at
approximately 18 years of age.

3. I then studied Mechanical Engineering at Salford University. It took longer than
usual for me to finish at university as I married in 1977. I graduated at
approximately 25 years old. Although my marriage was an arranged one, it was

a successful one. I have 3 daughters and a son.

POST OFFICE HISTORY

4. When my first daughter was born, I secured a position as a Postman to support
her and my family. Whilst working as a Postman, I also studied architecture
and, during my retirement I have achieved a City and Guilds in AutoCAD
design.

5. In 1985 I was offered a position working behind the counter at the Post Office.
I worked at different branches around Preston for approximately 5 years. I was
then promoted to Post Officer in around 1990.

6. In around 1994 / 1995, I worked as a Counter Clerk for 2-3 years. In 1997 the
Post Office asked for people to take voluntary redundancy.

7. The Area Manager asked if I would like to run the local sub-post office and
private shop attached. I became Sub-Postmaster of the Tootal Drive Post Office
from March 1997 until an audit took place on 10 March 2005. I bought the
business for about £55,000, funded by my own savings and the sale of our
home in Blackburn.

8. I bought everything we needed to run the business, including stock, and I

refurbished the residential property for my family to move to.

Page 2 of 12
WITNO1750100

9. In 2000, the Horizon system was installed in my branch. Prior to this, I received
a couple of days of training at a hotel in Stockport. The training was very basic.
I received no further training on Horizon after it was installed.

10.1 initially experienced some small unexplained shortfalls, which I would cover
with my own money, but by 2004 they were much larger. In late 2004, I
experienced a large shortfall of around £12,000. I could not afford to pay this
shortfall. As I was under pressure to keep trading and to keep the Post Office
open for the community, I carried the shortfall over when I balanced the
accounts each week.

11. I spent countless hours checking and rechecking all my paperwork, reviewing
CCTV to see if members of staff were stealing, and attempting to locate any
discrepancies. I could not see how the shortfalls had occurred. This was very
confusing, and it was hard to accept that I had done something wrong. I
struggled to understand how I could have done something so wrong that there
was a discrepancy of nearly £12,000. I felt totally isolated because I couldn’t
reach out to anyone in the Post Office regarding the issues.

12.In March 2005, the Post Office’s auditors arrived to carry out an audit, along
with my area manager. They arrived as soon as I opened the Post Office, closed
it, and locked me out.

13.Some years after my conviction, I developed the confidence to speak with other
people and eventually discovered a group litigation through the Justice for Sub-
postmasters (JSFA) in 2017. I joined in 2019, after hearing that 550 people had

been affected.

Page 3 of 12
WITNO1750100

CRIMINAL ALLEGATIONS AND ANY PROCEEDINGS/CONVICTION

14.My contract with the Post Office was soon terminated, and I was charged with
theft and false accounting in 2006, even though the shortfalls remained
unexplained and there was no evidence of me having taken the money.

15.I received my summons to Salford Magistrates Court shortly after June 2007.

16.1 initially pleaded not guilty at Salford Magistrates Court after the initial hearings
on 22 January 2007 and 19 March 2007, as I had done nothing wrong. My case
was then transferred to Manchester Crown Court. My initial hearing date was
adjourned from 8 May 2007 as I was charged with an additional 40 offences of
theft and false accounting. This was incredibly stressful, and I was very worried
about what was going to happen.

17.To avoid a custodial sentence, I felt I had no choice but to plead guilty to theft.
I could not imagine having to leave my family and go to prison. After receiving
legal advice and an assessment from a clinical psychologist, I decided to plead
guilty to 22 counts of theft. On 19 July 2007 I was sentenced at Manchester
Crown Court and received a 100-hour Community Service Order, a 3-month
curfew, an electronic tag and was ordered to pay £500 Court costs.

18.1 was also forced to pay all unexplained shortfalls back to the Post Office.
Following my trial, another shortage was discovered, and I had to repay another
£2000.

19.1 submitted a request for my curfew hours to be varied as the 3 months
coincided with Ramadan. This was agreed, to allow me to attend mosque for
prayer, though my curfew had to be extended by a further 3 months.

20.My conviction was quashed by the Court of Appeal on 23 April 2021.

Page 4 of 12
WITNO1750100

THE HUMAN IMPACT
21.The human impact which the failings of the Horizon IT System have had and
continue to have upon me, and my family are set out in the remainder of this

statement. The section headings follow the questions posed by the Inquiry.

WHAT WERE THE CONSEQUENCES OF BEING REQUIRED TO MAKE GOOD
APPARENT SHORTFALLS SHOWN BY THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM?

22.From 2000 to 2004, I experienced some shortfalls, but they weren't large. I just

paid them from my own reserves. In total, I paid about almost £18,000 in total

to the Post Office due to the shortfalls. Almost £12,000 of this was paid prior to

my sentencing hearing.

WHAT WERE THE COSTS OF MAKING GOOD ALLEGED SHORTFALLS SHOWN
BY HORIZON?

23.As stated earlier, I would cover the initial small unexplained shortfalls from my

own money. However, by 2004 the shortfalls were significantly larger, and I

could no longer afford to do this. I was under pressure to keep the Post Office

open for the community and decided to carry the shortfalls over when I

balanced the accounts each week.

HOW WERE YOU AFFECTED WHEN ALLEGED TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
SHORTFALLS OR DISCREPANCIES SHOWN BY THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM?
24.1 always knew that I would be responsible, in the Post Office’s eyes, for

shortfalls regardless of my innocence. I tried to make use of the Post Office’s

Page 5 of 12
WITNO1750100

Network Business Support helpline, but they were not helpful, and I suspected
they would jump to conclusions as I had worked for the Post Office for many
years. I was told that the Horizon system was totally reliable.

25.The helpline assumed that I had done something wrong every time I called. I
was told that any shortfalls were my fault. I was told in no uncertain terms that
it was my responsibility to make good the losses. This was frustrating as I
thought the helpline was meant to offer help with the problems Sub-
Postmasters experienced. Instead, I was told the same thing time and time
again. It was infuriating. I feel deceived and upset to have been lied to in my
time of need.

26.1 was deeply offended. I was given the impression that I was the only Sub-
Postmaster having these issues with the Horizon system. To be accused in this
manner was completely out of order. My guilt was presumed from the start,
which was hurtful.

27.Following my suspension, I was shocked and horrified. I was in disbelief and
was unable to find support from anywhere. I even approached my Union, but I
was told that if Horizon said that the money was missing then the money was
missing. I soon had to visit my GP as I was struggling to sleep due to the
situation.

28.My ability to concentrate significantly declined. My mind would flit in and out of
conversations and the television. It soon became an effort to attend to daily
activities and I recall my children telling me that I had worn the same shirt for
3-4 days in a row. I even stopped buying new items of clothing for myself as I
felt undeserving, and wary of the financial burden. I gained a significant amount

of weight through binge eating and felt tired all the time.

Page 6 of 12
WITNO1750100

WHAT WERE THE CONSEQUENCES OF BEING HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR
SHORTFALLS AND DISCREPANCIES SHOWN BY THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM?
29.In March 2005, the Post Office’s auditors arrived to carry out an audit, along
with my area manager. They arrived as soon as I opened the Post Office, closed
it, and locked me out. To be treated with such disrespect and lack of trust was
degrading. The auditors found the unexplained shortfalls and asked me what
had happened to the missing money. I explained that I did not know the answer
as I had searched CCTV and spent hours reviewing documents to find the
issue.

30.1 was then suspended and investigated. I was interviewed the same day, in the
kitchen without representation, by the Post Office’s Investigators, and I was
repeatedly told that I had “done it’. I was asked where the money was
repeatedly. The interviews were extremely aggressive, and the interviewers

were arrogant and presuming.

WHAT WERE YOUR FINANCIAL LOSSES CAUSED BY ACTION TAKEN AGAINST
YOU IN RELIANCE UPON HORIZON DATA?
31.As a direct result of the termination of my role at the Post Office, I lost my annual
income of £37,000. I would have continued to earn this amount until the point
of my retirement. This has had an impact on my family’s income and what we
could afford.
32. Following my conviction, the Post Office approached me to pay for some further

shortfalls in the sum of £2648.17.

Page 7 of 12
WITNO1750100

WHAT EFFECT DID IT HAVE TO BE ACCUSED OF COMMITTING CRIMINAL
OFFENCES AS A RESULT OF SHORTFALLS AND DISCREPANCIES SHOWN BY
THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM?
33.Even though I had done nothing wrong, I felt embarrassed, and I took steps
back from everything and everyone.
34.1 struggled with my mental health following the investigations by the Post Office
and with the criminal proceedings. I went through a horrible time.
35.1 soon found myself feeling worthless and hopeless and wishing I was dead.
36.1 saw a psychologist in July 2007 who diagnosed me with depression and
PTSD. At its worst I felt feelings of suicide. The thoughts of my family and my
religion stopped me from contemplating actual suicide.
37.Shortly after my conviction, I found myself to be hypervigilant. To this day, if
someone even parks close to me, I jump. I became increasingly suspicious of
people and became intolerant, impatient, and irritable.
38.1 felt constant guilt. If anything went wrong, I immediately accepted
responsibility.
39.My sleep continued to be disturbed and I even attended hospital between
2009 and 2010 for investigations. I suffered with vivid dreams and nightmares
3-4 times every month shortly after the conviction. I recall seeing images at

the front of my bed and hearing whispers as I drifted off to sleep.

WHAT WERE THE CONSEQUENCES OF BEING CONVICTED OF A CRIMINAL

OFFENCE AS A RESULT OF SHORTFALLS AND DISCREPANCIES SHOWN BY

THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM?

Page 8 of 12
WITNO1750100

40.My convictions affected me in different ways. I could not obtain any further
employment.

41.1 was unable to obtain a loan, I could not open a bank account and my motor
and household insurance premiums increased. I also had a poor credit rating.
It made life so much more difficult, which was incredibly stressful.

42.1 tried to find alternative employment, but I was rejected due to my conviction.
I looked into becoming a driving instructor and offered tutoring on Mechanical
Engineering, but my conviction soon put a stop to me pursuing either role.

43. Following my conviction, the Post Office approached me to pay for some further
shortfalls in the sum of £2648.17. The Post Office threatened to take further
criminal proceedings if I did not pay. Looking back, I believe the Post Office
took advantage of me in my most vulnerable state. I could not possibly go
through Court proceedings again so I had no choice but to pay. It was extremely
upsetting.

44.I have suffered physically, as well as emotionally. In 2015, due to severe
chest pains, I had a triple heart bypass. I also developed asthma. In my view,
this was in part due to the stress from the situation with the Post Office. These
physical symptoms had an impact when I developed Covid 19 in 2020. It was
thought that I would not survive, but I managed to get through.

45.I used to enjoy playing badminton and table tennis weekly but. after my
conviction, my ability to concentrate and my enthusiasm to play sport soon
diminished. I would also service cars and complete any DIY jobs around the
house but I lost the motivation and belief that I could achieve anything. I

completely lost my self-confidence.

Page 9 of 12
WITNO1750100

46.In 2007, following my conviction, I saw a Clinical Psychologist and was
diagnosed with Depression and PTSD. I was experiencing flitting suicidal

thoughts and developed hypertension.

WHAT EFFECT DID THESE ISSUES HAVE UPON YOUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH
YOUR FAMILY, FRIENDS, COLLEAGUES AND LOCAL COMMUNITY?

47.My curfew was due to be over on 19 February 2008. My father passed away on
13 February 2008. I was not able to see my father in the last hours of his life. I
was also unable to assist in arranging his burial. I will never forget this; it is still
incredibly upsetting.

48.My mum passed away in 2018, before I could tell her that my conviction had
been overturned.

49.1 used to be an active participant and host in a local prayer group,
accommodating frequent visitors to the family home. Unfortunately, we found
ourselves proactively avoiding people. I reduced my attendance at the mosque
and prayer groups, isolated myself from my friends and eventually stopped
engaging with the community. I would say that I became a hermit for 13-14
years. In the community, I knew that people gossiped, and I took comments to
heart.

50. Prior to my conviction, I was approachable and outgoing. I would go out of my
way to speak to somebody, even if I did not know them. I was seen as a pillar
of the Community. I then spent 14 years battling to prove my innocence.

51.1 continued to run the private shop within the Post Office until 2012 when I felt
forced to sell it. The number of customers passing through my store reduced

and I recall being shunned by some customers. I even had kids coming in

Page 10 of 12
WITNO1750100

shouting ‘you were caught thieving!’. This was devastating as I loved to serve
my community, but I felt I had no choice but to sell.
52.Due to my finances at the time, I had to ask my eldest daughter to fund my

younger daughter’s Law degree which I still carry tremendous guilt about.

PLEASE DESCRIBE THE DIRECT AND INDIRECT EFFECT WHICH THESE
ISSUES HAD UPON THE MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY?

53. It was traumatic for me and the family. My wife had a mini stroke in 2008/2009
and suffered strokes in 2016 and 2020. She has been on antidepressants since
2020.

54.1 fully believe this was due to the stress she was under, caused by my
suspension, the investigation and my conviction. She was very stressed at the
time, and I felt guilty that the investigation into my Post Office contributed to
this. Since my conviction, my wife has become more emotional.

55.1 only recently told my sister about my experiences. She was very upset. It was
horrible having to tell my loved ones about the dreadful experiences I went
through.

56.My youngest daughter struggled at university as she was so worried about me

and her mum whilst I was going through Court proceedings.

CONCLUDING REMARKS
57.Some years after my conviction, I developed the confidence to speak with other
people and eventually discovered a group litigation through the Justice for Sub-
postmasters (JSFA) in 2017. I joined in 2019, after hearing that 550 people had

been affected. I felt reassured but also angry that it was a system error rather

Page 11 of 12
WITNO1750100

than my own mistake. I also joined the class action to have the conviction
quashed, though I was fearful that everything would be taken from us again.

58. The Court of Appeal quashed my conviction on 23 April 2021.

59.1 am now retired and live in a mortgage-free property with my wife and youngest
daughter. My wife and I are in receipt of a state and Royal Mail pensions.

60.1 still have moments feeling depressed and still experience anxiety a few times
each day with symptoms including palpitations, sweaty palms, double vision
and blurred vision. For me, triggers include simply thinking about the Post
Office. I now avoid entering a Post Office or having anything to do with people

associated with the Post Office, apart from what is required for the group action.

Statement Of Truth

I believe the contents of this statement to be true.

Position Or

an 12,2002 GT) Office Held:

Print Full Date of signature: Jan 12, 2022

Name: MOHAMMAD RASUL

Page 12 of 12
WITNO1750100
