WITN11180103
WITN11180103

From: Andrew R Morley
To: Elliot Jacobs
Cc: ‘John Bartlett
Subject: RE: Private & Confidential
Date: 20 March 2023 08:45:30
Attachments:

imaae002,

ime 14.1

Good Morning Elliott,

I do not intend to enter in pre-interview protected correspondence regarding advance disclosure
which I am under no legal obligation to provide and is provided on this occasion out of courtesy
in order that you can have a high level understanding of the topics we wish to cover, which are
set out in the letter from Mr Bartlett. Further detail regarding POL’s concerns will be provided
during the interview.

lam seeking in advance of the interview your agreement to the recording of the interview which
of course will provide the most accurate record, enables a more natural conversation and is less
time consuming than the alternative and therefore, has to be in the best interests of all
concerned. If you agree to the recording then you will be provided with a copy of the recording
post interview (we will need sometime to make a copy of the recording and this will be forward
to you as soon as practically possible). If you are not in agreement to the recording of the
interview then we will have to revert to contemporaneous notes, which are very time consuming
and with the best will in the world provide a less accurate record. You should be advised that if
you elect to go down the contemporaneous notes route then we will have to extend the length
of the interview considerably and based upon my experience of such interviews I think it would
be wise to allow 6 hours for the interview.

Your sincerely

Andy Morley
Senior Investigations Manager

Central Investigation Unit

Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street
London, EC2Y 9AQ

WITN11180103

WITN11180103

From: Elliot Jacob: “GRO. I
Sent: 20 March 2023 08:22

To: Andrew R Morley { GRO }
Ce: John Bartlett C

Subject: Re: Private & Confidential

Caution: This email has been sent by an external contact. Please take care when clicking
links or opening attachments. When in doubt, please use the "Report Phishing" button.

Good morning Andy,

I will await your proper and fully disclosures and will then take the matter under advisement.

In addition, you have provided a highlight section of board minutes - can you please specify the
accusation being made for the avoidance of doubt and the evidence on which you are relying in

this regard?

Furthermore, who within or outside the post office has been provided with knowledge of this
accusation to date?

Kind regards
Elliot Jacobs

Sent from Outlook for iOS

From: Andrew R Morley;
Sent: Monday, March 20, 2023

Ce: John Bartlett {GRO
Subject: Private & Confidential

Good Morning Elliot,
Work continues to provide you with additional advanced disclosure. In the meantime in order
that I can make the appropriate arrangements for the interview planed for the 5 April can you

confirm that you are in agreement to the interview being recorded?

Thank you

Andy Morley
Senior Investigations Manager

/ GRO I
www. postoffice.co.uk

Central Investigation Unit
WITN11180103
WITN11180103

Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street
London, EC2Y 9AQ

JESSE HOSOI DESO E HOSE OSES ORE IOS CSSS SOS C SES ESE In IGE
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are
not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents
of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply
email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this
email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office:
Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.

FEES SISSIES SESS ESE SE SO CIE SISOS IE IEOCSSOSE SESE SSRI Rn aECEICE

Post Office Limited is committed to protecting your privacy. Information about how we do this

can be found on our website at www.postoffice.co.uk/privacy
