WITN04730100
WITN04730100

Witness Name: Simon Baker

Statement No.: WITN04730100

Dated: 25 October 2024

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF SIMON BAKER

I, SIMON BAKER, will say as follows:
A. INTRODUCTION

1 I am a former employee of Post Office Limited (“POL”). My career at POL began
in May 2009 as a Quality Assurance (“QA”) manager and ended in August 2013

as Head of Programmes & Planning.

2 I make this witness statement to assist the Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry (the
“Inquiry”) with the matters set out in the Rule 9 Request dated 2 August 2024
(the “Request’). Throughout this witness statement, I will use the structure and

headings of the Request.

3 The Inquiry has not asked me to give a complete account of every aspect of my
work, actions, and opinions whilst at POL. I have been asked a list of detailed
and specific questions. Accordingly, this statement is not a chronological list or
a complete account of all my actions but a series of answers to the questions I

have been asked.

Page 1 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

I have prepared and submitted this witness statement within two months of
receiving the Request on 2 August 2024, which was the first notification that I
had been asked to submit a witness statement to the Inquiry. The
accompanying disclosure to the Request amounted to over 540 pages, which
arrived in two tranches: 2 August 2024 and 12 September 2024. In addition, it
has been necessary for me to consider evidence given to the Inquiry by other
witnesses. Accordingly, I have tried to provide the Inquiry with the relevant
information to answer the questions to the best of my ability. I have not had the
time to comment on each document in the disclosure bundle, given the short
deadline to submit my witness statement, nor have I explained some of the
technical concepts and terms pertinent to the Inquiry on the basis that I believe
many of these are well known and understood by the Inquiry through other
witness evidence. Should the Inquiry wish for further information or for me to
expand upon any matters raised in this witness statement, I will do my best to

respond within a reasonable timeframe.

Within the Request, I am asked at various points to comment on my thoughts,
beliefs, concerns, opinions, and observations using the benefit of hindsight. To
do so, I have drawn on my recollection from the time to the best of my ability.
However, given the amount of additional information I have learned from
various sources about Horizon (as defined below) in the 11 years since I left
POL, it is difficult for me to attribute precisely the source of the information I
have gathered, especially as I no longer have access to my POL email account

or any other source documentation.

References to “SPMs” are to SubPostmasters, Subpostmistresses, Managers

and Assistants. “Horizon” refers to both variations of the Horizon IT Systems:

Page 2 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

Legacy Horizon and Horizon Online. References to “Legacy Horizon” are to
the first iteration of the Horizon. “Horizon Online or HNGx” is the second
iteration that was rolled out from March 2010. “Separation” is reference to POL
becoming independent from RMG on 1 April 2012. References to “BEDs” are
to bugs, errors, or defects with Horizon or any other IT system. References to

“Fujitsu” are to Fujitsu Limited.

Since my tenure at POL (May 2009 - August 2013), a significant amount of time
has passed. In making this statement, I have sought to refresh my memory from
the contemporaneous documents provided by the Inquiry insofar as possible. I
make this witness statement to the best of my recollection, knowledge, and
belief. My legal representatives assisted me in preparing this witness

statement.
. BACKGROUND

After completing my A-levels, I moved to Los Angeles, United States, where I
completed my undergraduate studies, obtaining a Bachelor of Arts in Liberal
Arts in 1989 from Ambassador University, Los Angeles. In 1994, I received a
Masters in Business Administration, from California State University,

specialising in Data Information Systems.

Between 1994 and 2004, I worked for GlaxoSmithKline. I initially started as a
project manager, responsible for delivering UK IT projects. I later became their
Head of Global Programmes, where I was responsible for leading global IT
programmes, implementing IT solutions, including Enterprise Resource
Planning (“ERP”), Customer Resource Management, etc., and deploying over

40 ERP platforms in 20 countries.

Page 3 of 43
10

11

12

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

From 2004 to 2007, I served as Head of IT for Digital Services at EMI Music. I
was responsible for the overall IT strategy, project delivery, and service
management for Digital Services. This involved building the digital supply chain,
digitalising the organisation's media assets, creating systems and business
processes to manage the metadata, and building links with Digital Service

providers.

From 2007 to 2008, I was Head of Development at WHSmith, responsible for
all IT changes. The projects varied from core infrastructure to logistics

solutions, retail-specific applications, and core ERP (Oracle) implementations.

(i) Roles and Responsibilities Within POL

In May 2009, I joined POL as QA Manager, reporting to Stephen Grayston,
Change Manager, and David Smith, Head of Operational Efficiency. This can
be seen from POL’s Organisational Chart dated 25 August 2009 (Organogram
seemingly covers the entire organisations (runs to 62 slides) -
FUJ00116860). At the time of joining, the QA team had three QA Managers,
namely Grayston, lan Oakley and me. Our responsibility was to independently
assess and perform quality assurance on POL’s IT programmes. Specifically, I
was assigned to independently assess, perform quality assurance, and offer
corrective plans on IT programmes, such as the SAP (enterprise software)
implementation in Chesterfield and the Master Data Management project. At no
time was I ever responsible for or involved in the QA of Horizon Online. Horizon
Online was a very large IT project with a separate Programme Delivery leader.
Mark Burley (“Burley”), Head of (IT) Projects, was responsible for Horizon
Online and for some of my time at POL (approximately 2009-2011) Burley was
also the IT leader responsible for all IT projects.

Page 4 of 43
13

14

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

In March 2011, I was promoted to Programme Manager, reporting to Lesley
Sewell (“Sewell”), Chief Information Officer. During this time, I led and was
responsible for delivering POL’s second-largest IT project, the POLSAP
implementation project (“POLSAP”). POLSAP aimed to merge three IT
systems into one system to manage POL’s cash supply chain: an SAP system,
an Oracle system, and an in-house POL system. During this time, I was
responsible for liaising with Fujitsu’s commercial team (separate from the
Horizon Online Fujitsu team) to negotiate the POLSAP contract. At this time,
my interactions with Fujitsu were limited to the POLSAP project. While I was
working on POLSAP, there were frustrations with Fujitsu in the early stages, as
Fujitsu’s performance was not where we needed it to be; the project missed its
milestones, and it was not going to deliver on time. I conducted a project reset,
which included swapping out their POLSAP lead person and rewriting our
POLSAP contract. After the project reset, around six to nine months later, the
relationship with Fujitsu started progressing more positively, and Fujitsu began
to deliver. I discuss my relationship with Fujitsu from 2012 onwards in section

H (Relationship with Fujitsu in 2012) below.

In mid-2011, after delivering the POLSAP implementation project, I became
responsible for leading POL’s IT projects for Government Services. Specifically,
I led POL’s Front Office of Government Services team, which was responsible
for actively responding to Government bids and tenders for Government
services POL could provide via POL’s branch network. At times, if a project or
service within my portfolio needed to interface with Horizon Online to deliver its
requirements in POL branches, I would ask the Horizon Online team to provide

their input into the tenders for procurement purposes. During my time in this

Page 5 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

role, we won seven contracts with Government agencies and _ local
Government, including the United Kingdom Border Agency, the Driver and
Vehicle Licensing Agency, the Department for Work and Pensions, and
Westminster City Council (“WCC”). For example, POL won a Government
contract to install IT equipment in Post Office branches to allow individuals to
process their biometrics for residence permits. We required assistance from the
Horizon Online team to develop the necessary IT system changes. The Horizon
Online team was responsible for delivering this IT solution as part of our
Government contract. Similarly, we won a contract with WCC to allow local
residents to pay their council tax at local post office branches. In this WCC
project, the Horizon Online team created the corresponding IT transaction in
Horizon Online to support this new type of transaction so it could be accepted

at Branch offices in the Westminster area.

In early 2012, Neil Lecky-Thompson (“Lecky-Thompson”), Head of
Programme and Planning, left POL. During this time, Sewell asked me to fill
Lecky-Thompson’s role temporarily, and therefore, I was promoted to Head of
Programmes and Planning, still reporting to Sewell. I was responsible for
delivering all of POL’s technology and business transformation programmes
except Horizon Online. During my time, I successfully delivered over 150 IT
projects and programmes. Further, during the Separation, I was responsible for
setting up POL’s independent IT programmes. For example, I implemented the
new IT systems to support finance and HR (e.g. SAP), e-business, and

customer contact centres.

In April 2012, Sewell, asked me to assist Susan Crichton (“Crichton”), General

Counsel, and facilitate the independent review of Horizon Online, known as

Page 6 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

Project Zebra. Project Zebra involved: (i) procuring an independent forensic
consultant; (ii) sending the Terms of Reference (“ToR”) to the preferred two
consultants; Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“Deloitte”) and Second Sight
Support Services Limited (“SS”); (iii) answering preliminary questions and
discussing their proposals; (iv) preparing summaries for POL to make the
decision on who to instruct; and (v) becoming the liaison (e.g. point of contact)
between POL and the selected consultant. I discuss my involvement in Project

Zebra in more detail section E (Review into Horizon) below.

In June 2012, I was informed that POL had selected SS to conduct the
independent review of Horizon Online (“SS Review”). From June 2012 until I
left in August 2013, I liaised with and facilitated SS by coordinating their
requests for information, documents, and data. For example, I would obtain and
provide legal and commercial documents from POL’s archives, as well as audit
records and BED defect logs, etc. During this time, Sewell asked me to attend
monthly meetings (“Monthly Meetings”) with Paula Vennels, (“Vennells”)
Crichton, Alwen Lyons (“Lyons”), Alice Perkins (“Perkins”), and Angela Van-
Den-Bogerd (“Van-Den-Bogerd’), (the “Core Team’) to provide them updates
on the SS Review. I do not recall Sewell attending the Monthly Meetings as she
was not part of the Core Team. It was my responsibility to prepare the written
updates ahead of the Monthly Meetings and report back on SS's findings. I did
not prepare any written updates for POL’s Executive Committee (“ExCo”) or
the Board of Directors (“BoD”); I am unaware of who from the Core Team

updated ExCo or the BoD.

(ii) Role After POL

Page 7 of 43
18

19

20

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

After leaving POL and between 2013 and 2017, I was the Head of Solution
Delivery at National Grid Electricity Transmission (“NGET”). I was responsible
for improving the performance of the NGET’s IT delivery function and delivering
over 100 IT projects. From 2017 to 2021, I was the Chief Information Officer
(“ClO”) and a member of the ExCo at NGET. In 2022 I moved to the USA to
take on the role of CIO US Customer at National Grid where I am accountable
for National Grid’s IT Customer strategy, ensuring it aligns with the business's

overall strategy.

. KNOWLEDGE OF HORIZON, LEGACY HORIZON, AND ROLL OUT OF

HORIZON ONLINE
(i) 2009-2010

I have been asked by the Inquiry to describe my knowledge of Horizon when I
joined POL and any changes to my knowledge throughout my time at POL. I
had no knowledge of Horizon when I joined POL nor during my early tenure. I
was not responsible for nor involved with any Horizon-related projects, and I
was not involved in the development, pilot, or rollout of Horizon Online (HNG-X

Programme Board Meeting of 08/07/2010 - FUJ00097616).

During my entire time at POL, the Horizon training team provided me with one
day of training on using Horizon. The training course was very high-level and
involved understanding the basic functions (e.g. counterwork, conducting basic
transactions such as helping customers with buying stamps, postage services,
mailing, social security payments, etc.). I received this training so that in the
event of strike action by POL workers, I as well as others that received the

training, could fulfil roles to help POL keep the post offices running. I do not

Page 8 of 43
21

22

23

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

recall which Horizon system I was trained on: Legacy Horizon or Horizon

Online.

Separately, I have been asked by the Inquiry to explain my understanding of
and/or involvement with the HNGx Joint Steering Board and the HNGx
Programme Board. From late 2009 onwards, I started attending monthly IT
meetings, known as the Joint Programme Board meetings, with other
Programme Delivery leaders. In those monthly Joint Programme Board
meetings, each Programme Delivery leader would share progress updates and
challenges on their projects; this was helpful in case there were
interdependencies between the IT projects (e.g. one IT program required
support from another IT program). For example, on 18 May 2010, I attended a
Joint Programme Board meeting, where Programme Delivery leaders shared
and provided updates on their IT projects, specifically the two largest Fujitsu
programmes at the time: POLSAP and HNGx. (Fujitsu - Joint Programme Board

- FUJ00095766).

As I mentioned, I was a member of the Joint Programme Board and attended
monthly meetings. However, I was not a member of or involved in the HNG-x
Programme Board and I do not recall being involved in an “HNG Joint Steering

Board” (FUJ00097616).

In March 2010, during Horizon Online’s rollout phase, I started becoming aware
of Horizon Online’s challenges and BEDs, such as performance and
responsiveness issues, during the early pilot phase. In one of the monthly Joint
Programme Board meetings, I recall Burley sharing some Horizon Online-
related operational challenges and/or defects, mainly around deployment and
performance (i.e. Horizon Online was not performing fast enough or as

Page 9 of 43
24

25

26

27

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

responsive as expected). In or around late 2010 early 2011, I remember the
performance issues led POL to temporarily stop the rollout of Horizon Online

across all branches.

I do not recall thinking the Horizon Online-related challenges were a “big deal”
at the time. I was not concerned as it is typical and expect IT issues in new
large IT deployments. For example, it is expected to discover BEDs outside of
a testing environment because the real-world environment is different, and
therefore, it is common to slow down the rollout of an IT programme. I would

have been more surprised if there were no IT issues.

The need to fix or update BEDs is not unusual, nor does it indicate integrity
issues with the system. Additionally, I do not remember hearing about any
integrity-related matters in any of the monthly Joint Programme Board
meetings. I did not have any concerns with the integrity of Horizon Online at
this time as I was confident in POL’s testing team, which I knew worked

thoroughly and diligently.

As I was not responsible for Horizon Online and not part of the Horizon Online
programme team, I did not take any steps to address any challenges in Horizon
Online. In any case I also did not think they were challenges for which I needed
to intervene. Additionally, I did not communicate or share information regarding
Horizon with the ExCo, BoD, or any similar committee. I believe the Horizon
Online programme team communicated the challenges to the ExCo or BoD; I

was not privy to these meetings.

At the time, the objectives of the Horizon Online upgrade from Legacy Horizon

were to reduce the running costs and address any architectural challenges (e.g.

Page 10 of 43
28

29

30

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

upgrade the user interface) (HNG-X Programme Board Meeting of 08/07/2010

- FUJ00097616).
(ii) 2012 - 2013

In or around June 2012, after POL selected SS and I started liaising with them,
I became more aware of Horizon Online’s specific BEDs from SS’s requests for
information, the documents, and my conversations with SS. Prior to SS’s
Review, I was unaware of instances of Fujitsu inserting, editing, or deleting
transaction data or data in branch accounts without the knowledge or consent
of SPMs. I was also not aware of Fujitsu exercising any direct remote access

without the knowledge and consent of SPMs.

From my experience with numerous IT systems where remote changes to data
are required, good processes and controls are needed. For example, when
users telephone a helpdesk line, they raise a ticket and escalate it to an IT
manager to authorise the change. Such a process should be logged and fully
auditable. I had no belief or understanding during this period that Fujitsu would
directly access Horizon Online independently without the SPM’s consent. My
natural assumption was that there would be controls in place and any direct
remote access to Horizon Online would create an audit log/trail. Given my
general knowledge of IT architecture and capability, at the time, I did not think
it was surprising that Fujitsu had direct remote access to Horizon Online, as
direct access to IT systems and the capabilities to make data updates are

possible in any IT system.

Towards the end of 2012, during a telephone meeting with SS, SS asked me

to inquire with Fujitsu about direct remote access with Horizon Online. I asked

Page 11 of 43
31

32

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

Gareth Jenkins (“Jenkins”), the Fujitsu Engineer and my point of contact at
Fujitsu at the time, about Fujitsu’s direct remote access controls. He informed
me that Fujitsu could directly and remotely update the SPM’s database, and
that Fujitsu had good controls in place. He did not specify the controls or explain
whether SPMs needed to consent to any or all database changes. I relayed my
discussion with Jenkins to SS. I recall SS then liaised directly with Rod Ismay
(“Ismay”), Head of Product and Branch Accounting, on this issue and
requested additional specific information, including process flow charts and

data around transactional corrections from Ismay

During the next Monthly Meeting with the Core Team after the telephone call
with SS, I provided an update and mentioned that Fujitsu could directly and
remotely access the SPMs database. I remember Vennells appeared surprised
by this information, based on her body language, which I found puzzling since
direct remote access was possible in any IT system, and there must be controls
in place. I recall reassuring her that this was a standard feature in IT systems.
As I was already providing regular updates to the Core Team (who were also
members of ExCo), I never communicated or shared information directly with
the ExCo, BoD, or any similar committee. I believe members of the Core Team
would have communicated the challenges to the ExCo or BoD; I was not privy

to these meetings.

During my entire time at POL, I was never directly informed that Fujitsu had
accessed and changed SPM data on Horizon Online without their consent.
However, in my regular meetings with SS, I was aware that SS had raised this
as a potential concern with Ismay. In the email dated 5 July 2012, from SS to

Ismay, SS raised concerns about the adequacy of the controls, specifically

Page 12 of 43
33

34

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

pointing out that the measures in place for direct and remote access might not
have been sufficient. I cannot recall if I discussed SS’s concerns with the Core
Team (Email from Simon Baker to Rod Ismay, Alana Renner, Mike Granville

and others re: Today’s meeting- POL00107746).

. Tand CHANGE

I have been asked by the Inquiry to describe my understanding and involvement
of the IT & Change Weekly Highly Reports. In my last role as Interim Head of
Programmes & Planning, I would ask each of my direct reports to provide me
with a status update on POL’s IT projects in my portfolio. I would review each
update and prepare the weekly status update reports: IT & Change Weekly
Highlight Report & Service Management Weekly Performance Reports. The
purpose of these reports was to provide a status update of POLs IT projects to
Sewell. These reports included detailed updates on POL’s IT projects
(excluding Horizon). I would send these weekly reports to Sewell every Friday
(IT & Change - Weekly Highlight Report - week 7. Owner Steve Allchorn and
Sponsored by Lesley J Sewell - POL00340358 and POL Service Management
Weekly Performance Measures - Week Ending 3rd March 2013 -

POL00340359).

. REVIEW INTO HORIZON

I have been asked by the Inquiry to outline the background and my involvement
in Project Zebra. As mentioned in paragraph 16, Project Zebra was an
independent review of Horizon Online. Legal Services (“Legal”), headed by
Crichton, was responsible for overseeing and managing Project Zebra in its

entirety. Although I do not remember seeing the Briefing Note signed by Legal

Page 13 of 43
35

36

37

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

Services on 20 April 2012, it confirms that Legal was in charge of managing the

independent review (Briefing Note - POL00057623).

In June 2012, during Project Zebra's kick-off meeting with the Core Team,
Perkins explained to me that the purpose of the Project Zebra was to conduct
an independent review of Horizon Online focused on “uncovering the truth”. I
recall Perkins mentioning that an independent review of Horizon Online would
enable POL to address issues related to the integrity of the system and offer a
reassuring response to Members of Parliament (“MPs”). Through informal
discussions with Sewell and Crichton, as well as indirect remarks made during
the Monthly Meetings, I began to feel that POL was facing pressure from MPs

who expressed concerns that POL might have wrongfully prosecuted SPMs.

I was not involved in drafting or preparing the ToR sent to the consultants. In
an email dated 8 June 2012, from Alice Perkins to Susan Crichton and Paula
Vennells with Alwen Lyons, Lesley Sewells and me on copy, Perkins forwards
a revised draft version of the ToR. I believe I was only copied in to keep me
involved and for background and understanding purposes (Email from Alice
Perkins to Susan Crichton and Paula Vennells re: Horizon investigation -

POL00113792).

I do recall seeing an email explaining why other external auditors, such as EY,
could not be used at that time, but I do not remember the specific reasons.
Crichton introduced SS to me, as she was familiar with them from her previous
job. I cannot recall why Deloitte was asked to submit a tender, but I suspect it
was because POL had an existing audit relationship with Deloitte (Deloitte
Project Zebra Supporting Your Assurance Needs - Post Office Limited —
POL00027716).

Page 14 of 43
38

39

40

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

I was not involved in the decision-making process or the selection of SS; I
believe Crichton ultimately made the final decision. No explanation was given
to me for why SS was chosen over Deloitte. I assumed that POL selected SS
because their fees were significantly lower than Deloitte, as there did not seem
to be any other rationale more advantageous for not choosing to instruct

Deloitte.

I have been asked by the Inquiry to comment on document referenced
POL00295178 and to describe my views as to the ‘robustness’ of Horizon
Online at the time. In May 2012, before the SS Review commenced, Angela
Van-Den-Bogard sent an email to Craig Tuthill dated 1 May 2012. In the email,
Van-Den-Bogard explained that Perkins had asked me to find a way of
“demonstrating that the Horizon [Online] system is robust and not subject to
glitches”. I do not recall Perkins ever asking me to find a way of demonstrating
that Horizon Online was robust and not subject to glitches. Once SS
commenced their review, my understanding and belief was that the SS Review
was conducted with an approach to find the truth regardless of the
consequences. Throughout my time assisting SS, SS were provided the
freedom to conduct their review independently (Email from Angela Van Den
Bogerd to Craig Tuthill re IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE - Urgent Request

Please - POL00295178).

Regarding Horizon Online’s robustness, at this time, in May/June 2012, I was
not aware of any evidence to suggest systematic defects with Horizon Online.
While I was open to the idea that there could be problems, I believed it was
unlikely that any widespread Horizon Online defects were causing the cash

shortfalls in the SPM accounts. I have been asked by the Inquiry to explain my

Page 15 of 43
4

42

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

understanding of the Shoosmiths’ legal action. I became aware of Shoosmiths’s
litigation in June 2012 during an informal conversation with some members of
the Legal department; though I cannot remember who they were. I understood
from those conversations that Shoosmiths represented many of the SPMs
(together with the JFSA). I did not attend any meeting where Shoosmiths’s
litigation was discussed. There was a general internal understanding, based on
casual chat, that any court issues involving Horizon Online at that point had led
to positive outcomes for POL. This led to an internal understanding that there

were no integrity issues with Horizon Online.

From April 2013 onwards, I began to question how SPMs were being treated,
which needed improvement, rather than any significant flaw with the Horizon
Online system itself. SS shared various examples and cases with me that
reinforced my belief that POL mistreated the SPMs. For instance, POL did not
provide adequate support to SPMs when they raised concerns through the help
desk. I brought this issue to the Core Team during our Monthly Meetings. It was
the collective opinion of the Core Team that a good way forward would be for
POL to acknowledge the mistreatment and lack of support, offer an apology,
provide compensation where necessary, and improve communication with the
SPMs. However, based on my knowledge at the time, I did not believe POL
needed to accept that there was a widespread IT issue with Horizon Online, as
I did not think any known BEDs in Horizon Online were responsible for the

monetary shortfalls that were experienced by the SPMs.

On 8 July 2013, SS released their interim report (“SS Interim Report”) of their
findings, which validated my opinion. The SS Interim Report concluded that

there was no systemic issue with Horizon Online, though there were concerns

Page 16 of 43
43

44

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

with the processes surrounding its use (Signed Interim Report into alleged
problems with the Horizon system - POL00191272). I discuss SS’s Interim

Report in more detail in section K (Second Sight Interim Report 2013) below.

. ENGAGEMENT with MPs DURING 2012

I have been asked by the Inquiry to detail the nature and scope of my
interactions with MPs in 2012. My involvement was primarily focused on
preparing briefing packs and agendas for POL-relevant employees who
engaged with MPs, including Crichton, Lyons, Van-Den-Bogard, and Vennells.
Crichton assigned me the task of compiling the briefing materials. To do this, I
gathered information and case summaries from Legal and organised the packs
to clearly represent POL’s position (which I have been told by Legal at the time
that there were no fundamental problems with Horizon Online), ensuring that
attendees were well-prepared for the meetings. Finalising the briefing notes
was a collaborative process involving myself, Crichton (and other Legal team
members), Van-Den-Bogard, and Ismay (Email from Simon Baker to Alwen
Lyons, Angela Van Den Bogerd, Chris Darvill and others Re: Agenda for

tomorrow's meeting - POL00137247).

From early 2012, I started to be copied into emails discussing meetings with
MPs for background and context; however, I never directly engaged, met,
emailed, or communicated with MPs. Although I never attended the meetings
with MPs, I understood from Crichton the purpose of the meetings was to
discuss the concerns of SPMs in their constituencies (Email from Chris Darvill
to Susan Crichton, Alwen Lyons and Simon Baker. RE: FW: FW: FOR ACTION:
Ref: PV 1380 Customer name: Rt Hon Alan Duncan MP Feedback due: 10 April
2012 Case signatory: Michele Graves - update, please - POL00143030).

Page 17 of 43
45

46

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

In an email dated 30 April 2012 from me to Susan Crichton, Alwen Lyons, Rod
Ismay, Chris Darvill and copying Lesley Sewell, I explained my intention to use
the South Warnborough case of Jo Hamilton as an example to reassure James
Arbuthnot (“Arbuthnot”) of the integrity of Horizon Online for the May briefing
pack. In the email, I asked Ismay to “take us through the audit records (currently
locked in the safe) [and] explain [how] to interpret them and how the[y] support
our case”. I recall that POL’s procedure was to keep all audit records stored in
a safe for security purposes. At the time, I believed there was nothing
fundamentally wrong with Horizon Online, and we aimed to provide evidence
related to Jo Hamilton’s legal case to reiterate POL’s confidence in the
conviction. Therefore, I wanted Ismay to review the audit records to
demonstrate to the MPs that audit trail would confirm Horizon Online’s reliability
(Email from Simon Baker to Susan Crichton, Alwen Lyons, and Chris Darvill re

Agenda for prep meeting - POL00181179).

At the time of preparing these briefing packs, I started to learn about the
prosecutions in more detail. Although I was not involved in reviewing or
analysing the criminal prosecutions, I liaised with Legal to obtain and collate
summaries of criminal prosecutions to include in the briefing packs. I tried to
anticipate scrutiny and possible questions from MPs, ensuring that the
information was accurate and logical. For example, I recall anticipating
questions around the growth of Jo Hamilton’s cash discrepancy and why POL
did not intervene earlier. Accordingly, I raised the issue with Chris Darvill
(‘Darvill’), Legal Services, particularly asking why no one flagged the cash
discrepancies sooner. In an email dated 11 May 2012, Darvill informed me that

Graham Brander, an Investigation Manager, had prepared a report for Juliet

Page 18 of 43
47

48

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

McFarlane, an in-house lawyer overseeing the prosecutions. The report
suggested that the significant cash holdings were not flagged immediately
because the branch did not have an Overnight Cash Holding target, a
requirement normally set by an automated system. In cases where too much
money was held, a “pop-up” message would usually appear on the Horizon
Online terminal, but in this instance, no such message appeared, which may
explain why the issue remained unnoticed until March 2006 (Email from Chris

Darvill to Simon Baker, RE: South Warnborough - POL00057728).

Documents POL00179839 and POL00179925 are examples of briefing packs
that I prepared in 2012.The briefing pack dated 17 May 2012 lists the MPs who
attended, including Arbuthnot (MP for Northeast Hampshire) and Oliver Letwin
(MP for West Dorset), alongside POL’s representatives, including Vennells,
Perkins, Crichton, and Sewell. This pack included case reviews of Jo Hamilton
and Tracey Merrick’s case, as they were members of Arbuthnot’s and Oliver
Letwin’s constituencies. Since I did not believe there were any fundamental
integrity issues with Horizon Online, I included graphs illustrating the significant
growth in Jo Hamilton’s cash shortfalls, which led us to speculate that the
missing cash had to be going somewhere (Meeting Pack for James Arbuthnot
and Oliver Letwin for 17 May 2012 POL00179839 and Post Office Pack for
meeting with James Arbuthnot and other MPs Meeting scheduled for 18 June

2012, 6 pm, Portcullis House POL00179925).

I have been asked by the Inquiry to outline my views on POL’s approach
towards MPs at this time. I believe POL knew that scrutiny by MPs was a
problem that needed to be taken seriously because POL is 100% owned by the

UK Government. Based on conversations and insights I gained from the

Page 19 of 43
49

50

51

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

Monthly Meetings, it was clear that when POL representatives, namely,
Vennells, Perkins, Crichton, and Sewell, engaged with MPs, their underlying
approach was to present a strong and detailed defence of POL’s position. I
believe POL’s decision to conduct the independent review was right, given the

small but growing number of vocal MPs asking questions about Horizon Online.

. SECOND SIGHT — INITIAL ENGAGEMENT IN 2012

In June 2012, following SS’s instruction, my primary roles and responsibilities
were to: (i) liaise with Ron Warmington (“Warmington”) and lan Henderson
(‘Henderson’) from SS; and (ii) gather the information and data they requested

and provide it to them.

During my initial meetings with SS, they gave me a substantial document
request, which took considerable time to compile. This involved retrieving
archived data and technical documentation, including audit logs, emails,
process documentation, contracts, etc. Throughout their review, they continued
to request additional information. For instance, I remember SS asking for a
Horizon Online bug list later in the process, which I subsequently requested

and obtained from Fujitsu.

In SS's initial proposal and methodology, their approach involved conducting
spot reviews, which meant reviewing a sample of SPM cases from start to finish
(‘Spot Review’). I was not involved in the decision to conduct Spot Reviews.
My role was limited to assisting SS with these Spot Reviews by gathering
information from the relevant departments. For example, if SS had any
questions or needed data for a specific Spot Review case, they would reach

out to me, and I would either provide the information or connect SS with the

Page 20 of 43
52

53

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

appropriate department. For example, if SS required legal files, I would locate
the physical documents from POL’s storage, and if technical data was required,

I would connect SS with Jenkins at Fujitsu.

I met with Warmington and Henderson fortnightly, either face-to-face or via
telephone. Warmington was responsible for conducting field visits, while
Henderson reviewed the technical data. During our meetings, SS would either
request additional documents or provide updates on their review. SS
occasionally asked if I faced any challenges retrieving the data. I do not recall
any issues with data retrieval from POL’s departments or employees. From my
understanding of what my role was, I understood from Crichton my aim was to

assist SS in their investigation.

As in paragraph 38 above, I was not involved in the decision-making process
regarding the choice of consulting firm for the independent investigation.
However, had I had been consulted, I would have preferred Deloitte, as I
believed their reputation as one of the ‘Big 4’ audit firms would enhance the
credibility of their findings, making it difficult for stakeholders like the JFSA and
MPs to undermine or discredit their review. Additionally, I thought POL should
not select the sample list of cases for SS’s review to avoid accusations of
“cherry-picking”. Instead, my view was that the Spot Review process had to be
transparent and fully agreed upon by all stakeholders. In an email dated 26 July
2012, sent to Alwen Lyons, Susan Crichton, Angela Van-Den-Bogerd, Ron
Warmington, lan Henderson, and Rod Ismay, I emphasised that POL should
not be involved in determining which cases to include. I do not remember
anyone challenging my email, and to the best of my recollection, POL did not

try to influence the selection of cases for the review (Email from lan Henderson

Page 21 of 43
54

55

56

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

to Simon Baker, Alwen Lyons, Susan Crichton and others. Re: 2nd Sight Audit

- POL00091031).

Following my fortnightly meetings with SS, I would prepare and share an update
in my Monthly Meetings with the Core Team. For example, I would send regular
updates to Crichton and Lyons (Case review status update of Sub-Postmasters
- Second Sight and MPs - POL00180883). From my recollection, I believe SS
also had ad hoc update meetings with Crichton and Lyons, which I was not

involved in.

I have been asked by the Inquiry to outline my involvement and interactions

with MPs, the Media, and the JFSA.
(i) Interactions with MPs

I never provided MPs with any official response or discussed SS’s Review with
MPs, as that was not part of my responsibilities. I was aware of SS’s meetings
with MPs as previously mentioned above. For example, in an email chain dated
5 July 2012 between me, Rod Ismay, and Ron Warmington with Susan
Crichton, lan Henderson, Alana Renner, Mike Granville, Lesley Sewell, Angela
Van-Den-Bogard and Alwen Lyons on copy, Warmington shared notes from his
meeting with MPs. He informed us that the meeting covered the review’s scope,
SS’s independence, and issues with Horizon Online. In the same email chain,
Ismay removed SS from copy and created an internal discussion where he
commented on Warmington’s update. I responded, noting that “[t]here is a risk
that the review will be inconclusive which will probably lead to demands of more
work, e.g. a drains up review of the Horizon [Online] which will be expensive

but if it puts the issue to bed probably worth it”. In essence, I told Ismay that SS

Page 22 of 43
57

58

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

must reach its own independent conclusions (by which I meant they should not
be wrongly influenced by POL), but SS’s approach of reviewing only a sample
of cases might not yield definitive results, possibly leading stakeholders to
request a more comprehensive review of Horizon Online, which would be

expensive (POL00107746).

From my perspective, the Core Team were eager to ensure that MPs and the
JFSA were aligned with the nature and scope of SS’s Review. SS regularly
provided updates to some members of the Core Team on their meetings with
MPs and the JFSA on the nature and scope of their review. For example, in an
email dated 13 July 2012, Henderson shared a note detailing the sample
selection process and access to information and data, including access to
relevant records and POL’s retention policy (Email from Susan Crichton to
Alwen Lyons et al re: Notes from today’s meeting at Portcullis House -

POL00180866).

Other updates from Warmington regarding his meetings with MPs are
documented in POL00143372 and POL00143373, where Warmington emails
me, Susan Crichton, and lan Henderson with notes from meetings with James
Arbuthnot (MP), Alan Bates (SPM), and Kay Linnell (JFSA) (Email from Simon
Baker to Alwen Lyons re notes from today’s meeting at Portcullis House -
POL00143372 and Notes from meeting at Portcullis House 12.07.2012 -
Present: James Arbuthnot MP; Alan Bates, Kay Linnell, lan Henderson, Ron

Warmington - POL00143373).

(ii) Interactions with the Media

Page 23 of 43
59

60

61

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

I never directly engaged or communicated with any media outlet. However, I
sometimes interacted with POL’s Public Affairs (“PA”) team to confirm that SS’s
Review was properly characterised in the media. For example, Legal assigned
me the task of preparing briefing notes and/or liaising with the PA team to
review specific media posts (Post Office Limited - Internal Briefing Note to Paula
Vennells: Second Sight Review into Horizon -Implications of Interim Report —
DRAFT - POL00115919). Additionally, in an email from Alana Renner
(‘Renner’), Deputy Communications Director, dated 15 January 2013, Renner
asked me to look at a specific media article to confirm SS’s Review was
accurately characterised in the article. From recollection I did review the article
and confirmed that it reflected the SS investigation accurately (Email from
Alana Renner to Simon Baker cc’d Mark R Davies re: JFSA - two more press

pieces - POL00161845).

In another instance, Lyons requested my help in coordinating a response to the
media concerning SS’s Interim Report. Legal drafted the content, the PA team
made modifications, and I reviewed it for accuracy. I confirmed the accuracy of
the content in an email from Ronan Kelleher, Head of PA and Media. However,
I did not approve the tone of the media message, as determining the tone was
outside my responsibilities (Email from Simon Baker to Ronan Kelleher, CC’ing
Alwen Lyons, Susan Crichton, and others regarding the 2nd Sight Review Draft

- POL00143499).
(iii) Interactions with the JFSA

I had limited contact or interactions with JFSA. I emailed Alan Bates (“Bates”),
a few times and met him and some JFSA members once in a meeting I helped
organise regarding the mediation scheme. For example, on 14 November 2012,

Page 24 of 43
62

63

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

I sent Bates an email with a draft of the immunity agreement prepared by Legal.
The immunity agreement was intended to protect any SPMs hesitant to come
forward with additional cases for SS’s review. I do not recall why I was asked
to send a legal document to Bates, but I assume it was an action point assigned
to me following a meeting with either Vennells or Crichton. I cannot recall if
Bates ever responded to my email (Email from Simon Baker to Martin Edwards
and Alwen Lyons Re “Raising confers with Horizon” document -

POL00143976).

. RELATIONSHIP WITH FUJITSU IN 2012

I have been asked by the Inquiry to describe my recollection of POL’s
relationship with Fujitsu. From what I observed during the Joint Board Meetings,
POL and Fujitsu’s Horizon Online team maintained a professional and effective
working relationship. Throughout the delivery of the complex Horizon Online IT
project, POL and Fujitsu developed a productive collaboration. While all
complex IT projects face challenges, it is my understanding, through my
observations at the Joint Program Board, that POL and Fujitsu successfully

navigated and resolved any issues that arose during difficult times.

From 2012, my relationship with Fujitsu’s Horizon Online team developed
through the SS Review. For example, in a meeting held on 27 July 2012, the
meeting minutes reflect a telephone conference between POL and Fujitsu.
Attendees from POL included Jane Owens (“Owens”), Security Manager and
myself. Henderson from SS was also present, along with Jenkins from Fujitsu.
During this meeting, we discussed the “Advanced Forensic” review of Horizon
Online, where SS would select and review 10-20 cases, both new and old. The
goal was to align POL and Fujitsu on the process for retrieving the necessary

Page 25 of 43
64

65

66

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

data for SS’s review. This proactive approach aimed to address SS’s requests
efficiently once the cases were identified. We also considered organising a
workshop to educate SS about Horizon Online’s architecture and provide
context for interpreting the data and process flows. I believe the workshop was
scheduled and took place, but I do not remember if I attended (Meeting minutes

of the telephone conference on 27 July 2012 - FUJ00232048).

As I mentioned earlier, Jenkins was my primary contact for obtaining Horizon
Online information while I assisted SS, and I would describe our interactions as
formal, helpful, transparent, and technical, but were limited to only discussing
SS’s requests. We did not have many back-and-forth conversations. I believe
Owens handled the commercial aspects for Fujitsu’s support with the SS
review; I don’t recall discussing any commercial details with Jenkins.
Additionally, SS established its own direct communication channels with
Fujitsu. For instance, Henderson would contact Jenkins directly for specific
technical queries, and I remember Henderson and Jenkins participating in a
Horizon Online technical workshop with Fujitsu, which I do not remember

attending.

I was aware that Jenkins was an expert technical witness for the criminal
prosecutions brought by POL at that time. However, we never talked about his
role in the prosecutions, and I didn’t inquire about it. I have not discussed the

prosecutions with any other Fujitsu employees either.

I have been asked by the Inquiry to outline my understanding of ARQ data. My
general understanding of ARQ data is that it is a way of auditing every single
keystroke, or electronic event that occurs in a Post Office branch (i.e., any
transaction or event can be audited at any specific time, and the audit log can

Page 26 of 43
67

68

69

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

be extracted). I do not recall what “ARQ” stands for; it is not a term familiar to

me from my time at POL.
HORIZON AND POL IN 2013

In early 2013, I grew increasingly concerned that the SS review was taking
longer than initially expected. Originally, it was scheduled to end in August
2012, but it became evident that the review was far from complete. Based on
my understanding of its progress—particularly regarding issues like direct
remote access, BEDs, and SBR training—I realised that the review might leave

POL with additional issues to address.

In January 2013, after a meeting with Crichton, Vennells, and Lyons, I emailed
Crichton explaining that we should consider adding possible negative findings
from the SS Review to POL’s organisational risk register. I had wanted to bring
this up during the meeting but hesitated, as the meeting was progressing
smoothly through the agenda, and I felt that introducing a new and potentially
challenging topic might not be well-received by Vennells and/or Lyons.
Therefore, I chose to address my concerns with Crichton via email, hoping that,
as Head of Legal and responsible for managing such risks, she might be able
to present the suggestion in a way that would be better received by Vennells
and Lyons. Crichton did not respond to my email, and I chose not to follow up,
trusting her judgement on whether to bring the matter to Vennells and Lyons
(Email chain from Simon Baker to Susan Crichton re organisational risks -

POL00184548).

At that time in early 2013, I had not seen any evidence of a widespread

systemic IT problem with Horizon Online; however, as the SS Review was

Page 27 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

ongoing and raising concerns about processes and controls, I felt it was
important to ensure that the potential for negative findings was acknowledged

at the Board level as a possible business concern.

In or around February 2013, I recall SS attempting to understand Fujitsu's direct
and remote access to SPM Horizon Online terminals. In an email dated 5
February 2013 from Ron Warmington to Rod Ismay and Angela Van-Den-
Bogerd, with me copied, Warmington sought to clarify POL’s involvement and
whether POL was aware that Fujitsu operated a basement office in Bracknell
where entries were made to the live Horizon Online system without the
knowledge or consent of SPMs. Warmington mentioned that Michael Rudkin
(‘Rudkin”), an SPM, had reported witnessing or believing that Fujitsu
employees were remotely accessing and altering SPM accounts and Horizon
Online data without their consent. Ismay confirmed that POL’s finance team
could no longer adjust client accounts on-site. Warmington responded,
requesting further details, documents, and audit trails. I believe I was copied on
this email chain merely as a courtesy. However, my view, when reading the
email was that Rudkin was viewing a test system in Bracknell, not the live
Horizon Online system. My reasoning was that I knew there was a test system
in Bracknell, and I wouldn’t expect any organisation (especially Fujitsu) to allow
uncontrolled access to live data as Rudkin had described. As a result, I
intervened to help resolve the matter so that POL could provide the necessary
evidence and assistance to SS. I replied to Warmington, asking for clarification
on his specific request (Email from Simon Baker to Rod Ismay, “Re: Does POL
have (and use) a facility to make entries to Sub Post Office Branch books

without the SPMRs’ knowledge, approval, or involvement?” - POL00031329).

Page 28 of 43
71

72

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

I became aware of the concerns raised by Rudkin about Fujitsu employees
remotely accessing and altering SPM accounts and Horizon Online data
without consent through the email sent by Ron Warmington to Rod Ismay on 5
February 2013, as well as through informal discussions with SS. However, as I
mentioned earlier, like any IT system, remote access to the system is possible
but should only occur with the proper controls and transparency. As I mentioned
in paragraph 70 above, I was particularly doubtful of Rudkin’s claim that
employees were directly entering or modifying Horizon Online records as he
described, as this would imply a lack of controls (something that, at that time, I
did not see as likely). I, therefore, believed he had observed a test system rather
than the live system, as I was under the impression Fujitsu had the expected
controls in place, as it is a matter of IT industry norms to ensure controls are

used appropriately.

In my last role at POL in late 2012 early 2013, when I became the Interim Head
of Programmes & Planning, I took on the responsibility of overseeing all of
POL’s IT testing teams, including the Horizon Online testing team some of who
were located in Bracknell. Bracknell was Fujitsu’s headquarters and their main
centre for development and support. Horizon Online’s test environment and
systems were in the basement level at Bracknell. Within the Horizon Online
testing team there are Fujitsu and POL employees. This team handled various
types of testing. During a meeting on 22 February 2013, Crichton, Henderson,
Warmington, and I agreed that I would no longer be responsible for or involved
in any future discussions related to Bracknell issues that SS was investigating,
as the Horizon Online testing team now reported to me. This decision was made

to prevent a conflict of interest in any review or investigation involving the

Page 29 of 43
73

74

75

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

Bracknell testing team, which I was now managing (Email from Simon Baker to
Alwen Lyons, Rod Ismay, Angela Van Den Bogerd and others RE: Notes from

today's second sight meeting - POL00185672).

I have been asked by the Inquiry to outline my views as to the integrity of
Horizon Online in 2013 before the SS Interim Report was published. In early
2013, I still believed it was unlikely that the IT defects were severe or
widespread enough to account for the cash shortfalls in the branches. As I
mentioned in paragraph 72 above, since I was managing POL'’s testing team at
that time, I had confidence in the thoroughness of POL’s testing process, as I
was familiar with how meticulous and cautious our testing team was. I also
understood from working with this team the structured and disciplined approach

POL took in testing new systems (POL00184548).

As I mentioned in paragraph 41, before the SS Review commenced and the
Interim Report was published, I was unaware of the severity of the issues SPMs
were experiencing with the support they received from the POL help desk.
During the SS review, I discovered that the help desk had been perceived as
unhelpful and unsupportive (Email from Simon Baker to Susan Crichton and

Alwen Lyons RE: Sub-Postmaster case reviews - POL00180882).

When reviewing some of the issues outlined in the cases selected by SS for
their Spot Reviews, I formed the opinion that POL had not provided adequate
support to SPMs when they raised concerns with the helpdesk. The reviews
contained strong criticism aimed at the helpdesk, with some highlighting a lack
of training on the systems. In response to SS’s early findings, I was asked by

the Core Team to arrange an internal meeting with senior management of

Page 30 of 43
76

77

78

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

POL’s Network team to discuss additional support that could be provided to

SPMs.

I have been requested by the Inquiry to explain my understanding of the
reasons behind the Horizon [Online] Investigation Monthly Project Board
meetings in April 2013. Unfortunately, I do not recall the specific reasons for
their establishment at that time. However, given that the SS Review extended
beyond its original deadline of August 2012, I suspect that the additional
monthly board meetings were implemented to address and manage the delays

in progress.

Towards the end of my time at POL, as POL considered longer-term
alternatives to Horizon Online, there was frustration and concern over how
Fujitsu might leverage its position for maximum commercial gain. There were
concerns that as Fujitsu owned the intellectual property (“IP”) rights over
Horizon Online, buying the IP rights from Fujitsu or POL’s options for
contracting with alternative suppliers could be costly. I was not involved in these

discussions but was aware of this concern.

. HELEN ROSE REPORT

I have been asked by the Inquiry to comment on the Helen Rose Report. I do
not recall reviewing the Helen Rose report during my time at POL (Horizon Data
Lepton SPSO 191320 by Helen Rose (v.1 draft) - POL00022598). Further, I do
not recall being involved in or discussing the Helen Rose report with anyone at
POL. For example, I am not involved in an email between John Scott (“Scott”),
Head of Security, and Crichton, where Scott and Crichton discuss the

production and circulation of the Helen Rose report. Accordingly, I do not know

Page 31 of 43
79

80

81

82

83

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

how or why the Helen Rose report was drafted (Email from John Scott to Susan
Crichton CC John Scott re: Weds Call - Integrity of the Horizon System and

Branch Support Programme - POL00139690).

As I do not recall reading the Helen Rose report, I did not know how POL

responded to it.

In reading the Helen Rose report as part of this Inquiry process, I only
remembered some details about a British Telecom bill payment. I recall
discussing the British Telecom transaction with SS and Van-Den-Bogard. I do
not remember that this transaction showed any integrity issues with Horizon
Online or serious “alarm bells”. Accordingly, I may have received parts of the
information in the Helen Rose report, but I do not recall it being called the Helen

Rose report at the time, which is why I cannot remember it.

I do not recall taking any steps following and because of the Helen Rose report.
If I had received any information in the Helen Rose report, I would have passed
it to SS as material for their review. Also, I do not recall what steps POL took

relating to the issues raised by Helen Rose.

Although I do not recall reading the Helen Rose report previously, after reading
it now, I understand it cast doubt on the safety of the convictions of SPMs

whose prosecutions were based wholly or partly on Horizon Online data.

. SECOND SIGHT’S INTERIM REPORT IN JULY 2013 AND LEAVING POL IN

2013

On 8 June 2013, SS published its SS Interim Report. I was not involved in
drafting the SS Interim Report. The Interim Report was a snapshot of SS’s

findings at that time. The Interim Report contained a review of the information

Page 32 of 43
84

85

86

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

POL provided to SS and externally gathered information, such as the output of
SS interviewing SPMs. I was aware of all the findings in the SS Interim Report
(POL00191272). I did not find any of the report's findings surprising. The Interim

Report was prepared for and provided to MPs, JFSA, in addition to POL.

I reviewed the SS Interim Report in a meeting with SS and Lyons. This meeting
took several hours as we reviewed the SS Interim Report line-by-line to ensure
it was factually accurate. My role in the meeting, as assigned by the Core Team,
was to ensure that the SS Interim Report was fair and that there was no
speculation or inaccuracies. I do not recall any disagreements between us, and
I do not think SS made any substantive changes to its SS Interim Report

following that meeting.

After receiving and reviewing the draft version of the SS Interim Report, I
prepared an internal briefing note for Vennells dated 2 July 2013, which
Crichton finalised and presented to Vennells. The Core Team discussed the
briefing note in one of the Monthly Meetings that I attended. I do not remember
anyone being surprised by the findings. Vennells was relieved that SS did not
find any systemic IT issues with Horizon Online, and Van-Den-Bogard was
willing to address the problems of process and support raised. Overall, I thought
SS”s report was a fair and accurate reflection of their review and reflected the

evidence that they had compiled (POL00115919).

The SS Interim Report detailed three bugs/defects with Horizon Online. These
bugs/defects were brought to SS’s attention after they asked me to provide
them with a list of Horizon Online bugs/defects. Following their request, I
contacted Jenkins at Fujitsu, who sent me information detailing the Horizon
Online bugs, which I forwarded to SS without reviewing. SS told me this could

Page 33 of 43
87

88

89

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

be a problem that may need to be investigated further. Based on the additional
information SS was gathering about these BEDs, I understood that the BEDs
detailed in the Interim Report were contained to a small number of branches
and had been resolved. Therefore, I did not understand why they viewed this

as a problem.

Shortly after the SS Interim Report was published, the Core Team reflected on
how to respond. Specifically, Van-Den-Bogerd discussed the SS Interim Report
with the Network team. In a Monthly Meeting, the Core Team discussed that
POL needed to improve their support levels to the SPMs by providing better

onsite training and improvements to the help desk.

Within one month after the Interim Report was published, discussions between
POL, JFSA, and POL started around the introduction of a mediation scheme
(“Mediation”). The proposed Mediation required a Spot Review of new cases
SPMs wanted to be considered for Mediation. I was involved in the initial
phases of setting up the Mediation. The Mediation was an attempt by POL to
draw the review to a conclusion in an acceptable way to all parties (MPs, JFSA,
and POL). I recall initial discussions about the Mediation started around May
2013. I helped facilitate a meeting with POL and some JFSA members, during
which we discussed the mediation steps and how the process might work. I

never met with MPs or other external stakeholders to discuss the Mediation.

I did not have any involvement with the ExCo regarding the Mediation. I left
POL in August 2013, and the Mediation did not start until early 2014. At the
time I left POL, I believed the Mediation was a good idea and would result in a

favourable outcome for all parties.

Page 34 of 43
90

91

92

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

I do not recall whether SS shared a draft version of the report with other
stakeholders (e.g. MPs, JFSA, etc) before it was finalised and published.
Further, I am unaware whether SS ever published a final report; if they did, I
have not seen it. After I left, I believe SS and POL continued with the Mediation

with SPMs, which I hoped would lead to matters being resolved positively.

In my last week at POL, on 14 August 2013, I emailed Malcolm Zack (“Zack”),
Head of Internal Audit, Sewell and Crichton, requesting time with him to provide
my views on how events unfolded during the SS Review, given that I had been
assisting SS since its inception. I recall Vennells or the BoD asking Zack to
audit how the SS Review was conducted. I felt it was crucial to document how
the events unfolded throughout the investigation and to ensure the SS Review's
independence was upheld at every stage. Additionally, I had some views on
how the following steps should proceed, so I wanted to make my views heard,
especially as I was about to leave POL. I wanted to ensure that the next step
was a successful mediation process (Email from Simon Baker To: Malcolm
Zack CC: Lesley J Sewell, Susan Crichton re-review of second sight

investigation -POL00193477).

On 21 August 2013, the day before I left, I emailed Vennells to give her my
closing thoughts. The purpose of my email was to try to address her frustrations
regarding the length of time the SS Review took and offer some suggestions to
help as she moves forward with the review. Vennells had previously shared her
frustrations with the Core Team during the Monthly Meeting about how long the
review was taking, as well as whether SS had the capacity to handle such
significant workload. In the email, I proposed that instead of relying on SS for

ongoing independent reviews, POL could develop and establish an internal,

Page 35 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

independent team to handle investigations reporting directly to the BoD. In my
view, I believe that an internal independent team providing services similar to
those of SS, could be adequately resourced to manage substantial workload.
This approach would enable POL to sustain the work started by SS and address
issues akin to those outlined in the Interim Report as the arise in the future. I
also recommended maintaining open communication channels with Bates and
SPMs. I felt that having regular communication with SPMs would help POL
reach a faster reconciliation (Email from Simon Baker to Paula Vennells re: final

thoughts - POL00381544).

. INITIAL COMPLAINT REVIEW _AND_ MEDIATION SCHEME - EXCO

UPDATE IN 2014

I was not involved in preparing any of the “Initial Complaint Review and
Mediation Scheme — ExCo Update “PowerPoint presentations dated February
2014. I do not recall seeing them. I had left POL several months before the
meetings commenced (Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme - ExCo
Update POL00344417, (Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme -
ExCo Update - POL00344511, POL Initial Complaint Review and Mediation
Scheme ExCo Update slides v0.1 - draft - POL00344531, POL Initial Complaint
Review and Mediation Scheme ExCo Update slides v0.2 — draft -
POL00344534, Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme - ExCo Update
POL00344521, POL Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme ExCo
Update slides v0.2 — draft - POL00344538, POL Initial Complaint Review and

Mediation Scheme ExCo Update slides v0.3 - draft with Speaker notes -

Page 36 of 43
94

95

96

97

WITN04730100
WITN04730100

POL00344544, and POL Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme ExCo

Update slides v0.3 - draft with Speaker notes - POL00344546).

As I was not involved in creating the PowerPoint presentations, I do not know
who prepared the presentations, where the information came from, or whether

the information was a commonly held view within POL at the time.

. REFLECTIONS

In hindsight, I do not think I could have done anything differently if I had my time
again. I have asked myself and considered whether there was anything I could
have done differently while I was there to have put POL on a different course. I
do not know if there was anything I could have done differently regarding how
the SS Review ran. At the time I left, I thought POL and the JFSA were in a
better place, about to start the Mediation, and on a path to reconciliation.
Unfortunately, and regretfully, after I left, I learned matters did not progress well,

and the relationship between POL and the JFSA deteriorated further.

As mentioned in paragraph 68 above, I now wish I had the courage to have
raised the possibility of registering the negative findings on POL’s risk log

directly with Vennells and Lyons.

I would like the Chair to know that I sincerely wanted POL and SS to get to the
truth while I was at POL, no matter how unpleasant it might be. While helping
SS, I was not hindered in providing them with any information. With support
from IT and Legal, I provided all the materials SS requested. Crichton and
Sewell gave me total freedom to support SS and provide them with all the

information needed to help them get to the truth.

. MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS

Page 37 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

98 I have been asked by the Inquiry to provide my recollection of POL’s approach
to legal privilege. During my involvement with the SS Review, and even now,
my understanding of the principles of legal privilege remains quite limited. I
understood from the Legal department that legal privilege primarily involved
including specific terms (e.g., “Strictly Private & Confidential”) at the top of
emails and other internal communications, which I believed would protect the
communications from being disclosed in legal proceedings. I recall the Legal
team instructing us to label documents as “Strictly Private & Confidential”. For
instance, in an email from Rodric Williams (“Williams”), a Litigation Lawyer, to
Ivan Swepson, copied to Alison Belsove, Andrew Winn, Craig Tuthill, and Rod
Ismay, Williams emphasised that the information provided in response to the
Spot Review requests needed to be accurate and should not unnecessarily
expose POL. He also recommended marking drafts and documents with
“Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege”. I generally
followed these instructions and marked documents as “Subject to Legal
Privilege “when advised to do so” (Email chain from Rodric Williams to Ivan
Swepson, Simon Baker, Alison Bolsover, and others regarding the SR Protocol

- POL00323839).

Statement of Truth

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Page 38 of 43
WITN04730100

WITN04730100

Index to First Witness Statement of SIMON BAKER

No.

URN

Document Description

Control Number

FUJ00116860

Organogram seemingly
covers the entire
organisations (runs to 62
slides)

POINQ0123031F

FUJ00097616

HNG-X Programme
Board Meeting of
08/07/2010

POINQ0103787F

FUJ00095766

Fujitsu - Joint
Programme Board

POINQ0101937F

POL00107746

Email from Simon Baker
to Rod Ismay, Alana
Renner, Mike Granville
and others re: Today's
meeting

POL-0106006

POL00340358

IT & Change - Weekly
Highlight Report - week
7. Owner Steve Allchorn
and Sponsored by
Lesley J Sewell

POL-BSFF- 0029335

POL00340359

POL Service
Management Weekly
Performance Measures -
Week Ending 3rd March
2013

POL-BSFF-01660 80

POL00057623

Briefing Note

POL-0054102

POL00113792

Email from Alice Perkins
to Susan Critchton and
Paula Vennells re:
Horizon investigation

POL-0112900

POL00027716

Deloitte Project Zebra
Supporting Your
Assurance Needs - Post
Office Limited.

POL-0024357

10.

POL00295178

Email from Angela Van
Den Bogerd to Craig
Tuthill re IN STRICTEST
CONFIDENCE - Urgent
Request Please.

POL-BSFF-0133228

Page 39 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

11.

POL00191272

Signed Interim Report
into alleged problems
with the Horizon system

POL-0098646

12.

POL00137247

Email from Simon Baker
to Alwen Lyons, Angela
Van Den Bogerd, Chris
Darvill and others Re:
Agenda for tomorrow's
meeting

POL-BSFF- 0000031

13.

POL00143030

Email from Chris Darvill
to Susan Crichton,
Alwen Lyons and Simon
Baker. RE: FW: FW:
FOR ACTION: Ref: PV
1380 Customer name:
Rt Hon Alan Duncan MP
Feedback due: 10 April
2012 Case signatory:
Michele Graves -
update, please.

POL-BSFF-0002195

14.

POL00181179

Email from Simon Baker
to Susan Crichton,
Alwen Lyons, Chris
Darvill re Agenda for
prep meeting

POL-BSFF-0019242

15.

POL00057728

Email from Chris Darvil
to Simon Baker, RE:
South Warnborough

POL-0054207

16.

POL00179839

Meeting Pack for James
Arbuthnot and Oliver
Letwin for 17th May
2012

POL-0030760

17.

POL00179925

Post Office Pack for
meeting with James
Arbuthnot and other
MPs Meeting scheduled
for 18th June 2012,
6pm, Portcullis House

POL-0096223

18.

POL00091031

Email from lan
Henderson to Simon
Baker, Alwen Lyons,
Susan Crichton and
others. Re: 2nd Sight
Audit

POL-0090675

Page 40 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

19.

POL00180883

Case review status
update of Sub-
Postmasters - Second
Sight and MPs

POL-BSFF0018944

20.

POL00180866

Email from Susan
Crichton to Alwen Lyons
et al re: Notes from
today’s meeting at
Portcullis House

POL-BSFF-0018929

21.

POL00143372

Email from Simon Baker
to Alwen Lyons re notes
from todays meeting at
portcullis house

POL-BSFF-0002537

22.

POL00143373

Notes from meeting at
Portcullis house
12.07.2012 - Present:
James Arbuthnot MP;
Alan Bates, Kay
LINNELL, lan
Henderson, Ron
Warmington.

POL-BSFF-0002538

23.

POL00115919

Post Office Limited -
Internal Briefing Note to
Paula Vennells: Second
Sight review into
Horizon -Implications of
Interim Report - DRAFT

POL-0116921

24.

POL00161845

Email from Alana
Renner to Simon Baker
cc’'d Mark R Davies re:
JFSA - two more press
pieces

POL-0150336

25.

POL00143499

Email from Simon Baker
to Ronan Kelleher CC’d
Alwen Lyons, Susan
Crichton and others RE;
2nd Sight Review Draft

POL-BSFF-0002664

26.

POL00143976

Email from Simon Baker
to Martin Edwards and
Alwen Lyons Re
“Raising confers with
Horizon “document

POL-BSFF-0003131

Page 41 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

27.

FUJ00232048

Meeting minutes of the
telephone conference on
Friday 27 July 2012

POINQ0238202F

28.

POL00184548

Email chain from Simon
Baker to Susan Crichton
re organisational risks

POL-BSFF-0022611

29.

POL00031329

Email from Simon Baker
to Rod Ismay, ®Re:
Does POL have (and
use) a facility to make
entries to Sub Post
Office Branch books
without the SPMRs
knowledge, approval or
involvement?

POL-0028231

30.

POL00185672

Email from Simon Baker
to Alwen Lyons, Rod
Ismay, Angela Van Den
Bogerd and others RE:
Notes from today's
second sight meeting

POL-BSFF0023735

31.

POL00180882

Email from Simon Baker
to Susan Crichton,
Alwen Lyons RE: Sub-
Postmaster case
reviews

POL-BSFF-0018945

32.

POL00022598

Horizon Data Lepton
SPSO 191320 by Helen
Rose (v.1 draft)

POL-0019077

33.

POL00139690

Email from John Scott to
Susan Crichton CC John
Scott re: Weds Call -
Integrity of the Horizon
System and Branch
Support Programme

POL-0141391

34.

POL00193477

Email from Simon Baker
To: Malcolm Zack CC:
Lesley J Sewell, Susan
Crichton re review of
second sight
investigation

POL-BSFF-0031540

35.

POL00381544

Email from Simon Baker
to Paula Vennells re:
final thoughts.

POL-BSFF-0208431

Page 42 of 43
WITN04730100
WITN04730100

36.

POL00344417

Initial Complaint Review
and Mediation Scheme -
ExCo Update

POL-BSFF-0170138

37.

POL00344511

Initial Complaint Review
and Mediation Scheme -
ExCo Update

POL-BSFF-0170232

38.

POL00344531

POL Initial Complaint
Review and Mediation
Scheme ExCo Update
slides v0.1 - draft

POL-BSFF-0170252

39.

POL00344534

POL Initial Complaint
Review and Mediation
Scheme ExCo Update
slides v0.2 - draft

POL-BSFF-0170255

40.

POL00344521

Initial Complaint Review
and Mediation Scheme -
ExCo Update

POL-BSFF-0170242

4.

POL00344538

POL Initial Complaint
Review and Mediation
Scheme ExCo Update
slides v0.2 - draft

POL-BSFF-0170259

42.

POL00344544

POL Initial Complaint

Review and Mediation
Scheme ExCo Update
slides v0.3 - draft with
Speaker notes

POL-BSFF-0170265

43.

POL00344546

POL Initial Complaint

Review and Mediation
Scheme ExCo Update
slides v0.3 - draft with
Speaker notes

POL-BSFF-0170267

44.

POL00323839

Email chain from Rodric
Williams to Ivan
Swepson, Simon Baker,
Alison Bolsover and
others re SR Protocol

POL-0172394

Page 43 of 43
