WITNO1220200
WITNO1220200

WITNESS: NICHOLA ARCH
STATEMENT No: WITNO1220200
EXHIBITS: 0

DATED: 25 NOVEMBER 2024

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

SECOND WITNESS STATEMENT OF NICHOLA ARCH

I, MRS NICHOLA ARCH, :

will say as follows:

1. lama former employee within a Post Office that was affected by the Horizon IT
scandal and am now a Core Participant in the Post Office Horizon It Inquiry (‘the
Inquiry’). I have drafted this statement with the assistance of Hodge Jones & Allen

solicitors, my representatives for the purposes of the Inquiry.

INTRODUCTION
2. In 2019, I saw a snippet of Angela van den Bogerd when she gave evidence at the
GLO. I recognised her immediately and realised she was the investigator in my case.

That was the first time I had seen her since she gave evidence at my trial.

3. I went to Angela van den Bogerd’s second day of evidence at the Inquiry on 26"
April 2024 to see if it was her or not. I sat very close to her. I knew it was her straight
away. She looked straight at me and looked at me like she recognised me. She

knew exactly who I was.

Page 1 of 4
4. In her evidence, she said she was never involved in prosecutions. This is not true.
She has interviewed others, not just me. It appears her evidence was an attempt
to hide the level of her involvement because I know she conducted Mark Kelly’s

interview. This was in South Wales, which isn’t far from me.

5. Many years ago, I requested my interview tapes and was told they were destroyed.

It must be on record that Angela van den Bogerd was conducting interviews

around this time.

AUDIT AND INVESTIGATION

6. The audit team came around October or November 2000. Three people attended,
and they all introduced themselves as auditors, not investigators. I had been
reporting shortfalls to the helpline and had been told they were teething problems.

I genuinely believed they were there to help me.

7. One of them was Angela van den Bogerd. When she first arrived at the branch, she
was quite stony-faced and business-like, but pleasant enough. We had a coffee and

a general chat in the stockroom while the audit was taking place.

8. When the audit finished, the auditor came out of the stockroom and asked if I knew
I had a shortage. I said I did, which is why I reported it. He said they needed to ask
questions about it. Angela van den Bogerd said we would go to the Stroud Crown

Office because there would be more room to ask questions there.

9. She said we would go in one car and wouldn't allow me to take my own because
the parking was awful. The other investigating officer sat in the front, and Angela
van den Bogerd sat in the back with me. On the way to the Crown Office, she

commented on how the area was expensive, and I agreed.

Page 2 of 4

WITNO1220200
WITNO1220200
10. When we arrived at the Crown Office, we walked through the main door where
they accept parcels. It felt like all the staff were looking at me. It was strange and
uncomfortable. Angela led me to a room in the back office. She tapped in a code,
walked in, and I followed with the other man behind me. There were two chairs on
one side, one chair on the other, and recording equipment. It felt like everything

was set up before they had even spoken to me.

11. I sat down. Angela van den Bogerd asked if I minded if they recorded the interview.
I said I didn’t because I had nothing to hide. The man said it would save a lot of
time if I told them where the money was. I said I didn’t know. The atmosphere
suddenly changed. He said, "We know you’ve taken the money. The sooner you
admit that, the sooner it will be over." I said I wanted someone there to help me.
Angela van den Bogerd said, "You’ve obviously got something to hide if you need

someone else here." I said I was fine.

12. In the interview, they showed no interest in what I had to say. They were
threatening and intimidating. It felt like they wanted to force a confession at any
cost. They told me I was the only one with problems, everyone else was doing
great, and that I must have taken the money. They saw a holiday postcard on the
wall of the branch and asked if it was a holiday paid for by the Post Office. Angela

van den Bogerd told me I would never step foot back into the business.

13. I arrived at half-past ten, and I was driven back to the business at quarter to four.
I couldn’t get back inside as they had the keys and told me to go home. They called
the sub-postmaster who owned the branch and said he needed to suspend me, or

they would go after him instead.

14.1 was questioned a couple more times by the same interviewers, the man and

Angela van den Bogerd, at a police station in Stroud. The questioning was very

Page 3 of 4

WITNO1220200
WITNO1220200
WITNO1220200
WITNO1220200

similar and repetitive, but it was better because I had a solicitor present. All
communication from the Post Office went to my solicitors, Simon James Solicitors,

and was then relayed to me.

TRIAL

15. The trial took place on April 14‘ 2002 two years after the initial investigation.

16. Angela van den Bogerd gave evidence at the trial. She didn’t focus on any specific
evidence. Her testimony was based on assumptions such as claiming the money
couldn’t have gone elsewhere and that I must be stealing. She didn’t mention

Horizon, nor did the prosecution barrister.

17. When the jury acquitted me, they just walked out, and I didn’t even receive an

apology.

Statement of Truth

I believe that the facts stated in this witness statement are true.

Signed

Print full name: NICHOLA ARCH

Dated 25/11/24

Page 4 of 4
