WITN11950100
WITN11950100

Witness name: Debbie Atkinson

Statement No:

Dated: January 2023

Signedi__ SSS

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF DEBBIE ATKINSON

My name is Debbie Atkinson. I have been invited by the firm Hodge Jones & Allen,
solicitors for Mr Lee Castleton, a core participant in this Inquiry, to make a written

statement regarding the period I was his employee.

1. From what I can remember, I started working for Lee and his wife in their Post

Office / Newsagents in 2004. This was at the Marine Drive Post Office.

2. I was paid to serve customers in the newsagents and help with the day to day running

of the shop on that side of the business.

Page 1 of 3
WITN11950100
WITN11950100

. I was aware of what was happening with Lee with regard to the allegations, and saw
how appallingly he was treated throughout the whole process. It was sad to see that

his family were also treated very badly by the Post Office.

. I cannot recall the date but I do recall an occasion at around 2pm when I believe two
ladies entered the shop and marched their way straight through to the private room at

the back of the shop. I noticed them because of the way they marched in the shop.

. The ladies did not say a word to me and they did not ask if anyone was in the private

back room. They simply barged their way in. Lee was not in at this time.

rc Ro} was in there and the door was partially shut, presumably by the ladies who had

just gone in. Also there was the Dorothy Day, who had taken over from Lee as the

subpostmistress.

. [couldn't hear from where I was stood what was being said, but I heard raised voices.
I think I heard Dorothy say something along the lines of while she was subpostmistress

the computers were her responsibility and they would not be going anywhere.

. Not long afterwards, the two ladies marched back out of the shop, I went to see how

ier oIwas and she was crying and physically shaking.

. I didn’t know the ladies names at the time, but afterwards I found out that one of them

was called Angela Betterson although I am unsure if this is the correct spelling.

Page 2 of 3
WITN11950100
WITN11950100

Statement of Truth

I believe that the facts stated in this witness statement are true.

Debbie Atkinson

Dated: January 2023

Page 3 of 3
