WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL & POLICY

Secretary of State From: Sarah Graham PFD Sp Proj
Date: 17 August 1998

ce: MoS
PSC(ST)
PSC(AE)
PSL
Special Adviser
Permanent Secretary
Peter Mathison CE/BA
Tan Magee CE/ITSA
Paul Gray PG
Jonathan Tross DCM
Marilynne Morgan SOL
Chris Thompson (NI)SSA
Stephen Hickey PFD
George McCorkell BA Proj Dir
Martin Sixsmith INF
Ron Powell SOL
Indra Morris Sp Proj
Hamish Sandison Bird & Bird

BA/POCL AUTOMATION PROJECT : TOWARDS AN INTER-MINISTERIAL
DECISION

Issues: (i) update on developments over the past two weeks;
(ii) review of the options: your preferred route forward and handling
strategy;

(ii) suggested next steps.
Timing: You may wish to discuss with officials in w/c 17 August.
Recommendations: That you discuss the position and handling strategy with Stephen Byers,
before Wednesday, 19 August: he is on holiday after that, his office do not know for how

long.

Summary
1. There have been a number of developments over the past two weeks, including the
emerging findings of the Post Office Review, all of which appears to support your preferred

outcome to cancel the project, or at least the Benefit Payment Card (BPC) elements of it, on
grounds of ICL Pathway’s failure to deliver.

sub.t

Senne ‘uy elma » cifos jas SAISON.
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

2. For the moment, the main focus of work to support the necessary inter-Ministerial
decision has shifted to:

(a) I DTI/POCL, who have been asked by Stephen Byers to clarify the future
requirements of the Post Office; (you have been copied his letter of 30 July
to Ian McCartney);

and

{b) No. 10 Policy Unit, who are exploring variants on a cancellation option .
3. Here within DSS we have been elaborating our plans for implementing the agreed
Ministerial decision; and are also preparing more detailed material for early this week on the
contractual background and proposed negotiating strategy to take forward the decision. You

may wish to discuss this with officials.

The Treasury Working Group Options

4. The three options on the table from the HMT led-working group are broadly as
follows:

e Option 1: continuing with the project, but extending the overall period of the
project from the original end date of May 2005 to at least September 2007;
thus securing DSS indirect subsidy of the Post Office Network for a longer period,
and offering ICL a better prospect of payback for its investment, despite its failure
to deliver. It is not certain that this option will be sufficiently attractive to ICL who,
in order to achieve the desired rate of return, have asked for a five year extension (or
a 30% price increase). You will also be aware the Independent Panel believe this
option carries ongoing risks; and only a 50/50 chance of meeting their recommended
(and further extended) timetable.

e Option 2: proceeding with the project in name, but withdrawing from the
benefit payment card elements of it; POCL to offer ICL the task of bolting on a
banking facility to the "Horizon" automation platform. DSS to plan its migration to
ACT to take account of Post Offices developing capability to handle encashments
from bank accounts; ICL to be able to develop a more marketable product and share
in the success of Government’s long term policies. POCL automation with banking
facilities should be easier to implement than the currently planned systems.
Implementation of POCL banking facilities can be achieved ina timetable that would
not delay DSS implementation of ACT.

e Option 3: cancellation of the whole project on grounds of ICL’s failure to
deliver; otherwise essentially as option 2 but leaving POCL free to run a proper
competition and to utilise other companies rather than ICL; this would probably mean
around 12 - 18 months to procure a new partner for POCL to establish a banking
facility in Post Offices, but the end product might well be cheaper and better focused,

sub.t
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

particularly if the Post Office was able to enter into a strategic partnership with a
retail or banking organisation; again, DSS would plan its migration to ACT to take
account of Post Offices’ developing capability to handle encashments from bank
accounts. This should not affect the overall timetable for DSS to move to ACT.

5. There is also an option in the background (option 4) favoured by the HMT Public
Expenditure Team - in essence, option 3 but without any DSS commitment to attempt to
work with the Post Office in planning a co-ordinated migration to ACT development of
banking facilities in Post Office outlets. Given the action required to move to ACT, as the
standard method of payment, this is unlikely to mean that we could reach 100% ACT-based
payments significantly more quickly; equally, costs and savings would not be materially
affected. This approach could, however, add to the fears of sub-postmasters and many of
the benefit recipients who use Post Offices to collect their cash, particularly pensioners; and
could make it more difficult for Government to provide reassurance.

Funding implications of the options for DSS

6. No additional funding provision for continuing with the restructured project (or for
taking any other route) has been agreed with HMT, beyond that agreed following the
February 1997 re-plan. Discussions on the funding position have been on hold pending the
inter-Ministerial decision on the future of the project; and as acknowledged at the meeting
with Stephen Byers on 30 July, DSS funding will now need to be taken forward in separate
discussions with HMT.

7. All routes forward will require additional administration funding for DSS (ie beyond
DEL provision in the CSR), as well as cover for programme savings foregone due to the

delays. The funding implications for this year, and the next three CSR years, are:

e cancellation and moving to ACT instead (whether of the whole project of the
benefit payment card element):

additional administration funding: total of £41m (15\(-32)\37\21m)

programme savings foregone: total of £410m (104\137\105\64m)

(This assumes outright cancellation - as in option 3 - with the minimum payment guarantee
(floor) to POCL not being applied. Should the floor continue to apply the administration cost
figures would increase to a total of £72m [15\ (-32) \42\47m] ).

e continuing with the project, for two and a half years beyond the current
contract period (option 1):

additional admin requirement: total of £169m (23\26\94\26m)

programme savings foregone: total of £378m (103\134\84\57m

sub.t
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

Current Position

8. At the point when you started your holiday, the Chief Secretary to the Treasury had
commissioned some work from DTI in particular to clarify:

e the future business strategy of the Post Office Counters Limited;

e the automation needed to underpin this;

e how far POCL could reduce the costs of the network; and at the margin what
is the extra social benefit Government are buying for the extra cost of any
subsidy we may put in;

e what scope there is for involving a private sector partner.

This information was requested by 14 August. I have not seen the output of this work but
I understand that Peter Mandelson has said that nothing in this area should be agreed by DTI
without his specific endorsement. Both he and Ian McCartney are now away until the end
of the month. We will wish to check that this work takes account of the emerging findings
of the Post Office Review which concludes the network should be rationalised as soon as
possible with inevitable reduction in size and likely need for direct subsidy (see summary at
Annex 1).

9. Number 10 Policy Unit are continuing to take an interest in assessing the options for
a route forward. So far as we can gather, their emerging views are that:

e an option to continue with the project is not attractive; the main advantage
appears to be around supporting the Post Office network which can be done
as well if not better in other ways;

e the logical decision is to cancel the project on grounds of ICL’s failure to
deliver; but there are inevitably some presentational difficulties.

I believe they are actively exploring variants around the ‘cancellation’ option, which might
minimise these difficulties; in particular, they are interested in exploring the potential links
with wider government objectives to promote universal banking/social inclusion and its
IT/Electronic Government objectives. I am in contact with the No. 10 Policy Unit and others
involved, to play in DSS ideas and information where helpful, and safeguard your interests.
The danger here is it could take many months to work through this type of option and we
cannot afford to further delay the decision.

10. Other recent developments are:

e we have written to ICL, as agreed, to note that the 13 week "cure" period
expired on 12 August and that the Department had no present intention of
terminating its contract as it was now entitled to do, but that it reserved all its
rights and remedies (including termination in the future); ICL were expecting
this, and a routine response denying fault is anticipated (as they are bound to
do to protect their negotiating position) - but nothing beyond that;

e in anticipation of the discussions that will need to take place with ICL,

sub.t
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

whatever the Ministerial decision, the joint programme lawyer and the
Departmental legal team have agreed a strategy which will protect our legal
position; the first - and key - step in this strategy involves a "standstill"
agreement where both parties agree not to initiate legal action during
negotiations; in parallel, the programme lawyer in consultation with
Departmental lawyers, has been commissioned to prepare for litigation as a
last resort in case a negotiated settlement cannot be agreed with ICL on
acceptable terms; we are seeking POCL agreement to this strategy;

e I have suggested you write personally to Keith Todd at ICL, to inform him of
the longer timescale for the Ministerial decision on the future of the project
(see separate submission in last Friday’s box).

11. You will also be aware that press coverage is becoming more pointed: the recent
article in the Observer sent to you under John Cummins’ submission of 12 August 1998)
suggests that the media are well-briefed, and it may be difficult to keep Ministers’ thinking
under wraps for much longer - with all the risks of POCL and ICL media campaigns that
would entail.

Assessment of Options

12. Following the discussion between Ministers on 30 July 1998, the view which appears
to be emerging is that:

e the main choice is between Option 1 (continuation of the project broadly "as
is") and some version of Options 2-4 (which are options about cancellation,
on a continuum from retaining some elements of the project, but without the
BPC, through to a completely fresh start for achieving DSS and POCL
objectives);

e there is mounting consensus between the Chief Secretary, you and the No. 10
Policy Unit (but not yet Ian McCartney, POCL Management and possibly the
Paymaster General) against Option 1:

- the issue of the future of the Post Office, its funding and required
Government subsidy should be addressed directly and
separately from the decision about the future of the current BA/POCL
automation project;

- Option 1 - or any option involving continuation with the BPC - will
require a Ministerial direction to the Chief Executive of
the Benefits Agency (the issues are summarised at Annex 2); also,
additional funding arrangements will need to be agreed;

- if this is accepted, Option 1 to continue with the project is not a
sensible way forward, given ICL’s failure to deliver to
time, and the knock-on effects of this delay on the Government’s
policy objectives as well as the financial implications; the main reason

sub.t
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

now for continuing with the project is to continue the indirect DSS
subsidy for POCL for longer, to allow it more time to get its house in
order preparatory to establishing itself in the market place in the longer
term; the emerging findings of the Post Office Review indicate that
POCL should move faster than the timetable suggested; otherwise the
opportunity to enter the banking market may well disappear;

- the logical route forward is cancellation of the whole project as
suggested under Options 3 and 4;

e if it can be agreed that Option 1 falls, our view is that DSS could live with any
of the further choice (at least as currently on the table); our - and
Government’s - main concerns would be for:

- pensioners and others who wish to continue to use the Post Office;
- the future of the Post Office and its network;
- the future of ICL (and the potential impact therefore on UK PLC);

e the way forward therefore may be to look at variants on the option to cancel,
which might minimise the potential disadvantages outlined above; and which
might maximise the opportunities to further the Government’s wider agenda
in a positive way;

e politically, our view is that Option 2 would generate least "noise" - and indeed
could be presented very positively, both to the three parties involved and to
the wider public:

- offers ICL a practicable and more marketable alternative to the project
as currently designed (ie by re-shaping the project to
round a generic banking facility, capable therefore of transfer
to other Post Office networks, in a way that the currently planned,
bespoke BPC system is not, despite ICL’s claims);

- provides the Post Office with some measure of reassurance and
assistance from DSS in ensuring a smooth transition from its current
customer base of benefit recipients to its future likely levels of such
customers, and in introducing early provision of the banking facilities
it will need to implement its chosen future business strategy, likely to
be endorsed by the Post Office Review (due to report in early/mid-
October);

- provides DSS with the freedom to move to an ACT-based system as
soon as practicable, in support of the Government’s wider objectives
for welfare reform and to achieve most efficient use of tax payers’
money;

sub.t
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

- will provide benefit recipients with increased choice of location for
collecting their cash - banks, ATMs, retail outlets, in
addition to the Post Office; and helps support Government’s wider
ambitions to promote social (and financial) inclusion through
encouraging the approximately 3 million benefit recipients currently
without bank accounts to have one;

- will support Government's approach to Electronic Government, by
exploiting generic, commercially-developed systems (and minimising
risks associated with Government-led bespoke systems) and in practical
terms enable DSS benefit payment to “piggy-back" effortlessly on the
technological developments we know will take place shortly eg use of
the Smartcard by banks.

Issues for DSS in pursuing a preferred route forward

12. From the DSS perspective, the preferred route forward involves withdrawal from the
Benefit Payment Card elements of the project. There remains an issue around the advantages
and disadvantages of working with the Post Office:

* for DSS, customers’ current preferences mean that there would be advantages
for us in working with the Post Office to support the continued ability for
benefit recipients to collect cash from post offices if they wish, even though
DSS will be paying benefits into bank accounts;

* in the immediate to medium term, the DSS needs to work with the Post Office
anyway, to sustain a reliable delivery system for benefits in the interim before
complete migration to an ACT based system is achieved;

* it should be noted that currently POCL handle 25% of accounted cash
transactions;
* in contractual terms, there could be problems if we seek to withdraw from the

contracts with ICL Pathway, and POCL withhold their agreement to such
action. A note on this will be included in the separate submission being
prepared on legal issues, which will be available tomorrow.

Follow-up to the inter-Ministerial decision

13. Beyond these issues around working with the Post Office, for DSS the options that
involve cancellation of the project (or at least the BPC elements), are broadly the same in
terms of moving to an ACT based system. Key issues that need early consideration include:
13.1 The contractual situation

You have already had some preliminary discussion of this issue with officials and the joint

programme lawyer. To re-cap:

sub.t
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

e the automation project involves three separate contracts:
- DSS and ICL Pathway.
- POCL and ICL Pathway.
DSS POCL and ICL Pathway - covering matters of common interest;

° DSS also have two "back-to-back" contracts with POCL:

- Contract A, covering benefit transactions made by POCL, whether
paper-based or card-based;
- Contract B - which provides for the services provided by ICL pathway
to support the benefit payment card encashment transactions;

e clearly if both POCL and DSS Benefits Agency terminate the project on
grounds of ICL failure to deliver, all contracts with Pathway would be
cancelled;

e if the DSS only withdraws from the Benefit Payment Card elements of the
project, then the DSS/ICL Pathway contract would be cancelled on grounds
of failure to deliver and DSS would withdraw from the joint DSS/POCL
contract with Pathway; latest legal advice indicates this would require POCL
agreement although there may be ways we could effectively secure it if, for
example, POCL sought to withhold their agreement, despite a Ministerial
decision; under this option the POCL/Pathway contracts will require re-
negotiation;

e any option which cancels the Payment Card will require re-negotiation of our
direct contracts (A and B) with POCL: prior to the current contract
arrangements which run to 2005, the BA renegotiated with POCL the terms
and conditions for benefit encashment on an annual basis.

13.2 Government Negotiating strategy

Under any option, it will be important to decide in advance the way a settlement will be
approached with ICL Pathway. Advice from the Joint Programme lawyer, endorsed by the
DSS in-house legal team, suggests that:

e under any option, the first preference will be to reach a negotiated settlement,
and avoid litigation;

e before any discussion is opened with ICL, a “standstill” agreement is
established for a set period;

e there will be a two-step process, first to communicate Ministers’ decision in
principle, second, to agree the detailed terms of the settlement;

e Ministers will need to set a clear negotiating brief at the outset, which sets

sub.t
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

firm financial parameters for an agreement; a strict time in which it is to be
completed with a condition that failure to agree implies termination with
litigation if necessary.

e A substantive announcement will need to await the completion of this 2-step
process.

A separate submission is in preparation, setting out a proposed negotiating strategy to
implement Ministers’ decision, including consideration of the risks of, and preparation for,
litigation.

13.3. Communication of the decision

ACT for BA combined with banking for POCL can be presented very positively, as
suggested above. Nonetheless, a decision which involves cancelling all or part of the project
will require very careful presentation, with the following main audiences:

e Post Office owners/users: previous attempted changes which were perceived
to threaten the Post Office network were fiercely opposed by the Federation
of Sub-Postmasters, who orchestrated a well-crafted media campaign; there
are also sensitivities around the rural lobby;

e benefit recipients: a carefully managed information programme will be needed
to pre-empt the potential scope for worry and confusion among the 70%
benefit recipients who currently collect their cash from post offices: many
benefit recipients will not be aware that a payment card was in prospect;

e DSS and Post Office staff;
e the general public.

Officials are writing up a communication strategy, which will consider what might be done
in the period leading up to the final announcement of a decision (including preparation of
positive media briefing to counter any ICL/POCL briefing); as well a positive strategy for
handling the announcement of the agreed way forward.

13.4. Implementation of the decision within the Benefits Agency:

We have drawn up plans for the immediate as well as medium-term action that will be
required following Ministers’ decision. A decision to continue with the project will require
continuing with existing operational plans and the main focus of activity in the immediate
term will be the negotiation with ICL and the negotiation of funding with HMT to cover
existing shortfall and ongoing risk (preferably diverted from direct DSS responsibility). But
options that involve withdrawing from the Benefit Payment Card or all of the project, will
require:

e immediate action to cancel and replace current cards in use in the 200 pilot
offices;

sub.t
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

e formally setting in place a project to implement plans for moving to an ACT
based system as the normal method of benefit payment: our initial planning
has established an outline timetable and identified the main issues to be
resolved. See Annex 3. We believe all issues have solutions but some of the
more detailed planning will need to await Ministerial resolution of the way
forward; and, in some areas (eg around banking issues) will need to await the
public announcement.

e negotiating revised terms with POCL for the period until ACT is fully
implemented and co-ordinate where possible the DSS ACT plans with the
POCL banking plans.

Timetable for a decision
14. this decision is needed urgently:

e This issue has been on DSS Ministers’ agenda for twelve months and has been
a cross-government issue since the beginning of this year;

e ICL have said in their letter to the Minister of State, dated 27 July, that it
will not be possible to raise the additional funding beyond September, unless
they receive unequivocal commitment soon; they can be expected to lobby
vigorously from that time;

° Jan McCartney will be visiting Japan (and Fujitsu) in w/c 7 September;

e the timing of the decision needs to avoid "noise" around the party
conference;

e your Direction to Peter Mathison not to proceed with cancellation of the

contract, expires on Monday, 14 September.

15. I We have been working on the assumption that an agreed cross-Government decision
in principle can be achieved in w/c 7 September. On this timetable, a substantive
announcement following completion of negotiations with ICL could be made mid-October.

Next Steps

16. At this stage, it is unclear how the Chief Secretary is planning to progress matters in
order to present a recommended way forward to the Prime Minister on his return from
holiday at the end of the month. Both Peter Mandelson and Ian McCartney are away until
after that date. The Chief Secretary himself is away on holiday from Wednesday, 19 August;
and his office are uncertain when he is planning to return. There do not seem, therefore,
to be any prospects of further tri-partite inter-Ministerial discussions before the Prime
Minister’s return.

17. ‘In any event, an agreed recommendation between the 3 main Departments looks
unlikely, unless DTI can be persuaded to shift their position in the light of:

sub.t
WITNO04200101
WITN04200101

(a) the emerging Post Office Review findings, which will recommend a strategic
shift for POCL to banking and financial services; and

(b) Treasury reassurance that POCL requirements for automation and possible
Government subsidy will be met, if DSS indirect funding falls out of the
picture.

18. It will be to DSS advantage to support a greater transparency of subsidy to POCL,
not only for its own sake, but also because this undermines the cash for pursuing Option 1.

19. I You may wish to resist Treasury pressure to move to ACT independently of any links
with Post Office (Option 4): this could leave you vulnerable to the brunt of any adverse
publicity that will arise amongst our benefit population and does not sit easily with the
objectives of modern active service and its purpose to provide a more efficient but a more
customer-focused form of service delivery. Full co-operation from a re-focused POCL
would help enable ACT implementation.

20. In the absence of any clear guidance at this stage from CST’s office, you may wish
to consider an approach on the telephone, to:

° explore CST’s current thinking and re-emphasise the urgent need for a
decision;

e offer further help in defining an option which would suit DSS and wider
Government interests, while leaving the Post Office subsidy/network issues on
one side for the Post Office Review.

Action Requested

21. You are asked to:

e note the current position;

e consider your preference for the optimum route forward;

e decide whether you wish to discuss handling strategy with Stephen Byers at
this stage (see 19 above); and

° whether you would like to have a discussion with officials and lawyers w/c 17
August.

SARAH GRAHAM
PED Special Projects
Rm _ 535 Adelphi

