WITN10650124
WITN10650124

From: Andrew Parsonsi_

Sent: Wed 17/04/2019 11:03:45 AM (UTC)
To:
Ce:

‘] Amy Prime?
Subject: DEN 24 RE: Revised letter for the CA

Thanks. I'll drop that paragraph in at the end of the letter.
A

Andrew Parsons
Partner
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

) WOMBLE womblebonddickinson.com
OND
DICKINSON

From: David Cavender{,
Sent: 17 April 2019 11:57

Andrew Parsons I nol
David Neuberger

This is an important point.
Even raising the point will probably involve Coulson U having to consider bringing it to the attention of someone else-
which is one step along the road of seeking to undermine the Fraser/Coulson axis.

The more we can say in the letter the more effective it will be — but we seem to have one hand tied behind our back
at the moment.

Even Owain’s muted version of what we could say would be very much better than saying nothing.
Best,

D.
David Cavender QC

ONE

SEX COURT

CY
WS

One Essex Court
Temple

London EC4Y 9AR
Direct dial:

Switchboard:

Fax number:

Mobile:
WITN10650124
WITN10650124

www.oeclaw.co.uk

The contents of this email are CONFIDENTIAL and may be PRIVILEGED. If you are not the intended recipient, please telephone (020)
7583 2000 and delete this email

From: Owain Draper
Sent: 17 April 2019 1

; David Cavender {2
Cc: Gideon Cohen <gcohe' nthony Grabiner
“juk>; Amy Prime “GRO,

‘evised letter for the CA [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

David Neuberger

Subject: Re:

I defer to the QCs on this one, Andy. I do not know what we can say (without referring to the specific issues in the
Common Issues appeal) that has much content or force. We could say this: “Post Office respectfully asks that, in light of
importance of the issues raised in the two proposed appeals, the applications for permission be referred to three Lord
Justices for decision”

Neuberger <

Subject: RE: Revised letter for the CA [WBDUK-AC.FID26896945]

I'm speaking to Jane at lunchtime about this. Please can you add in the extra material if you want it to go in the letter
and send over to me asap. I'll then see what I can get approved

A

Andrew Parsons

Partner

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP

Manage your e-alert preferences

~ womblebonddickinson.com
) WOMBLE
/ BON

D
DICKINSON

¥) (in)

/

From: Owain Draper <~
Sent: 17 April 2019 10:59
To: David Cavender

>; Andrew Parsons:
> Anthony Grabiner ¢

David Neuberger

Subject: Re: Revised letter for the CA
It would be good to be able to mention the legal significance of some of the points in the Common Issues
WITN10650124
WITN10650124

Appeal (relational contract or termination on notice, for example). Other than that, we only have that the
issues are important, which seems a bit lame.

From: David Cavender
Date: Wednesday, 17 A
To: Owain Draper
Ce: Gideon Cohen
Neuberger ¢. fe
Subject: RE: Revised letter for the CA

>, Andrew Parsons I
GRO k>, Anthony Grabiner i>, David

Owain,

I think that such a request is a good idea. I think we can justify it on vanilla grounds (rather than a
Fraser/Coulson axis) on the basis of the nature of the decision being appealed.

Best,
D.
David Cavender QC

[cid:image002 jpg@01CF1C35.04ACED80]

One Essex Court
Temple
London EC4Y 9AR

www.oeclaw.co.uk<http://;www.oeclaw.co.uk>

WITN10650124
WITN10650124

The contents of this email are CONFIDENTIAL and may be PRIVILEGED. If you are not the intended
recipient, please telephone: and delete this email.

From: Owain Draper
Sent: 17 April 2019 10:48
To: Andrew Parsons
Ce: David Cavender
Grabiner:

Subject: Revised letter for the CA
Importance: High

>; Gideon Cohen! “k>; Anthony

Dear Andy,

We think the letter is still worth sending.

There is an outstanding point as to whether or not to add a request that the two applications for permission go
before 2/3 Judges. It appears from the CPR that this is a request we can make: a single Judge “may refer any
matter for a decision by a court consisting of two or more judges” (r.52.24(8)). I have no idea how such a
request would be received.

Kind Regards,

Owain

Owain Draper

One Essex Court, Temple

EC4Y 9AR

Switchboare

www.oeclaw.co.uk<http://www.oeclaw.co.uk/>

The content of this email is confidential and may subject to legal professional privilege. If you are not the
intended recipient, please delete it permanently and inform the sender.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

WITN10650124
WITN10650124

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be
mail and any attachments. If you are not odrapef” please notify an
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication or attachments is profibited
Privacy Policy on our website

egally privileged and protected by law. odraper only is authorised to access this e-
soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use
‘ind may be unlawful, Information about how we use personal data is in our

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment.

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection. We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB 123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www, womblebonddickinson.convlegal notices for further details,

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority,

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.
For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

