Witness Name: Patricia Margaret Daysh

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST STATEMENT OF PATRICIA MARGARET DAYSH

I, PATRICIA MARGARET DAYSH, will say as follows...

I have been requested to provide witness evidence to the Inquiry pursuant to a rule 9
request under the Inquiry Rules 2006.

1. 1 left schoo! in 1965 to join Barclays Bank. In 1972 I joined the Post Office
until 1979, as a counter clerk. In 1985 I worked in a local Sub Post Office part
time. In 1987 I rejoined the Crown Post Office network. During that time I
worked on the counter and did a brief period of sub post master training in the
1990's. In 1999 I joined the Horizon project, as HFSO and continued until a
few months before the end of the roll out. Returning to my parent office where
I remained until I took EVR in 2004,

2. As far as I can remember we received training in a classroom situation to
enable us to transfer the manual balance of an office onto the Horizon and
how the system worked. I cannot recall the length of time.

3. a. My responsibilities were to attend the assigned Post Office about an hour
before they closed. They would balance and then I would transfer the figures
on to the new system that the engineers had installed. I would stay for the
next two days to show them how to use the computer. An officer would then
attend on their first balance day to assist. This could be the same officer or a
new one depending on the schedule.

b. There were no specific requests for support from sub Post Masters, but
there was a general feeling that they would have liked more training.

c. Any requests I would have forwarded to my team leader or scheduling
manager.

4. I personally did not need to contact mine as I received my schedules and
yarsk wank and did Kho Wb. Tam anata

aor some needed bo have Cequhar conta

WITNO7720100
WITNO7720100
WITNO7720100
WITNO7720100

4. I have been asked if I consider subpostmasters were adequately trained in
how to use Horizon. Having trained Sub Post Masters I am aware some
People are quicker than others to leam. So in my view, not all, but the
majority needed a longer training period. In Crown Offices due to the greater
number of staff they were able to help each other. When sometimes it's just
‘one or two people it is harder.

5, I have been asked if I was able to provide adequate advice and assistance on
Horizon to subpostmasters. Yes I felt I was able to and patient enough, but as
‘stated some people found it easier than others. Often purely a lack of

confidence.

6. Ihave been asked if was aware of any bugs, errors or defects within the
Horizon IT System at the time I was an HFSO. I was not.

7. \have been asked if there is anything else I think the Chair should be aware
of in relation to the Horizon IT project. There is not.

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

