WITNO3700100

Witness Name: Maureen McKelvey
Statement No.: WITN0370_01
Exhibits: None

Dated: 09.05.2022

IN THE POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF MAUREEN MCKELVEY

I, MAUREEN MCKELVEY, will say as follows...

INTRODUCTION

1. I am grateful to the Chair to be invited to provide a “human impact” statement,
concerning the consequences to me and my family as a result of the Horizon IT
system and Post Office Limited’s actions toward me and my family. The introductory
paragraphs below provide a brief summary of my background, and to provide

context to the detail of the human impact of the scandal on me and my family.

2. I live on my own now. My husband has sadly passed away. I currently work as a self-

employed interior designer.

BACKGROUND

3. I was the subpostmistress at the post office branch in Clanabogan, Omagh in
Northern Ireland from approximately 1990 until 2001. Within the branch, I also ran

a retail store selling general goods.

4. I had worked in the retail industry previously, and my late husband suggested I
should take on the post office when it came up for sale. There was a shop within the

branch, so I was confident that I could take on the role. I was excited to do
WITNO3700100

something positive and to have a purpose. I had recently lost my daughter and my
husband encouraged me to take this on. I fully intended to build the business and it

would be what I would do until my retirement.

5. I trusted Post Office Ltd as a brand. The previous owner had not taken particular care
with the business, but I knew I could improve and build on what was already there. I

expanded into the premises next door with the help of a £120,000 bank loan.

6. When I first took on the position of subpostmistress, the post office operated on the
old paper-based system for many years before the introduction of the Horizon
system. The Horizon system was introduced in approximately 1999 and immediately

I began to experience shortfalls and surpluses.

7. When the system showed a surplus, it was a minor amount however, when I
experienced shortfalls, the amounts were more significant. I was led to believe that
any shortfall was my responsibility. I therefore used any profit I made from the retail

business to make good the shortfalls.

TRAINING AND SUPPORT

8. When Horizon was introduced, myself and my female employee were promised 3

days of training. In reality, we had, at most, an hour in a local hotel.

9. On the first day of training one of the trainers failed to show up, so we were told to
come back the following day. The next day the generator in the hotel did not work so
we were sent home again. The advice given to us was to switch on the system, the

only thing we had been shown to do, and to work it out for ourselves,

10. I do not remember being given any training manuals or literature to refer to. I was

told that I could call a number for advice if it was needed.
WITNO3700100

HELPLINE

11.1 began to experience shortfalls in the Horizon system and would contact the
Helpline for assistance. The advice I was given was to simply make good the

shortfalls, as they were my responsibility.

12.1 found the Helpline to be anything but helpful. I was often told by the helpline
advisors that they would investigate the problem and any money of my own I put
into the system would be refunded. However, none of the money I paid in to make

good the shortfalls was refunded back to me.

13. There was a local Post Office employee that I was given the specific contact details
for. However, he would not answer the phone. A few years later this Post Office
employee gave evidence at my trial for theft and admitted that he was overloaded
with calls, and bombarded with requests for help. In spite of him stating this in court,
I specifically remember being told by the Post Office that no other subpostmasters

were having problems with Horizon.

SHORTFALLS

14. In this section, I set out in very brief detail my experience of shortfalls arising from
deficiencies in the Horizon system, and Post Office Limited’s actions as a result. This
is only a brief introduction to those matters, in order to provide necessary context

for the explanation of the human impact which follows.

15. At the start of my tenure, the branch operated on the old pen and paper based
system and it all seemed to run fairly smoothly, it was only when the Horizon system

was introduced that things started going downhill.

16. After the introduction of Horizon, I estimate that in total I paid in the region of
£25,000 to £30,000 in shortfalls. I was led to believe that the shortfalls were my

responsibility. Additionally, the Horizon system had to balance to allow trading to
WITNO3700100

continue. I had to balance the system to ensure I could open the branch and deal

with customers.

17. I made Post Office Ltd aware of every shortfall. I asked for their help in resolving the

issues and was repeatedly told the post office were working on it.

18.1 had shortfalls most weeks, it was often £50-£200, which adds up when it’s
occurring week on week. The accounts were short more times than not, and each
time I was told by the post office to pay back the money and a correction will come

back.

19.1 was always ringing the post office and complaining about the issues I was
experiencing because I did not think it was right that I should be putting my own
money in all the time. The helpline and area manager would also tell me if I cannot
cover the shortfalls then the system will balance itself out the next week. The system

never did balance itself, and any money I put it never came back.

20.1 specifically recall a time where a local lady who ran her own business came in to
pay money in through the giros, and there were a couple of occasions where, when I
went in to check the giros, the transaction on the system had disappeared but I had
the print out from the transaction I had completed. We confronted the post office

about this matter and they just said that they were working on the icons.

21. I was often told by the post office that no one else was experiencing these problems

but I didn’t believe them for one minute.

AUDITS AND INVESTIGATIONS

22. Prior to Horizon being introduced, I would be audited yearly with no issues.
WITNO3700100

23. Following the introduction of Horizon and my making the shortfalls known to the
Post Office I was audited. I am unable to remember the exact date, but I certainly

remember being treated with utter contempt by the auditors.

24. The auditors marched in one morning and demanded my keys. I was then told that a
shortfall had been identified and I would have no more access to the post office.

They told me they were from Special Branch. It was terrifying and humiliating.

SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION

25. I was suspended by the Post Office in 2001 as I was accused of stealing thousands of

pounds.

26. I was served with a notice of prosecution for theft but I was left waiting years before
my case was heard in court. I was left in limbo for 5 years not knowing what would

happen.

27. Following my suspension, I was repeatedly warned by Post Office Ltd that I could

face up to 10 years in prison for theft.

28. This impacted negatively on my mental health. Rumours circulated in the local

community that I had stolen from Post Office Ltd. I felt alienated and despised.

CRIMINAL/CIVIL PROSECUTION

29.1 have been in contact with the solicitor who represented me during my criminal
trial. They are attempting to obtain the papers relating to my prosecution but due to

the passage of time, this is proving somewhat difficult.

30. I was waiting for 2 % years from the date I was served notice of my prosecution for
my case to be heard in court. Even just talking about it now makes me cringe; it was
such an awful time in my life. I was mentally and physically broken. My body just

broke down from the stress and I started having anxiety attacks.
WITNO3700100

31.1 was under so much stress that my thyroid ruptured and I had to undergo major
surgery. The doctor told me had this happened anywhere else in my body I would

have been dead. He said it was due to stress.

32. I had three young children, and I had lost my husband only 2 years before all of this

happened. The period leading up to my prosecution was mental torture.

33.1 couldn’t even leave my house anymore, If I am honest I thought I was on my way

out,

34. I kept having to press the Post Office to get my case heard, because they seemed to
be in no rush, but I knew my health wasn’t going to stick it out because of all the

stress I was under.

35.1 even had the person who was investigating me approach me twice, once at the
shop and once at my house, and he told me to confess to the charges otherwise I am

looking at 10 years in prison.

36. This really broke me, and I knew things were going to get serious at this point.

37. In 2006, my case came to trial at Dungannon Court in Northern Ireland. I had to
attend court for a full week. I was still on a lot of medication at this point because my

health was not good.

38. My experience in court was dreadful. I had to sit and listen to all the evidence the
Post Office had against me, and it was clear in their eyes I was not worthy of the Post

Office.

39. The way the Post Office tried my case was by asking me to pick out a number of days
at random that according to them I had balanced wrong and so owed the post office

money.
WITNO3700100

40. They went through all the evidence and marked up everything they thought I had

done wrong.

41. However, it just so happened that one of the days I picked out was actually a balance
that I did not do but was still short. I was able to prove that I had not carried out the
balance on that particular day because my son had an accident and I had to take him
to the hospital. So a man named Gary Grugan, who was employed by the Post Office

and was the manager in the Omagh Post Office did the balance in my office that day.

42. My Solicitor pointed this out to the court, and we were able to prove that Gary had
carried out the balance, because he did it in a red pen and used a completely

different method to me but still came up short.

43. It was this point that the judge and jury realised what they Post Office was trying to
do, and you could see that the judge was less than impressed by the Post Office now.

The judge took a very dim view of what the Post Office had done.

44, lf I had not spotted that Gary had done the balance that day I have no doubt that I

would have been looking at jail time.

45. Before I went to court, I hadn’t really told my children what was going on because
they were young. But on the first morning I attended court I explained to them what
might happen, i.e. that I may go to jail. I had to have all my affairs in order because I

really did not know what was going to happen.

46.1 left my niece who was staying with me at the time in charge of everything and in

charge of looking after my children.

47.\ had to prepare for the worst case scenario, because I was up against the Royal Mail,
and even though I had evidence I just could be sure I would beat the Royal Mail, they

are not the kind of company you go up against and win.

48.1 was found not guilty of theft. The whole experience was thoroughly traumatic but I

was over the moon that I was found innocent.

7
WITNO3700100

49. Despite being found innocent of any charges, I was forced to sell my business due to

the stress caused and financial pressure I was under.

LOSSES

50.1 estimate that I paid between £25,000 to £30,000 of my own money to make good
the losses. I also had to sell the business, as I could no longer cope with going in
there. I sold it at a significant loss but I just wanted to be rid of the place. I also lost
my Post Office salary, and the profits of my shop. Worst of all, I lost my reputation,

and spent years in dread waiting to be prosecuted for something I did not do.

HUMAN IMPACT

51.1 could not begin to tell you the impact this had on me. Physically and mentally, it

has had a devastating effect.

52. I underwent surgery on a mass in my neck. Thankfully, this was a benign growth in
my thyroid and a ruptured gland. My surgeon did put this down to the result of
extreme stress. He told me I should be grateful that this had not spread to any other

area as it could have been much more serious.

53. My reputation in the local area was wrecked. Even though I was found not guilty,
this had been hanging over me for years and my trial had been in the news; so the
rumours circulated. I had to suffer years of suspicion and rumours before being

vindicated but still gossip remains.

54. I can only describe the attitude of the Post Office officials as ‘Mafia’ like. They were
rude and abrupt. I did not deserve to be treated like this. I suffered with anxiety and

panic attacks. I was diagnosed as being clinically depressed and on anti-depressants.
55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64,

WITNO3700100

My health declined rapidly after the court case. Even though I had been found not

guilty my health went downhill as a result of the years of stress,

I tried to continue to run the shop but could not face going in there anymore
because my head just was not in it anymore, so I had no option but to sell and I sold

it at a loss.

I was dependant on the income from the shop because I had built the new shop and
I needed the income to pay for that; so having to sell the business put me in a really

difficult financial position.

I was dependant on my brothers and sisters for years because I was just not fit for
work. I was forced to borrow money from them, and for a proud woman, this was

humiliating.

My finances were ruined after my case, I had nothing. I had to get family to help me
cover my mortgage and then when my eldest boy got older and started working he

helped me out and took over the mortgage payments.

It was a terrible time I was going through, I did not go out at all, I just minded my

grandchildren as that was about all I was fit to do.

The Post Office took everything from me; quite literally.

They took my future; I had planned to run my business up until retirement. I built it
up from the bottom, and it was going well, that’s why I built the new shop, I had so

many plans for it but the post office stole that all away from me.

I felt the Post Office robbed me of my home life as well. It feels as though my
children just grew up, got married and on moved on without me because I just was

not present anymore. I was there, but only in vision.

. I have missed out on so much of life because of the Post Office.
WITNO3700100

CONCLUSION

65. I lost my business, my health and my reputation.

66. The least I expect from the inquiry is an apology from Post Office Ltd. I believe those
high up in the organisation knew what was happening and there was a failure in the

Horizon system.

67. I would also like to see everybody’s name cleared that was done wrong by the post

office.

68. I cannot see the Post office righting the wrongs they have committed, but I would
love to see some compensation for the loss of my business and livelihood, but also

for my lost reputation and my lost years with my children.

69. I want to be able to make it up to my family for what they had to do for me. I can
never get the time or my health back, but I would like to be able to thank those who

supported me.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the contents of this statement to be true.

Dated: 1. 4 2672_

Maureen McKelvey

10
