WITN10200101
WITN10200101

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Sent: 18 May 2015 09:55

To: Wiskin Hannah (MPST MIN); Smith Harriet (MPST)
Ce: Javid MPST; SpAd Javid MPST; King Nick (MPST)
Subject: RE: Portfolio

Attachments: Lucy Neville-Rolfe portfolio.docx

Sorry — now with attachment.

Harriet

From: Neville-Rolfe MPST

Sent: 18 May 2015 09:54

To: Wiskin Hannah (MPST MIN); Smith Harriet (MPST)

Cc: Javid MPST; SpAd Javid MPST; King Nick (MPST); Neville-Rolfe MPST
Subject: RE: Portfolio

Hannah
The Minister is broadly content — she has commented as follows:

On substance this looks fine. However, it will need to be tidied up and recast before becoming a published
allocation. For example the 2 councils and the EU Competitiveness Council are not part of Intellectual Property but
distinct items.

I would also combine the 2 corporate items - not sure what BIS corporate means- and if necessary give
examples. Women on boards could be one, but I don't want to overplay this- I would rather approach it gently and
over - deliver with some quiet work on the pipeline rather than raising expectations.

You also need to think about what to say about DCMS - perhaps mention their Lords business too.

The post office brief is troubling and I would like an early meeting on the problems with the Horizon IT system and

the losses people are complaining about. This will be a Parliamentary issue and it would be good to know who will

answer on postal matters in the Commons. I dealt with post office closures a few years ago at Tesco and it was very
problematic with local MPs including David Cameron - whom luckily we were able to help!

I have made a couple of changes in the attached which I think go some way towards address the Minister's
concerns. I was also unsure what BIS corporate meant so haven’t made any changes to this part. Two further queries
Ihave are

a) Will the Minister continue her SRM role for the chemical companies she has looked after to date (BASF,
Johnson Matthey, INEOS, SABIC)

b) The Minister agreed with Francis Maude last week that she would take on all the single market work and he
would only keep the Trade part of the EU brief. This was on account of her already doing DSM and the
strong links between DSM and other single market work. Will single market now revert to Francis Maude or
should it stay with BNR?
WITN10200101
WITN10200101

Thanks
Harriet
Harriet Smith
Private Secretary to Baroness Neville-Rolfe
mpst.neville-
Department GRO ;
- Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, 1 Victoria Street, London,
for Business SW1H OET
Innovation & Skills www.gov.uk/bis I @bisgovuk I blogs.bis.gov.uk

BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

From: Wiskin Hannah (MPST MIN)

Sent: 15 May 2015 17:38

To: Neville-Rolfe MPST-OLD; Smith Harriet (MPST)
Cc: Javid MPST; SpAd Javid MPST; King Nick (MPST)
Subject: Portfolio

Harriet

The Secretary of State has considered carefully the portfolio allocations across BIS and has decided on the policy
areas for which your minister will be responsible. These are contained in the attached.

This includes two new policy areas (1) Post Office Ltd; and (2) corporate governance and company law, that were
undertaken by Jo Swinson before the election — as you know, that ministerial role no longer exists. I therefore
attach short briefing on what those areas entail.

If your minister has concerns about the allocations, please let me know by 10am on Monday morning.

You’ll be aware on the ongoing discussions regarding the DSM portfolio. I hope this will be resolved at the start of
next week.

For now, please do not circulate this more widely.

Best wishes,
Hannah
Hannah Wiskin
7% Principal Private Secretary to the Secretary of State

Head of Ministerial and Parliamentary Support Team (MPST)

Department Phonei

1 Victoria Street, London

for Business www.gov.uk/bis I @bisgovuk I blogs.bis.gov.uk
Innovation & Skills BIS I Connecting people to opportunity and prosperity

WITN10200101
WITN10200101
