WITNO9610102

WITNO9610102

The following short schedule sets out the material I viewed in order to advise on disclosure
in the case of Misra. The test I adopted, with the explicit approval of the Defence was this: is
there any objective material which casts doubt on the integrity of the Horizon system. The

only material I discovered was the Callender Square problem. All the other material merely

consisted of unsupported complaints by SPMs who all had a deficiency which they did not
want to make good. My Schedule is in brief terms because of the intense time pressure I

was under in reviewing the material. It was simply impossible in the available time to create
a schedule detailing every single page viewed.

Alan Bates

Viewed all papers held by Civil Dept, consisting almost entirely
of correspondence. No material to disclose. The debt was
written off not because of any problem with Horizon but
because not all the paperwork had been retained which would
be necessary for a civil action.

Alan Brown/Callender
Sq

There was a problem at Callender Square, Falkirk, which was
rectified in March 2006. Therefore disclosure of this is only
appropriate if the deficiency in the particular case predates
March 2006. The best way to provide disclosure in relation to
this office is to serve the summary of the Callender Square
problem prepared by Gareth Jenkins and attached to his final
report for the Misra trial.

Jo Hamilton

I viewed the complete criminal file. No material to disclose.

Noel Thomas

I viewed the complete criminal file. No material to disclose.

Rajinder Bilkhu

I viewed the only papers held by the Civil Dept, a small amount
of correspondence. No material to disclose.

Anar Bajaj

I viewed the only papers held by the Civil Dept, a small amount
of correspondence. No material to disclose.

Lee Castleton

I viewed 4 boxes of material in relation to the High Court case.
This was not all the material held in storage and I was asked by
Mandy Talbot if I required to see the remainder. Having read
the Judgment I decided that there was no need to request any
further material. The Judgment is a complete refutation of
Castleton’s allegations. I advised in Misra that the Judgment in
the High Court case be served but this was only because of the
mention in that Judgment of the Callender Square problem.
Now that we have Gareth Jenkins’ summary there will be no
need to disclose the Judgment in other cases.

Julie Ford

I viewed the only papers held by the Civil Dept, a small amount
of correspondence. No material to disclose.

WITNO09610102
WITNO9610102
