WITN10650130
WITN10650130

From: David Neuberger{_
Sent: Tue 23/04/2019
To: ‘Andrew Parsons’

18:13 PM (UTC)

David Cavender}
Ce: Rob Smit” GRO
Subject: DEN 30 RE: Board Sub-committee meeting
Thanks Andrew.
See you there.
David

From: Andrew Parson
Sent: 23 April 2019 1:
To: Anthony Grabine!

t

David Neuberger <_ David Cavender

Ce: Rob Smith
Subject: Board Sub-committee meeting
All
Please find below details for the meeting with Post Office.
Time: 8:30 tomorrow. David & David - I'd be grateful if you could arrive 10 minutes early so that we can start at 8:30
sharp. Please ask for Rodric Williams at reception.
Location: Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, Moorgate.
Map: https://www.google.com/maps/search/20+finsbury+street+post+office/@51.5203308,-
0.0905689,172/data=!3m1!4b1
Dial in details: r
+ Telephone -{___ GRO
« Participant passcode:

_GRO

Attendees will be:
¢ Tim Parker, Non-executive Chairman
« Al Cameron — former finance director, recently installed as acting CEO.
* Tom Cooper — Non-executive board director, nominated by Post Office's shareholder. PO's shareholder is the
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) but the shareholding is managed by UK
Government Investments. Tom works for UKGI.
* Ken McCall — Non-executive board director. Ken usually attends these meetings but I believe he is
unavailable tomorrow.
¢ Ben Foat and Rodric Williams — Post Office, in-house legal team.
« Alan Watts and me.

Kind regards

Andy

Andrew Parsons

Partner

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP.

Manage your e-alert preferences

WITN10650130
WITN10650130

womblebonddickinson.com

DICKINSON J) (in)

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential and may be legally privileged and prote law. dneuberger 1 only is authorised to access this
e-mail and any attachments. If you are not dneubergerf™ "please notify andrew-parsons{. GRO jas soon as possibTé Any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this Communication or attachments is prohibited and may be unlawful. Information about how we use personal data is in our

Privacy Poliey on our website

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission. Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP accepts no liability for any
Joss or damage which may be caused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it.

This email is sent by Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our registered office
is 4 More London Riverside, London, SE1 2AU, where a list of members’ names is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee
or consultant who is of equivalent standing. Our VAT registration number is GB 123393627.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is a member of Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited, which consists of independent and autonomous law firms providing
services in the US, the UK, and elsewhere around the world. Each Womble Bond Dickinson entity is a separate legal entity and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of, nor
can bind or obligate, another Womble Bond Dickinson entity. Womble Bond Dickinson (International) Limited does not practice law. Please see

www. womblebonddickinson.com/legal notices for further details.

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

This email has been scanned by the Symantec Email Security.cloud service.

For more information please visit http://www.symanteccloud.com

