WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Witness Name: Thomas Cooper
Statement No: WITN00200100

Dated: 13 June 2024

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

First Witness Statement of Thomas Cooper

I, Thomas Cooper, will say as follows:

1. I am employed by UK Government Investments (“UKGI”) and hold the position
of Director, a position I have held since November 2017. I make this statement
in response to a Rule 9 Request made by the Inquiry dated 8 May 2024. I have
sought to address each of the questions posed by the Inquiry in the course of
this statement and I have referred to the relevant contemporaneous
documentation, including the material provided to me by the Inquiry along with
the Rule 9 Request. The focus of this statement is on my tenure as Shareholder
Non-Executive Director (“Shareholder NED”) on the Board of Post Office
Limited (“POL” or the “Company”), and head of UKGI’s shareholder team for
POL (the “Shareholder Team”), between March 2018 and early 2020, with
particular regard to the oversight of POL’s conduct of the Group Litigation (the

“GLO”), to which the majority of the Inquiry’s questions are addressed.

Page 1 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

2. I would like to start this witness statement by acknowledging the devastating
hardship and injustice suffered by so many sub-postmasters (“SPMs”). This
Inquiry has a vital role in establishing the truth and ensuring that appropriate
lessons are learned. I am grateful for the opportunity to contribute to the Inquiry
by providing evidence. I sincerely hope that my evidence will assist in
establishing the truth of what took place and helping to ensure that nothing like

this ever happens again.

3. I have set out a number of reflections at the end of this statement. However one
of the most important is that, in my view, there was a significant failure by POL’s
management and Board to understand the lived experience of SPMs running
branches and the problems they faced dealing with POL and the Horizon
system. This contributed very significantly to the failure to resolve the dispute
between SPMs and POL in a reasonable timeframe and in a reasonable
manner. In addition, in my view, adversarial litigation was not the best way to

resolve the issues faced by SPMs.

Background/Work History

4. I began my career at KPMG as an accountant, and then moved to UBS
Investment Bank for 21 years where, amongst various roles, I held the position
of Head of European Mergers and Acquisitions (“EMEA”). More recently, from
2009 to 2017, I was Global Co-Chairman of Mergers and Acquisitions at
Deutsche Bank. In addition to advising clients and working with them on
transactions, at Deutsche Bank I chaired the Fairness Opinion Committee for
EMEA and I was a member of the committee responsible for approving

franchise loans to Deutsche Bank’s corporate clients in EMEA.

Page 2 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

I joined UKGI in November 2017. I knew when joining that I would be working
in UKGI’s shareholder team for POL (the “Shareholder Team”). I was aware
there was ongoing litigation but, when I joined UKGI, I did not know how
significant the litigation would become or how much of a focus it would be for
my role. That did not emerge until later during the course of 2018, as I began

working with POL in the lead up to the Common Issues hearing.

I began by working at UKGI three days per week. At times, due to the volume
of work, I have worked five days per week. At the moment, I work three days

per week.

In March 2018, I was appointed as Shareholder NED on the POL Board. I left

the POL Board in May 2023. While working at UKGI, I have also:

(i) been a member of UKGI’s Executive Committee (“UKGI ExCo’);

(ii) led UKGI’s shareholder team for East West Railway, and was a Board
member for 12 months;

(iii) I led UKGI’s shareholder team for OneWeb and was a Board member for
12 months. Although I am no longer serving on OneWeb’s Board, I remain
UKGI’s ExCo member responsible for the asset; and

(iv) undertaken some cross-UKGI responsibilities, for example, I am
responsible for UKGI’s risk reporting for its assets and projects. I also
chair UKGI’s Project Review panel, drawn from colleagues, that reviews

much of the transactional work undertaken at UKGI.

Page 3 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

8. Outside UKGI, since leaving Deutsche Bank in 2017, I have also conducted a

limited amount of strategic consulting work.

My role in relation to POL

9. In addition to my role as the Shareholder NED at POL, I led the Shareholder
Team. Initially, I had a team of around four people working either full or part time
within the Shareholder Team in addition to myself. Members of the Shareholder
Team were allocated our core tasks of advising the Department of Business,
Energy and Industrial Strategy (now the Department for Business and Trade)
(‘BEIS”, “Shareholder” or the “Department”) on: monitoring POL’s financial
performance; POL’s business strategy; POL’s funding; appointments and pay
for POL’s Board members (which included the two senior members of
management); and monitoring POL’s network. The Shareholder Team drew on
other resources within UKGI. For example, the Shareholder Team worked

closely with UKGI’s internal lawyers on a variety of topics including the litigation.

10. Reporting directly to me was an Executive Director, Tom Aldred, who was
responsible for the management of the Shareholder Team. In broad terms, I led
on the Company-facing aspects of the shareholder role and Tom Aldred led on
the Department-facing aspects of our work. In addition to Tom and me, the
Shareholder Team consisted of three further people working full or part time on
POL matters. The Shareholder Team met regularly either as a team or
individually, which would enable me to keep up to date with the work being done
across the team. My primary source of advice and support on legal issues was

UKGI’s General Counsel, Elizabeth O’Neill and her successor Richard Watson.

Page 4 of 150
11.

12.

13.

14.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

The size of the Shareholder Team grew over time, particularly in order to deal
with the compensation workstreams that were put in place after the GLO
settlement. In relation to compensation, the Shareholder Team supported BEIS
most closely on the Horizon Shortfall Scheme and the Overturned
Compensation scheme. At one stage the team grew to approximately 12

people, working either full or part time.

POL was my first role as a non-executive Director (“NED”) but I did have
significant experience of advising Boards and attending Board meetings. As a
result, I do not think I was significantly disadvantaged by not having been a NED
before joining the POL Board. Nevertheless, I did ask for NED training and I

attended a two-day course with the Institute of Directors in April 2018.

In addition to my role as Shareholder NED on the POL Board, I was also a
member of POL’s Remuneration Committee (“RemCo’”) from April 2018, POL’s
Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (“ARC”) from May 2018, POL’s
Nominations Committee (“NomCo”) from March 2021, and from August 2021,
POL’s Historical Remediation Committee (“HRC”). From March 2018 to March
2020 I was also a member of the Postmaster Litigation Sub-committee (the

“Sub-committee”).

A summary of these committees is as follows:

(i) ARC: This committee considered issues of accounting, controls, risk and
compliance at POL;
(ii) RemCo: This committee dealt with pay for the leadership team at POL;

(iii) I NomCo: This committee considered appointments of senior individuals

Page 5 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

at POL;

(iv) I the Sub-committee: The Sub-committee was created in March 2018 to
oversee the conduct of the Horizon litigation. The Sub-committee ran
until 3 March 2020, following which, and until the formation of HRC,
litigation matters were dealt with by the whole Board;

(v) HRC: This committee was set up to oversee POL’s compensation
workstreams and cases of SPMs seeking to have their convictions

overturned.

Tasks in relation to POL in 2018

15.

16.

Because I joined UKGI in November 2017, I had a few months to learn about
POL and the matters I would be dealing with before joining POL’s Board. During
this time, I was briefed by my predecessor, Richard Callard, and other members

of the Shareholder Team.

I was informed that BEIS’s main objectives for POL during this time were

twofold:

(i) Continuing to provide essential mails, banking and bill payment services
to the public by maintaining POL’s network of at least 11,500 branches
and meeting the access criteria which governed the distribution of
branches across the country; and

(ii) POL increasing its profitability such that it would become self-funding and
no longer require financial support from the Government. The three-year

plan to 31 March 2021 was intended to achieve this objective.

Page 6 of 150
17.

18.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

In order to deliver the three-year plan, the main focus was for POL to complete
the programme of franchising its directly managed branches. This programme
replaced loss-making directly managed branches with more profitable formats.
It was expected to deliver substantial cost savings and improve profitability. POL
was also working on a large number of other key projects involving substantial
expenditure including to upgrade its technology while continuing to operate the
core Horizon system for branch accounting. There were also a number of key
commercial issues for management to deal with, the most significant of which

are listed below.

Consequently, in addition to the core tasks mentioned above for the
Shareholder Team, in 2018 a number of additional tasks had been identified as

needing the Shareholder Team's attention. These included:

(i) I Reframing UKGI’s relationship with BEIS in relation to POL;

(ii) I Updating the key governance documents for POL, principally the Articles
of Association, and putting a Framework Agreement in place for the first
time;

(iii) POL’s partnership with Bank of Ireland which was being re-negotiated
and renewed;

(iv) The possible acquisition of Payzone;

(v) Material litigation, namely the Horizon litigation and an employment case;
and

(vi) Obtaining State Aid approval for POL’s funding that had been agreed by

Page 7 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Government in 2017.

19. During the course of 2018, a number of significant additional issues emerged

which required the attention of the Shareholder Team:

(i) IThe departure of Paula Vennells as Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of
POL, the appointment of Al Cameron as Interim CEO, retention
arrangements for key executives and the search for a permanent CEO.

(ii) Discussions between the Cabinet Office and POL in relation to the Verify
digital identity service for which POL was the largest provider.

(iii) The renegotiation of the Banking Framework which was POL’s second
largest source of revenue.

(iv) Preliminary discussions between POL and Royal Mail Group relating to
a possible extension of the commercial agreement between the parties.
Royal Mail Group was POL’s largest source of revenue.

(v) A proposal from POL’s management to change the group structure and

to establish a new holding company for the group.

Knowledge of Relevant Issues
20. In March 2018 I was appointed to the position of Shareholder NED and joined
the POL Board. I attended my first Board meeting in my capacity as Shareholder

NED on 27 March 2018.

21. I was made aware that 2017 had been a difficult period for the relationship

between POL and UKGI. In particular, I understood there had been difficulties

Page 8 of 150
22.

23.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

in relation to budget and funding, the negotiations that year had been protracted,
and there had been a degree of tension. It was therefore considered to be an
appropriate time to change the leadership of the Shareholder Team and

Shareholder NED.

On the specific issue of the Horizon litigation, and the history of the disputes that
led to the commencement of the litigation, I received a high-level verbal
summary of the background as part of my handover mainly from Richard Callard
as well as Laura Thompson and Tim Mcinnis. This is likely to be the “sparrow
meeting” referred to in an email sent to me by Richard Callard on 30 January
2018 [UKGI00020830]. I do not recall receiving any documentation relating to
the history of Horizon issues in the context of that meeting. I note that I refer
earlier in the same email chain to a bundle of documents that was being put
together for me by Jane MacLeod, POL’s General Counsel, to be read as part
of my induction. As far as I recall, they did not include documents relating to the
litigation but rather consisted of governance matters, such a summary of matters
reserved to the Board, a summary of POL’s material contracts and a list of
proposed induction meetings with members of POL’s management team (Email
sent to Tom Cooper by Jane MacLeod enclosing Director Induction Pack dated
8 March 2018) [UKG100020899], (POL Director Briefing Pack) [UKGI00020900],
(POL Director Induction Document) [UKGI00007795], (Email sent to Tom
Cooper by Jane MacLeod regarding POL Induction dated 16 February 2018)

[UKG100007794].

The essence of what I was told at the briefing was that there was an intractable

problem between POL and a group of SPMs, which had been continuing for a

Page 9 of 150
24.

25.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

number of years, and for which it had not proved possible to find a mutually
satisfactory solution. I was told that a number of avenues had been explored to
try to find a resolution including the investigation by Second Sight and the
establishment of a mediation scheme (the “Mediation Scheme’), but these
attempts had all failed. I do not recall being given an explanation for the reasons
behind the breakdown of the Mediation Scheme and I gained the general
impression that it had failed because the parties were generally too far apart to
be able to find a compromise. As for Second Sight, I was not given any details
as to their specific findings other than that no systemic issues with Horizon had
been found. I also recall being given the impression that concerns had been

expressed as to the quality of their work.

I also recall reference being made to the conclusions of a review commissioned
by the Chairman, Tim Parker, although I cannot now remember precisely what
was said in this regard. I recall being made aware that Baroness Neville-Rolfe,
the Minister at the time, had asked Tim Parker to conduct a review and there
was a letter produced following that review. I was not given a copy of the letter
(Letter from Tim Parker to Baroness Neville-Rolfe dated 4 March 2016)
[UKGI00008800] but Richard Callard told me that the feedback from Tim Parker
was reassuring and no follow-up had been required at UKGI or BEIS. This
appeared to have been a significant source of comfort for the Shareholder Team
and Department at the time. In light of what I was told about the contents of the

letter, I did not think it necessary for me to see a copy at that stage.

The litigation that was underway was presented as the only remaining option for

teaching a definitive resolution of the SPMs’ complaints. I was told that the

Page 10 of 150
26.

27.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

litigation would determine whether POL’s systems had failed (or not) and this
would settle the matter. It was apparent to me from the outset, therefore, that
an important part of my role as Shareholder NED would be to monitor the

progress and conduct of the litigation.

In view of the fact that monitoring the litigation was going to be a significant
element of my role as Shareholder NED, I also received an early briefing from
Elizabeth O'Neill, UKGI’s General Counsel at the time, which focused on the
lessons that had recently been learned from the Magnox Inquiry on handling
material litigation from a shareholder perspective and how those lessons should
be applied in relation to the ongoing litigation involving POL. In very brief
summary, at the time I joined the team, UKGI had recently been involved in the
Magnox Inquiry, which was a non-statutory inquiry into the award of the Magnox
decommissioning contract by the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, a non-
departmental public body for which UKGI provided a shareholder role on behalf
of BEIS. UKGI was in the process of implementing the lessons learned from
that inquiry, which included a number of recommendations relating to the

effective Board oversight of litigation.

From Elizabeth O'Neill I understood that, based on the lessons learned from the
Magnox Inquiry, the initial objectives of the Shareholder Team in relation to the
litigation should be: to establish an information sharing protocol with POL (‘the
Protocol”); to establish a process of legal interaction between UKGI and BEIS;
for POL to obtain a merits opinion and, if appropriate, a second legal opinion;
for POL to carry out contingency planning addressing how to manage the

consequences of an adverse judgment; and for POL to put in place a resolution

Page 11 of 150
28.

29.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

strategy through settlement or other means. I set out below how I sought to
address each of these issues during the course of 2018. Given that a number
of these were actions for POL to undertake and given that neither the
Department, the Shareholder Team (including the Shareholder NED) had the
power to force POL to carry them out, implementing them would require the
Shareholder Team working cooperatively with POL and persuading POL where

necessary.

As far as I recall, the briefings I have described above set out the information I
received concerning the issues relating to Horizon and the dispute between
POL and SPMs in the period leading up to my appointment to the POL Board.
I had also watched the Panorama programme in 2015 and so I had some
general awareness of the seriousness of the issue, the allegation about remote

access and the impact on individual SPMs reported by the programme.

The briefings I have described did not deal with the detail of the differences
between Legacy Horizon, Horizon Online and the current version of Horizon
(HNG-A), or the nature and extent of any bugs errors or defects in the systems;
nor did they deal with the issue of remote access or the ability of Fujitsu to
delete and replace transaction data. In simple terms, the dispute was presented
to me as being one in which POL was convinced that the Horizon system was
entirely reliable, and the SPMs were convinced that it was fundamentally
flawed. I was given the impression that all attempts to reconcile these two
opposing positions had failed and that it would only be through the litigation

process that an answer would be reached.

Page 12 of 150
30.

31.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

My recollection is that the briefings did not deal with the history of the Royal
Mail Group, or companies within it, acting as investigator in cases of alleged
theft, fraud or false accounting by SPMs. However, I believe my colleagues told
me that a number of SPMs had been prosecuted by POL and that POL had
stopped prosecuting SPMs some years earlier. It follows that I was also
unaware of who within the Royal Mail Group was responsible for: decisions
concerning the investigation of alleged offences: decisions about prosecutions;

or how prosecutions were conducted.

I have been asked by the Inquiry whether I was aware of the existence, content
or gist of a number of documents when I first started working on POL-related
matters and, if not, when I became aware of those matters. I deal with my
developing understanding of the issues relating to Horizon, including those
raised by the specific documents to which the Inquiry refers, in the chronological
account I have set out below but in respect of the specific documents the Inquiry

has identified the position was as follows:

(i) I was not provided with, or told about, the Helen Rose/Lepton report
(Draft Helen Rose/Lepton Report on Horizon data dated 12 June 2013)
[FUJ00086811], nor was I given any information about its contents. I did
not become aware of this document until March 2020 as it was
mentioned in the Swift Review (Swift Review dated 8 February 2016)
[POL00006355]. UKGI received a copy of the Swift Review in March
2020 in preparation for a Select Committee hearing (as I describe in
further detail below). I do not remember receiving a copy of the Helen

Rose/Lepton Report, although I did see a summary of it in April 2020.

Page 13 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

(ii) I was not provided with, or told about, Simon Clarke’s advices of 15 July
2013 (Simon Clarke advice re Prosecutions — Expert Evidence dated 15
July 2013) [POL00006357] or 2 August 2013 (Simon Clarke advice re
Disclosure dated 2 August 2013) [POL00006799]. The Swift Review,
which I received in March 2020, refers to reports produced by Cartwright
King which I understand are the Simon Clarke advices. Again, I did not

read these advices.

(iii) I did not become aware of Deloitte’s Project Zebra reports until I read the
Swift Review which I received in March 2020. I obtained a copy of the
‘Board Briefing’ prepared by Deloitte [POL00028069] in June 2014 in
order to help me prepare for a Select Committee, which had been
scheduled in March 2020, but which had to be postponed as a result of

the Covid-19 pandemic.

(iv) As I have explained above, I was told during the course of my briefing
with Richard Callard and Laura Thompson that a review had been
conducted by Tim Parker some years previously and that it had been
informed by advice from a barrister. I do not remember if the name of
Jonathan Swift QC was mentioned. I note from the documentation
provided to me by the Inquiry that I was copied into an email chain in
July 2019 (Email chain from Stephen Clarke to Tom Aldred, Tom Cooper
and Richard Watson dated 1 July 2019) [UKGI00010324] attaching a
number of documents relating to Tim Parker's review (not including

Jonathan Swift's advice) and as far as I recall, this was the first time that

Page 14 of 150
32.

33.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

I received any documentation relating to that review.

(v) I recall it was the ‘Project Bramble’ report [POL00028928] that caused
POL finally to admit in November 2018 that remote access was possible.
I recall that Jane MacLeod informed the Sub-committee that an
admission either had been or was going to be made to the Court to that
effect. I do not recall whether Deloitte’s name was mentioned in that
context. Subsequently I received a summary of the ‘Project Bramble’

report in April 2020. However I do not recall reading the report itself.

Of these documents, I selected to read those which I believed had been seen
by the Board or Shareholder, and were therefore relevant for me to know about

in preparation for the Select Committee.

The clear impression I gained at the outset of my tenure as Shareholder NED,
which was subsequently reinforced by numerous assertions to the same effect
by the POL executive, was there was no reason to doubt the integrity of the
Horizon system and no reason to believe that there were systemic problems
with it. I was told that while bugs, errors or defects did occur, these were
detected and remedied and the cause of shortfalls in individual branch accounts
was invariably caused by user error or fraud, rather than by the system. I also
remember being told that remote access was a non-issue. It was not until after
the conclusion of the litigation when I read the Swift Review that I first learned
of the existence of documents produced prior to my appointment, such as the
Helen Rose/Lepton and Project Zebra reports, which cast doubt on the integrity

of Horizon and/or confirmed that remote access was possible.

Page 15 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

34. I have been asked the general question of whether I know what knowledge any
Minister, Secretary of State, relevant Permanent Secretary or other DBT official,
had of the matters I have described in this section of my statement. I am not
able to speak directly to the knowledge of others and I can only recall one
occasion on which a Minister, Secretary of State of DBT official expressed a
strong view about the validity of the SPMs’ allegations. I refer below to an
occasion in March 2019 in the immediate aftermath of the Common Issues
judgment when the then Secretary of State, Greg Clarke MP, expressed the
view that he had always believed that the SPMs were right, but I do not recall
him specifying the basis of that belief or referring to any particular sources of

information.

Government Oversight of POL

The Crown’s Interest in POL

35. I have been asked to describe the Government's interest in POL. I am aware
that this issue has been addressed in some detail in UKGI’s Opening Statement
to the Inquiry and in the witness evidence of Charles Donald, UKGI’s CEO, but,
in short, the position since 1 April 2012 is that POL has been a Public

Corporation wholly owned by the Secretary of State for Business and Trade.

36. As with other Public Corporations, POL is intended to operate at a distance from
Ministers and Government, with accountability placed with the Board and
executive team, as a separate institution from its shareholder Department.

Neither the Secretary of State as Shareholder, nor the Department, are (or

Page 16 of 150
37.

38.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

were) directly involved in the day-to-day operations of POL, oversight of which
was, and is, the responsibility of POL’s Board and management. POL’s Board
was, and is, accountable to the Secretary of State as POL’s shareholder, for

the performance of the Company.

It follows that I did not regard the Department, including the Secretary of State
and Ministers, as having any direct responsibility for POL’s operations, which
were the responsibility of POL’s executive team, subject to oversight by the
Board. Whilst it was for the Department, and the Secretary of State in particular,
to set the high-level strategic direction for the Company (and I have set out
those strategic objectives, as I understood them to be, above) operational
accountability for the delivery of those strategic objectives rested with the Board
and POL’s executive team. Neither the Secretary of State, nor any departmental
official, has any involvement in the day-to-day operations of a public corporation

such as POL.

As to the background to those arrangements, I am not in a position to speak to
the development of the Public Corporation model but I understand, in general
terms, that the conclusion was reached that a largely commercial businesses
such as POL could not be run effectively by politicians and civil servants and so
a structure was devised to enable such businesses to be run in accordance with
conventional commercial principles, and subject to established structures of
corporate governance primarily regulated though a Companies Act company

overseen by a fiduciary Board.

Page 17 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

39. The existence of this ‘arm’s length’ model, and the use of language such as
‘operational matters’, does not mean that the Department, both directly and
through the Shareholder Team (including the Shareholder NED), should be
uninterested or passive in relation to the operations of a Public Corporation,
particularly for matters that are of significance to the Department, either
financially, reputationally or otherwise. The Department and Shareholder Team
should actively seek to understand, communicate their views on such matters
and, where appropriate, instigate change either by persuasion or, if necessary,
the use of the levers available to them. There are also instances, in my view
rare, where the Department should not involve itself in this way. An example is
the recusal decision where the Department maintained a “clearly distinct and
detached position” (Email from Tom Cooper to Alex Chisholm dated 20 March

2019) [UKGI00009299].

The Role of UKGI

40. During my tenure, the remit and purpose of UKGI was essentially two-fold. First,
it represented the shareholder on the POL Board through the Shareholder NED
who is typically an employee of UKGI. In addition to performing the conventional
role of a NED on the Board like any other, the Shareholder NED was also
expected to provide the Board with insight as to the Department's priorities as
shareholder and the Department's views on significant issues affecting the
Company. Second, UKGI provided the Shareholder Team to offer advice and
support to Ministers and officials in a number of areas. Specific aspects of the

Shareholder Team's responsibilities included:

Page 18 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

(i) Monitoring and commenting, from a commercial perspective, on POL’s
financial performance, its budgets and strategic plans. UKGI would
generally communicate to BEIS about its perceptions of risks affecting
POL through the normal communication channels including quarterly
updates and regular meetings with BEIS’ policy team (the “Policy Team”).

(ii) Supporting the Department, including providing advice where
appropriate, in relation to shareholder-related matters requiring
Departmental approval.

(iii) I Advising Ministers and monitoring POL’s performance against
Government's objectives (for example in relation to POL’s progress
towards achieving financial self-sufficiency), assisting the Department to
secure sufficient Government funding for POL to deliver the
Department's objectives, and, where the Shareholder Team's role was
relevant, supporting Ministers with Parliamentary or other stakeholder
engagement.

(iv) I Advising on appointments to the POL Board, including remuneration for
those roles.

(v) Arranging and attending ad hoc meetings for members of the
Shareholder Team, with POL’s management team to discuss matters

relevant to the above.

As to the ‘rights and powers’ UKGI had to fulfil its remit in respect of POL, the
Shareholder NED had the same powers and responsibilities as the other NEDs
and would participate in the collective decision making of the Board. As with

any NED, the core responsibilities were those set out in the Companies Act

Page 19 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

2006 including promoting the success of the Company and exercising
independent judgement in delivering effective corporate governance. The
powers available to the Shareholder NED in discharging these responsibilities
were included in the powers of the Board to: call for the provision of information
from the executive; commission its own specialist advice; and hold the
Company's executive to account in relation to its management of the Company.
The position of Shareholder NED did not carry any additional powers or rights
beyond those conferred on any other NED and did not carry a right of veto over

collective decision making on the part of the Board.

The role of Government as the sole shareholder in POL was reflected in the
Company's Articles of Association. The Articles provided that the Secretary of
State would be a ‘Special Shareholder’ in POL and would have certain special
rights, including the right to request information, the right to appoint or remove
the Chairman or a Director (Article 70), and the right to receive an annual
strategic plan from the Company (Article 72). The formal powers conferred on
the Shareholder in the event of fundamental dissatisfaction with the strategy or
operation of the business were limited and consisted principally of the power to
remove the Directors. Other key documents that regulated the Shareholder’s
relationship with POL included the Funding Agreement (to which the
Entrustment letter was attached), the Working Capital Facility Agreement and
other relevant Government guidance, notably Managing Public Money. POL
had also committed to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code where

appropriate.

Page 20 of 150
43.

44.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Within UKGI, internal oversight of the way in which the Shareholder NED and
the Shareholder Team discharged their functions included: portfolio reviews, in
which the Shareholder Team report on their activities to a panel of senior
employees of UKGI; formal ExCo meetings; and informal meetings with the
UKGI CEO. UKGI has its own Board which includes independent and
experienced NEDs with private and public sector experience. UKGI’s CEO and
management team would report to the UKGI Board on the issues and risks
affecting UKGI’s assets including POL. Members of UKGI’s Board were also
available to provide support and advice to shareholder NEDs and shareholder
teams. There would also be meetings between UKGI’s CEO and/or Chair with
POL’s Chair and/or CEO at which any issues regarding the Shareholder Team’s
performance of its role could be raised; and it would always be open to
companies in UKGI’s portfolio to raise any concerns they might have directly

with the Department.

Accordingly, there were various ways in which any issues relating to the manner
in which UKGI performed its functions in relation to POL could be identified and
addressed. During my tenure, issues relating to Horizon and POL’s
management of the litigation were discussed in these forums (see, for example,
the portfolio review on 29 June 2018 [UKGI00042805] and reflections on POL’s
portfolio review of 5 July 2018 [UKGI00008215], the ExCo meeting on 30 May
2019 [UKGI00009951] and the UKGI Board meeting on 9 July 2019

[UKG100016810].

Page 21 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Role as NED

45. I recall a conversation with Mark Russell, UKGI’s CEO, prior to me joining UKGI
in which he told me of his intention that I should take on the role the Shareholder
NED. I am not aware of the background to that decision, or whether there was

some form of prior nomination or selection procedure that led up to it.

46. I have been provided with a number of documents relating to my appointment
including a draft briefing [UKGI00020960] which refers to BEIS’ internal controls
and HMT Treasury Officer Accounts being content with an indemnity covering
the ‘NED’s costs’ where POL as a corporation is subject to criminal
proceedings. I was informed after joining UKGI that as a shareholder NED, I
would be indemnified by the Department, but did not participate in the drafting
of the indemnity letter. Accordingly, I do not know why the reference to ‘NED’s
costs’ was included in the briefing or the background its inclusion in the

indemnity.

47. There were no restrictions placed on my ability to share information, either with
colleagues in UKGI or the Department, received from POL or elsewhere in my
capacity as Shareholder NED or leader of the Shareholder Team, save in
respect of material relating to the litigation, where particular considerations
relating to legal privilege applied. I deal with that specific issue, and the steps
taken to resolve it, below. Otherwise, the position was clearly set out in my letter
of appointment and I understood there to be a ‘one-way valve’ in operation
whereby I could share information concerning the Company within UKGI and

the Department but the same did not apply in the opposite direction. By way of

Page 22 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

example, there would be material and discussions held within Government
relating to POL’s funding which it would not be appropriate to share with POL.
This consideration meant that a Director's normal duty of disclosure towards
the company on which they serve as a Director should not apply to the
Shareholder NED. In general terms I would share Board papers with the
Shareholder Team and report to colleagues in UKGI and the Department, as
appropriate, on any other relevant information obtained through my seat on the
Board. I do not consider that there were any restrictions on my ability to share
information which were inappropriate or which had an adverse impact on my
ability, or the ability of the Shareholder Team more generally, to exercise our
functions in relation to POL. As with any Board, there is an inevitable degree to
which the Board is reliant upon information being brought to its attention by the
executive team, but I was able effectively to share whatever the Board received

and whatever I learned through other contact with POL’s management team.

There was plainly some scope for conflict between my responsibilities to POL
as a NED on its Board and my responsibilities to the Department as the
shareholder, although in practice the management of this potential conflict was
usually straightforward. The most obvious context in which it arose was in
relation to funding where, put simply, it was in the Company's interests to
maximise funding from the Department and it was in the Department's interests
to minimize expenditure, leading to a negotiation between POL and the
Department within a range that the parties believed would enable POL to meet
its obligations including to provide essential services to the public. When issues

of this sort arose, I would need to make a judgement as to whether it was

Page 23 of 150
49.

50.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

necessary to recuse myself from the decision making at the Board. In general
terms recusal from the decision would not prevent me from expressing a view
in the Board’s discussion of the issue and I do not recall there being any
particular instances where I was told that my level of involvement was

inappropriate.

Another example of the scope for potential conflict, which I address in detail
below, arose in the context of the Board’s consideration of whether POL should
make a recusal application in the aftermath of the Common Issues judgment. I
received advice from Richard Watson who also consulted the Department, and
was told that I should not participate in the decision making as the Government
did not think it appropriate to engage with a course of action which sought to
suggest that a member of the judiciary was biased (or might be perceived as
such). I accepted that advice and recused myself from the decision and the

Board was content to accept that approach.

I have been asked to consider a submission dated 19 January 2018 (Post Office
- Appointment of Tom Cooper to Post Office Board dated 19 January 2018)
[UKG100007850] relating to my appointment, and to comment on the
recommendation of a reporting regime for the UKGI Shareholder Team to the
Department in the absence of a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”)
between BEIS and UKGI in relation to POL. My recollection is that UKGI was
developing MOUs between UKGI and all of its client departments in relation to
UKGI’s activities with the department in general, to be supplemented with an

MOU for each asset. There were a number of other UKGI assets in the same

Page 24 of 150
51.

52.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

position as POL where UKGI and BEIS did not have an MOU in place. My
comments in relation to the MOU between UKGI and BEIS can be seen at
document [UKGI00007857] (Emails between Tom Cooper, Elizabeth O'Neill

and Richard Callard dated 19 March 2018).

Pending the establishment of an MOU, it was proposed that there be a regime
of regular update meetings attended by me, the Shareholder Team, the Minister
and the Permanent Secretary. Specifically in relation to POL, I was aware that
there was no Policy Team at the time and so I was keen to try to ensure that I
had regular access to the key decision-makers in the Department. In the event,
it did not prove possible to organise such meetings on a regular basis and so
the reporting regime was modified to the provision of quarterly written reports. I
would say, however, that I could obtain access to the Permanent Secretary as
and when required, and, when I sought Alex Chisholm’s or Sarah Munby’s input
on a specific important issue (such as the recusal issue I address below), I

received a prompt and helpful response.

At the time I was appointed Shareholder NED, BEIS did not have a Policy Team,
which was unusual, and which UKGI considered to be a departure from normal
practice. POL was therefore an outlier compared with the rest of UKGI’s
portfolio, partly because of the tasks that UKGI was undertaking, such as
responding to departmental correspondence, but also because of the absence
of a Policy Team. These tasks had historically been undertaken by UKGI’s

predecessor, the Shareholder Executive (“ShEx”), when ShEx had been part of

Page 25 of 150
53.

54.

55.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

BEIS. UKGI needed to pass those tasks back to BEIS so that UKGI could focus

on its core mandate as well as the other issues outlined above.

In addition, due to the absence of a Policy Team, I found communication with
BEIS difficult, as there was nobody below the Permanent Secretary to speak to
about POL. I raised this with Alex Chisholm, the Permanent Secretary at the
time, early on in my tenure at POL. Following that conversation, Gavin Lambert
at BEIS was assigned to lead a Policy Team, which meant that communication
became easier, and the Shareholder Team was able to successfully move a
number of non-core tasks back to BEIS. The Policy Team was established in

August 2018.

Once the Policy Team was established there was regular interaction between
the Policy Team and the Shareholder Team in addition to the regime of formal
quarterly reporting to which I have referred. My recollection is that the number
and frequency of interactions with the Policy Team grew over time. In addition
to regular scheduled meetings there would be ad hoc discussions on specific

issues.

Neither the Shareholder Team nor the Policy Team would typically have any
significant involvement in contractual and personnel management within POL,
which would have fallen squarely within the operational remit of the Company.
Exceptions to this were limited to: the remuneration of POL’s senior managers
through my participation in RemCo; succession planning after I joined NomCo;

contractual issues raised at Board level through my membership of the Board;

Page 26 of 150
56.

57.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

and discussions of pay and appointments at Board level. I would also participate
in the process of recruiting new Board members and obtaining Departmental
approval for their appointment (including pay); obtaining Departmental approval
for variations in the pay of Board members, principally bonus arrangements,
retention arrangements and exit arrangements; and obtaining Departmental
approval for contractual issues which fell within the scope of the Articles of
Association or needed Departmental approval as a result of other Government

guidance such as Managing Public Money.

As to the extent to which UKGI oversaw POL’s investigation and response to
allegations made by SPMs concerning the reliability of the Horizon system, by
the time of my appointment the Sub-committee was the principal forum for the
consideration and, it was expected, resolution of those allegations. The Protocol
also entitled UKGI and the Department access to information relating to the
litigation including privileged documents and updates on the progress of the

litigation.

As to how I sought to discharge my responsibilities, I was aware at the time,
and have seen from documentation provided to me by the Inquiry, that I was
regarded by the POL management as being particularly ‘executive’ and
interventionist in my approach. I did not make a conscious decision at the outset
of my tenure as Shareholder NED, to take a more ‘executive’ or directive
approach to the relationship with POL than had been taken previously, I simply
sought to discharge my role in accordance with what I understood to be the

obligations of a NED, which included challenging the Company’s executive

Page 27 of 150
58.

59.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

management on issues of potential concern. However, it soon became
apparent that my approach generated a degree of concern on the part of POL’s

management.

During 2018, I remember receiving feedback both directly and indirectly from
POL to the effect that I was being too difficult or too executive, for a Non-
Executive Director. The approach I took to particular issues, such as the
reporting of capital expenditure, was initially seen by certain individuals within
POL as “undue interference” (Briefing for meeting with Tim Parker dated 11
September 2018) [UKGI00008374]. My general impression was that the POL
executive expected a more arms’ length approach from the Shareholder Team
and Shareholder NED and were not used to the level of direct engagement I

considered to be appropriate and necessary.

As a result of the feedback I received from POL, I took advice from Mark
Russell, Jane Guyett and Robert Swannell (UKGI CEO, a NED of UKGI and
Chair respectively at the time) on how to approach and resolve this. I spoke to
Tim Parker, Chair of the POL Board, about how we should address it, and, at
Tim’s suggestion, followed up with Paula Vennells, CEO at POL at the time.
Before meeting her, I sent her a list of the matters the Shareholder Team had
a particular interest in (Emails between Tom Cooper and Paula Vennells dated
27 July 2018) [UKGI00008260]. In my meeting with her, which I believe took
place in either late July or early August 2018, we went through the role I had
been undertaking and the role the Shareholder Team and I were playing. She

said that she considered my approach to be appropriate and that I was not

Page 28 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

overstepping my role. Following this conversation, I felt the relationship had
stabilised. However, I see from correspondence provided to me by the Inquiry
that, as late as July 2019, Tim Parker’s view was that I was too involved in the
business and spent more time “tramping round the business” and “papering
over the cracks of the executive” than any normal NED (Emails between Tom
Cooper, Mark Russell, Tom Aldred and Robert Razzell dated 17 June 2019)

[UKG100010195).

I am aware that there is a spectrum of views as to the appropriate remit for a
NED on a Board, and the extent to which it is necessary or desirable fora NED
to engage with the management of the business. In my view, the first task for a
NED, having gained an understanding of the business and its management
team, is to ask questions about the way the business is run across the broad
range of activities that the company is involved in. Where this probing raises
concerns about how a matter is being handled or the capability of the people
involved, the first step is to discuss it with other Board members starting with
the Chair to see if they share the concern. The next step is to encourage the
executive management to address the issue, including by seeking assurances
that they will take appropriate actions, enhance resources, improve reporting,
obtain external advice or obtain assurance as appropriate. This could be done
through a variety of means including by the Chair, the Board or Board sub-
committee, or in discussion with the appropriate level of management, typically
the CEO. If that proves to be insufficient then the second line of intervention is
to raise the issue with the Department to see if it wants to express its views to

the Company or take action if the issue has to be resolved using the levers

Page 29 of 150
61.

62.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

available to the Department as set out in the suite of governance, funding and
related documents. In any event, any significant issues would typically be
reported to the Department either in discussion or through one of the formal

reporting mechanisms such as the quarterly reports.

There were several occasions during my tenure when I escalated a matter to
the Department. For example, when I considered, during the second half of
2018, that the Company was not taking adequate steps to contingency plan for
an adverse outcome from the Common Issues hearing, and I was finding it very
hard to encourage them to do so, I arranged a meeting between the POL
executive and the Minister with the intention that this would help spur the
Company into action. In the event, and as I explain below, little changed as a
result of this meeting but, in principle, I saw this type of intervention as being
both legitimate and potentially valuable, notwithstanding the formal, or public,
separation between day-to-day operation by the Company and high level
strategic direction by the Department. Another example was POL’s reporting of
its investment expenditure which, in the Shareholder Team’s view, was
insufficient. This led on two occasions to the Shareholder Team advising BEIS

to withhold funding until the quality of reporting improved.

My position has also been that if a NED has the relevant skills or experience to
add value to the management team in relation to an issue, the skills and
experience of the NED should be available to and used by management,
particularly where that issue appears to be being handled poorly. The NED

should generally not be in a decision-making capacity as that properly sits with

Page 30 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

the executive and the Board (collectively). But NEDs can often add significant
value to management in an advisory or coaching capacity. This activity would
take place in a transparent way with the knowledge and approval of the Chair
and CEO. In 2018, I believed there were a several major commercial issues
that were not being managed effectively by POL and I sought to assist based
on my experience and involved members of the Shareholder Team where
appropriate. One example is the renegotiation and renewal of POL’s contract
with Bank of Ireland where we helped management identify the key commercial
issues that POL needed to negotiate, helped them develop their negotiating
strategy and encouraged them to obtain external financial advice. We also
assisted with the appointment of financial advisers. We were not involved in the
negotiations themselves and stepped back once we felt the Company and the
advisers were addressing the issues identified by the Shareholder Team. Other
examples include the renegotiation of the Banking Framework which led to a
very material increase in POL’s revenue, the acquisition of Payzone and the

development of POL’s digital identity business.

Notwithstanding these concerns regarding my ‘executive’ approach to the role
of Shareholder NED, and in general terms, I think the relationship between the
Shareholder Team and POL developed in a positive way during 2018. There
were a number of areas in which we developed a more constructive relationship
and the Shareholder Team was able to provide advice or other input that,
directly or indirectly, was helpful in improving the outcomes that POL was able

to achieve.

Page 31 of 150
64.

65.

66.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

I have been provided by the Inquiry with an email chain from early November
2018 in which I express the view to Paula Vennells that a lot of the issues that
came up, in the course of the interactions between POL and the Shareholder
Team, related to a small number of specific individuals, and that generally the
relationship between POL and the Shareholder Team was co-operative and
constructive (Emails between Paula Vennells and Tom Cooper dated 1
November 2018) [UKGI00008603]. The particular individuals I had in mind

when I wrote that email were Al Cameron, Jane MacLeod and Rodric Williams.

At this point Al Cameron was Chief Financial and Operating Officer. The
Shareholder Team had challenged POL on the reporting of its capital
expenditure which, in the Shareholder Team's view, was insufficient and did not
meet the requirements of the Funding Agreement. Despite a number of
discussions with Al Cameron and members of his team, the information we felt
we needed was not forthcoming and this led to two occasions on which the
Shareholder Team advised BEIS to withhold funding. Subsequently POL
provided a report of forecast expenditure which identified that POL was
forecasting to spend approximately £84 million more than the funding that had
been committed by the Department over the three years to March 2021 (UKGI
POL Investment Funding for Q3 2018/19 Submission dated December 2018)
[UKG100008715]. This prompted POL to undertake a ‘reprioritisation exercise’

to control its capital expenditure to bring it into line with the available funding.

In relation to Jane MacLeod and Rodric Williams, the primary example of the

difficult issues we had faced was the unduly protracted process of putting the

Page 32 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Protocol in place. As I explain below, the Protocol was required to enable
effective oversight of the litigation and was an urgent priority at the time of my
appointment. Yet it took three months to achieve. I was frustrated by the delay
and my perception was that POL’s legal team, led by Jane MacLeod, was being
unnecessarily difficult. I refer below to an email exchange I had with Rodric
Williams about the Protocol which gives a sense of my frustration at the time.
Again, this matter, which should have been straightforward, was something that

generated a degree of tension between UKGI and POL during 2018.

Operation of the Board

67. In general terms, I was impressed by the Board when I joined in March 2018. I
thought the NEDs were engaged and knowledgeable about the business and
clearly had a strong commitment to seeing the business develop and succeed.
I thought the Board benefitted from an able Chairman who seemed to have a
strong grasp of the issues facing the business. Overall, there seemed to be a
good mix of skills although, with the benefit of hindsight, it may have been

valuable to have had a NED with a legal background on the Board.

68. From my perspective, POL’s executive generally appeared to be open and frank
in their dealings with the Board and I was not made aware of any concerns on
the part of the Board about the important relationship of trust between the

executive and the Board.

Page 33 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

69. That said, there were certainly areas where I believed that improvement was
required and they are largely reflected in the Board evaluation questionnaire I

completed at the end of 2018. In particular:

(i) I considered there were instances where issues were brought to the
Board with insufficient time available to enable the Board to discuss and
scrutinise the underlying strategy. The essence of my concern in this
regard is captured in the comments I inserted into the questionnaire (PO
2018 Board Evaluation Questionnaire submitted by Tom Cooper dated
18 December 2018) [UKGI00017547]: “There are a lot of talented people
on the Board who I believe could make a more significant contribution to
the decision making process. I believe the company would benefit greatly
if individual NEDs could be involved throughout the life of a decision,
particularly where they have expertise — helping management define the
problem and identify the alternatives to be evaluated, assist with
designing the work and analysis needed to support a decision, and
making better informed contributions to the Board discission itself” This
would only be possible if issues were brought to the attention of the
Board at a sufficiently early stage.

(ii) I assessed the Chairman’s encouragement of debate at the Board to
require development because I thought there were instances where the
Chairman would express his view on an issue before having adequately
canvassed, and summarised, the views of the whole Board. In my view,
an important part of the art of effectively chairing a Board is to elicit, and
take account of, the full range of views held by the Directors. Tim Parker

had a largely executive background and, from my perspective, there

Page 34 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

were occasions where he moved too quickly to his conclusions at the
expense of facilitating debate.

(iii) As to my assessment of the quality of papers presented to the Board,
the comments I made on the questionnaire accurately capture my views:
“In general, the quality of the Board papers are often poor (Banking
Framework and Cyber Security are two significant recent examples).
Often there is only one option presented to the Board with limited

opportunity to discuss and evaluate alternatives.”

The Group Litigation

70. I turn now to the Inquiry’s questions concerning my involvement in the decision
making relating to the GLO proceedings and oversight of POL’s conduct of the
litigation. I note that I have been asked to provide a full account of my
involvement in these matters not limited to the specific questions posed by the
Inquiry and so I hope it will be of assistance if I provide my response by way of
a chronological account of my involvement running from appointment to the

Board in March 2018 up to October 2020.

The establishment of governance structures and processes: March — May 2018

71. During the first few months of my tenure, I considered it important to gain an
understanding of the litigation whilst, at the same time, wanted to ensure that
POL had the right governance framework in place that would enable me (and
the Shareholder Team) to deliver on the objectives in relation to the litigation

that Elizabeth O'Neill had outlined in my initial briefing with her.

Page 35 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

72. Although I was initially in ‘learning mode’, the focus of my interactions with POL
during these early stages was on: (i) promoting the agreement and
implementation of the Protocol; (ii) obtaining a detailed assessment of the
merits of POL’s case from the legal team; (iii) encouraging contingency
planning within POL to ensure that it was adequately prepared for an adverse
outcome; and (iv) understanding how the litigation was to be resolved and

POL's strategy to achieve it.

Information Sharing Protocol

73. In relation to the Protocol, my understanding was that POL had consistently
been reluctant for privileged material to be shared with the Shareholder for fear
that it might then be disclosed to a third party and/or made public. On the other
hand, as UKGI had learned from the Magnox Inquiry, it was important that the
Shareholder should be sighted on key aspects of the litigation (including
privileged documents such as merits advice) and have the ability to challenge
where appropriate. It was therefore imperative to establish an effective

information sharing protocol quickly.

74. In the event, it ended up taking far too long for the Protocol to be established
and this was a source of frustration for me and my colleagues in UKGI. The
Sub-committee was informed that POL and UKGI were discussing the Protocol
at the first meeting of the Sub-committee on 26 March 2018 and yet, at the next
meeting on 15 May, the Sub-committee was told that discussions were still
continuing. Little progress seemed to have been made since the first meeting.

My colleagues at UKGI had found that POL remained resistant to sharing

Page 36 of 150
75.

76.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

information that was subject to legal privilege. In trying to agree the Protocol
various emails were exchanged in which POL expressed its reluctance, for
example see [UKGI00008128] (Email between Helen Lambert and Rodric
Williams dated 17 May 2018). On at least one occasion, it was necessary for
me to step in, for example, my email to Rodric Williams on 7 June 2018 in which
I express my dissatisfaction at the flow of information relating to the litigation,
and my view that we could not continue to operate in the way we were (Email
between Tom Cooper, Rodric Williams and others dated 7 June 2018)
[UKG1000081 33]. I noted that the Protocol was still outstanding and requested

an urgent meeting with him and Jane MacLeod.

I believe that the meeting I had requested did not take place but the Protocol
was agreed shortly after this correspondence and it is dated 11 June 2018
[BE!S0000079]. UKGI found the Protocol generally to be effective, and after it
had been agreed, a routine became established whereby we would receive
fairly regular updates on the litigation from POL, although they tended to be
process driven, factual updates rather than updates on thought processes,
planning and strategy. An example of this can be seen at [UKGI00008970]
(Email from Rodric Williams to Richard Watson and Joshua Fox dated 12
February 2018). We were also able to obtain information and documents from

POL relating to the substance of the litigation.

Before the Protocol was signed, UKGI provided a briefing to the Permanent
Secretary based upon its understanding of the litigation at the time. A draft copy
of this briefing is at [POL00255125], but this was later updated and the final

version that was sent is at [UKGI00019311] (see also emails between Richard

Page 37 of 150
77.

78.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Callard and Private Secretary to Alex Chisholm dated 22 May 2018)
[UKG1I00000998]. The Protocol was ultimately signed by enough relevant
people in both the Shareholder Team and the Department that we were able to
keep the Department, including Ministers, sighted on developments relating to
the litigation thereafter (Litigation Protocol dated 22 July 2019)

[UKG100010421].

Although the information flow improved once the Protocol was signed, there
were a number of points in the chronology where I found it difficult to get clear
answers from POL and its legal team to questions I had regarding the
substance of the litigation. My attempts to gain a proper understanding of the
facts of the lead cases in the Common Issues hearing, and to understand why
POL was taking a stand on all 23 contractual issues, are obvious examples

referred to below.

It was important that the Protocol covered information sharing not only between
POL and UKGI but also between POL and the Department. This view is
reflected in an email I wrote to the UKGI legal team on 14 April 2018 during the
process of agreeing the Protocol (Email between Tom Cooper and Helen
Lambert dated 14 April 2018) [UKGI00007875] in which I made it clear that I
thought “BE/S legal should have a direct nexus with POL’. As I explained, “/’m
not a lawyer or a litigator and I don’t think it is appropriate for me to have to
make judgments about what information is important for BEIS and, more

importantly, what questions need to be asked of POL and its legal advisors.”

Page 38 of 150
79.

80.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

The direct interest of the Department in the conduct of the litigation was
reflected in the Protocol itself, in which it was expressly recorded, at paragraph
C [BEIS0000079], that: “The Secretary of State and UKGI share with POL a
common interest in understanding the matters in issue in the Postmaster
Complaints, POL’s position on them, and the exposures they present to POL’s
operations, finances and reputation.” The Protocol set out that the Department
and UKGI had the same rights in relation to receiving information and reports

from POL in relation to the litigation.

In practice, however, it was made clear by the Department that it expected UKGI
to take the lead on monitoring the litigation and keeping the Department
informed. As I explain below, the Department was provided with regular updates
throughout the litigation. My perception was that the Department was interested
in the progress of the litigation, and wished to be updated, but did not envisage
playing an active role in the oversight of the proceedings. This is reflected in the
read out from the UKGI quarterly portfolio review meeting on 5 July 2018
[UKG100008215] in which it is recorded that whilst it was UKGI’s view that the
Department's legal team should be involved at every stage of the litigation,
securing such a level of engagement “may be a challenge”. As I explain below,
there was a step-change in active interest from the Department following the
handing down of the Common Issues judgment and the subsequent progress
towards settlement, but, with the exception of the meeting between POL, the
Minister, the Permanent Secretary and others in October 2018, prior to that
point the model was largely one of UKGI providing the Department with

progress updates.

Page 39 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Establishment of the Sub-committee

81. Prior to my appointment I attended the Board meeting on 29 January 2018 as
an observer (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated 29 January 2018)
[POL00021553]. The final item on the agenda was an update on the postmaster
litigation from Jane MacLeod. She informed the Board that there was a
procedural hearing scheduled for 2 February 2018 which would address the
issue of disclosure in advance of the hearing which was listed to start in
November 2018. The Board resolved to establish a sub-committee for the
purposes of monitoring the development and strategy of the litigation and that
the Board members on the committee would be the Chairman, Ken McCall and

e (once I had been appointed to the Board).

82. I understood from Richard Callard, that there had previously been a Board sub-
committee overseeing POL’s handling of Horizon-related issues, the Sparrow
sub-committee, and that it had exercised limited oversight of the litigation on
the basis that, as he understood it, there was very little to discuss in the
preliminary stages of the process. In any event, it was clear from the outset of
my tenure that the Board was keen to ensure that it was informed as to the
progress of the litigation, and that it would have the opportunity to provide input
into the strategy and conduct of POL’s defence. I considered that to be entirely
appropriate. I supported the establishment of the Sub-committee and I regarded
my membership of the Sub-committee to be an important part of my role as

Shareholder NED.

Page 40 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

83. It was clear to me from the outset that the litigation was an extremely significant
issue and that oversight of POL’s handling of the proceedings would be a key
part of my role, both as a member of the Board and in my capacity as head of
the Shareholder Team. The implications of the issues raised by the claim were
not merely financial but also engaged POL’s reputation as a company and, as
I was told, its ability to carry on in business under the existing model. It was
asserted that the litigation posed an existential threat to POL’s business and
that, if the Company did not succeed, the consequences would be extremely
serious. There was, therefore, no doubt that the litigation was one of the most
significant issues facing the Company at the time I took up my seat on the

Board.

84. I have been asked how the level of oversight exercised by UKGI and/or the
Department of the litigation differed from other operational matters or other civil
or criminal proceedings brought by or against POL. From my perspective, it is
difficult to identify a valid comparator. I considered this litigation was particularly
important, for the reasons I have sought to explain, and that view was shared
by the Board, as illustrated by the establishment of the Sub-committee. I
certainly perceived it to be more important than any other litigation in which POL
was engaged at the time and it occupied a great deal of time both for UKGI and
the Board. As for comparison with other ‘operational matters’ the level of
oversight of the litigation was simply a reflection of its importance to the
Company and I would expect that any other operational matter with such major
implications would have received a corresponding level of attention and

oversight from the Board and UKGI.

Page 41 of 150
85.

86.

87.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

The first meeting of the Sub-committee took place on 26 March 2018 and pre-

dated my joining the Board.

I deal below with the individual meetings, the detail of the matters discussed
and the decisions taken by the Sub-committee. In general terms I found the
Sub-committee to provide a valuable means of obtaining information
concerning the progress of the litigation, but it was difficult to exercise effective
oversight of the way in which the litigation was being conducted, particularly in
the early stages and prior to the handing down of the Common Issues judgment.
Furthermore, and as I explain below, I became increasingly concerned about
the approach POL was taking to the litigation as I gained a more detailed
understanding of the nature of the arguments, particularly in relation to some of
the contested contractual provisions. Whilst the Sub-committee provided an
opportunity for me to raise some of these concerns, the Sub-committee proved

to have limited influence over the conduct of the litigation.

I was also concerned that there did not appear to be sufficient thought being
given to contingency planning. During my briefing with Elizabeth O'Neill, she
had impressed upon me that any organisation involved in litigation has to
contemplate that it might lose, even if the merits are said to weigh in that
organisation’s favour. Accordingly, during my attendance at these first Sub-
committee and Board meetings, I sought to encourage POL to plan for what

would happen if it was unsuccessful on any of the issues in the litigation.

Page 42 of 150
88.

89.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

I have reviewed the minutes of the Sub-committee meetings for the purposes
of preparing this witness statement. My view now, which is also the view I held
at the time, is that the minutes lack detail and fail fully to reflect the work of the
Sub-committee. I recall that the Sub-committee was told by POL’s General
Counsel that the Sub-committee minutes needed to be concise and record the
basic facts for reasons connected with the litigation and reflect a unity of opinion
on the part of the Sub-committee. My assumption was that this was due to
concerns about privilege and the need to ensure that POL’s position in the

litigation was not compromised and I deferred to her legal advice in this respect.

However, the effect of this approach is that the minutes are not as illuminating
as one might wish and they compare unfavourably in this regard with the
minutes of the POL Board meetings and other Board committee meetings. In
particular, I do not consider the minutes reflect the full nature and extent of the
discussions at Sub-committee meetings, particularly where members
challenged the views of the legal team, and advanced contrary arguments. At
times the minutes were also incomplete. One example of me raising those
concerns is set out in my email to Richard Watson Counsel of 7 May 2020
[UKG100045894]. Where my recollection has enabled me to do so, I have
sought to provide some further detail concerning the work of the Sub-committee

in the chronological account set out below.

Page 43 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

First Sub-committee Meeting — 26 March 2018

90.

91.

The first meeting of the Sub-committee took place on 26 March 2018, the day
before a meeting of the full Board. The minutes [UKGI00019293] show that the

Sub-committee:

(i) received a briefing from Jane MacLeod, and also one from one of POL’s
external lawyers, a partner from Womble Bond Dickinson (“WBD”);

(ii) I was told that whilst day to day decisions regarding the litigation would be
taken by the executive, the Board would be consulted before any
significant decisions were taken;

(iii) I was updated on developments since the last Board meeting, including
the outcome of the recent disclosure hearing, the appointment of IT
experts by both sides, and an application for security for costs (which
were told was not unusual in a case like this and would likely be resolved
by consent); and

(iv) noted that: UKGI had requested regular briefings on the progress of the
litigation; a discussion was underway between POL and UKGI about a
draft protocol for sharing information; and it was important that legal

privilege should be maintained.

Prior to the meeting, I recall that Elizabeth O'Neill, UKGI’s General Counsel,
had also raised the importance of contingency planning with Jane MacLeod,
her counterpart at POL. It was therefore good to see that contingency planning

would be addressed.

Page 44 of 150
92.

93.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

As illustrated by the chronology I describe below, this first meeting of the Sub-
committee was typical of the pattern that came to be established in that it
included a briefing from POL’s external lawyers as to the progress of the
litigation. WBD, POL’s firm of solicitors, was usually represented and on
occasion Counsel would also attend. The Sub-committee would generally
receive oral updates on the litigation from POL’s legal team and the Sub-
committee was advised that it was important to preserve privilege. The Sub-
committee did not however generally see any of the written legal documents
relating to the litigation. For example, I do not recall the Board or the Sub-
committee seeing the skeleton arguments prepared for any of the hearings, nor
was the Sub-committee ever provided with the witness statements served by

either party to the proceedings.

This first meeting of the Sub-committee was also typical in that the content was
focused on the Common Issues and the update was factual and process-
orientated, primarily in relation to the procedural position. Following procedural
hearings in the litigation, the Sub-committee would also receive factual written
updates by email from Jane MacLeod (Email from POL to Tom Cooper
regarding Postmaster Group Litigation) [UKGI00007761] and (Email from Jane
MacLeod regarding postmaster litigation dated 15 February 2019)
[POL00103385]. As 2018 progressed, as I explain below, and partly as a result
of the additional work proposed by the Shareholder Team, greater attention
was paid to more substantive issues. Insofar as the Board and Sub-committee
were provided with an analysis of the merits of POL’s position at this stage, it

was to the general effect that the claims were weak and were likely to fail.

Page 45 of 150
94.

95.

96.

97.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

We were told that the facts of SPM’s individual cases were not relevant to the
contractual arguments surrounding their contracts. It was explained that the
Common Issues hearing should essentially be an academic exercise not

influenced by the real-life experiences of SPMs themselves.

In the view of POL’s legal team, each of the cases had separate facts and would
have to be resolved individually. POL’s legal team did not agree that the
claimants named in the Group Litigation Order (“GLO”) (collectively, the
“Claimants”) shared a number of common issues and so POL disputed Mr
Justice Fraser's agreement to treat the litigation as a group action. When asked,
POL’s legal team was unable to explain sufficiently Mr Justice Fraser's

reasoning for this decision.

There was a limitation defence available in respect of at least some of the
Claimants GLO and POL’s legal team intended to use limitation to reduce the
number of Claimants. In addition, some of the Claimants had signed settlement
agreements as part of the Mediation Scheme that would preclude them from
receiving further compensation. POL also expected to be able to exclude
convicted Claimants. I recall the process of excluding Claimants in these three

categories being described by Jane MacLeod as “thinning the herd”.

At this stage, I was only beginning to develop an understanding of the litigation

and it was not until later in the year that I began to form my own opinion about

these issues, as I describe further below. I was conscious of the fact that the

Page 46 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

litigation had already been going on for some considerable time, and that I
needed to catch up with other Board members who had been involved in
oversight of the litigation from the beginning. I wrote to Jane MacLeod on 19
April 2018 referencing a conversation about helping me get up to speed with
other members of the Sub-committee and I asked to be put in touch with POL’s
legal team (Email from Jane MacLeod to Tom Cooper re: Sparrow dated 19
April 2018) [UKGI00007885]. She replied the following day to say that she
would arrange a briefing shortly and my recollection is that I received a briefing
from POL’s legal team, including Andrew Parsons, on 25 April 2018. I do not
have a clear recollection of this meeting, but the Inquiry has received Rodric
Williams’ speaking notes for the meeting (Speaking notes for meeting with Tom

Cooper re postmaster litigation dated 24 April 2018) [POL00006486].

First Board Meeting — 27 March 2018

98. The first meeting of the POL Board that I attended in my capacity as
Shareholder NED was held on 27 March 2018. My appointments to both the
Board and ARC were noted and approved (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
27 March 2018) [UKGI00018134]. The CEO’s report did not contain anything
relating to the litigation (POL Board Pack dated 27 March 2018 containing
the CEO report) [UKGI00043693]. The Board noted that the Sub-committee had
met the previous day and had been updated on the progress of the litigation.
The terms of reference of the Sub-committee were also noted and approved

[POL00024270].

Page 47 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

99. I cannot recall now whether there was any further discussion of the litigation, or
Horizon-related issues in general at this meeting, but there is nothing to that
effect in the minutes. In general terms, the position of the Board at this stage,
at least as I understood it, was that the litigation issues were essentially
procedural, leading up to the first hearing in November. There was very little if
any discussion about the strengths of POL’s case, vulnerabilities or strategy. I
had the clear impression that POL’s senior management were confident of the

Company's position and as to the likely outcome of the litigation.

100. In my discussions with members of POL’s senior management around this time,
there were three apparent ‘facts’ about Horizon and the litigation which were
presented as being settled, and commonly understood. Firstly, Horizon was
generally regarded as a system that worked. The POL Board was regularly
reminded of the volume of transactions that went through Horizon which did not
cause any problems, and the Board was told there would be many more SPMs
complaining if there were significant issues with the system. I was told that
remote access was a non-issue. Secondly, it was accepted that SPMs that had
been convicted had been genuinely guilty. Similarly, SPMs whose contracts had
been terminated, were terminated for good reason. Thirdly, the litigation was
considered to be existential for POL; if POL was unsuccessful in the hearings,

POL would not be able to continue in business.

Page 48 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Approach to the governance of the litigation: May — October 2018
101. After a couple of months in post, my understanding and appreciation of the
issues in the litigation was developing but remained fairly limited. During this

period my focus was on:

(i) Finalising the Protocol. The delay in getting the agreement finished was
becoming a significant obstacle to enabling my colleagues at UKGI and
the Department to understand what was happening in the litigation.

(ii) Continuing to encourage the Company to do contingency planning.
Contingency planning is an issue that I ultimately sought to escalate by
involving the Minister and Permanent Secretary. A meeting eventually
took place in October, which I describe below.

(iii) Understanding the substance of the litigation in more detail. This began
with the merits opinion that UKGI had requested POL to commission as
well as discussions with Jane MacLeod and POL’s legal advisers. After
the Protocol was signed, I was able to involve Richard Watson in these
discussions and obtain his views. His advice was important as he was
the only lawyer I had direct contact with outside of POL’s legal team.
During this period, I became increasingly unhappy with the position that
POL was taking on a number of the litigation issues which I challenged
on several occasions with a view to POL changing its approach.

(iv) Encouraging POL to develop a resolution strategy for the litigation. The
Court had mandated a window for mediation, but POL’s view was that a
successful mediation could not take place at least until after the Horizon

issues had been finally determined. POL’s legal team envisaged a

Page 49 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

process which could potentially involve at least four hearings which might
stretch over an extended period with the ultimate resolution involving
determinations in relation to each individual case. This struck me as
being an impractical and very expensive process. Some kind of

settlement at an earlier stage should be in the interests of all parties.

102. During this period, I also considered whether there might be an alternative to a
lengthy Court process to resolving the issues between POL and the Claimants;
a process that might provide a quicker and better answer particularly on the
question of Horizon’s integrity. It seemed to me that there was no better
alternative. I was conscious that in the Court process both sides had expert
witnesses, had the benefit of discovery, a judge supervising the process and a
relatively short timetable as the hearings were only a matter of months away. I
could not envisage a process that would yield a better quality answer more
quickly and so it seemed to me that the best thing was for the first two hearings
to take their course. However, although the integrity of Horizon seemed to be
an essentially binary issue that would be determined by the evidence from the
expert witnesses in the Horizon Issues hearings, I thought the position in
respect of the contractual issues in dispute in the Common Issues was more
complicated and there were a number of respects in which I came to believe it
was in POL’s interests to change approach. I describe below how I sought to
encourage POL to rethink its stance on some of the contractual issues in the

limited time available prior to the start of the Common Issues hearings.

Page 50 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

103. The meeting of the Sub-committee on 15 May 2018 was attended by Anthony
de Garr Robinson QC, David Cavender QC, and a partner from WBD (Sub-
committee Meeting Minutes dated 15 May 2018) [POL00006754]. POL’s CEO,

CFO and General Counsel were also in attendance.

104. As the minutes show there was a relatively extensive discussion about the
progress of the litigation and, as part of those discussions, the Sub-committee
received a summary of the assessment made by POL’s legal team of the merits
of the Common Issues element of the litigation. My recollection is that there was
a written merits opinion in existence by this stage but the Sub-committee was
not provided with the document. UKGI received it later, after the Protocol had
been signed. The Sub-committee was advised that of the 23 contractual issues
that would be considered in the Common Issues hearings, the lawyers’ overall
view was that POL had the better of the arguments on most of those points.
The Sub-committee was also advised that it was unlikely that the Claimant's
argument based on good faith would succeed and that if it did, POL would be
advised to appeal that decision. I made some handwritten notes at the meeting
recording the advice given (Notes of meeting with David Cavender regarding

the GLO merit’s opinion ) [UKGI00044247].

105. The option of settlement was raised at this meeting. However, the Sub-
committee was told that the case was “unsettleable at the moment”
[POL00006754], as it would be very difficult to settle until a decision had been
made on the Common Issues and Horizon Issues, and the legal team did not

know what the individual Claimants were claiming.

Page 51 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

106. We were consistently told that no figures had been provided by the Claimants
nor sufficient information for POL to quantify the value of the claim , and that
this was a fundamental barrier to settlement, see, for example, [POL00006754].
It was not until I later became aware, in mid-2019, of a spreadsheet which
appeared to have been created in 2017 and contained details of the
quantification of the individual claims, that I realised this was not the case. This
spreadsheet, which had not been shared with the Sub-committee indicated that
the individual claims came to a total of £224 million (Email between Andrew
Parsons of WBD, Ben Foat and Rodric Williams dated 18 June 2019)
[POL00276883]. Obviously, I was surprised and very disappointed when the
spreadsheet belatedly came to light as it would have been important for the
Board (and the Sub-committee in particular) to be aware of it, particularly in the

context of discussions about the possibility of settlement.

107. In any event, at the time, the parties seemed to be so far apart on all the issues,
most fundamentally whether Horizon had been responsible for any of the losses
incurred by the Claimants, that there appeared to be no realistic option but to
accept the advice that it would not be possible to discuss settlement before the
Common Issues hearing. I recall discussing this issue with Richard Watson,

following the conclusion of the Protocol, who agreed with this view.

108. The Board next met on 24 May 2018, at which my appointment to POL’s RemCo

was approved. The Board pack can be found at [UKGI00021007]. A verbal

update on the litigation was provided by Jane MacLeod. I cannot recall the level

Page 52 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

of detail that was provided in her summary, but it is apparent from looking at the
minutes (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated 24 May 2018) [UKGI00043684],

that only a very high-level summary has been recorded.

109. As I have explained above, the Protocol was eventually concluded on 11 June
2018 and my recollection is that at some point thereafter Richard Watson and I
received copies of the merits opinion prepared by David Cavender on the
Common Issues. On reading the opinion, it became apparent to me that,
amongst the 23 contractual issues, there was one significant point of principle
concerning whether the SPM contract was a ‘relational’/‘good faith’ contract.
From my corporate experience, I could see that this was a potentially important
point. A ‘good faith’ contractual relationship would be very unusual in the UK
commercial context. Commercial contracts in the UK are usually drawn up with
as much precision as possible in order to make the expectations placed on the
parties as clear as possible. Good faith relationships are generally avoided
because they run counter to the clarity that contracts usually seek to create. So
I could understand why it was being said that it was important to resolve this
issue for the future management of the relationship between POL and SPMs. It
seemed to me that the resolution of the litigation could involve changes to POL’s
systems and processes which should lead to a normalization of the relationship
between SPMs and the Company. Like other franchise businesses, this would
involve POL providing a service to SPMs which was reliable and trusted and
vice versa. The contract should not need to be unusual in a business context

(ie a relational contact) in order to operate well for all the parties.

Page 53 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

110. I can also recall discussing the relational contract point with Richard Watson,
and that he also believed that this was the most significant of the issues.
Richard Watson and I agreed that there was no obvious reason not to take the
merits opinion at face value and there was no suggestion the decision to
continue with the litigation was flawed, at least in relation to the core point of
the legal nature of the contract. Therefore, we took the view that a second
opinion was not needed at this point, although it was something we returned to

when we received the updated merits opinion in October 2018.

111. During the period late June to early July 2018, in the run up to the meeting of
the Sub-committee on 10 July 2018, I had at least one meeting with Jane
MacLeod, at which we discussed the detail of the contractual points raised by
the SPMs' claim. This occurred at my instigation and the purpose was to enable
me to gain a more thorough understanding of the contractual issues and POL’s

rationale for its interpretation of the relevant provisions.

112. Jane MacLeod set out the legal view on each of the contractual points and the
consequences of each point for POL, if the Court were to find in favour of the
SPMs. I can recall this interaction with Jane MacLeod, but having checked my

diary, I have been unable to locate the precise dates on which it took place.

113. Jane MacLeod produced a draft version of a document for the discussion which
was subsequently dated 9 July 2018 and presented to the Sub-committee on
10 July (Email from Jane MacLeod to Tim Parker, Ken McCall, Tom Cooper,

Paula Vennells and Al Cameron dated 9 July 2018) [UKGI00018964] and

Page 54 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

[UKG100044245]. The document categorised four potential areas of response
to each risk identified: contractual changes; communications; operational

changes (e.g. training); and system changes (e.g. Horizon).

114. My handwritten annotations on the documents reflect my primary concerns at
the time which were, firstly, the need to obtain a proper understanding of the
facts of the individual “Lead Cases” which did not seem to me to be receiving
the attention they warranted; and, secondly, the continued absence of any
significant contingency planning for an adverse outcome. At numerous points
there was reference to the risk that an issue might be decided against POL, but
very little indication of what that would mean for the business and how the
consequences would be addressed. In Jane MacLeod’s view, and as shown in
the document, the issues which had the greatest potential operational impact
on POL were the ones on which POL had the greatest chance of success. As
aresult, the need for contingency planning for those issues was viewed as less
important compared to a scenario in which POL expected to lose on an issues
but the potential impact on the business was assessed to be low. Accordingly,
whilst these documents attempted to address the need for contingency

planning, in my view, they remained inadequate.

115. The overall view of POL’s position in the litigation as expressed by Jane
MacLeod to me during this period, was consistent with the merits opinion
prepared by David Cavender QC, namely that POL would succeed on the
central issue of whether SPM contracts were good faith contracts. However,

POL was vulnerable on some of the less fundamental points in the claim. One

Page 55 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

of the examples given was in relation to training of SPMs. Jane MacLeod said
that SPM training had been improved significantly in recent years and so the
clause was unnecessary. Other key clauses proposed by the Claimants that we
discussed would, in substance, oblige POL to provide a computer system that
was fit for purpose and proactively report problems to SPMs that could affect
their businesses, none of which seemed to me to be particularly controversial,

particularly in the context of the history of the dispute.

116. Jane MacLeod said that POL had already offered two clauses that dealt with
many of the points raised in the claim, one of which referred to necessary co-
operation between POL and SPMs which, in substance, put an obligation on
POL to take reasonable steps to enable SPMs to run their businesses
effectively. Her view was that the clauses offered by POL should be sufficient
to address the limited number of implied terms in respect of which POL might
have some vulnerability, including the need for POL to investigate and explain
shortfalls. Jane MacLeod also expressed the view, during these discussions,
that POL should appeal any of the 23 points on which the Claimants were

successful.

117. My perspective was different. It seemed to me that a number of the contractual
issues raised by the SPMs were reasonable and uncontroversial — why
shouldn't there be clear and express contractual provisions requiring POL to
train its SPMs and provide a computer system that worked? I raised the training

clause in particular. I challenged Jane MacLeod about this and said I was

Page 56 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

surprised that points like these had not been conceded already, in an effort to

reach a compromise with the Claimants.

118. One clause I felt particularly strongly about was the liability clause. I understood
that in 2012, the liability clause had been changed by POL to say that SPMs
were liable for losses regardless of fault. The rationale I was given for the clause
was that POL could not determine the reasons for different types of losses
incurred in branches. Many losses resulted from errors by SPMs for which they
should properly be responsible and given that POL was often unable to
determine conclusively that the postmaster was not responsible for a loss, a
default position should apply, namely that SPMs should be responsible for all
losses however incurred. I considered this be a wholly unreasonable and
untenable position to maintain in general, but particularly in the litigation. I
thought that if I could persuade POL’s legal team or the Sub-committee that
POL should concede that the liability clause was unfair, it might also lead to a
more flexible approach to the other implied terms and a willingness to
compromise with the Claimants. I raised the liability clause with POL’s legal
team and, after making no headway, at the Board meeting in October 2018. I
remember telling David Cavender during the Board meeting that POL was
“defending the indefensible” in respect of this issue in particular, although there
is no reference to me using these words in the minutes (POL Board Meeting
Minutes dated 30 October 2018) [UKGI00011867]. However, I note that I make
reference to having used this term “a few times with Cavender” in
correspondence with Richard Watson in May 2020 [UKGI00045894]. In an

email to Andrew Parsons and others dated 8 April 2019 Jane MacLeod wrote

Page 57 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

“Tom Cooper has already challenged whether provisions that make the agent

liable for losses are morally defensible” [POL00023941].

119. However, POL was robust in its view that it should continue to defend it, arguing
that any other approach to liability was not operationally possible. I recall feeling
a significant degree of frustration about this issue and thinking that if I could not
persuade POL on this straightforward point (as I saw it), I would not be able to
persuade them of the need to compromise on any of the other contractual
issues on which I thought POL was vulnerable such as training and providing a

fit for purpose computer system.

120. The minutes of the Sub-committee meeting on 10 July 2018 [POL00006763]
reflect the desire on the part of the Sub-committee to try to obtain a clearer
understanding of POL’s position on each of the contractual issues and the
implications of an adverse finding on each one. The minutes also mention that
contingency planning work “would assess the operational response should the

legal points be found against us”.

121. The meeting also dealt with the Court's agreement that lead witnesses would
be asked to appear at the Common Issues hearing. My recollection is that POL
had resisted this, arguing that witness evidence was not relevant to the
contractual issues. However, the Court had decided in favour of the Claimants
on this issue and both sides would field witnesses to address the issues in front

of the Court. I understood there would be six lead witnesses among the

Page 58 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Claimant group, three of which would be selected by each side. As a result, the

Sub-committee was told that Counsel would update the merits opinion.

122. The POL Board next met on 31 July 2018. As with the Board’s previous
meetings, a verbal update was provided at the meeting (POL Board Pack dated

31 July 2018) [UKG100043683].

123. The Contingency Planning document prepared by Jane MacLeod dated 9 July
2018, which had been presented to the Sub-committee at this meeting on 10
July 2018, had been developed further and was now on WBD’s headed paper.
It was a draft report suggesting various mitigating actions (again by reference
to the same four categories of response identified in Jane MacLeod’s
document) that made recommendations about whether action should be taken
by POL imminently, or at some future stage (Draft Mitigation Actions table with
and without Tom Cooper's handwritten notes) [UKGI00021239] and
[UKG100044250]. WBD’s document was shown to the full Board (POL Board
Meeting Minutes dated 31 July 2018) [UKGI00043691]. The plan was for further
updates of a similar nature to be prepared for consideration at later Board

meetings.

124. By this stage I had become frustrated at the lack of adequate contingency
planning by POL for an adverse outcome. I had raised the issue at the Sub-
committee and directly with Jane Macleod. There seemed to be a general
intention that the Company would appeal any adverse findings but very little

in the way of practical planning for how the business would deal with adverse

Page 59 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

outcomes on any of the specific contractual issues. When documents purporting
to address contingency planning were produced, they were clearly inadequate.
To the extent that follow-up work had been identified, there was no detailed
scope or timetable for any work to be completed. Accordingly, and consistent
with the approach to Shareholder intervention I have described above, I saw a
meeting between POL, the Minister and the Permanent Secretary to discuss the
litigation with an emphasis on contingency planning as being the only remaining
means by which UKGI and the Department might seek to influence POL’s
approach to the litigation. I had originally tried to arrange a meeting in May with
the broader intention of bringing together the senior people from BEIS so that
they could hear from POL directly about what was happening and ask any
questions that they had. When it had not been possible to schedule that meeting,
we had then looked for a date before the Summer Recess, when I had hoped to
focus the meeting on the issues I have described. Ultimately, however, finding a
date before the summer proved to be impossible and the meeting did not take
place until 17 October. The delay to scheduling the meeting meant that

contingency planning could be added to the agenda as an item for focus.

125. In the meantime UKGI continued to keep the Department updated on the
progress of the litigation. On 10 August a detailed submission was put up to the
Permanent Secretary [UKGI00018266] providing an update on the Protocol and
the litigation generally. A number of key documents were annexed including
updates prepared by POL’s Legal Counsel. I note that, at this stage, it was
envisaged that the Ministerial meeting, which I had been attempting to arrange

since May, would take place on 10 September 2018. The briefing made

Page 60 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

reference to the fact that I had asked POL to focus on contingency planning in
the run up to the Common Issues hearing (paragraph 8); and set out the
process by which UKGI would continue to provide frequent and scheduled

updates to the Department.

126. There was a further meeting of the Sub-committee on 24 September 2018 (Sub-
committee Meeting Minutes dated 24 September 2018) [UKGI00019297]. The
meeting was attended by a Partner from WBD and Jane MacLeod. No papers
were provided for consideration by the Sub-committee in advance (Sub-
committee Meeting Agenda dated 24 September 2018) UKGI00016107] and
the Sub-committee did not receive an update on the merits opinion that I
understood to have been commissioned following the Sub-committee meeting

on 10 July 2018.

127. The Subcommittee was provided with a verbal update in relation to a number
of procedural issues in the Common Issues litigation, including the fact that an
application had been made to exclude inadmissible evidence, and that POL had

been successful in its security for costs application [UKGI00019297]

128. The Sub-committee also received a verbal update on the progress of the Horizon
Issues litigation, which was due to start in March 2019. The Sub-committee was
told that the experts would be “in constant dialogue” [UKGI00019297] in the
period leading up to the hearing in order to narrow the issues and produce a

joint statement setting out areas of agreement and disagreement, but that the

Page 61 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

view of POL’s expert was that Horizon was a “robust system” with some “bugs”

which did not materially affect the operation of the system.

129. There was some discussion of POL’s media strategy relating to the litigation
and the Sub-committee asked to see the Communications Plan that had
apparently been formulated, as the Sub-committee wanted to see for itself
whether the Company was receiving appropriate advice in relation to external
communications. The Sub-committee was also informed that lawyers within
UKGI were being briefed and that the meeting with the Minister and Permanent

Secretary at BEIS had been scheduled on 17 October 2018 [UKGI00019297].

130. The following day, there was a meeting of the POL Board. As with previous
meetings, an update on the litigation was provided verbally, along with
confirmation of the meeting with the Minister and Permanent Secretary on 17

October 2018 (POL Board Pack dated 25 September 2018) [UKGI00043690].

131. At this meeting, a reference was also made to prosecutions of SPMs and to the
fact that these were not currently being brought where they relied upon
evidence related to the Horizon system because of the ongoing litigation. The
Board was told that prosecutions could potentially start again after the Horizon
Issues hearings, assuming there had been a positive outcome, but that
retrospective cases older than 6 months were unlikely to be brought, and any
prosecutions would be brought by the CPS (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
25 September 2018) [UKGI00043706]. No reference was made to the

implications that an adverse outcome in either the Common Issues or Horizon

Page 62 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Issues hearings might have for past prosecutions. I describe below how I
subsequently came to the realisation that there was a potential link between the

two issues.

132. Following the meeting, POL produced an update on the litigation (POL Group
Litigation: Update for UKGI Following POL Board Meeting on 25 September
2018) [POL00257564], which incorporated the revised merits opinion from
Counsel following the Court’s decision to permit evidence from the six lead
claimants that the Sub-committee had been told about in July (“Lead
Claimants”). The update informed us that: “Now that all information has been
exchanged, Counsel reviewed the opinion they gave on the merits of Post
Office’s case in May 2018 and updated that opinion (without any material
change) on 28 September 2018.” The Sub-committee was also informed that
30%-50% of the evidence of the Lead Claimants was inadmissible for the
Common Issues hearings, that POL had applied to strike out that evidence and

that the application was to be heard on 10 October 2018.

133. I did not consider that I was in a position to second-guess the strategic approach
taken by POL to the Claimant’s witness evidence. I had been told consistently
that the Common Issues hearing would not address the factual evidence of
individual SPMs, and would be confined to technical arguments about
contractual interpretation. I do not recall the Board being informed that there
was a risk that the strike out application would be regarded as unduly
aggressive or oppressive by the Court, and there is certainly nothing to that

effect in the POL litigation update which describes the rationale for the

Page 63 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

application as being, “to help focus our defence preparations on relevant issues,

and ensure trial time is not wasted on inadmissible and irrelevant material.”

134. POL’s strike out application was heard on 10 October 2018. I was copied on an
email from Jane MacLeod to Richard Watson on 16 October 2018 in which she
stated that Mr Justice Fraser had now ruled on POL’s strike out application, the
judgment having been received late the previous night. She explained that the
Judge had been critical of POL’s conduct of the case and had said that POL
had “impugned the court and its processes by making the application for
improper purposes” (Email from Jane MacLeod to Richard Watson and Joshua
Fox dated 16 October 2018) [UKGI00008532]. Jane MacLeod’s view was that
the outcome was both surprising (in light of comments apparently made by the
Judge at earlier stages of the litigation) and disappointing. She said that POL

would refine its preparation for the hearing in light of the Judge’s comments.

135. I was surprised by the Judge’s criticism of POL’s approach. From my
perspective as a non-lawyer the charge of “impugning the Court” sounded very
serious and I wanted to understand the implications for the future conduct of
the litigation. I asked Richard Watson for his view and he replied the following
morning expressing some surprise that POL had been advised to seek to strike
out witness evidence given that Judges are well-used to disregarding irrelevant
evidence [UKGI00008532]. As I have indicated above, it was never explained
to the Board that the strike out application was an unusual or controversial
means of dealing with irrelevant evidence, or whether there might be an

alternative means of addressing the issue in the course of the hearing itself.

Page 64 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

136. Richard Watson followed up his email to me on the morning of 17 October 2018
with a further email later the same day, by which time he had read the judgment
[UKG100008535]. He expressed the following conclusion: “/ have to say it
makes a very uncomfortable read from POL’s perspective and gives me very
considerable cause for concern about their litigation tactics/handling, not to

mention the merits of the case itself.”

137. I shared Richard’s concerns and so, after Jane MacLeod provided an email
update to the Board on 18 October 2018 referring to the criticisms of made by
the Judge [UKGI00008547], I emailed the Chairman later the same day
suggesting he read the judgment. I also expressed concern that there was a
‘pattern’ emerging about POL’s approach to the litigation which was clearly not
succeeding (Email between Tom Cooper and Tim Parker dated 18 October
2018) [UKGI00008542]. I also spoke to Paula Vennells to express my concerns
and emailed her afterwards to point out the paragraphs in the judgment that
were of most concern to me (Email from Tom Cooper to Paula Vennells dated
18 October 2018) [UKGI00035584]. In reaction to my email and what I
understood to have been Tim Parker's prompting, I and the other NEDs on the
Board, received an email on 19 October 2018 from Paula Vennells which
acknowledged the concerns we had raised and said that action would be taken
(Email from Paula Vennells to Tom Cooper and others dated 19 October 2018)
[UKG100008549]. Paula Vennells confirmed that she had spoken with Jane
MacLeod and that a change of tack was needed. She also set out how POL
planned to address the issue, including speaking to WBD, and Counsel, and

that measures would be put in place to ensure all submissions were reviewed

Page 65 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

by a second lawyer before submission to the Court. I took some reassurance

from the fact that the CEO appeared to be taking the matter seriously.

138. Paula Vennells made clear in her email that she had deliberately not copied
Jane MacLeod or Al Cameron and asked us not to forward the email. Although
not stated expressly I assumed that this was because the email contained some
implicit criticism of Jane MacLeod’s handling of the litigation thus far and
explained how Paula Vennells intended to manage her going forward. I shared
Jane MacLeod’s email with the Shareholder Team but I did not forward Paula

Vennells’ email in light of her request that I not do so.

139. Whilst the proposal for a ‘change of tack’ was essential at a minimum, it seemed
to me that any changes made at this stage were only likely to influence the
‘tone’ of POL’s submissions and could not alter POL’s substantive approach in
the Common Issues hearing, which was due to start around two weeks later, at
the beginning of November. Indeed, having advocated a different approach to
some of the contractual issues for some time, I recall thinking that it was probably

too late to make any meaningful change to POL’s approach to that hearing.

140. As I have described above, I had attempted to gain a better understanding of
the facts of the Lead Claimants and made a further attempt before the meeting
with the Minister and Permanent Secretary on 17 October 2018. In advance of
the meeting, I had asked Jane MacLeod to provide a summary of the factual
position in relation to each of the Lead Claimants in the litigation, including each

Claimant's arguments together with POL’s position on those arguments. I

Page 66 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

believed it was important to understand what had happened to the SPMs in
individual cases in order to try to understand the large gap between the
positions being taken by POL and the Claimants in the litigation. I thought this
would be of value both to Ministers, given that individual cases had the potential
to be raised publicly, and to the Sub-committee as I was continuing to find it
difficult to gain a clear understanding of the respective positions of the parties
on the core issues, including why Mr Justice Fraser had taken such a strong
objection to POL’s arguments about the inclusion of the Lead Claimants’

evidence during the strike out application.

141. Unfortunately, the summaries were short and unhelpful, and neither set out the
positions the SPMs were advancing nor POL’s perspective on these arguments.
As far as I was concerned, they did nothing to explain why the Judge had
dismissed the application to strike out parts of the evidence, or why he had been
critical of POL for making the application. They simply set out the facts of the
case, such as dates the SPM was audited, the shortfall found and the
termination date but there was no analysis of the issues: (Louise Dar Group
Litigation case summary from Womble Bond Dickinson) [UKGI00008501 ],
(Alan Bates Group Litigation case summary from Womble Bond Dickinson)
[UKG1I00008500], (Pamela Stubbs Group Litigation case summary from
Womble Bond Dickinson) [UKGI00008498], (Mohammad Sabir Group
Litigation case summary from Womble Bond Dickinson) [UKGI00008510],
(Naushad Abdulla Group Litigation case summary from Womble Bond
Dickinson) [UKGI00008495], (Elizabeth Stockdale Group Litigation case

summary from Womble Bond Dickinson) [UKGI00008503].

Page 67 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

142. From my meetings with Jane MacLeod earlier in the year and the generally
accepted assertion in POL’s senior management that the litigation was
existential for POL, it seemed to me that POL’s management understood that
there could be significant adverse consequences for POL if POL lost either the
Common Issues hearing or the Horizon Issues hearing. For example, POL
appeared to understand that if it failed to defend the liability clause in the post-
2012 postmaster contracts, POL would need to rethink its approach to auditing
branches and dispute resolution. Significant additional resources would also be
required and there would be numerous other operational issues for POL as well
as the financial costs of compensation and how that would be funded. Whilst
POL was prepared to engage with some contingency planning in relation to its
litigation strategy, this seemed to be limited mainly to discussing whether to
appeal various of the Common Issues if the Court found against POL and, in
my view, demonstrated that POL’s management had not been willing to engage

in a meaningful way on the operational consequences of losing.

143. The meeting eventually took place in the House of Commons on 17 October
2018. Whilst I was pleased when a date was finally confirmed, I was conscious
of the fact that it was now very close to the start of the Common Issues hearing.
UKGI and BEIS prepared a note for the Minister ahead of this meeting in which
the Minister was encouraged to press POL for more details on the implications
for the business and the shareholder (Note for Minister - POL Horizon Trial
Contingency Planning dated 17 October 2018) [UKGI00008519]. Nearly half of

the meeting time of 45 minutes had been allocated to the “Implications of losing:

Page 68 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

financial, operational, comms” [UKG100008519]. POL also prepared a briefing,
[UKG100021525], which suggested POL had so far only made a “high level
business assessment of impact”. Unfortunately, this meeting did not materially
advance the discussions on contingency planning in the way that I had hoped,
and the Minister appeared to be primarily focused on the financial aspects and
sought confirmation that POL would bear the cost of compensating the

Claimants should there be an adverse judgment.

144. After some significant probing by the Minister and Permanent Secretary, I recall
POL estimated the cost of losing the litigation might be £100m. POL said it could
afford to pay this sum, albeit with difficulty. The amount of £100m came as a
surprise to me as it was a new figure. It had not been discussed at the Sub-
committee which had consistently been told that the claims were unquantified
and therefore it was not possible to estimate a settlement cost. It was unclear
what the figure was based on and I got the impression that it represented
nothing more than a guess by POL’s management who, under pressure from
the Minister, felt that it had to come up with some sort of figure. On the issue of
contingency planning, POL maintained the position that it was unable to
contingency plan for adverse outcomes in a meaningful way, as management
did not know what the judge would decide and, in any event, POL’s lawyers were

confident POL would succeed.

145. In general terms, I found the meeting to be a frustrating and unsatisfactory one.

I considered that we had missed an opportunity to engage constructively with

the issue of contingency planning and that neither the Minister, nor the

Page 69 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Shareholder Team, had come away from the meeting with a better

understanding of the business risks that could flow from the litigation.

146. A note of the meeting was prepared by ‘a locum’ and was sent to me for my
review (Email chain Tom Cooper to Richard Watson, Stephen Clarke, Joshua
Fox and others Re: Post Office Litigation Briefing of Minister and Perm Sec
dated 29 October 2018) [UKGI00008589]. I thought the note was poor and so I
undertook a substantial re-draft, which I sent to Richard Watson and Stephen
Clarke on 25 October 2018. The purpose of the note was to record what had
taken place during the meeting and so I did not record my personal views as to
the extent to which the meeting had failed to make any real progress in forcing
POL to engage in adequate contingency planning or a pragmatic re-evaluation
of its approach to resolution of the litigation. I also did not make any reference
to the £100 million estimate of POL’s total exposure (although I did record the
view expressed by POL that the minimum settlement the Claimants would seek
would be around £30 million). As I have said, this figure did not appear to have

been based on any analysis and I did not think that it had any credibility.

147. At this point I was very concerned about the approach POL was taking to the
impending Common Issues hearing. I thought that POL was taking an
unreasonable position on at least some of the contractual provisions which
seemed to me to be uncontroversial; that it had annoyed the Judge by taking
an aggressive and obstructive approach to the litigation; that it had failed to
address fully the implications of the factual evidence of the Lead Claimants; and

that it had failed to undertake adequate contingency planning for an adverse

Page 70 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

outcome. I was frustrated that we had effectively run out of time to achieve any
meaningful change in approach and that the Ministerial meeting, which I saw
as effectively the last throw of the dice in this respect, had failed to prompt any

significant re-thinking on the part of POL and its legal team.

148. The next meeting of the POL Board took place on 30 October 2018. This was
the last Board meeting before the start of the Common Issues hearing. The
meeting was attended by a partner from WBD and David Cavender, who
provided an update on the litigation. I recall that Tim Parker, Ken McCall and I
all expressed concern about the approach that had been taken during the
strike out application in October and called for a substantive change by POL.
I note that our contributions are not expressly minuted, with the minutes merely
recording the outcome of the discussion, namely to record that the legal team
would “politely but persistently challenge the Claimants’ cases where there
were inaccuracies or inconsistencies” (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated 30

October 2018) [POL00021558].

149. The report of the Claimant's IT expert was also discussed at the meeting. The
POL Board was advised that the Claimant's expert had “...found that Horizon
was not a robust system but this assessment was founded on identifying a large
number of small problems with the system which our expert was confident could

be rebuffed” [POL00021558].

Page 71 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

The Common Issues Hearings: November — December 2018

150. During the course of the Common Issues hearings, UKGI requested weekly
updates on events at the hearing as well as media updates: see, for example,
(Media Update from POL dated 8 November 2018) [UKGI00008619]; (UKGI
email regarding Group Litigation dated 20 November 2018) [UKGI00008677];
and (POL update to UKGI on group litigation dated 15 November 2018)

[ UKG100008632].

151. Whilst some negative coverage of POL’s position had been expected, the
updates I received at this time did not enable me to foresee how likely it was
that POL would be unsuccessful in the hearing. Indeed, even after the hearing
had concluded, POL’s Counsel continued to express confidence in POL’s
position and although reference was made to the possibility of an appeal at the
Board meeting on 27 November, (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated 27
November 2018) [UKGI00011866], this possibility had been mentioned
previously and so did not suggest to me that POL’s legal team had changed

their level of confidence in achieving a successful outcome.

152. During her verbal update to the Board at the Board meeting on 27 November
2018, Jane MacLeod explained that POL anticipated the Judge would criticise
some of POL’s behaviour in his judgment and that some adverse publicity was
likely to be generated because of this. She also explained that an adverse
judgment might be appealed, highlighting that the ramifications of such an

outcome would extend beyond the Claimant group to a much wider cohort of

Page 72 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

SPMs [UKGI00011866]. I recall suggesting that any potential appeal should be

discussed with the lawyers at BEIS/UKGI.

153. The Common Issues hearing concluded on 6 December and, on 18 December,
Jane MacLeod sent Richard Watson and me a proposal in which she suggested
that any decision to appeal should be delegated to POL’s Chairman, CEO,
CFOO and myself (Email from Jane MacLeod to Richard Watson and Tom
Cooper) [UKGI00008833]. Jane MacLeod said that an embargoed copy of the
judgment would be made available to me in advance, but that I would not be
allowed to share it with anyone within UKGI or BEIS prior to it formally being
handed down. I had some concerns about this and discussed it with Richard
Watson, who advised me that this reflected the legal position under the Court's
rules, but that it would be possible to make an application to the Judge to
allow for a wider circulation (Email between Richard Watson and Tom Cooper

dated 7 January 2019) [UKG100008908}.

154. I recall Richard Watson raised the issue with the Department. He reported that
colleagues in BEIS were unhappy that I would see the embargoed judgment but
they would not. The possibility of applying to the Court for permission to share
the judgment with the Department before publication was discussed but

ultimately it was decided not to.

155. On 21 December, Jane MacLeod, circulated a written update on the litigation to

the Board which included a proposal as to how any decision to appeal would

be decided (Email between Jane MacLeod and Tim Parker, Ken McCall, Carla

Page 73 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Stent, Shirine Knhoury-Haq, Tim Franklin and Tom Cooper dated 21 December
2018) [POL00103372] and POL Board Report on Group Litigation dated 13
December 2018) [POL00103373]. She explained that POL’s Counsel continued
to believe that POL had the better of the arguments, with the main risk being
that the Judge might place greater weight on individual Claimants’ experiences
rather than what were said to be “orthodox legal principles” [POL00103373].
The Board was told that POL was developing a matrix, based on her earlier
contingency planning model, to identify those issues that were likely to be of
most significance if lost, which would then assist POL in deciding whether to

appeal.

156. In relation to an appeal, the proposal was that a decision on the appeal would
be delegated to the Chair, CEO and CFOO. As a result, the decision would not
be taken by the Sub-committee. I disagreed with this and raised it in an email
with Tim Parker (Email between Tom Cooper and Tim Parker dated 6 January
2019 ) [POL00103378}: As can also be seen from my email to Richard Watson
(Email between Tom Cooper and Richard Watson dated 7 January 2019)
[UKG100008909], it was my opinion that BEIS should also be given the
opportunity to ask questions or express any disagreement about the proposed

course of action on an appeal, if they wished to do so.

Preparing for the Horizon Issues hearings: January — February 2019
157. On7 January 2019, I received a copy of the expert report of Jason Coyne, the
Claimant's IT expert, and Robert Worden, POL’s IT expert, by email from

Richard Watson, (Email from Richard Watson to Tom Cooper attaching Dr

Page 74 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Worden report dated 7 January 2019) [UKGI00019104]. The reports were dated

16 October 2018 and 7 December 2018 respectively.

158. During the Sub-committee meeting on 28 January 2019 [POL00006756], there
was a discussion of the experts’ evidence. It was explained that the Horizon
Issues hearing would largely be decided on the expert evidence and whose
evidence the Judge preferred, and that each side’s expert was approaching the
issue from a different perspective. I felt that I had little way of knowing which
side’s approach was likely to find favour with the Judge. I therefore was
supportive of the Sub-committee’s request for a further merits briefing from

POL’s QC, Anthony de Garr Robinson.

159. Although POL was still awaiting the judgment following the Common Issues
hearing, the Sub-committee nevertheless discussed the approach to mediation
and POL’s ‘red lines’. Mediation had been mandated by the Court but I recall
continuing to have the impression that neither side believed mediation could
succeed before the Horizon Issues judgment. However, POL “...wanted to

demonstrate that we were trying to do what the judge had asked us to do

[POL00006756]. The Claimants had also rejected POL’s proposed mediators.

160. The Sub-committee also received an outline briefing in relation to the possibility
of an appeal of the Common Issues judgment and were informed that, although
some work had been done to identify those points that POL would wish to

appeal if found in the Claimants’ favour, it was hard to reach any concluded view

Page 75 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

before the judgment was handed down, as the litigation was so complex and

much would depend on how the Judge expressed his conclusions.

161. There was a Board meeting on 29 January 2019. As with previous meetings, a
brief update on the litigation was provided by Jane MacLeod, which included a
reference to POL’s position on mediation and its consideration of its ‘red lines’
(POL Board Meeting Minutes dated 29 January 2019) [UKGI00043700]. My
recollection is that the red lines she was referring to were the intention to
exclude from any settlement Claimants with convictions, claims that were time-
barred and Claimants who had previously signed settlement agreements with

POL.

162. On 21 February 2019, there was a Sub-committee meeting by telephone, to
receive an update on the forthcoming Horizon Issues hearing (Sub-committee
Meeting Minutes dated 21 February 2019) [POL00006753]. Anthony de Garr
Robinson attended the meeting and led a discussion about the merits of the
Claimants’ and POL’s experts’ reports. He said that, although the Claimants’
expert had identified system errors, the report lacked balance and it was
explained to us that the strategy would be to keep the focus on the key issue of
system robustness, by emphasising that “for the vast majority of the time,
Horizon was a very reliable system” and “no-one had found a fundamental flaw
in the System”. I recollect that Anthony de Garr Robinson explained that he was
now expecting the experts to agree that the current version of Horizon was
robust, but that they were still a long way apart in relation to the previous

versions of the system.

Page 76 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

163. We were given a verbal summary of the risks that POL might face at the hearing
and it was acknowledged that POL anticipated receiving some criticism in
respect of aspects of the Horizon system, but overall it was thought that POL’s
arguments were “strong” [POL00006753]. It was noted however that the legal
team was somewhat “/ess optimistic” than it had been before Christmas. As a
result of what I had heard, I was concerned that POL’s expert might end up
conceding that previous versions of the Horizon system were flawed and that
such an admission would generate a lot of press attention. It was easy to
anticipate that any admissions about flaws in legacy Horizon might be conflated
publicly with the current Horizon system and that this would be very damaging
to public confidence in POL and services it was providing. It was with this
concern in mind, that I sent an email to Jane MacLeod following the meeting,
asking what could be done in relation to any misleading press reporting that
might arise as a result of the litigation, “...to protect POL’s business today
against the implication that the current system doesn’t work properly” (Email
from Tom Cooper to Al Cameron, Paula Vennells, Tim Parker, Andrew Parsons

and Jane MacLeod dated 21 February 2019) [POL00111694].

164. The Chairman asked to be provided with an update on POL’s risk mitigation
plans, which Jane MacLeod agreed to provide, along with a suggestion that the
Sub-committee be taken through the risk mitigation activities being
considered by the business. In addition, it was agreed that POL’s
communications plan would be circulated to all of the meeting’s attendees for

their consideration.

Page 77 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Receipt of the Common Issues judgment: March 2019

165. On Friday 8 March 2019, Jane MacLeod emailed the Board with a summary of
the embargoed Common Issues judgment [POL00103411] which POL had
received that morning. She explained that POL had “.../ost on all material
points” and that an urgent Board call would take place the following Tuesday,

12 March 2019.

166. I asked for a copy of the judgment and, over that weekend, I read it carefully. It
was obvious to me that the Sub-committee, and the POL Board, had been
unaware of the seriousness of the situation and had not been appropriately
prepared by the legal team. In particular, I was surprised by the interest the
Judge had taken in the experiences of individual Claimants and there were long
sections in his judgement devoted to their cases. Yet the legal team had been
clear that the Common Issues hearing was not primarily concerned with the facts
of individual cases. The basis of some of POL’s arguments had also not been
explained to the Sub-committee and when I read about these, I considered them
to be shocking and not something I would have approved. On several occasions
in the judgment the Judge characterised POL’s position to be unrealistic and,
having read his judgment, I agreed with that characterisation. The Sub-
committee, and the Board, had also not been made aware that the Judge could
produce a detailed critique of POL’s basic processes in his judgment for the
Common Issues hearing, as we had been advised that this would be considered

in the Horizon Issues hearing.

Page 78 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

167. I was also shocked by some of the flaws pointed out by the Judge in POL’s
processes, including for example the inability of SPMs to effectively dispute
items, the unfairness and oppressive effect of having to “settle centrally” before
disputing an item and the inadequacies of the branch trading statement. I
thought POL’s legal team would have been more fully aware of these points in
the run-up to the Common Issues hearing. They were major defects in POL’s
processes and therefore in POL’s case. But none of these issues had been
brought to the attention of the Sub-committee nor, if they were ongoing in POL’s
business, the ARC and the Board. I also reflected that these flaws did not seem
to have been brought to light in the past by any of the safeguards that the
Company had in place, including internal audit and external audit. It was also
shocking to learn that some of POL’s witnesses, particularly Angela Van Den
Bogerd, had been heavily criticised. Justice Fraser said she had not been frank
and had sought to mislead the Court. My view, which I believe was shared by
other members of the Board, was that the legal team had comprehensively

mismanaged the litigation.

168. The following Monday, I received an email from Jane MacLeod attaching a
paper summarising the position and suggesting certain issues that the Board
should urgently consider, including David Cavender’s advice on an appeal
(Email between POL and Tom Cooper dated 14 March 2019) [POL00103425]
and (Summary of Postmaster Litigation Judgment) [POL00111876]. On
Tuesday, a meeting of the Board took place by conference call, attended by
David Cavender (Board Call minutes between Ken McCall, Tom Cooper, Al

Cameron and others of 12 March 2019) [POL00268492]. He set out his views

Page 79 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

on the judgment, arguing that the decision was “unprecedented”, and that POL
had “strong grounds for appeal’. Despite the strength of his conviction, I felt
that he was failing to consider the judgment sufficiently objectively. I said that
“elements of the judgement seemed logical’, “the contract as constructed can
only work sensibly if PMs can challenge discrepancies’ and the current process

“put PMs in an impossible position”.

169. The following evening, Wednesday 13 March, I set out my views to the POL
Board in writing (Email from Tom Cooper to Jane MacLeod, Tim Parker, Ken
McCall and Others re GLO Board Call dated 13 March 2019) [POL00103420].
I suggested that a number of the points that I had raised should be discussed
by the Board without the existing legal advisers being present. I also referred to
the communications lines that POL was drawing up (Email from POL regarding
draft media statement in response to judgment of the first GLO trial dated 13
March 2019) [POL00103424] and explained that a briefing with Ministers and
the Permanent Secretary was being arranged. On Thursday morning, Ken
McCall also sent an email to Tim Parker confirming that he agreed with my

comments [POL00103425].

170. The Common Issues judgment was formally handed down on 15 March 2019.
On the same day there was a meeting for POL to brief Departmental officials.
The ministerial briefing to which I referred in my email to the Board took place
on 16 March 2019, the day after the judgment was handed down. I recall the
Department being very concerned about the judgment and what could be said

publicly in response. During the course of the briefing on 16 March I recall the

Page 80 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Secretary of State, Greg Clarke MP, making a comment to the effect that he
had always believed the SPMs were right and that it was now important that
these cases were resolved as quickly as possible. I referred to this in an email
that I sent on the same day to the Minister's office (Email from Tom Cooper and
Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst MP dated 18 March 2019) [UKGI00009261],
at p.13. I had not previously heard those views expressed by the Secretary of
State (or anyone else in the Department). It was those comments that I had in
mind when I made the observations set out in document [UKGI000431 10]
(Email between Tom Cooper and Secretary of State Private Office and others

dated 23 November 2019).

171. In the period after the embargoed judgment was received and over the next few
weeks, it was decided outside of the formal meetings that POL’s legal team
should be replaced. In my view, this was an easy decision for POL’s Board to
make, not only because the litigation had been mismanaged but also because
the Board could no longer place any trust in the advice it would receive. Initially,
I spoke to Tim Parker about it, who I anticipated would also canvas the views
of the other members of the Board. Tim Parker involved Al Cameron, POL’s
interim CEO and the three of us had several discussions on the topic, following
which I called Slaughter & May and Herbert Smith Freehills (“HSF”), to find out
whether they would be interested to act on behalf of POL. I made first contact

as I already had existing relationships with senior partners at both firms.

172. On 2 April 2019, I outlined the proposed change to the legal team to Alex

Chisholm (Email from Tom Cooper to Tom Aldred re FW: Strictly Confidential

Page 81 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Post Office Litigation dated 10 April 2019 ) [UKGI00009505]. I explained that
the chosen firm would have a direct mandate from the Board, which would be
to revisit the approach to the litigation and to devise a strategy for reaching a
resolution of the dispute. This direct mandate was considered to be appropriate,
at least initially, given the Board’s concerns about how POL’s legal team had
mismanaged the litigation up to that point. However, the relationship with the
firm selected, HSF, moved to a more customary one within a fairly short period
of its appointment with HSF being instructed by Ben Foat, POL's Legal Director,

and his team.

173. In my email, I also explained that POL’s General Counsel, Jane MacLeod, was
likely to be replaced and that I considered this to be a positive development
[UKG100009505]. I was not involved in the terms of her departure which were
negotiated by Al Cameron. After some discussion, it was agreed that Jane
MacLeod would not be replaced by an external hire. Her responsibilities would

instead be taken over by Ben Foat.

174. Slaughter & May and HSF both made presentations to Tim Parker, Al Cameron
and me on 9 April 2019. The decision was taken to appoint HSF and Al Cameron
negotiated the contract (Email chain from Tom Cooper to Alisdair Cameron re:
Post Office dated 9 April 2019 ) [UKGI00009495]. This process had to be
conducted urgently and discreetly as the Horizon Issues hearing was already
in progress, having started on 11 March, and we did not think we would be able

to change the legal team until after that hearing. For obvious reasons, it was

Page 82 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

seen to be important that the existing legal team remained unaware of their

pending replacement.

175. On 10 April 2019 a submission was prepared to update the Minister concerning
the litigation and this change to the legal team. In preparing the submission, I
asked that it be made clear to the Minister that UKGI had been advocating a
change to the legal team for some time — most significantly since receipt of the
embargoed judgment on 8 March, although my concerns about the legal team’s
approach went back as far as the previous October (as I subsequently
explained to the Minister in document [UKGI00009767] (Email from Tom
Cooper to MPST Tolhurst (Kelly) RE: POL Litigation - legal advice and concerns
about leadership at the company dated 16 May 2019)). We were pleased that
a change was being made, which we expected would have a significant impact

on the way the litigation would be conducted [UKGI00009510}].

176. In relation to this issue, I have been asked to comment on an email of 9 May
2019, in which Carl Creswell of BEIS relayed some concerns which the Minister
was said to have about the Board, in particular, that the change in legal
approach had been “the result of a ‘coup” (Email Chain from Cecilia Vandini to
Tom Cooper, Richard Watson, Stephen Clarke and others Re: Draft POL
Litigation Update Sub- Recusal Decision, Appeals etc dated 10 April 2019)
[UKG100019101]. As this was not my comment, I cannot say what lay behind
the Minister's understanding of the situation or why she may have expressed
herself in those terms. However, from my perspective, the fact that the decision

to change the legal team had not gone through the normal Board process was

Page 83 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

justified, on the basis that the current legal team would otherwise come to know
of it and that was not in the Company's interests. As I have explained above,
this was not considered to be appropriate part-way through the Horizon Issues
hearing. As such, the decision had to be taken outside the normal Board
processes and whilst Tim Parker did not choose to call a meeting of the NEDs,
my understanding was that he would be speaking to each of them bilaterally
[UKG100009767]. As far as I am aware, nothing further was raised by the

Minister or the Department in respect of this issue thereafter.

Recusal Application: March — May 2019

177. In the immediate aftermath of the Common Issues judgment, the Board was
presented with a very weighty collection of legal opinion proposing that an
application should be made to recuse Mr Justice Fraser from further

involvement in the litigation.

178. This placed the Board, including me, in a very difficult position. The Board was
told that a decision had to be made urgently and that there was already a
consensus of legal opinion that supported POL’s proposed approach, including
from Lord Neuberger, the former President of the Supreme Court, and Lord
Grabiner QC, a senior barrister. Within a few days, this advice had been
consolidated by oral presentations by both individuals to the full Board, along
with the instruction of a further firm of solicitors, Norton Rose, which was
appointed to provide independent legal advice to the Board and also appeared

to support the decision.

Page 84 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

179. I was advised by UKGI’s General Counsel that it would be inappropriate for me
as a representative of the Government to participate in a decision concerning
the recusal of a member of the judiciary. The Department took a similar view. The
Department was informed immediately and was fully sighted on the discussions,
but considered that it would not be appropriate to intervene in POL’s decision,
despite the Department having significant misgivings about the proposed
course of action (Email between Tom Cooper and Richard Watson, following
on exchange with UKGI and BEIS legal dated 15 March 2019) [UKGI00009208]
and (Email between Tom Cooper and Richard Watson, following on exchange
with UKGI and BEIS legal dated 15 March 2019) [UKGI00009211]. Although I
did not participate in the Board decision regarding recusal, I did see the legal

advice and attend the Board meetings so that I could hear the discussions.

180. On the morning that the judgment was handed down, Jane MacLeod sent an
email to Tim Parker, Al Cameron, and me, explaining that POL had
commissioned legal advice from Lord Neuberger, including “most urgently’
whether there were grounds upon which POL could apply for Mr Justice Fraser
to recuse himself (Email between Tom Cooper and Jane MacLeod regarding
recusal of Judge dated 15 March 2019) [POL00103438]. A copy of Lord
Neuberger’s preliminary advice was attached (Observations on Recusal
Application Observations on Recusal Application) [POL00371375]. Jane
MacLeod summarised the advice, explaining Lord Neuberger’s opinion that if
POL was going to advance a ground of appeal based on procedural unfairness,
it had “little option but to seek the judge to recuse himself at this stage” (Email

from Jane McLeod regarding advice on recusal of Judge dated 15 March 2019)

Page 85 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

[UKG100009184]. In addition, it was explained that POL intended to instruct

Lord Grabiner to act on the recusal application.

181. My immediate reaction was one of astonishment. I therefore quickly responded
to Jane MacLeod’s email, telling her that I did not consider POL could make a
decision by the following Monday based on a cursory reading of the judgment,
even by someone as distinguished as Lord Neuberger (Email Tom Cooper to
Jane MacLeod and Tim Parker dated 15 March 2019) [POL00103438]. Al
Cameron, who had also been copied into the same email chain, then responded
stating that he shared my instinctive reactions, but understood that if POL did
not act urgently, that would amount to a decision not to act and he was therefore
keen that a decision was considered and made, rather than letting time make it

for POL instead.

182. Late in the evening on 17 March 2019, Jane MacLeod then circulated the
following papers by email for consideration by the Board, under a heading
‘Recusal’ (Email from Jane MacLeod regarding Recusal dated 17 March 2019)

[POL00371373}:

(i) Adraft paper from herself recommending a recusal application and who
should be retained as Counsel (Group Litigation Paper for meeting of 18
March 2019) [POL00371376];

(ii) I Draft preliminary written advice from Lord Neuberger as to both an appeal
and recusal dated 14 March 2019 [POL00371375]; and

(iii) A note of advice on recusal from WBD dated 17 March 2019, which she

Page 86 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

explained had been reviewed by David Cavender as well as having been
seen and “verbally endorsed” by Lord Grabiner (Recusal Note from

Womble Bond Dickinson dated 17 March 2019) [POL00371374].

183. Jane MacLeod also said in her email that , on 18 March 2019, an urgent meeting
of the Board was to be convened by conference call at 5:15pm. Lord Neuberger
would attend to provide his advice verbally (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated

18 March 2019) [POL00021562].

184. I forwarded Jane MacLeod’s email and attachments to Richard Watson,
explaining that I would need his help to consider the approach that POL was
proposing to discuss (Email from Jane MacLeod forwarded by Tom Cooper to
Richard Watson dated 17 March 2019) [UKGI00009238]. Early the following
morning, Richard Watson responded agreeing to help (Email from Richard
Watson to Tom Cooper dated 18 March 2019) [UKGI00022558]. I then emailed
Jane MacLeod to flag that it may not be appropriate for me to participate in a
decision whether to seek recusal of a judge and said that I would confirm
position at the meeting that evening (Email between Tom Cooper and Jane
MacLeod dated 18 March 2019) [UKG1I00022560]. Richard Watson clarified this
position in an email into which I was copied, on the morning of 18 March (Email
from Richard Watson to Jane MacLeod dated 18 March 2019)
[UKG100009262]. That afternoon, I received further advice from Richard
Watson in relation to my participation in the decision about the recusal
application (Email between Richard Watson and Tom Cooper dated 18 March

2019) [UKGI00009273].

Page 87 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

185. In addition to discussions that Richard Watson was having with BEIS legal, I
had discussed the recusal idea with Alex Chisholm on 15 March
[UKGI00009208]. It was clear that UKGI and BEIS were both deeply
uncomfortable with the application being made. But it was considered
inappropriate for me, as the Government's representative on the Board of an
arm's length body, to be party to a decision that sought to challenge the
judiciary. In essence, this was the “presentational concern referred to in
Richard Watson's email of 18 March 2019 [UKGI00009273]. In accordance with
the advice I received, I therefore reluctantly accepted that my involvement
would have to be limited to highlighting issues that I felt the Board should take
into account, whilst removing myself from the decision itself. A script to explain
my position to the Board was therefore prepared on this basis, by Richard

Watson [UKGI00009273].

186. When I attended the Board meeting on 18 March 2019 (and others where the
application was discussed) I did not participate in taking the decision
[POL00021562]. Tim Parker also recused himself due to his role with the
Ministry of Justice, and so Ken McCall, the Senior Independent NED on the POL
Board, chaired the Board for this decision. These conflicts of interest were noted
at the start of the meeting and it was determined by the Board, as permitted by
POL’s Articles of Association, that Tim Parker and I could be involved in the

Board’s discussions, but not be party to the decision [POL00021562].

Page 88 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

187. The written advice Lord Neuberger had provided in advance was more
balanced than his verbal advice during the telephone call with the Board on 18
March 2019; during the call he was supportive of making an application. His
view was that Mr Justice Fraser had taken the legal interpretation of the contract
too far and, by deciding it was a good faith contract, had unjustifiably extended
the law. He suggested there were strong arguments that Mr Justice Fraser had
shown “apparent bias” by some of the comments made in the course of the
judgment and in summary, his advice was that recusal was what POL had to
do, both if it wanted to succeed in any appeal of the Common Issues judgment
and also if it was going to get a fair hearing in the Horizon Issues hearing. It
was intended that following the application the Court would decide to adjourn
the Horizon Issues hearing until the recusal issue had been resolved. If the
application was successful, Mr Justice Fraser would be replaced by a judge
who POL’s legal team expected would not show the same “apparent bias” as
Mr Justice Fraser. I recall that there also seemed to be a view held by POL’s
legal team that for so long as Mr Justice Fraser continued to oversee the
Horizon Issues there would inevitably be a bad outcome for POL. Therefore the

downside of an unsuccessful application was perceived to be limited.

188. The Board was informed that Lord Grabiner had given advice to the same
effect, albeit that his advice was more robust: it was his “strong advice” that
POL should apply for recusal of the Trial Judge [POL00021562]. It was reported
that Lord Grabiner had given this advice during a meeting with Jane MacLeod
earlier that day and that the Board would have an opportunity to ask Lord

Grabiner further questions on a subsequent call [POL00021562].

Page 89 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

189. The following day, I shared Lord Neuberger’s written advice, and POL’s
intention to make an application for recusal, with Alex Chisholm, explaining that
the Board had been informed that Lord Grabiner was more “bullish” than Lord
Neuberger (Email from Jane McLeod circulating papers for Board on 17 March

2019) [UKGI00009299].

190. Later that evening, Alex Chisholm responded to my email confirming that it was
his view that the decision on recusal was “properly a matter for POL and their
advisers”, noting that legal advice had been obtained from “previously
unengaged experts with unsurpassable credentials” who were recommending
recusal, and that it was appropriate for the Department to “maintain its clearly
distinct and detached position” and "should not comment substantively in
ongoing litigation in which the department has a clear interest but no direct
involvement’ (Email between Alex Chisholm to Tom Cooper dated 19 March
2019) [UKGI00009299]. I acknowledged his view, whilst at the same time
making the point that I considered POL had “genuine issues to deal with’,
expressing a hope that I was "finally being heard about the need to have a
resolution strategy and not just plough on through the process of all the hearings’

[UKG100009299].

191. In response to Alex Chisholm’s direct question concerning the views of UKGI
legal, I told him that they would ‘ike to see written advice expressed in stronger
language” [UKG100009299]. This was intended to convey the point, which I had

previously encountered, that when the Board received legal advice orally, it was

Page 90 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

often expressed in much stronger or definitive terms than when set out in writing.
As I explained above, this had been the case with Lord Neuberger, whose initial
written advice had been more caveated than the view expressed during our
conference call with him. I remember discussing this with UKGI legal and raising
it with Jane MacLeod at the Board, saying that, on a matter as important and
controversial as recusal, it was important that the Company received written legal

advice that was fully aligned with the oral advice.

192. A further meeting of the Board took place on 20 March 2019. That morning, in
advance of the meeting, I asked Jane MacLeod to confirm whether there was
any alternative route to an application for recusal. I did so not to interfere in the
decision but to ensure that all options had been considered and could be
presented to the Board. Shortly before the meeting began, Jane MacLeod
forwarded a response prepared by David Cavender, explaining that the
alternative I had suggested, which involved asking the Judge to pause the
Horizon Issues hearing pending an appeal, would not work and, if anything,
“would make matters (even worse)” (Email from Jane MacLeod forwarding
David Cavender QC response and Tom Cooper forwarding to Alex Chisholm

dated 20 March 2019) [UKGI00009314].

193. There was a Board call with Lord Grabiner on 20 March 2019 (Womble Bond
Dickinson Note of Conference with Lord Grabiner QC on 18 March 2019)
[POL00006397]. I attended this call and the Board meeting that took place later
that day, at which his views were conveyed (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated

20 March 2019) [POL00021563]. In particular, Lord Grabiner said that he

Page 91 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

considered the Judge had “behaved improperly and was wrong as to the law’
and that there was “no practical alternative to an application for recusal’. The
representatives from Norton Rose who attended the meeting in their role
advising the Board, also advised that an application should be made, as “there
was a greater upside in making the application for the recusal versus the risks

of that application failing’ [POL00021563].

194. The Board was advised that the timing of the application was extremely urgent,
as the Horizon Issues hearing had already commenced. Norton Rose and
Counsel advised that Mr Justice Fraser had been outspoken in the Common
Issues judgment and had shown ‘apparent bias’. The legal team were
concerned that he would display the same ‘apparent bias’ in relation to the
Horizon Issues and that POL would not get a fair hearing. The Common Issues
judgment clearly contained some trenchant criticism of POL, which did not bode
well for the Horizon Issues hearing, but I recall the Board being very surprised
by the suggestion that the Judge should be recused. Nevertheless, the Board
had received four separate pieces of legal advice on the recusal application, all
seemingly in support of making the application and having considered all of the
papers, it was decided that an application for recusal should be made

[POL00021563].

195. Itseemed to me that the strength and volume of the legal advice provided from
all of the lawyers in relation to this application meant the Board felt it had no
choice but to approve making the application. Indeed, during the Board call,

Lord Grabiner said as much, stating, “if there were any other options I would

Page 92 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

have told you about them" (Email from Tom Cooper to Alex Chisholm dated 20
March 2019) [UKGI00009314]. Even though the Board was very reluctant to
take this course of action, it was difficult to argue with advice from a senior QC
such as Lord Grabiner, particularly when expressed in such definitive terms and
when his advice mirrored the advice the Board had also received from a former

President of the Supreme Court.

196. Following the Board meeting on 20 March 2019, I sent a note to the Minister,
Shareholder Team, Permanent Secretary and the Policy Team confirming the
outcome, and the advice provided by Lord Grabiner. I also confirmed that the
Board had a full discussion in relation to the consequences of an application,
but considered those risks could be managed (Email from Tom Cooper to
MPST Tolhurst (Kelly) and others re POL Litigation Update dated 20 March
2019) [UKGI00009330]. The following morning POL issued and served its

application for recusal.

197. The next meeting of the Board took place on 25 March 2019. As would be
expected, the litigation was allocated significantly more time than it had been on
previous agendas and the repercussions of the judgment were raised in respect
of a number of the other items that the Board was due to consider, including
budget approval. This meeting also marked a significant change in the POL
executive team, as it had been announced on 14 March 2019 that Paula
Vennells would be leaving the business. The CEO’s report was therefore

presented by Al Cameron.

Page 93 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

198. Following the Board meeting, I spoke with Richard Watson about the Common
Issues judgment and what I considered to be the practical consequences for
POL's contractual relationship with SPMs. On 29 March 2019, Richard Watson
confirmed that he agreed with me and set them out in a detailed email
[UKG100009419]. On 1 April 2019, I responded to Richard Watson and asked
him about what I perceived to be an irreconcilable tension between POL’s
position and the consequences of the judgment, namely that on the one hand
SPMs should not be responsible for losses which they had not created, and on
the other, that POL did not want to be in a position of having to prove how any
loss may have occurred. I felt these competing objectives posed a real problem
for POL, to which I could see no answer, in any reframing of the contract
between POL and SPMs. The intention of my question at the end of that email
was therefore to ask Richard Watson whether he could see any way in which

these competing objectives could be resolved contractually.

199. The application for recusal was heard on 3 April 2019 and dismissed by Mr
Justice Fraser on 9 April 2019 (Recusal Application Judgment dated 9 April
2019) [UKGI00009497]. My understanding was that this was expected, as the
Judge was highly unlikely to agree that he had shown apparent bias in his own
conduct; the key issue was whether the Court of Appeal would grant the recusal
application on appeal. On 12 April 2019, a submission was prepared to inform
the Secretary of State, the Minister and Special Advisors about this
development, as well as updating them as to the preparation of an appeal

against the Common Issues judgment [UKGI00019301].

Page 94 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Consideration of Appeals: late April - June 2019

200. Following Mr Justice Fraser's dismissal of POL’s application for recusal, there
remained the question of an appeal against the Common Issues judgment.
Given the Horizon Issues hearing had been adjourned until the Court of Appeal
could hear the recusal application, it was possible for HSF to be introduced to
POL’s legal team and advise on the appeal strategy. As a result, for a period, HSF
was advising alongside the POL’s existing legal team because it was thought to
be impractical to replace the existing legal team at this stage. I believe the Board
wanted new legal advice as soon as possible and did not want to wait until both
the Horizon Issues hearing had finished and the recusal application had been
heard, as decisions needed to be taken about an appeal of the Common Issues
judgment in the meantime. HSF had a mandate to settle the case and I believe
the Board wanted to be assured that an appeal would be appropriate, not only

legally but also would not get in the way of a settlement.

201. At both the POL Board and the Sub-committee, there were several discussions
about POL'’s litigation strategy, which ultimately led to the instruction of a new
QC to advise on whether to appeal Common Issues judgment and, if so, what

the Grounds of Appeal should be.

202. A meeting of the Sub-committee was scheduled for 24 April 2019 at 08.30. The
papers circulated late the previous afternoon included a request for approval of
POL’s grounds for appealing the Common Issues judgment (POL Postmaster
Litigation Paper for Sub-committee on 24 April 2019) [POL00103498], (WBD

Common Issues Judgment: Appeal Advice dated 11 April 2019)

Page 95 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

[POL00103499] and (Common Issues List) [POL00103500]. In addition, Alan
Watts of HSF sent a supplemental paper for consideration by the Sub-
committee [POL00103501] and [POL00103502]. Although I was able to read
these papers overnight, I did not consider it satisfactory that the Sub-committee
was being asked to consider such an important issue within so short a
timeframe, which also prevented the matter being discussed internally within
UKGI, or the Minister from being consulted. I therefore sent an email to Tim
Parker raising these concerns (Email between Tom Cooper and Tim Parker

dated 24 April 2019) [POL00103507}.

203. In addition to the usual attendance by Andrew Parsons of WBD, the meeting
was also attended by Lord Neuberger, David Cavender and two partners from
HSF (Sub-committee Meeting Minutes dated 24 April 2019) [POLO0006755].
The Sub-committee was presented with a paper that had been prepared by
POL’s legal team, WBD and Counsel concerning the Common Issues judgment
[UKG100043067]. The meeting covered the proposed approach to appealing
the Common Issues judgment and how it would interact with the recusal
application. The Board paper included a summary of the points made in the
Common Issues judgment and which of those POL should concede or appeal.
42 points were marked for appeal, plus one which was noted to be “already

partially conceded/appeal”.

204. Although the decision had been made to settle the case, HSF confirmed there

were legal arguments in the Common Issues judgment which should properly

Page 96 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

be appealed, as reflected in the paper HSF presented to the meeting

[POL00103502].

205. As part of the discussion, David Cavender explained the rationale for also
appealing the recusal decision, which he presented as the “only way of
protecting against adverse findings in the Horizon hearing” [POL00006755]. It
was explained that if POL was to appeal against the recusal decision it would
have to move quickly. He further explained that there was a significant degree
of overlap between the recusal application and the application for permission to

appeal.

206. Lord Neuberger’s view was that he largely agreed with the analysis presented
by David Cavender, and that it was probably sensible for the applications for
permission to appeal the Common Issues judgment and the recusal
decision to be advanced together [POL00006755]. He thought it likely that
permission would be granted on the recusal element because the threshold of
apparent bias was relatively low. Lord Neuberger made clear that the analysis
was not clear cut and the issues were not “black and white” [POL00006755] but
the bottom line appeared to be that there was an arguable case in respect of

both potential appeals, and that both applications should be advanced together.

207. Having considered the advice presented to the Sub-committee and noting that
a request to join the two appeals might result in the appeal against the Common
Issues judgment being brought forward, it was resolved that the applications for

permission to appeal the Common Issues judgment and Mr Justice Fraser's

Page 97 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

refusal to recuse himself should not be joined and POL would therefore write to
the Court of Appeal making clear that it intended to submit its grounds to appeal
the Common Issues judgment on 16 May 2019. It was further resolved that there
would be a meeting in the week commencing 29 April to consider the potential
Grounds of Appeal and that Ministers would be briefed on the issues
[POL00006755], thus meeting the concerns I had raised in my email to Tim

Parker as described above.

208. There was an additional meeting of the Board on 30 April 2019 (POL
Board Meeting minutes dated 30 April 2019) [POL00021565], at which an
update was provided on POL'’s litigation strategy and the handling of the
applications for permission to appeal both the Common Issues judgment and
the recusal decision. POL’s Interim CEO was relatively pessimistic about the
prospects of a successful appeal against the recusal decision but was more

confident of obtaining permission to appeal the Common Issues judgment.

209. On 5 May 2019, a few days before the next Sub-committee, I sent an email to
Alan Watts of HSF setting out in detail the issues that I considered needed to
be taken into account before any final decision was taken on an appeal of the
Common Issues judgment [POL00103532], pp.2-4. These included an analysis

of:

(i) _ the facts of the Lead Cases and how they related to the proposed appeal.

I believed it was important for the Board to be clear about which of the

findings of fact were accepted and which should be disputed;

Page 98 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

(ii) I the legal arguments being considered for the appeal and what the
operational consequences of POL’s position were. It wasn’t clear to me
that POL had thought through what its reliance on “reasonable
cooperation” meant it were to be put into practice in the business;

(iii) the possible liabilities that could arise based upon the lead cases;

(iv) how POL planned to approach and organise a mediation during the
summer;

(v) _ the potential total liability in the GLO and whether this included any claims
that might arise from a conviction being considered by the CCRC; and

(vi) the impact of the litigation on POL’s ongoing contractual relationships with

SPMs.

210. I wanted all of these issues to be considered before POL submitted any appeal,
because it seemed obvious (at least to me as a non-lawyer) that POL should
not be appealing on an issue — such as the clause relating to payments during
a period of suspension — that appeared very difficult to justify (and in my view

unethical), even if they were legally sustainable.

211. On 8 May 2019, HSF produced a paper identifying the key issues in the
Common Issues appeal and the approach to take to the forthcoming hearing
before Mr Justice Fraser [UKGI00009697]. HSF continued to agree with the
advice previously provided by POL’s legal team that had been provided to the
Sub-committee on 24 April and outlined certain key issues for the Sub-
committee to focus on the following day. In addition, HSF provided advice about

how POL should approach the issue of the costs of the Common Issues

Page 99 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

hearing, which had been listed for 23 May 2019. HSF warned that it was more
likely than not that POL would be ordered to pay the Claimants’ costs of the
hearing imminently and that there was a risk that the Judge would make an
Order in “astringent terms” [UKGI00009697]. POL was therefore advised to
make proposals to settle the issue of costs, in order to avoid the need for the

hearing.

212. Having received HSF’s paper, I remained concerned by the suggestion that
arguments based on necessary cooperation were continuing to be
contemplated, if in fact what POL meant by that amounted to accepting what
the Claimants were asking for. In these circumstances, there would be no need
to appeal. I therefore asked HSF for a comprehensive explanation of which of
the implied terms POL considered were covered by the necessary cooperation
clause [POL00103532]. In addition, I questioned POL’s basis for appealing Mr
Justice Fraser’s findings of fact. The appeal seemed to be based on his
methodology, rather than POL being certain that his findings were actually
wrong. I felt strongly about this as I believed POL needed to confront the
realities of the way it ran its business, rather than avoid them through legal
arguments. Later that day, I received an email from Ben Foat from which I
gained some comfort that the concerns I had raised were being heard
[UKG100009725]. I also sent an email to Richard Watson and others within
UKGI with a short summary of the Sub-committee’s discussions (Email from
Tom Cooper to Stephen Clarke, Richard Watson and Tom Aldred dated 9 May

2019) [UKG100018322].

Page 100 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

213. On 9 May 2019, the Court of Appeal dismissed POL’s application to appeal Mr
Justice Fraser's recusal decision. Following the decision, HSF wrote to the
Board confirming that HSF now believed it necessary to change the Counsel
team for the appeal (Email between Tom Cooper and Alan Watts dated 11 May
2019) [POL00103536]. This issue was further considered at a meeting that I
attended the following Monday morning (13 May) following which it was agreed
by email that a new QC would be instructed for the appeal (Email between Tom
Cooper and Richard Watson dated 14 May 2019) [UKGI00009760]. In a paper
prepared by POL for the Board meeting on 28 May 2019 it was confirmed that
there was no further right of appeal in respect of the recusal, and that the
Horizon Issues hearing would resume, before Mr Justice Fraser, on 4 June

2019 (POL Board Meeting Pack dated 28 May 2019) [UKGI00043200].

214. The paper also noted that there was to be a permission to appeal application
before Mr Justice Fraser on 23 May 2019 in respect of the Common Issues
judgment and that if permission was refused, an application could be made to
the Court of Appeal. At that time, POL’s Grounds of Appeal were due to be filed

and sent to the Claimants in the week of 13 May.

215. Early in the morning on 13 May 2019, I met with Tim Parker, Al Cameron, Ken
McCall, Ben Foat and Alan Watts to discuss the appeal (Email between Tom
Cooper and others dated 13 May 2019) [UKGI00043858]. During the meeting,
Alan Watts recommended that POL replace David Cavender QC for the
common issues appeal. Tim Parker, Al Cameron and I, as the members of the

Sub-committee, all agreed that this was desirable. Al Cameron summarized the

Page 101 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

discussion in an email in which he wrote “We are therefore rewriting the
common issues appeal now to strip out any “recusal lite” argument and to
minimise the findings of fact only to those things that directly support one of the

contractual interpretation arguments...” [UKGI00043858].

216. The following day, Alan Watts sent the same group an email into which he had
pasted a cover email from David Cavender QC concerning the revised Grounds
of Appeal (Email between Alan Watts and Tom Cooper dated 15 May 2019)
[POL00103551]. It was apparent from reading that email that David Cavender
did not agree with the revised approach that the Sub-committee had determined
POL should take in the appeal. In his email, Alan Watts also presented further
advice, although this now seemed more equivocal to me, in that it was
contemplating keeping the “procedural irregularities door open’, something that
I had understood from our discussions the previous day, would no longer be

pursued.

217. I forwarded this email to Richard Watson and other colleagues within UKGI, to
seek their views (Email between Richard Watson and Tom Cooper dated 14
May 2019) [UKGI00019198]. Amongst the responses, Richard Watson said that
he was unclear about HSF’s advice and agreed to speak to Alan Watts, so that
we could gain a better understanding of HSF’s advice concerning the
recommended scope of the appeal. Later that day, Richard Watson
summarised that discussion in a further internal email to me and UKGI

colleagues [UKGI00019198].

Page 102 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

218. An additional call to discuss the appeal was organised to take place on 15 May
2019 [POL00103551] at p.4. Due to a prior commitment, I was unavailable to
attend that meeting, but wanted to ensure that my views were considered. On
the evening of 14 May 2019, I therefore sent an email summarising my thoughts
and again questioned the Grounds of Appeal [POL00103551]. In a further
exchange of emails that followed, I expressed my disappointment that POL’s
“lack of real understanding of the facts is regrettable’, again reflecting my
concern that without a proper understanding of Mr Justice Fraser's findings of
fact it was difficult to know whether an appeal should be made in relation to any

of them.

219. On 16 May, HSF circulated a one-page summary of the factual issues that were
being considered for an appeal, broken down into two categories depending on
whether POL agreed or disagreed with them being true [UKGI00009805].
The following day, I provided my comments on this document, continuing to
question why POL would want to appeal on matters that were generally true
(Email from Tom Cooper to HSF dated 21 May 2019) [UKGI00009854]. POL
initially responded with a justification for the approach, as I go on to explain

below, ultimately POL’s Grounds of Appeal would be narrowed significantly.

220. Ata Board meeting on 28 May 2019, the Board received an update from HSF and
Ben Foat on the appeal of the Common Issues judgment. The Board was
informed that an application for permission to appeal would be made and that
new Counsel, Helen Davies QC, had been instructed to represent POL for the

purposes of the appeal. The Board was told that the Grounds of Appeal were

Page 103 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

being revised and would be “limited to the matters of greatest importance to
POL, namely, the relational contract and good faith elements of the Judgement"
(POL Board Meeting Minutes dated 28 May 2019) [POL00021566]. I was
pleased to learn of this new approach, as it was consistent with my
understanding that there was really one significant point of principle that needed
to be tested and it meant that all of Mr Justice Fraser's findings of fact would be

accepted.

221. There was some discussion of the forthcoming Horizon Issues hearing. The
Board was advised that the evidence of the expert witnesses would be critical
to the outcome and that it was important “that they did not ‘renege’ on their view
that [the current version of] Horizon was a robust system. It was critical that it
was seen as a robust system today.” There was nothing in the Common Issues
judgment which “suggested that the system was unfit for purpose today’

[POL00021 566].

222. The Board discussed the dismissal of the recusal application and it was
acknowledged that, going forwards, with Mr Justice Fraser continuing to
conduct the matter, POL “needed to pay much more attention to strategy and

to tone” [POL00021566].

223. The Horizon Issues hearing recommenced on 4 June 2019 and the Sub-
committee was provided with an update on the progress of the Horizon Issues
hearing by Ben Foat at the Sub-committee meeting on 12 June 2019 (Sub-

committee Meeting Minutes dated 12 June 2019) [POL00103595]. The Sub-

Page 104 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

committee was told that the hearing would end on 2 July 2019 it was unlikely

that there would be a judgment until the Autumn.

224. HSF provided an update on the Common Issues appeal. The Sub-committee
was informed that the scope of the appeal had been drastically reduced (with
the Grounds being cut from 55 pages to 8 pages) and that a decision had been
taken to abandon grounds directed to findings of fact and a ground which sought,
in effect, to re-run the unsuccessful recusal arguments. The Sub-committee
wanted it to be made clear that “POL was not seeking to defend any clauses

within the contract which we did not think defensible” [POL00103595].

225. The last part of the meeting was concerned with contingency planning and the
Sub-committee was joined by two representatives from Deloitte who had been
engaged to assist POL with its operational readiness to respond to the impact

of an adverse outcome from the Horizon Issues hearing [POL00103595].

Progress to settlement: June — November 2019
226. Atthe Sub-committee on 12 June 2019 [POL00103595], there was a discussion
about the overall litigation strategy and the position that POL intended to take
at a meeting between Al Cameron and the Minister scheduled for 24 June 2019.
Al Cameron explained that he would make clear to the Minister that POL’s
approach to the litigation had been flawed and that the Company was now
looking at settlement options. During a discussion concerning the potential
costs of settlement, the Sub-committee had been concerned to learn that there

was information available about the scale of the Claimants’ individual claims

Page 105 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

which had not previously been provided to the Sub-committee or Board. It had
been agreed that WBD would be asked for an explanation and, as I describe
below, a partner from WBD attended the next meeting of the Sub-committee to
respond to this issue. Al Cameron also agreed to report back to the Sub-
committee with a better-informed analysis as to the range of settlement figures

and the criteria for considering cases for settlement.

227. From my perspective, the overriding priority was now to resolve the litigation
efficiently and fairly. A new legal team had been engaged with a mandate to
settle the claim and I wanted to see concrete proposals for how that might be
achieved as quickly as possible. I remained of the view that the ‘good faith’
contractual issue was an important point of principle with significant implications
for the business going forwards, and I understood the rationale for maintaining
the appeal on this issue, but I also believed that settlement discussions should

run in parallel.

228. In advice to the Secretary of State dated 11 June, reference was made to how
the litigation could be brought to “a swift and satisfactory conclusion, ensuring
postmasters who had been treated unfairly were appropriately compensated’
[UKG100019351]. In that submission, UKGI and BEIS had suggested a range
of potential options that the Minister could take at an upcoming meeting
with Tim Parker and POL’s new legal advisers scheduled to take place on
24 June. Many of these options were focused on achieving a settlement

(Options paper for Minsters to consider dated June 2019) [UKGI00026900].

Page 106 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

229. There was a meeting of the Sub-committee on 20 June 2019 (Sub-committee
Meeting Minutes dated 20 June 2019) [POLO0006752]. Anthony de Garr
Robinson attended and was asked to provide an update on the progress of the
Horizon Issues hearing and the likely outcome. He said that ‘the Claimants’ expert
witness had agreed that the Horizon system was robust’. This comment was made

about the current version of the system and not previous versions.

230. He explained that both expert witnesses had been “unsatisfactory” and that
the performance of one Fujitsu witness had given particular cause for concern.
He advised that POL should prepare for a judgment similar to the Common
Issues judgment but that the outcome was very difficult to predict. As to the
Common Issues appeal, it was simply noted that the skeleton argument in
support of the application for permission to appeal was to be revised and

resubmitted on 27 June 2019 in accordance with the Court's direction.

231. Ihave referred above to the issue of settlement and the belated provision of the
spreadsheet containing particulars of the individual claims which demonstrated
that the assertion was untrue that the claims were “unsettleable” at least in part
due to a failure on the part of the SPMs to quantify their claims. This issue was
raised on 20 June 2019 with WBD in attendance [POL00006752]. The
Chairman expressed his dissatisfaction and asked why this information had not
been provided in 2017 (which appeared to be when the spreadsheet had been
prepared). The minutes state: “Andrew Parsons said that he had not been
aware that the Board had not received the information contained in the

schedules, including the total value of the financial claims. He had not provided

Page 107 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

this information when asked about a claim estimate when discussing the
requirement for a provision in the statutory accounts as this estimate was
widely understood to be inaccurate and unreliable, and he thought this
information was known within Post Office.” The Sub-committee considered that
explanation to be unsatisfactory and the Chair observed that the approach
taken to the litigation may have differed had the Board been aware of this

important additional information [POL00006752].

232. I attended the meeting between the Minister and POL’s CEO on 24 June
2019. There is a briefing note which can be found at [UKGI00018337]
(Briefing for Meeting with Al Cameron and Tim Parker on 24 June 2019 dated

16 June 2024). I have no recollection of this meeting.

233. On 16 July 2019, HSF provided their preliminary comments on settlement
ahead of a meeting that had been scheduled to take place on 18 July
[UKG100043108]. I attended the meeting with Richard Watson. Ben Foat was

also in attendance.

234. There was a Board meeting on 30 July 2019. The Board received a litigation
update from Ben Foat, who spoke to a detailed paper addressing both the
approach to the litigation (including ‘the potential path to settlement’) (POL
Board Pack dated 30 July 2019) [ UKGI00024394] and the steps that were being
taken to prepare for an adverse Horizon Issues judgment including delivery of
technology and process changes and provision of better support to SPMs in light

of the findings in the Common Issues judgment. The paper referred to mediation

Page 108 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

which was proposed to take place in October. The paper referred to a
‘consolidated project plan’ [UKG1I00024394] located in the reading room which
set out the relevant milestones for the litigation and the operational and agent
relationship workstreams. Having previously been concerned about POL’s
commitment to the mediation process, by this stage, I felt there had been a shift
in momentum and that there was a greater willingness to achieve a settlement,
whatever the outcome of the outstanding Common Issues appeal and Horizon

Issues hearing might be.

235. During the meeting, questions were asked concerning the mechanics of
settlement (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated 30 July 2019) [UKGI00043201].
The Board endorsed the approach to settlement/mediation set out in the paper,
along with the operational activities proposed to address the issues raised by
the Common Issues judgment including the clear need to provide better support
to SPMs. The Board further directed that a paper be prepared for the
September Board meeting setting out the proposed settlement range (upper
and lower limit) so that the legal team could be provided with delegated
authority to settle the claims in accordance with the Board's instructions

[UKG100043201].

236. It may be helpful to explain at this stage, that under the Managing Public Money
guidelines, POL required approval from the Department to settle the case.
Obtaining this approval required the involvement of both BEIS and HMT. A
working group was set up, comprising representatives from HMT, BEIS and

UKGI (“the HMG working group”) to whom HSF came and provided a

Page 109 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

presentation and then written advice. After that, a mechanism was also put in
place to ensure POL could obtain the necessary authorisation whilst it was
engaged in any mediation with the Claimants. The mechanism was designed
to ensure that POL was able to make binding offers at the mediation. Obtaining
approval from Government to settle litigation for large sums of money is not a
straightforward exercise but the arrangements made during the second half of
2019 were effective, such that by the time POL entered mediation in November

it was in a position to make binding offers and settle the case quickly.

237. A meeting of the Sub-committee took place on 17 September 2019, at which
the committee was provided with an update on the litigation (Sub-committee
Meeting Minutes dated 17 September 2019) [POL00104327]. The permission
to appeal hearing had been scheduled for 12 November, with the Horizon

Issues judgment expected at some point in October.

238. The Sub-committee held an in-depth discussion on settlement, noting that
POL's, “...legal strategy had changed to explore settlement options fully’ [
POL00104327]. The Sub-committee was presented with two papers on the
issue, one by POL and the other by HSF (Sub-committee Meeting Papers dated
17 September 2019) [UKGI00039881] at p. 11 and 27. Various figures and
settlement ranges were set out in the papers. I was also conscious that POL
was negotiating, at least in part, with the Claimants’ litigation funder, Therium,

and it was unclear how its interests would influence the negotiations.

Page 110 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

239. In any event, I knew that the overall settlement would have to be justified having
regard to the Managing Public Money principles and that, ultimately, the
prospects of settlement would depend on whether the Claimants were prepared
to accept a figure that fell within the range POL was authorised to offer. Before
any settlement could be approved, a merits opinion would also need to be
obtained as part of the shareholder approval process, to explain the basis for
recommending the settlement sum proposed. Reference was made to this
requirement at the meeting, although it was decided to defer getting the advice
until after the Horizon Issues judgment had been handed down [POL00104327].
Eventually the Government was content to approve settlement on the basis of
HSF’s advice to the Board (Email from UKGI to Secretary of State dated 15
November 2019) [UKGI00024982] and HSF draft advice on settlement

[UKG100024984)).

240. There was a Board meeting on 23 September 2019 (this followed Nick Read
being appointed CEO on 16 September 2019) (POL Board Meeting Minutes
dated 23 September 2019) [POL00155497]. Ben Foat attended and spoke toa
paper UKGI00039881] that had been discussed at the preceding Sub-
committee meeting. The Board was also provided with the detailed advice from
HSF. Ben Foat informed the Board that there was to be a Common Issues
appeal hearing on 12 November 2019, and that the Horizon Issues judgment
was expected in October. He advised the Board that consideration should be
given to “settling as soon as possible rather than at the lowest cost
[POL00155497]. There was a detailed discussion of HSF’s analysis and the

Board approved the approach to settlement outlined in the papers, noting that

Page 111 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

a significant amount of further work was required on both settlement parameters

and strategy [POL00155497].

241. There was an additional meeting of the Board, held by conference call, on 3
October 2019 (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated 3 October 2019)
[UKG100018490]. The Board was advised by Ben Foat that the meeting had
been convened to discuss a ‘disclosure incident’ that had arisen in the context
of the GLO proceedings. The issue concerned a failure on the part of Fujitsu to
provide a full set of ‘Known Error Logs’ (“KEL”) which listed “known issues in
Horizon” [UKGI00018490]. The Board was informed that the logs, which had
been discovered belatedly, had the potential to affect adversely POL’s
credibility in the litigation, leave POL open to allegations of concealing evidence,
and prejudice POL’s case in respect of the nature and extent of defects in the
Horizon system. It was, however, too early to say whether this late disclosure

would have any evidential impact.

242. The Board was advised of the steps that were being taken to address the
disclosure failure, including work to assess the evidential significance of the
new material and whether the errors by Fujitsu might give rise to a cause of
action against Fujitsu in relation to this specific incident. I asked whether the
newly discovered logs identified bug/errors that had not previously been
identified but was told that it was too early to say. I also wanted to know if the
further material would lead to the Court being reconvened to consider the new

evidence and, if so, what the timescales would be [UKGI00018490]. Again, it

Page 112 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

was apparently not possible to answer these questions at this stage. Ben Foat

said that both the Board and UKGI would be regularly updated on the issue.

243. There was a meeting of the Sub-committee on 22 October 2019. In addition to a
general procedural update, which simply confirmed that the Horizon Issues
judgment was awaited and the Common Issues appeal hearing was imminent,
the Sub-committee was updated in respect of the non-disclosure of the KELs

(Sub-committee Meeting Minutes dated 22 October 2019) [POL00103694].

244. In summary, it was confirmed that there were 14,000 non-disclosed KELs which
were available to the Claimants. These KELs were being reviewed by POL’s
Counsel who had determined that, of those reviewed to date, 75% were "felt not
to have had a significant impact on what happened at [the Horizon Issues] trial’,
with the other 25% requiring more detailed review. POL was seeking to ensure
that there were no further undisclosed KELs held by Fujitsu [POL00103694].
Ben Foat presented the Sub-committee with a paper which provided an update
on the preparations for mediation and settlement (Sub-committee dated 22
September 2019) [UKGI00018421]. The paper explained the further work that had
been done to value the claims and the strategy that would be pursued at the

mediation.

245. I reported to the Sub-committee that I had met with HSF to go through the
settlement numbers, including in respect of convicted cases [POL00103694].
There had also been significant input from the Government working group by

this stage. The approach to the settlement of convicted cases was discussed

Page 113 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

and Ben Foat advised that Counsel would review the convicted cases after the
Horizon Issues judgment had been handed down for the purpose of advising on

the approach that should be taken to those cases [POL00103694].

246. There was a Board meeting on 29 October 2019. Ben Foat attended and
presented the paper that had been discussed at the preceding Sub-committee
meeting. A number of questions were asked by the Board, as reflected in the
minutes (POL Board Meeting Minutes dated 29 October 2019)
[UKGI00043705]. Ultimately, the Board noted the updates that had been
provided and authorised the Sub-committee to delegate authority to Ben Foat
to make settlement offers at the mediation on terms to be determined by the

Sub-committee.

247. The next meeting of the Sub-committee was held on 13 November 2019, two
weeks before the mediation (Sub-committee Meeting Minutes dated 13
November 2019) [UKGI00043071]. The meeting was attended by HSF who
presented a draft ‘Advice on Settlement’ (Sub-committee Meeting Papers dated
13 November 2019) [UKG100043086] at p. 5. It was explained that the issue of
settlement was complex, there were a number of material unknowns and the

first mediation might well prove unsuccessful [UKGI0004307 1].

248. The Sub-committee approved an authority for the mediation with a mechanism
to seek approval from the Chairman and the Shareholder to increase the
authority if necessary. I reported that HMT and BEIS would need to be assured

that public funds were not being expended unnecessarily [UKG100043071]. It

Page 114 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

was noted that further work was needed to understand the position of convicted

Claimants and that this would be discussed further at a subsequent meeting.

249. The day after the Sub-committee meeting, the HMG working group met to
discuss the parameters of settlement that had been approved by the Sub-
committee (Email from Richard Watson to Nigel Boardman dated 14 November
2019) [UKGI00043986]. Alan Watts of HSF attended and gave a presentation
to the group. Following a full discussion, the group approved a settlement
authority and expressed the hope that an agreement with all the Claimants
could be reached. On 18 November, Carl Creswell, Richard Watson and I spoke
with the Minister by telephone to update her about the proposed approach to
settlement, of which she was supportive (Readout of telephone meeting with

Kelly Tolhurst MP dated 18 November 2019) [UKGI00010731].

250. A week before the mediation was due to commence, I was copied into an email
chain (along with several others) in which it was asked whether the scheduled
dates for mediation might be moved because the mediation was taking place
during the pre-election period (Email from Tom Cooper to Secretary of State
and others dated 23 November 2019) [UKGI00043110]. I do not know what
motivated the Secretary of State’s request, but as can be seen from my
response, I did not consider there would be any benefit to the Government in
seeking to delay the mediation. My assessment was that it was now in

everyone's interest for the litigation be resolved in a timely manner.

Page 115 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

251. There was a meeting of the Board on 26 November 2019. The Board papers
included a Group Litigation Update prepared by Ben Foat (POL Board Meeting
Papers dated 26 November 2019) [POL00030884]. It contained very little in the
way of new information. The outcome of the Horizon Issues hearing and the
Common Issues permission to appeal application were still awaited (POL Board
Meeting Minutes dated 26 November 2019) [POL00021572]. The mediation
remained fixed for 27-28 November 2019. The authority for the mediation
agreed by the Sub-committee at the preceding meeting was noted. The Board
was informed that the KEL disclosure issue had been addressed and that the
Claimants had confirmed that they did not want to take any further steps in
relation to that issue, and so this would not now affect the timing of the Horizon
Issues judgment. There was an update on the future conduct of the litigation if
the mediation was unsuccessful, which made it clear that the was a long and

expensive road ahead before the claims would finally be resolved by the court.

252. At the meeting, the relevant part of which was attended by Helen Davies and
HSF, it was confirmed that the Common Issues appeal decision had gone
against POL and that it was now necessary to implement the findings of the
Common Issues judgment in full, including asking SPMs to sign new contracts
[POL00021572]. It was further noted that the outcome of the Horizon Issues
judgment was expected to be adverse and that the focus of the mediation
should be on explaining why the settlement offers were reasonable rather than

arguing over liability.

Page 116 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

253. There was a meeting of the Sub-committee on 10 December 2019. I was not
able to attend this meeting (Sub-committee Meeting Minutes dated 10
December 2019) [UKGI00019332]. The minutes indicate that Ben Foat
informed the Sub-committee that the parties had reached an ‘in principle’
agreement to settle the litigation for a global sum. The settlement covered all

Claimants but did not extend to potential claims for malicious prosecution.

Post-Settlement: December 2019 — October 2020

254. At the meeting, it was also determined that POL would not seek to appeal the
Horizon Issues judgment which had been circulated under embargo prior to
handing down on 16 December. This position was supported by the advice that

POL had received from Leading Counsel [UKGI00019332].

255. My reaction on receiving the draft judgment was one of disappointment, given
the advice the Board had received, but it was also not surprising either given the
history of the litigation. Although the judgment was highly critical and made some
damaging findings against POL, it also came as a relief insofar as Mr Justice
Fraser had determined that the current system was operating satisfactorily — he
had agreed with the experts’ view that the system was “relatively robust” (Email

from Tom Cooper to Ben Foat dated 1 December 2019) [UKGI00043995].

256. The Sub-committee had previously requested advice about whether POL had
an action against Fujitsu so that it could recover at least part of the settlement
cost from Fujitsu. Ben Foat reported that initial advice had been received but a

final advice was awaited. My recollection is that POL was ultimately advised

Page 117 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

that any claim it wanted to make against Fujitsu would almost certainly be time-

barred.

257. The Sub-committee met on 22 January 2020 and discussed the post settlement
workstreams that would need to be established and undertaken, including
POL’s approach to post-conviction disclosure and the resolution of future claims
(Sub-committee Meeting Minutes dated 22 January 2020) [UKGI00043073]. A
paper prepared by POL’s legal team was circulated to the Sub-committee in
advance, which outlined the issues for consideration (Sub-committee Meeting

Papers dated 22 January 2020) [UKGI00042826].

258. In relation to criminal convictions, POL had engaged Brian Altman QC and
Peters & Peters to provide advice concerning those individuals who had been
Claimants in the GLO and POL’s approach to the CCRC’s investigations. Given
his involvement in previous reviews of POL’s prosecutions, the Sub-committee
had reservations about the continued engagement of Brian Altman to advise on
disclosure and questioned whether a new QC should be appointed instead. Ben
Foat said that POL had received legal advice that Brian Altman’s ability to provide
objective and independent advice was not tainted. In addition, the Claimants and
their solicitors knew about the appointment and were comfortable with it. The
Sub-committee’s consideration of a replacement QC was deferred until the next
Sub-committee meeting. The Sub-committee was provided with a copy of
advice from Brian Altman and Peters & Peters on post-conviction disclosure
and noted their recommendation that POL should adopt a ‘wide’ approach to

disclosure, as this was the “right thing to do” [UKGI00042826] at p. 12. At this

Page 118 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

meeting, I also questioned why POL was continuing to give WBD work given its
previous record. POL was using WBD to advise on a potentially significant

employment case.

259. The next meeting of the POL Board took place on 28 January 2020. In his report
to the Board, Nick Read, provided an update on the litigation and explained the
post settlement programme of work that POL had established to implement the
terms of the settlement and the Common Issues and Horizon Issues judgments.
The Board made it clear that it was important that it was kept up-to-date with
the progress of the post settlement programme, in order to be able to monitor
POL’s deliver of these matters. It was agreed that an update would therefore
be provided at each Board meeting thereafter (POL Board Meeting Minutes

dated 28 January 2020) [UKGI00017698].

260. On 4 February 2020, an additional meeting of the Sub-committee took place to
discuss POL’s appointment of a senior criminal law expert to lead the review of
disclosure in criminal conviction cases and provide some strategic advice to the
Board on the handling of this difficult issue. The question of Brian Altman’s
potential conflict was raised again (Sub-committee Meeting Minutes 4 February
2020) [POL00103846]. I remember being told that at that point it was too late
to make a change but it was agreed that Brian Altman would not lead the work
on disclosure due to his previous involvement with POL. A retired High Court
Judge and former Director of Public Prosecutions, Sir David Calvert-Smith, had

been recommended by HSF and Peters & Peters and it was agreed that Tim

Page 119 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Parker and I would meet with him the following day, before confirming his

appointment.

261. The Sub-committee also wanted to understand better the process of criminal
appeals before the Court of Appeal and therefore commissioned a report from
POL’s legal team setting out the process, cost and timeline, dependent upon
the number of cases referred by the CCRC. The Sub-committee felt it was
important to understand the ‘worst case scenario’ and therefore directed that

this should be included in the report [POL00103846].

262. On 4 March 2020 the BEIS Select Committee announced an inquiry into Post
Office and Horizon. The terms of reference included “what role did BEIS and
UKGI (UK Government Investments) play and is it reviewing its oversight of PO

Ltd following Horizon?”

263. I was invited to attend a Select Committee hearing on 24 March 2020. As a
result of the lockdown imposed during the Covid pandemic, the hearing was
cancelled and was not rescheduled. However, a great deal of work was done
by the Shareholder Team to prepare for the hearing. As part of this preparation,
the Shareholder Team assembled the relevant documents it held and requested
various documents from POL. When reviewing Tim Parker's letter to Baroness
Neville-Rolfe of 4 March 2016 (which we did have access to) [UKGI00008800]
it became apparent that we had not been provided with the underlying QC

advice (from Jonathan Swift QC) which informed that letter. Josh Scott in my

Page 120 of 150
264.

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

team emailed Ben Foat requesting a copy of the advice and it was provided to

us on 16 March 2020.

On reading the Swift Review [POL00006355] and Tim Parker's letter to
Baroness Neville-Rolfe [UKGI00008800], there appeared to be some
inconsistencies between them, both in terms of the tone as well as some of the
substance. In my view the letter was considerably more reassuring than the

report. In terms of the substance:

(i) The report included an extensive discussion of the Deloitte reports
produced in 2014 and included the recommendation that “POL seek
specialist legal advice from external Counsel as to whether the Deloitte
reports, or the information within them concerning Balancing Transactions
and Fujitsu’s ability to delete and amend data in the audit store, should be
disclosed to defendants of criminal prosecutions brought by POL. This
advice should also address whether disclosure should be made, if it has
not been, to the CCRC.” This recommendation was not included in Tim
Parker's letter.

(ii) In his letter Tim Parker says “The Post Office has previously taken advice
from solicitors and Leading Counsel expert in criminal law on the adequacy
of the Post Office’s policy and practice on disclosure where it acts as
prosecutor. Based on that I am satisfied that Post Office has adopted a
proper approach to disclosure such that it satisfies its duty of disclosure as
prosecutor’. The Sub-committee had already approved the adoption of a

wide scope for disclosure for SPMs with convictions in order to address

Page 121 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

previous flaws in POL’s disclosure including about its knowledge of bugs,
errors and defects in the Horizon system. POL had not conceded that
remote access was possible (in the sense that branch data could be
manipulated by Fujitsu without the knowledge of the SPM) until November
2018. It was also clear therefore that the content of the Deloitte reports had
not been disclosed to SPMs with convictions and I was not aware of any
advice that POL had taken since 2016 to the effect that POL did not need
to disclose the content of the Deloitte reports. As a result, I could not
understand how Tim Parker was able to make the assertion in his letter

about POL’s prosecution policies and practices.

265. Other aspects of the documents I reviewed at this stage were also concerning.
First, when taken together, it seemed to me that POL had never assured itself
that the Horizon system worked in a robust way. I also established that the Swift
Review had not been shared with the rest of the Board. I felt that this was an
important failure which had the effect of depriving the Board of an opportunity
to understand better the extent to which assurances it and third parties had
been given as to the integrity of Horizon were justified and how this might bear
on past actions against SPMs including prosecutions. It would also have given
the Board a better insight into POL’s vulnerability in the litigation and may have
led to a more pragmatic approach and an earlier settlement. I also considered
that, had he been properly sighted on the contents of the Swift Review, the
Shareholder NED could have worked with other members of the Board and

Department to understand and act on the implications of the report.

Page 122 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

266. I raised my concerns with Sarah Munby, the Permanent Secretary at the time,
Charles Donald and Mark Russell. Several meetings were held between April
and September to discuss the issues raised by the handling of the Swift Review.
In addition, I raised the topic at a Board meeting on 28 July 2020 (Email
between Tom Cooper, Richard Watson and Mark Russell dated 3 September
2020) [UKGI00045960]. Tim Parker said that, in not sharing the Swift Review
with the rest of the Board, he thought he had been following legal advice from

Jane MacLeod relating to the upcoming litigation and legal privilege.

267. Ata meeting in July with Sarah Munby, I was asked to speak to Ken McCall
who was the Senior Independent Director and also a member of the Sub-
committee. I recorded the conversation in my email to Sarah Munby, Charles

Donald, Mark Russell and others on 16 September 2020 [UKGI00012703].

268. Ata subsequent meeting with Sarah Munby in September, it was decided that
she would write to Tim Parker expressing the view that it had been a mistake
not to share the Swift Review with the rest of the Board. Her letter was dated 7

October 2020 [UKGI00019313].

The National Audit Office

269. I have been asked a number of questions concerning UKGI’s interactions with

the National Audit Office (“NAO”). First, I can confirm that I do not know the

background to the involvement of the NAO in POL matters in 2018. Having seen

the documents provided the Inquiry however, I can see that I was copied into a

Page 123 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

string of emails between UKGI and NAO on 28 November 2018, which appear
to have begun on 13 November 2018 [UKGI00008732]. The subject of the
emails appears to be the background to the Mediation Scheme and, later in the
correspondence, the advice given to the Minister in light of the review

commissioned by Tim Parker.

270. As can be seen from the emails, I asked for advice about what the NAO was
proposing to say and was provided with a response into which responses from
Laura Thompson and Richard Callard had been copied and pasted. As these
emails concerned matters that had occurred prior to my appointment, I
considered they were better placed than me to know what had happened and
therefore to respond. Indeed, as I have explained above, at the time I had not
seen a copy of the review commissioned by Tim Parker and did not know what

lay behind the request.

271. Secondly, I have been provided with a further string of emails in which some
further detail was provided concerning the review commissioned by Tim Parker,
to which a copy of a letter to Baroness Neville-Rolfe dated 4 March 2016 and a
submission by UKGI colleagues were attached [UKGI00008799],
[UKG100008800] and [UKG100008801]. Again, I had not seen these documents
prior to receipt of this email and whilst I remember looking at them briefly at this
time, I recall that I did not consider they called for any action on my part, as I

thought they had been overtaken by events, including the GLO proceedings.

Page 124 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Criminal Convictions

272. In the initial period following my appointment, I attempted to gain an
understanding of the nature and scope of the litigation as I have described
above. I understood from what I was told that POL’s position was that criminal
convictions were not relevant to the GLO, which was confined to civil claims.
However, as my understanding of the litigation developed, I began to question
whether there might be links between the arguments that were being raised in
the GLO about imposing and recovering financial liability for shortfalls and the
basis upon which a SPM had been pursued for theft, fraud, or false accounting.
By November 2018, I had therefore started to join the dots and began raising
these links both internally within UKGI (Email from Tom Cooper to others dated
6 November 2018) [UKGI00008614] and in my interactions with POL

[UKG1000086 19].

273. Another example of me trying to articulate these concerns is set out in my email
to Rodric Williams on 17 May 2019 [UKGI00009793]. Specifically, I ask him
about the case of Abdulla that Mr Justice Fraser had referred to in the Common
Issues judgment and asked: “If it turns out that (for example) [Abdulla] didn’t
owe the post office any money at the time he was terminated then he should
not have been terminated or prosecuted. The consequences of that are far
greater than any issues in the Bates case it seems to me’. As can be seen from
this email, I was once again asking for an opportunity to go through example
cases so that I could better understand them and, where relevant encourage,
the company to deal with all of the consequences of the Common Issues

judgment including in relation to convictions.

Page 125 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

274. Despite raising these concerns on several occasions, the response that I
repeatedly received from POL was that most of the convicted Claimants had
pleaded guilty or had been convicted following a hearing involving careful
consideration of the evidence and there was therefore no reason to doubt the
safety of their convictions. I can recall being told this by both Jane MacLeod
and Al Cameron on separate occasions in 2018, although I cannot now recall
precisely when or where those conversations occurred. At the time, I also had
no sense of the numbers of people who had been convicted and therefore no
idea about the potential scale of the problem. Apart from my raising these
questions, I am not aware of any other activity at either UKGI or BEIS that was

taken to consider this issue.

275. I have been asked to comment on a submission that was prepared by BEIS for
the Secretary of State and Minister dated 11 June 2019 [UKGI00043885], in
particular paragraph 11, which refers to the approach to convicted Claimants. I
cannot now recall whether I saw this submission at the time but what I do recall
is that the legal advice the Board was receiving at the time was to the effect that
it was not possible to pay compensation to convicted SPMs, even if POL might
itself be convinced that the conviction was unsafe, unless and until that
conviction had been overturned. I was also repeatedly told that overturning
convictions was not within the gift of POL and that a SPM who believed their

conviction was unsafe, had to go via the CCRC and through the Courts.

Page 126 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

276. However, it seemed to me that as a result of the Common Issues judgment and
Horizon Issues judgment, it was likely that at least some of the convictions of
SPMs were likely to be unsafe. While the decision to overturn a conviction was
a matter for Courts, it seemed incumbent on POL to do what it could to assist
any convicted SPM seeking to have their conviction overturned. During most of
2019, POL had been focused on its appeal strategy and settlement of the GLO.
As a result, I was concerned that more needed to be done for convicted SPMs.
At a meeting of the Sub-committee on 13 November 2019, I raised this issue in
the hope that POL would properly consider what could be done in respect of
that cohort of people (Sub-committee Meeting Minutes dated 13 November
2019) [UKGI00043071]. On reflection, I think it is likely that POL may not have
focused on the issue fully until around the time of the GLO settlement. The
settlement agreement included a carve-out allowing Claimants to pursue claims

for malicious prosecution.

Reflections on the Litigation

277. \n December 2020, I participated in an internal UKGI Lessons Learnt Portfolio
Review meeting. This provided an opportunity for the Shareholder Team to begin
to reflect on the lessons to be learnt from its involvement in the GLO. The review
covered the activities of the Shareholder Team and the Shareholder NED. A

document setting out these lessons can be found at [UKGI00038299].

278. Since this exercise took place, I have reflected further on the litigation as a whole

and my thinking has developed. I have also been asked to set out my views on

the adequacy of POL’s response in relation to the Common Issues judgment.

Page 127 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

My thoughts on these matters are set out below:

(i) It is to be deeply regretted that it needed a formal judicial ruling before the
perspective of SPM’s was fully understood and for the process to begin of
trying to remedy as far as possible the harm and injustices suffered by SPMs
affected by the Horizon system and POL’s processes. As has been very
widely observed, it took far too long to reach this point.

(ii) I am firmly of the view that adversarial litigation was not the right way to
resolve the issues related to Horizon and to SPMs. I am sure that the
litigation involved a great amount of stress and inconvenience for the SPMs
involved. Instead of litigation, wnat was needed was a rigorous, bottom-up
review of the Horizon system and POL’s processes at the earliest
opportunity that grappled directly with the fundamental issue of whether the
system was robust and whether the assertions made as to its integrity in
previous cases (including in prosecutions) were justified. Such a review
would also have covered whether POL’s processes were fit for purpose
both for POL and for SPMs. Given the entrenched position adopted by POL
on these issues, such a review could effectively only have been brought
about by the Board or by the Shareholder.

(iii) By the time I joined the Board the litigation process had already developed
significant momentum. As explained above, I thought about alternatives but
concluded that there was no way to achieve a more definitive outcome in
which everyone concerned could have confidence more quickly than
proceeding with the litigation. Accordingly, it would not have made sense for

the Board to try to stop the litigation and replace it with an entirely new

Page 128 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

resolution process. In addition, to put in place a different and better resolution
process, if one existed, would almost certainly have required the Department
to make a very strong intervention to persuade POL to change approach and
the Department would have needed to be persuaded of the merits of such a

course of action; all of which would have taken time.

(iv)! have reflected on whether having a NED on the POL Board with legal
expertise (a “Legal NED”) would have made any material difference. We
cannot expect to have an ‘expert’ on every area or topic on the Board, but it
is clear to me that there would have been many potential benefits of having
a Legal NED on the Board, for example:

a. A Legal NED might have given the Board more confidence to
challenge the advice of POL’s legal team;

b. A Legal NED would have been better equipped to call for and
challenge some of the key documents such as the Lead Claimants’
witness statements and the skeleton arguments being put forward by
both sides. This could have uncovered the underlying complaints and
business processes that, in addition to the functionality of the Horizon
system, were at the heart of the litigation. It could also have prevented
POL using some of the more aggressive tactics it adopted in the
litigation; and

c. alLegal NED could have initiated a change in POL’s legal team at a
much earlier stage. Had it received different legal advice, POL might
have accepted and conceded some of the most important of the 23

contractual points with a view to settling the Common Issues element

Page 129 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

of the litigation thereby avoiding the need for at least some of the
hearings (the Common Issues hearing, the strike-out hearing and
possibly others). As a result, the litigation might have been resolved
sooner and at lower cost for all parties
In my view, how effective a Legal NED could have been would have
depended heavily, not just on their experience, but also their personality.
In relation to the recusal for example, it would have taken a very robust
individual to argue successfully against the assembled group of eminent
lawyers recommending recusal.
I would add that, Ben Tidswell, a Legal NED, was appointed to the Board in
2021 and he chaired the HRC on which I served. He was very effective in
that role, demonstrating the potential advantages that a Legal NED can
bring to the governance of an organisation, where it has particularly
challenging legal issues to deal with.

(v) I believe there was a significant failing that POL’s management did not
provide, and the Board did not demand, an explanation of how SPMs’
experience of working with POL had such a fundamental bearing on the
case. The lived experience of SPMs was entirely removed from POL’s
analysis of the case. I believe that had the Board really understood what
it was like to be a SPM running a branch, and the problems SPMs faced in
dealing with POL and the Horizon system, the scales would have fallen
from their eyes and a solution to the SPMs complaints might have been
found earlier. Consequently, SPMs who were unfairly convicted would

also have seen their convictions overturned sooner.

Page 130 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

With hindsight therefore, I wish I had pushed even harder for information
about the complaints that led to the GLO, in particular the issues faced by
the Lead Claimants. Whilst POL may have taken the view that the facts of
individual cases were not material to the Common Issues hearing, once
the Lead Claimants’ witness statements had been served, Richard Watson
and I should have requested copies of the statements under the Protocol.
The requests I made on several occasions, including for the benefit of the
Minister and Permanent Secretary, for POL to explain the arguments being
made by the Lead Claimants proved to be fruitless. The witness
statements would have provided the information I was looking for.
Obtaining the witness statements was a logical step and it is one that I
would take, if faced with a similar situation in the future. Had I also known
that the Secretary of State at the time had strong views about the validity
of the complaints being made by SPMs, this might have made me even
more forceful on the point.

(vi)In retrospect I also wish that I had pushed harder on the issue of the link
between the issues raised in the GLO proceedings and the safety of
convictions. Having been told there was nothing to see in relation to
convictions, I began to suspect that there might be a link between the two
issues in November 2018 and started asking questions to try and obtain a
better understanding of the extent to which the Common Issues and/or
Horizon Issues related to convictions based on Horizon data. Those
questions went largely unanswered. It was only towards the end of 2019
that POL started to engage lawyers with expertise in criminal matters, to

advise on how POL should deal with convicted SPMs seeking to have their

Page 131 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

convictions overturned. I think a significant amount of time was lost,
probably a number of months, because POL did not act on how the
contractual reversal of the burden of proof and/or the existence of bugs,
errors and defects in Horizon would inevitably mean that many SPMs had
been wrongly convicted. These months could have been saved had POL
started the disclosure process sooner than it did.

(vii) Concerning the decision to appeal the Common Issues judgment, I was
initially concerned by what appeared to be a reflexive and ill thought-out
proposal to appeal against nearly every point. The legal arguments
supporting an appeal on this basis were not grounded in the facts or the
reality of the way POL’s business with SPMs was conducted. An appeal
on many of the Common Issues judgment's findings risked postponing or
avoiding the time when POL would need to confront and deal with the
deficiencies in its dealings with SPMs which in my view had by then been
established. I consider the decision to replace the legal team was a
necessary pre-condition to focusing the appeal, but it was disappointing
that it took HSF some time to come to that view. For a time, it felt as though
even the new legal team had bought into the strategy of its predecessors
even though it had presided over a disastrous piece of litigation. A new
legal team was also a pre-condition to achieving a settlement. HSF had a
clear mandate to settle and I believe they performed well in helping to
manage all the stakeholders involved in POL’s decision-making process
as well as the mediation itself.

(viii) In relation to the Common Issues hearing I would like to make it clear

that I always considered making an application for recusal to be a bad idea.

Page 132 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

Given that I had to recuse myself from the decision, I was unable to
express that view at the Board. But I sought advice about whether there

were any options short of an application for recusal.

The risk reward profiles for advisers in giving advice are very different from
those of their clients. Unlike advisers, their clients have to live with the
consequences of the advice they give, whether it is right or wrong.
Seasoned advisers should be conscious of this and put themselves
squarely in the position of their client when formulating advice. In my view,
the advice to seek a recusal flowed from a failure by POL’s legal team to
look at the bigger picture and ask themselves whether Mr Justice Fraser's
conclusions about POL’s processes were correct or not. I believe POL’s
legal team was unduly influenced by the way he said things rather than the
substance of what he said. I remain baffled as to how the accumulated
experience of POL’s legal team appeared to be unable to look at the
substance of the Common Issues judgement, promoting recusal (and a
broad-based appeal) as the only course of action. I believe this was high
risk advice where the odds were heavily weighted towards an unsuccessful
outcome.

(ix) The decision to appeal the Common Issues judgment, was not taken so as
to cause any delay in achieving a settlement and, as it turned out, it did not
do so because a settlement was reached at the first opportunity after the
Common Issues judgment had been delivered. Indeed, as I have
described above, the instruction of HSF was, from the outset, to deliver on

a resolution of the dispute.

Page 133 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

(x) When the Common Issues judgment was handed down, POL finally had to

think in detail about what the consequences would be for the business and
how these could be operationalised. With the benefit of hindsight, it can be
seen that the work POL did prior to the hearings was inadequate and POL
was unprepared for the huge task that would lie ahead to remedy the
failings identified by Mr Justice Fraser.
After the GLO was settled, Nick Read, POL’s CEO led a major effort to
change POL’s culture and re-orient the business towards SPMs. This
included the appointment of two Postmaster NEDs to the POL Board,
which gave the Board a completely different perspective of how POL’s
actions translate into what happens on the ground in branches. It was
incredibly useful and it meant the Board was more challenging of
management as a result. There was also a major programme to remediate
POL’s practices in relation to the way its processes and systems work.
Dispute resolution with SPMs was just part of the programme. Prior to
leaving the Board, I believe POL made substantial strides in this area
although I would also say that there was still much to be done. Culture
change in a large organisation can take a very long time to be fully
established and, even then, needs continual reinforcement.

(xi) My experience and involvement in the litigation also led to changes in both
the way in which POL’s Board approached and challenged legal advice,
and the way I would intend to approach such situations going forward. After
the Common Issues judgment, the Board became much more proactive in
interrogating legal advice, adopting techniques such as requesting that the

legal team present both sides of the arguments as if they were in Court.

Page 134 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

This proved to be helpful in assisting the Board in understanding the
arguments and reaching a decision on its stance in certain cases involving
SPMs seeking to have their convictions overturned. From a personal
perspective, I now have a lower bar for accepting a strategy that I am not
happy with and seek to challenge accordingly.

(xii) It is a matter of regret for me that I did not pay more attention to the
minutes of the Board and Sub-committee meetings when the litigation was
discussed. There are many times during the course of preparing this
statement when I have looked for events that I remember taking place but
have failed to find them. I believe the minutes were not a fulsome record
of the discussion at these meetings because of concerns relating to legal
privilege. This is something I should have challenged at the time but failed

to do. Better minutes would have assisted the Inquiry as well of course.

Reflections on Government engagement and oversight

279.

I have been asked to explain my views concerning the extent to which DBT, the
various Secretaries of State and Ministers fulfilled their roles over the period of
my involvement. Whilst I respectfully consider these are primarily questions for
the Inquiry to consider having regard to the evidence of the relevant Secretaries
of State and Ministers (which I have not seen), my personal view is that at the
outset of my tenure, the Department was not as engaged with POL matters as
much as I would have liked, and I have referred above to specific points in the
chronology where we sought to engage the Department more directly in the

oversight of the litigation.

Page 135 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

280. When I joined UKGI, the Department had no Policy Team for POL. Once the
Department had recognised there was an issue, it acted to resolve it, initially in
August 2018 with a team consisting of just one or two people and subsequently
by the expansion of that team. In addition, a number of enhancements were
made to the suite of governance documents that existed between the
Department and the Company, and between the Department and UKGI. Over
the period of my tenure, I would therefore summarise the situation as moving
from a position in which the Department was relatively disengaged to a position

where it was fully engaged.

281. I have also been invited by the Inquiry to set out any views I may have regarding
the governance and oversight of public corporations such as POL. In this regard,
I would suggest that we often like to present ALBs as being akin to public
companies, where the board has a great deal of autonomy but also a very high
degree of accountability for the activities of the entity. I believe this concept was
founded on a recognition that the introduction of experienced business people
working in management and on a board constructed along public company lines
would be the best way to manage ALBs effectively. However, the public sector
is not directly analogous with public companies, notably because in a public
company, if something goes wrong at the company, in general, it cannot be the
shareholder's fault. By contrast, in a Government entity, that is often deemed to
be the case as Ministers are ultimately accountable for what happens at their
ALBs. In addition, ALBs are generally delivery bodies for Government policy and

often have complex relationships with the ALB which go far beyond being the

Page 136 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

shareholder. It is often the case that the Government is concurrently

shareholder, customer and funder of an ALB.

282. In my view, the governance model that would therefore be a better analogy, is
one akin to a subsidiary relationship, as one encounters with many multinational
financial institutions whose subsidiaries have independent boards, or a private
equity relationship. In that model, one typically finds an intelligent and engaged
parent company or private equity investor, which is sophisticated enough to
contribute to what the organisation is doing when necessary, whilst also
recognising the appropriate boundaries at other times. I think one of the reasons
why many ALBs get so exercised about shareholder interference, is that they
aspire to having a relationship based upon the public company model without

necessarily recognising the differences inherent in the public sector.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Date: 13 June 2024

Page 137 of 150
Index to First Witness Statement of Thomas Cooper

WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

URN

Document Description

Control Number

UKGI00020830

Email sent to Tom Cooper by
Richard Callard dated 30 January
2018

UKGI029725-001

2. I UKGI00020899 Email sent to Tom Cooper by Jane I UKGI029794-001
MacLeod enclosing Director
Induction Pack dated 8 March 2018

3. UKGI00020900 POL Director Briefing Pack UKGI029795-001

4. I UKGI00007795 POL Director Induction Document UKGI018608-001

5. I UKGI00007794 Email sent to Tom Cooper by Jane I UKGI018607-001
MacLeod dated 16 February 2018

6. I UKGIO0008800 Letter from Tim Parker to Baroness I UKGI019608-001
Neville-Rolfe dated 4 March 2016

7. I FUJ00086811 Draft Helen Rose/Lepton Report on I POINQ0092982F
Horizon data dated 12 June 2013

8. I POL00006355 Swift Review dated 8 February POL-0017623
2016

9. I POL00006357 Simon Clarke advice re POL-0017625
Prosecutions — Expert Evidence
dated 15 July 2013

10. I POL00006799 Simon Clarke advice re Disclosure I POL-0017591
dated 2 August 2013

11. I POL00028069 Deloitte Draft Board Briefing dated I POL-0023072
4 June 2014

12. I UKGI00010324 Email from Stephen Clarke to Tom I UKGI021132-001
Aldred, Tom Cooper and Richard
Watson dated 1 July 2019

13. I POLO00028928 Deloitte ‘Bramble’ Draft Report POL-0025410
dated 19 January 2018

14. I UKGI00009299 Email between Tom Cooper and UKGI020107-001
Alex Chisholm dated 20 March
2019

15. I UKGI00042805 POL Draft Portfolio Summary slides I UKGI051700-001
dated 29 June 2018

16. I UKGI00008215 Email from Tom Aldred to Stephen UKGI019027-001
Clarke, Oluwatosin Adegun, Nick
Parker, Tom Cooper and Alex Cole
dated 11 July 2018

17. I UKGIO0009951 Note of ExCo Meeting of 30 May UKG1I020759-001
2019

18. I UKGI00016810 UKGI Board Meeting Minutes dated I UKGI011622-001
9 July 2019

19. I UKGI00020960 Draft briefing — appointment of Tom I UKGIO29855-001

Cooper to Post Office Board 26
April 2018

Page 138 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

20.

UKGI00007850

Post Office - Appointment of Tom
Cooper to Post Office Board dated
19 January 2018

UKGI018663-001

21.

UKGI00007857

Emails between Tom Cooper,
Elizabeth O'Neill and Richard
Callard dated 19 March 2018

UKGI018670-001

22.

UKGI00008374

Briefing for meeting with Tim Parker
dated 11 September 2018

UKGI019186-001

23.

UKGI00008260

Emails between Tom Cooper and
Paula Vennells dated 27 July 2018

UKGI019072-001

24.

UKGI00010195

Emails between Tom Cooper, Mark
Russell, Tom Aldred and Robert
Razzell dated 17 June 2019

UKGI021003-001

25.

UKGI00008603

Emails between Paula Vennells and
Tom Cooper dated 1 November
2018

UKGI019411-001

26.

UKGI00008715

UKGI POL Investment Funding for
Q3 2018/19 Submission dated
December 2018

UKGI019523-001

27.

UKGI00017547

Post Office 2018 Board Evaluation
Questionnaire submitted by Tom
Cooper dated 18 December 2018

UKGI027554-001

28.

UKGI00008128

Email between Helen Lambert and
Rodric Williams dated 17 May 2018

UKGI018940-001

29.

UKGI00008133

Email between Tom Cooper, Rodric
Williams and others dated 7 June
2018

UKG1I018945-001

30.

BEIS0000079

Litigation Protocol dated 11 June
2018

BEISO000059

31.

UKGI00008970

Email from Rodric Williams to
Richard Watson and Joshua Fox
dated 12 February 2018

UKGI019778-001

32.

POL00255125

Draft Briefing to Permanent
Secretary Alex Chisholm

POL-BSFF-0093188

33.

UKGI00019311

Briefing to Permanent Secretary
Alex Chisholm dated 18 May 2018

VIS00013171

34.

UKGI00000998

Emails between Richard Callard
and Private Secretary to Alex
Chisholm dated 22 May 2018

VIS00009136

35.

UKGI00010421

Litigation Protocol dated 22 July
2019

UKGI021229-001

36.

UKGI00007875

Email between Tom Cooper and
Helen Lambert dated 14 April 2018

UKG1I018688-001

37.

POL00021553

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
29 January 2018

POL0000086

38.

UKGI00045894

Email from Tom Cooper to Richard
Watson dated 7 May 2020

UKGI054909-001

Page 139 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

39.

UKGI00019293

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
26 March 2018

VIS00013149

40.

UKGI00007761

Email from POL to Tom Cooper
dated 6 February 2018

UKGI018574-001

41.

POL00103385

Email from Jane MacLeod dated 15
February 2019

POL-0102968

42.

UKGI00007885

Email from Jane MacLeod to Tom
Cooper dated 19 April 2018

UKGI018698-001

43.

POL00006486

Speaking notes for meeting with
Tom Cooper dated 24 April 2018

POL-0017791

44.

UKGI00018134

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
27 March 2018

UKGI028141-001

45.

UKGI00043693

POL Board Pack dated 27 March
2018 containing the CEO report

UKGI052816-001

46.

POL00024270

Postmaster Litigation Advisory
Board Sub-committee Terms of
Reference

POL-0020749

47.

POL00006754

Sub-committee Meeting Minutes
dated 15 May 2018

POL-0018012

48.

UKGI00044247

Notes for meeting with David
Cavender regarding the GLO
merit’s opinion

UKGI052791-001

49.

POL00276883

Email between Andrew Parsons of
WBD, Ben Foat and Rodric
Williams dated 18 June 2019

POL-BSFF-0114946

50.

UKGI00021007

POL Board Pack dated 24 May
2018

UKG1I029902-001

51.

UKGI00043684

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
24 May 2018

UKGI052807-001

52.

UKGI00044245

POL draft Contingency Planning
Risk Assessment dated 9 July 2018

UKGI052789-001

53.

UKGI00018964

Email from Jane MacLeod to Tim
Parker, Ken McCall, Tom Cooper,
Paula Vennells and Al Cameron
dated 9 July 2018

VIS00012363

54.

UKGI00011867

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
30 October 2018

UKGI022670-001

55.

POL00023941

Email from Jane MacLeod to
Andrew Parsons and others dated 8
April 2019

POL-0020420

56.

POL00006763

Sub-committee Meeting Minutes
dated 10 July 2018

POL-0018021

57.

UKGI00043683

POL Board Pack dated 31 July
2018

UKGI052806-001

Page 140 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

58.

UKGI00021239

Draft Mitigation Actions note from
WBD without handwritten
comments

UKG1I030134-001

59.

UKGI00044250

Draft Mitigation Actions note from
WBD with Tom Cooper’s
handwritten comments

UKG1052794-001

60.

UKGI00043691

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
31 July 2018

UKGI052814-001

61.

UKGI00018266

Submission on Group Litigation
dated 10 August 2018

VIS00011665

62.

UKGI00019297

Sub-committee Meeting Minutes
dated 24 September 2018

VIS00013163

63.

UKGI00016107

Sub-committee Meeting Agenda
dated 24 September 2018

UKGI026900-001

64.

UKGI00043690

POL Board Pack dated 25
September 2018

UKG1I052813-001

65.

UKGI00043706

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
25 September 2018

UKGI052829-001

66.

POL00257564

POL Group Litigation: Update for
UKGI following POL Board Meeting
on 25 September 2018

POL-BSFF-0095627

67.

UKGI00008532

Email from Jane MacLeod to
Richard Watson and Joshua Fox
dated 16 October 2018

UKGI019342-001

68.

UKGI00008535

Email between Tom Cooper and
Richard Watson dated 17 October
2018

UKGI019344-001

69.

UKGI00008547

Email from Jane MacLeod
forwarded by Tom Cooper to
Richard Watson dated 18 October
2018

UKGI019355-001

70.

UKGI00008542

Email between Tom Cooper and
Tim Parker dated 18 October 2018

UKGI019350-001

71.

UKGI00035584

Email from Tom Cooper to Paula
Vennells dated 18 October 2018

UKGI044479-001

Page 141 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

72.

UKGI00008549

Email from Paula Vennells to Tom
Cooper and others dated 19
October 2018

UKG1I019357-001

73.

UKGI00008501

Louise Dar Group Litigation case
summary from Womble Bond
Dickinson

UKGI019312-001

74.

UKGI00008500

Alan Bates Group Litigation case
summary from Womble Bond
Dickinson

UKGI019311-001

75.

UKGI00008498

Pamela Stubbs Group Litigation
case summary from Womble Bond
Dickinson

UKGI019309-001

76.

UKGI00008510

Mohammad Sabir Group Litigation
case summary from Womble Bond
Dickinson

UKG1I019321-001

77.

UKGI00008495

Naushad Abdulla Group Litigation
case summary from Womble Bond
Dickinson

UKGI019306-001

78.

UKGI00008503

Elizabeth Stockdale Group
Litigation case summary from
Womble Bond Dickinson

UKG1I019314-001

79.

UKGI00008519

Note for Minister — POL Horizon
Trial Contingency Planning dated
17 October 2018

UKGI019330-001

80.

UKGI00021525

Briefing Paper for meeting on 17
October 2018 with Kelly Tolhurst
MP and Alex Chisolm

UKG1I030420-001

81.

UKGI00008589

Email Tom Cooper to Richard
Watson, Stephen Clarke, Joshua
Fox and others dated 29 October
2018

UKG1I019397-001

82.

POL00021558

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
30 October 2018

POL0000091

83.

UKGI00008619

Media Update from POL dated 8
November 2018

UKG1I019427-001

84.

UKGI00008677

UKGI email regarding Group
Litigation dated 20 November 2018

UKG1I019485-001

85.

UKGI00008632

POL update to UKGI on Group
Litigation dated 15 November 2018

UKGI019440-001

86.

UKGI00011866

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
27 November 2018

UKGI022669-001

87.

UKGI00008833

Email from Jane MacLeod to
Richard Watson and Tom Cooper
dated 18 December 2018

UKGI019641-001

88.

UKGI00008908

Email between Richard Watson and
Tom Cooper dated 7 January 2019

UKGI019716-001

Page 142 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

89.

POL00103372

Email between Jane MacLeod and
Tim Parker, Ken McCall, Carla
Stent, Shirine Khoury-Haq, Tim
Franklin and Tom Cooper dated 21
December 2018

POL-0102955

90.

POL00103373

POL Board Report on Group
Litigation dated 13 December 2018

POL-0102956

91.

POL00103378

Email between Tom Cooper and
Tim Parker dated 6 January 2019

POL-0102961

92.

UKGI00008909

Email between Tom Cooper and
Richard Watson dated 7 January
2019

UKGI019717-001

93.

UKGI00019104

Email from Richard Watson to Tom
Cooper attaching Dr Worden report
dated 7 January 2019

VIS00012503

94. I POLO0006756 Sub-committee Meeting Minutes POL-0018014
dated 28 January 2019
95. I UKGI00043700 POL Board Meeting Minutes dated I UKGI052823-001

29 January 2019

96.

POL00006753

Sub-committee Meeting Minutes
dated 21 February 2019

POL-0018011

97.

POL00111694

Email from Tom Cooper to Al
Cameron, Paula Vennells, Tim
Parker, Andrew Parsons and Jane
MacLeod dated 21 February 2019

POL-0109267

98.

POL00103411

Email from Tim Parker to Tom
Cooper, Jane MacLeod, Ken McCall
and others dated 8 March 2019

POL-0102994

99.

POL00103425

Email between POL and Tom
Cooper dated 14 March 2019

POL-0103008

100.

POL00111876

Summary of Postmaster Litigation
Judgment

POL-0109447

101.

POL00268492

Board Call minutes between Ken
McCall, Tom Cooper, Al Cameron
and others of 12 March 2019

POL-BSFF-0106555

102.

POL00103420

Email from Tom Cooper to Jane
MacLeod, Tim Parker, Ken McCall
and others dated 13 March 2019

POL-0103003

103.

POL00103424

Email from POL regarding draft
media statement in response to
judgment of the first GLO trial dated
13 March 2019

POL-0103007

104.

UKGI00009261

Email between Tom Cooper and
Private Secretary to Kelly Tolhurst
MP dated 18 March 2019

UKG1I020069-001

Page 143 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

105.

UKGI00043110

Email from Tom Cooper to
Secretary of State and others dated
23 November 2019

UKGI_CR_00000068

106.

UKGI00009505

Email from Tom Cooper to Tom
Aldred dated 10 April 2019

UKGI020313-001

107.

UKGI00009495

Email from Tom Cooper to Alisdair
Cameron dated 9 April 2019

UKGI020303-001

108.

UKGI00009767

Email from Tom Cooper to MPST
Kelly Tolhurst dated 16 May 2019

UKGI020575-001

109.

UKGI00009510

Email from Cecilia Vandini to Tom
Cooper, Richard Watson, Stephen
Clarke and others dated 10 April
2019

UKGI020318-001

110.

UKGI00019101

Email from Tom Cooper to Carl
Creswell, cc'ing Tom Aldred,
Eleanor Beal and others dated 13
May 2019

VIS00012500

111.

UKGI00009208

Email between Tom Cooper and
Richard Watson dated 15 March
2019

UKGI020016-001

112.

UKGI00009211

Email between Tom Cooper and
Richard Watson dated 15 March
2019

UKGI020019-001

113.I POL00103438 Email between Tom Cooper and POL-0103021
Jane MacLeod dated 15 March
2019

114.I POL00371375 Observations on Recusal POL-BSFF-0194792
Application dated 14 March 2019

115.I UKGI00009184 Email from Jane McLeod dated 15 I UKGI019992-001

March 2019

116.I POL00371373 Email from Jane MacLeod dated 17 I POL-BSFF-0194790
March 2019

117.I POL00371376 Group Litigation Paper for meeting I POL-BSFF-0194793
of 18 March 2019

118.I POL00371374 Recusal Note from Womble Bond POL-BSFF-0194791
Dickinson dated 17 March 2019

119.I POL00021562 POL Board Meeting Minutes dated I POLO000095
18 March 2019

120.) UKGI00009238 Email from Jane MacLeod forwards I UKGI020046-001

by Tom Cooper to Richard Watson
dated 17 March 2019

121.

UKGI00022558

Email from Richard Watson to Tom
Cooper dated 18 March 2019

UKGI031453-001

Page 144 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

122.

UKGI00022560

Email between Tom Cooper and
Jane MacLeod dated 18 March
2019

UKG1I031455-001

123.

UKGI00009262

Email from Richard Watson to Jane
MacLeod dated 18 March 2019

UKGI020070-001

124.

UKGI00009273

Email between Richard Watson and
Tom Cooper dated 18 March 2019

UKGI020081-001

125.

UKGI00009314

Email from Jane MacLeod
forwarding David Cavender QC.
response and Tom Cooper
forwarding to Alex Chisholm dated
20 March 2019

UKGI020122-001

126.I POL00006397 Womble Bond Dickinson Note of POL-0017702
Conference with Lord Grabiner QC
on 18 March 2019

127.I POL00021563 POL Board Meeting Minutes dated I POL0000096
20 March 2019

128.I UKGI00009330 Email from Tom Cooper to MPST UKG1I020138-001

Kelly Tolhurst and others dated 20
March 2019

129.

UKGI00009419

Email from Richard Watson dated
29 March 2019

UKGI020227-001

130.

UKGI00009497

Recusal Application Judgment
dated 9 April 2019

UKG1I020305-001

131.

UKGI00019301

Submission to Secretary of State on
developments since submission of
recusal application dated 12 April
2019

VIS00013183

132.I POL00103498 POL Postmaster Litigation Paper for I POL-0103081
Sub-committee on 24 April 2019

133.I POL00103499 WBD Common Issues Judgment: POL-0103082
Appeal Advice dated 11 April 2019

134.] POL00103500 Common Issues List POL-0103083

Page 145 of 150
WITNO0200100

WITNO0200100

135.

POL00103501

Email from Alan Watts to Tim Parker
and Tom Cooper attaching
supplemental Board paper dated 23
April 2019

POL-0103084

136.

POL00103502

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Paper
for the Sub-committee: 24 April
2019

POL-0103085

137.

POL00103507

Email between Tom Cooper and
Tim Parker dated 24 April 2019

POL-0103090

138.

POL00006755

Sub-committee Meeting Minutes
dated 24 April 2019

POL-0018013

139.

UKGI00043067

Sub-committee Executive Summary
dated 24 April 2019

UKGI_CR_00000025

140.

POL00021565

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
30 April 2019

POL0000098

141.

POL00103532

Email from Tom Cooper and Alan
Watts dated 8 May 2019

POL-0103115

142.

UKGI00009697

HSF Paper on Common Issues
Appeal dated 8 May 2019

UKGI020505-001

143.

UKGI00009725

Email between Tom Cooper and
Ben Foat dated 10 May 2019

UKGI020533-001

144.

UKGI00018322

Email from Tom Cooper to Stephen
Clarke, Richard Watson and Tom
Aldred dated 9 May 2019

VIS00011721

145.

POL00103536

Email between Tom Cooper and
Alan Watts dated 11 May 2019

POL-0103119

146.

UKGI00009760

Email between Tom Cooper and
Richard Watson dated 14 May 2019

UKGI020568-001

147.

UKG1I00043200

POL Board Meeting Pack dated 28
May 2019

UKGI_CR_00000158

Page 146 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

148.

UKGI00043858

Email between Al Cameron, Tim
Parker, Tom Cooper, Ken McCall,
Alan Watts and Ben Foat dated 13
May 2019

UKG1I052177-001

149.) POL00103551 Email between Alan Watts and Tom I POL-0103134
Cooper dated 15 May 2019
150.) UKGI00019198 Email between Richard Watson and I VISO0012597

Tom Cooper dated 14 May 2019

151.

UKGI00009805

HSF note on Factual Issues that
were being considered for an
Appeal dated 16 May 2019

UKGI020613-001

152.I UKGI00009854 Email from Tom Cooper to HSF UKG1I020662-001
dated 21 May 2019

153.I POL00021566 POL Board Meeting Minutes dated I POL0000099
28 May 2019

154.I POL00103595 Sub-committee Meeting Minutes POL-0103178
dated 12 June 2019

155.I UKGI00019351 Advice to Secretary of State dated I VIS00013174

11 June 2019

156.

UKGI00026900

Options paper for Minsters to
consider dated June 2019

UKGI035795-001

157.I POLO0006752 Sub-committee Meeting Minutes POL-0018010
dated 20 June 2019
158.) UKGI00018337 Briefing for Meeting with Al VIS00011736

Cameron and Tim Parker on 24
June 2019 dated 16 June 2024

159.

UKG1I00043108

HSF Preliminary Comments on
Settlement for meeting with Richard
Watson and Tom Cooper on 18 July
2019

UKGI_CR_00000066

160.

UKG1I00024394

POL Board Pack dated 30 July
2019

UKGI033289-001

161.

UKGI00043201

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
30 July 2019

UKGI_CR_00000159

Page 147 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

162.I POL00104327 Sub-committee Meeting Minutes POL-0103910
dated 17 September 2019

163.I UKGI00039881 Sub-committee Meeting Pack dated I UKGI048776-001
17 September 2019

164.I UKGI00024982 Email from UKGI to Secretary of UKGI033877-001
State dated 15 November 2019

165.I UKGI00024984 HSF Draft Advice on Settlement UKGI033879-001

166.I POL00155497 POL Board Meeting Minutes dated I POL-0143662
23 September 2019

167.I UKGI00018490 POL Board Meeting Minutes dated I VISO0011889
3 October 2019

168.I POL00103694 Sub-committee Meeting Minutes POL-0103277
dated 22 October 2019

169.I UKGI00018421 Sub-committee Meeting Pack dated I VISO0011820
22 September 2019

170.) UKGI00043705 POL Board Meeting Minutes dated I UKGI052828-001
29 October 2019

171.}I UKGI00043071 Sub-committee Meeting Minutes UKGI_CR_00000029
dated 13 November 2019

172.I UKGI00043086 Sub-committee Meeting Pack dated I UKGI_CR_00000044
13 November 2019

173.I UKGI00043986 Email from Richard Watson to Nigel I UKGI052420-001
Boardman dated 14 November
2019

174.I UKGI00010731 Readout of telephone meeting with I UKGI021539-001
Kelly Tolhurst MP dated 18
November 2019

175.I POL00030884 POL Board Meeting Pack dated 26 I POL-0027366
November 2019

176.I POL00021572 POL Board Meeting Minutes dated I POL0000105

26 November 2019

Page 148 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

177.

UKGI00019332

Sub-committee Meeting Minutes
dated 10 December 2019

VIS00013173

178.

UKGI00043995

Email from Tom Cooper to Ben Foat
dated 1 December 2019

UKGI052438-001

179.

UKGI00043073

Sub-committee Meeting Minutes
dated 22 January 2020

UKGI_CR_00000031

180.

UKGI00042826

Sub-committee Meeting Pack dated
22 January 2020

UKG1I051721-001

181.

UKGI00017698

POL Board Meeting Minutes dated
28 January 2020

UKG1I027705-001

182.

POL00103846

Sub-committee Meeting Minutes 4
February 2020

POL-0103429

183.

UKGI00045960

Email between Tom Cooper,
Richard Watson and Mark Russell
dated 3 September 2020

UKGI023462-001

184.

UKGI00012703

Email between Tom Cooper,
Charles Donald, Mark Russell,
Richard Watson, Carl Cresswell and
Sarah Munby dated 16 September
2020

UKGI023497-001

185.

UKGI00019313

Letter from Sarah Munby to Tim
Parker dated 7 October 2020

VIS00013142

186.

UKGI00008732

Email from Stephen Clarke to Tom
Cooper, CC'ing Tom Aldred, Richard
Callard & others dated 28
November 2018

UKG1I019540-001

187.

UKGI00008799

Email from Stephen Clarke to
James Osborne, cc’ing Helen
Evans, Declan Smyth and others
dated 7 December 2018

UKGI019607-001

Page 149 of 150
WITNO0200100
WITNO0200100

188.

UKGI00008801

Submission to Baroness Neville-
Rolfe prepared by Laura Thompson
and dated 9 March 2015

UKGI019609-001

189.

UKGI00008614

Email from Tom Cooper to Richard
Watson, Joshua Fox cc’ing Tom
Aldred and others dated 6
November 2018

UKG1I019422-001

190.

UKGI00009793

Email from Tom Cooper to Rodric
Williams, Alan Watts, Kirsten
Massey and others dated 17 May
2019

UKGI020601-001

191.

UKGI00043885

Submission to Greg Clark, Kelly
Tolhurst, Permanent Secretary and
others dated 11 June 2019

UKG1I052216-001

192.

UKGI00038299

UKGI POL Shareholder Team —
GLO Lessons Learnt Note

UKG1I047194-001

Page 150 of 150
