WITNO05540100
WITN05540100

Witness Name: Paul Warbrick

Statement No.: WITN05540100

Dated: 23/3/23

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF PAUL WARBRICK

I, Paul Warbrick, will say as follows...

1.

I had multiple roles (detailed below) within the Post Office but it is worth noting
Horizon had been fully deployed for a number of years before my career
bought me into the IT organisation / contact with IT led projects, which is why I
doubt I can provide meaningful insight for the inquiry.

e Initially working as a consultant in the inhouse consultancy unit applying
operational research and market research techniques to provide insight
across various business problems (not IT).

e I subsequently moved to a role in marketing as a proposition
development manager shaping business strategy in the government
services area and developing new services to sell to government clients.

¢ before moving into a role as a project manager in the banking

programmes where I led IT system implementation for the introduction of

Page 1 of 4
WITNO05540100
WITN05540100

the Post Office Card Account and wider banking services, debit card
acceptance and the implementation of EMV.
¢ before finally moving into IT department as a project manager for the

final couple of years. In that role I managed various projects being
implemented on the horizon platform — in effect managing the supplier
Fujitsu.

I had the following qualifications:

BSc Geology

MsC IT

Prince II

I received various training in the different roles — from market research to

project management.

Advice and assistance

4.

In all the roles in the post office I had some contact with staff and
subpostmasters / assistants in post offices. Interaction varied according to
role e.g. I had engagements with subpostmasters running focus groups to get
their feedback or piloted services in subpostoffices where we partnered with
the local outlet

I have been asked to describe whether I was responsible for providing
subpostmasters or Post Office branches with advice or assistance. This
question isn’t specific but I assume from subsequent questions you wish to
understand if I provided advise or assistance in the context of Horizon

operation / deployment — the answer is no.

Page 2 of 4
WITNO05540100
WITN05540100

6. I have been asked how I escalated difficulties when issues were raised.
Presumably this is with Horizon and its deployment? Then the question is not
relevant as had already been deployed.

7. I have been asked to specify, if I have not already done so, how often any
difficulties involved the Horizon system. This question is N/A. See Q6.

8. I have been asked if there were any steps that I thought should have been
taken in response to any concerns that you raised that were not. n/a.

9. I have been asked if there was anyone who I felt could have done more to

assist or make things better for subpostmasters. n/a.

Training
10.I have been asked if I was responsible for managing the contracts of
subpostmasters, to set out what steps I took to ensure that individuals felt
confident with using Horizon. n/a.
11. I have been asked “ If someone said that he or she did not feel wholly
confident with using Horizon, what steps did you take to assist them?” n/a.
12.1 have been asked to explain whether I thought that any improvements could

have been made to the training received by subpostmasters. n/a

Errors or issues with Horizon system

13.1 have been asked to explain whether I was aware of any issues or problems
with the Horizon system. n/a.

14.1 have been asked to set out who I received this information from or how I
came to be aware of these issues and how widely known I consider them to

have been. n/a.

Page 3 of 4
WITNO05540100
WITN05540100

15.1 have been asked how this knowledge impacted upon how I dealt with
subpostmasters or Post Office managers or assistants working in Post Office

branches. n/a.

Resolution of disputes

16.1 have been asked to explain whether I was involved in or party to any
disputes between the Post Office and subpostmasters regarding any alleged
shortfalls of money. n/a.

17.I have been asked to describe the process by which any disputes were raised
and resolved. Please specify any individuals you know to have been involved.
nia.

18.1 have been asked to describe whether I was aware of any contact or input
from Fujitsu in the resolution of any disputes. If so, I've been asked to provide
details including the names of relevant individuals from Fujitsu. n/a.

19.1 have been asked to give my view on whether there could have been any
improvement in this process, and to identify who would have been responsible
for implementing any improvement I suggest. n/a.

20. There are no other matters that I consider the Chair of the Inquiry should be

aware of.

Statement of Truth

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Page 4 of 4
