WITNO7070100
WITNO7070100

Witness Name: Dawn Russell
Statement No.: WITNO7070100
Dated: [ 5] March 2023

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST STATEMENT OF DAWN RUSSELL

I, Dawn Russell, will say as follows...

INTRODUCTION

1,

I was employed by Fujitsu (formerly ICL) from 1996 to 2003. The only IT
support role that I held was on the 1* line desk supporting Fujitsu staff
themselves. This was before my employment on the HSH / HSD desk. I then
transferred in around 1999 to the Horizon help desk in a secretarial / admin
capacity. My job title was never amended to reflect this change in role and
was left to reflect that I had worked in 1* line support. From memory, this was
on the understanding that I may be called to provide backup support. This
was never the case and I from this point onwards I was employed in a

secretarial / administration role only.

Page 1 of 4
WITNO7070100
WITNO7070100

2. Training provided was in house and of a good standard in relation to my
specific role. There were dedicated team members for training whom I
remember receiving training from regarding my role and software relevant to
my role. I never saw or used the Horizon software at any time. I never

received training on the software.

3. Ona day-to-day basis, I was responsible for recording and reporting staff
attendance and absence. I supported some of the senior management with
diary management. I oversaw sundry items, staff equipment and office
supplies. I also produced documentation and hierarchical structures. I was
‘also part of the team providing security clearances and at one point was a fire

marshal.

4. Part of my role was to assist with the management of the document library
regarding the processes followed on the helpdesk. I do remember that this
became a priority at one point and a focus for one of the managers to whom I
reported. This would have been circa 2002 / 2003. It is possible that this was
a result of operational issues. I have no memory of the details of this other

than it becoming important.

5. I would have taken occasional messages from managers within the post office
at times though have no recollection of any details of day to day running of
any part of support or operational activity. I was a liaison between helpdesk

staff and management.

Page 2 of 4
WITNO7070100
WITNO7070100

6. On one occasion I do remember that there was a comment from one of the
helpdesk staff about “postmasters being caught with their hands in the till’.
Whether this was in relation to a specific person or whether it was about the

system, again, I cannot say other than I recall an offhand comment.

7. I do have a recollection of there being an us and them attitude with regards to
the helpdesk environment and the branch staff. I don’t remember meeting any
of the postmasters or there being any team building between post masters or
helpdesk staff. I believe there may have been training provided for them at
the offices on occasion though its possible they attended other offices for

example Bracknell.

8. I do recall frustration at times from helpdesk staff with communication or the
handling of certain issues though I cannot unfortunately remember specific
examples of this. There was an air of pressure at times on the helpdesk, as
there would be in any office environment. I do remember that there were
times when glitches or bugs with the system caused challenges for helpdesk
staff which led to friction at times. These would have been system issues
which were passed up to 3 line support or the team developing the software

I believe.

9. I remember there being a change in management and a move within the
building for the helpdesk in around 1999 / 2000. Prior to this I believe that
different parts of the helpdesk were on separate floors. Following this there
was a change in senior management and first line support and 2" line’support
were then on one floor I believe. At one point during’2003, I remember there

being close communication with Fujitsu senior management overseas though

Page 3 of 4
WITNO7070100
WITNO7070100

I honestly couldn’t say why this was, possibly on a financial or operational

level or due to a visit from Fujitsu staff overseas.
BACKGROUND

10.1 have a BTEC in Business and finance with secretarial options. Due to
personal issues taking place for myself for the 18 months prior to my leaving

2003, my memory of specific events is fairly vague.

11. It is also.worth stating that a blood relation of mine has since married a
member of Fujitsu management who also worked on the Horizon project.
They met after I left Fujitsu. I state this only for transparency and not

necessarily because of any conflict of interest.
Statement of Truth

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

sored G RO :

Dated: De 4-28

Page 4 of 4
