WITNO04750101
WITNO4750101

CURRICULUM VITAE JARNAIL SINGH

SCHOOL:! 8 'O' Levels. All Grades above A, B, OR C
Crawley College of Further Education. 3 'A' Levels Sociology Government & Politics Economics

UNIVERSITY:Plymouth .BSc Hons. in Economics & Politics
Newcastle upon Tyne Common Profession Examination (Law) Solicitors Finals Examination.
Admitted as a Solicitor 15 December 1992

Other Qualifications/Memberships

Member of the Law Society

p Prexloushyt fellow of the Ins of Legal Executi

FormerLocal Councillor at Crawley Borough council

EMPLOY! HISTORY

Sep 1985 to Oct 1988 $ Stevens, Drake & Pope, Solicitors
Roles: Legal Executive

Criminal and Civil Litigation work, working closely with Assistant Solicitors and Partners and
rapidly took on board responsibility for my own caseload undertaking almost all aspects of
Litigation, including Solicitor's representative under 24 hours Duty Solicitors Scheme (Police And
Criminal Evidence Act), preparation of trials, attending counsel conferences; attending trials;
dealing with witness and private and corporate clients; arranging for expert witnesses and Counsel's
opinion, including medical and technical reports. I was personally responsible for dealing with
court orders, attending before Registrars and Masters and dealing with both straightforward and
complex matters. As a result, this meant thorough knowledge of Civil, Criminal and Tort law.

Oct 1988 to Dec 1989 : George Coleman _& Sons Solicitors, Haywards Heath,
West Sussex

WITNO4750101
WITNO4750101

Roles: Legal Executive responsible for Conveyancing

Private Practice - Responsible for domestic and commercial conveyancing, which included domestic
transactions, freehold sales, leasehold sales and purchases, mortgage work for local Haywards
Heath Building Society and other major mortgage lenders.

This required full knowledge of property and conveyancing law and legislatory nuances. Also
maintained and developed local relationships both with business and commercial entities to gain
added work.

Dec 1989 to May 2015 x Post Office/Consignia Solicitors Office
Roles: Legal Executive/Principal Solicitor/Senior Lawyer/Head of Criminal Law

Joined the Post Office Solicitors Office in the Commercial Conveyancing Department, where I was
given the opportunity to broaden my Commercial conveyancing experience. I have undertaken
virtually all aspects of commercial conveyancing transactions, namely sales and purchases both
freehold and leasehold; tenancy agreements, licences, advice on boundary disputes and notices to
quit, and other notices under the Landlord & Tenant Act 1954, Part 2 and proceedings under Part 2
of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954. Caseload stretching from rent review to assignments, etc.

Advising and working with the business's surveyors in order that the legal aspects involved in
property negotiations are taken into account at an early stage.

Drafting leases and licenses and dealing with all aspects of the proceedings from taking initial
instruction to completion.

In September 1993, I transferred to the Litigation Department to the Post Office Solicitors Office.
In the Litigation Division I handled all High court and County Court Litigation for the Post Office,
its businesses and subsidiaries in England and Wales. I also handled and advise upon many disputes
and claims before they reach Court or Arbitration.

A substantial area of my work was in the Litigation Department of the Post Office is personal injury
related Litigation, mainly involve claims by injured employees or by third parties involved in road
traffic accidents with The Post Office vehicles.In claims handling on behalf of the Post Office from
the issue and service of proceedings up to judgments and beyond.

I handled and advised upon cases involving compensation arising out of failures of service, rent
reviews, breaches of repairing covenants in leases, land ownership issues, vehicle leasing contracts,
disputes with sub-postmasters and other agents etc.

In August 1995, I transferred to the Prosecution Division as the Senior Lawyer and on separation
of the two businesses I headed the Post office Prosecution department. I deal with all aspects of
prosecution from initial advice to advocacy in Courts. I advise and gave presentations on new
Legislation, for instance the Postal Services Act 2000.

Apr 1996 to Present : J Singh Judge Solicitors, Crawley West Sussex

WITNO4750101
WITNO4750101

Roles: Owner/Conveyancer/Consultant

In relation to property law, experienced in both Commercial and Residential Property Law,
including Have a detailed knowledge of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987, the Housing Act 1996,
the Leasehold Reform Housing and Urban Development Act 1993 the Land Registration Act 2002
and the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002

Acted on numerous residential conveyances in the local Crawley, Horsham and West Sussex areas,
as well as lease and rental agreements for both Private and Council tenancies. Extensive experience
in all property matters up to senior level dealing including the following buying and selling of
residential and commercial properties, commercial and residential re-mortgage applications,
transfer of equity, drafting leases, drafting commercial assignment, leases/licenses, auction
transactions and property litigation

Worked with a range of clients including large and small businesses either acquiring, selling, leasing
or developing property of all types, limited companies and limited liability partnerships and private
individuals with active portfolios Freehold commercial property acquisition and funding including
the introduction of commercial lenders where appropriate.

We were an accredited Law Society Conveyancing Quality Scheme practice. Our accreditation
provides recognition of our adherence to good practice, management standards and commitment to
providing efficient and high quality conveyancing procedures which also led to our introduction
onto the panel for some major High Street Mortgage lenders.

Mar 2016 to Jun 2018 : Bespoke Law Services, Haywards Heath, West Sussex

Roles: Conveyancing Solicitor/Director

Lead conveyancing solicitor, dealing in all aspects of conveyancing matters, from initial instruction
to completion, sales, purchases, shared ownership new builds, Right to Buy and new mortgages.
Supervision and managing of administrative staff.

Aug 2021 to Present 3 £

Consultant Solicitor dealing in all aspects of conveyancing matters.

Other Work Experience

Borough Councillor/Chair of Oversight and Scrutiny Committee/Member of Licencing Committee
from 2006-10

I have also had experience as an independent caseholder for a substantial number of years. I have
also Lectured on the Law, one evening per week to 25 to 30 Professional People, including
Surveyors and Builders who were studying for further qualifications.
