WITN11410105
WITN11410105

devereux

Private and confidential

27 October 2023

For: Henry Staunton, Chairman

By email: henry.staunton) Ss GRO.

Dear Mr Staunton,

‘Speak Up’ Complaint Investigation

As you are aware, I have been appointed by Post Office Limited (“POL”) to carry out an independent and
impartial investigation into certain allegations raised by Jane Davies, former Chief People Officer, by way

of a ‘Speak Up’ complaint. The investigation has been commissioned by Ben Foat, Group General Counsel.

It is my role to make findings of fact about these allegations raised by Ms Davies and to make any
recommendations in relation to any identified breaches of POL’s policies and procedures. My report will
be delivered to an Investigation Steering Group who will consider its content and determine what, if any,

further action based on my findings needs to be taken.

The first step I propose to take in investigating the complaint is to meet with Ms Davies to discuss certain
allegations. I would then like to arrange a meeting with you to enable you to provide your response to the
allegations and/or share context related to them which would be helpful for me to consider as I seek to

establish the facts.

In particular, I would like to discuss the following allegations made by Ms Davies with you:
(1) Nick Read, Chief Executive Officer, was aware that there was a bonus multiplier error which resulted
in him receiving an overpayment in 2022 and which was not declared in advance of the payment

being made;

Devereux Chambers cler

Queen Elizabeth Building accountsf
Temple London EC4Y 9BS www.deve
Devereux Chambers Services Limited is a private limited company igland and Wales (Company Number: 08939089) with its registered office at Devonshire

House, 1 Devonshire Street, London, United Kingdom, W1W 5DR. A li FS may be inspected at the registered office. The firm's VAT number is: GB 127 1046 46
WITN11410105
WITN11410105

devereux

(2) The same bonus multiplier error resulted in an overpayment to other members of the executive team,
which Mr Read or others failed to declare to the Remuneration Committee;

(3) Mr Read bullied Ms Davies in relation to the messages he sent concerning his alleged dissatisfaction
with pay;

(4) Mr Read treated Ms Davies differently after she allegedly failed to succeed in securing him a better
remuneration package in terms of ignoring or failing to acknowledge her work and contribution;

(5) A Board member referred to women as “pains in the arses”;

(6) The Board failed to intervene or address the allegations raised by Ms Davies with you via a letter
dated 24 May 2023.

As the investigation progresses, I may need to amend or expand upon the above allegations or discuss
further allegations with you. However, I want to assure you at this stage that I have not reached a view of

any of the above allegations.

At present it is too early to arrange a meeting with you, but I will get in touch with you again once I am
able to make arrangements. As I will set out in my invitation letter, you will have an opportunity to provide

me with any information or documents you would like me to review before we meet.

The investigation may mean that I am in receipt of your personal information. I am a registered data
controller with the Information Commissioner’s Office with personal responsibility for ensuring that your
personal information is properly protected. Your personal data will be processed in accordance with the
Devereux Chambers Privacy Policy (available here). The information I receive in the course of the
investigation will only be used for the purposes of the investigation and will only be disclosed to those

persons within POL and any of their external advisors to whom it is relevant.

The investigation is and remains confidential. Please do not share the fact of or the content of the

investigation.

Devereux Chambers Tel I
Queen Elizabeth Building
Temple London EC4Y 98S Ox

Devereux Chambers Services Limited is a private limited company regi
House, 1 Devonshire Street, London, United Kingdom, W1W SDR. A fi

in England and Wales (Company Number: 08939089) with its registered offic
rembers may be inspected at the registered office. The firm's VAT number is
WITN11410105
WITN11410105

devereux

I look forward to meeting with you in due course. In the meantime, should you have any questions please

do not hesitate to contact me.

Kind regards,

Marianne Tutin

Devereux Chambers

Devereux Chambers
Queen Elizabeth Building
Temple London EC4Y 98S

clerks
accounts{”
www.devereuxchambers.co.uk

Devereux Chambers Services Limited is a private limited company registered in England and Wales (Company Number: 08939089) with its registered office at Devonshire
House, 1 Devonshire Street, London, United Kingdom, W1W SDR. A list of members may be inspected at the ragistered office. The firm's VAT number is: GB 127 1046 46

