WITNO01530100

WITNESS: DAVID BLAKEY
STATEMENT NUMBER: WITNO153_01
EXHIBITS: 0

DATED: Jan 14, 2022

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WRITTEN STATEMENT OF DAVID BLAKEY

THIS STATEMENT IS PROVIDED IN RESPONSE TO THE RULE 9 REQUEST OF
THE PUBLIC INQUIRY DATED 29/10/2021 TO ADDRESS THE HUMAN IMPACT OF
THE FAILINGS OF THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM

I, MR DAVID BLAKEY, Date of Birth I

PERSONAL BACKGROUND

1. Iwasbornon:! = GRO }on an RAF base in Berkshire. I moved to

_j when I was around 2 years old and have remained there ever

since.

2. Growing up, I lived with my mum, dad and 3 sisters. I had an excellent
childhood and I was the eldest child.
3. Asachild, I attended a mainstream school which I loved. However, I left school

at the age of 15, just 3 months before my exams, in order to join an

Page 1 of 12
WITNO01530100

apprenticeship in heavy vehicle mechanics. I obtained a Higher National
Certificate in Mechanical Engineering and have completed a number of
courses in related subjects, such as Welding and Health & Safety.

4. I married my first wife in 1975 at the age of 21 and we spent 2 years in Canada.

“lwas born in 1979 and shortly after, I split with my first wife

JAs a result, it was 20 years before I saw! GRO I again.

Thankfully, she came looking for me and we were able to build a relationship.

“also had a daughter, I aged 7. My relationship with my

daughter and my granddaughter is a very good one.

5. On my return from Canada, I worked in several different areas as a Mechanical
Engineer, including in food factories, oil refineries, power stations and
Kimberly-Clark. I also spent some time within the Parachute Regiment on a
voluntary basis.

6. I have been married to my wife Gillian for 39 years and I have two stepsons,

one of whom is married.

POST OFFICE HISTORY

7. While working at Kimberly-Clark as an engineer, I had a friend who was a Sub-
Postmaster at the Riby Square branch and he was moving to another store.
Gillian and I took a loan out and took over the Post Office.

8. Gillian became the Sub-Postmistress. Gillian worked at the Post Office since
1996. We did not live at the Post Office. At the time, the business was in my
name.

9. When the Horizon system was introduced in February 2000, I attended a one-

day training course and also had a trainer attend the Post Office. The trainer

Page 2 of 12
WITNO01530100

lacked knowledge and understanding of the system and unfortunately Gillian
and I often struggled to balance the books.

10.1 used to call Gillian every morning and evening when she opened and closed
the Post Office, as it was a dangerous occupation. I would also go into the shop
most evenings to assist with the accounts. I would also go to the Post Office
on a Saturday to work on the counter and help in the back with the books.

11.We would often struggle with balancing the accounts. We even had a retail line
manager attend approximately 3 weeks after Horizon was installed to assist us
with balancing the accounts, but he seemed to have as little knowledge as the
initial trainer.

12.When there was a shortfall, Gillian and I would make good of it. For shortfalls
under £100, I paid it directly into the branch. Over time, I paid in approximately
£2,000. I recall one day there was a shortfall of £5,000.

13.During this time, my sister and her husband were staying with Gillian and I as

my sister was linked t
not tell Gillian about the shortfalls as I did not want to add to her stress. She
was also unwell at the time.

14.On 13 May2004 I called Gillian as usual in the morning. She told me that
auditors were at the Post Office, so I left work early as I knew there was a
shortfall the night before. The shortfall amounted to just under £65,000.

15.When I got to the Post Office, I told the auditors about the shortfall, and they
called the Fraud Investigation Team. Two people from this team attended and
I was taken into the back room to be interviewed.

16.During the interview, I was asked what I had done with the money. I was

accused of having an affair, spending the money on another woman and

Page 3 of 12
WITNO01530100

gambling. They never actually asked whether I had taken it. They even asked
Gillian whether I had another woman. They were very aggressive, even though
I told them that none of what they were saying was true.

17.I recall seeing the transcript of the interview and my denials were not recorded.
I did not have the opportunity to take anybody into the interview with me. The

interview was taped, and I was asked to sign it at the end.

CRIMINAL ALLEGATIONS AND ANY PROCEEDINGS/CONVICTION

18. The investigating officer rang and asked if he could come to my house as he
had papers for me. I did not want him there so we agreed to meet in a car park.
He handed me papers which turned out to be the summons.

19.On 15 September 2004 I received a letter from a solicitor which said that the
evidence against me could potentially result in imprisonment for 18 months to
3 years with the charges of theft and false accounting.

20.When I read it, I went into complete panic. I could not plead guilty to theft as I
did not take the money. In relation to false accounting, I had not falsified the
records, I just disagreed with the figures.

21. Towards the end of 2004, I attended Grimsby Magistrates Court. I confirmed
my details, and the case was transferred to Grimsby Crown Court to be heard
on 25 February .2005.

22.I then instructed a solicitor and provided a statement at the time, explaining
the pressures from external sources. I recall being advised to plead guilty,
otherwise I would certainly be looking at receiving a 3-5 year custodial
sentence. I explained that I would not plead guilty to theft but would to false

accounting.

Page 4 of 12
WITNO01530100

23.In total, I was charged with 6 offences and convicted of one.

24.Gillian did not attend Court with me. I did not want her there as I did not know
what was going to happen at trial, so I had to say goodbye to my family. This
was very difficult to do.

25.During the trial, the Post Office was asked to provide evidence of theft which
they could not produce. The Judge commented that he knew I was not a thief,
but he called me a “fool”.

26.I was sentenced to 9 months in prison which was suspended for 2 years. The
Judge paused at the 9 months in prison, so I thought that was it, I was not
going home; I was under so many mixed emotions. The fear of being locked
up was horrendous and I couldn't face it.

27.1 was able to call Gillian and tell her that I was not going to prison.

28. The Court of Appeal quashed my conviction on 23 April 2021.

THE HUMAN IMPACT
29.The human impact which the failings of the Horizon IT System have had and
continue to have upon me and my family are set out in the remainder of this

statement. The section headings follow the particular questions posed by the

Inquiry.

WHAT WERE THE CONSEQUENCES OF BEING REQUIRED TO MAKE GOOD
APPARENT SHORTFALLS SHOWN BY THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM?

30.1 was asked to pay back almost £65,000. During my first interview with the

auditors and the Investigation Team, I was asked how I intended to pay them

back. Following this, they went after my wife as she was the Sub-Postmistress.

Page 5 of 12
WITNO01530100

We were declared bankrupt in February so we did not pay any of the £65,000

back.

WHAT WERE THE COSTS OF MAKING GOOD ALLEGED SHORTFALLS SHOWN
BY HORIZON?

31.As stated above, Gillian and I would make good all shortfalls shown by the

Horizon system. For shortfalls under £100, I paid it directly into the branch.

Over the time we experienced shortfalls, I paid in approximately £2,000.

HOW WERE YOU AFFECTED WHEN ALLEGED TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
SHORTFALLS OR DISCREPANCIES SHOWN BY THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM?
32.1 was approximately 62 years of age when Gillian discovered the Justice for
Sub-Postmasters Alliance (JSFA) and was keen for us both to join. I was
initially concerned about joining as my employer and colleagues were unaware
of my conviction and I was worried this would effect my reputation. We joined
but I was extremely anxious about the decision.
33.Towards the beginning of 2017, at 63 years old I finally joined JSFA. In
September 2017, I suffered a stroke. This forced me into retirement which I did
not want. I fully believe the stress and anxiety of the situation and having to

relive it through the JSFA contributed towards my stroke.

WHAT WERE THE CONSEQUENCES OF BEING HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR
SHORTFALLS AND DISCREPANCIES SHOWN BY THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM?
34. Following the interview, Gillian and I were immediately suspended, and a relief

Sub-Postmaster was brought in to take over. We also had our keys taken from

Page 6 of 12
WITNO01530100

us. Gillian was asked to attend a meeting in which we thought she would be
reinstated. I went with her, and it turned out to be a meeting concerning her
capabilities. Her contract was then terminated, though she was still able to work
at the shop.

35.A few weeks later, I informed my boss as I was stressed about the whole
situation. My position was then terminated. I was told this was due to a loss of
contracts.

36.We received a letter from the Post Office confirming Gillian’s termination and
we were given 3 months to sell the property. We found 3 potential buyers, but

the Post Office blocked each sale.

WHAT WERE YOUR FINANCIAL LOSSES CAUSED BY ACTION TAKEN AGAINST
YOU IN RELIANCE UPON HORIZON DATA?
37.We had to sell our house which only had £26,000 left on the mortgage. The
house was held as collateral for the business loan. The proceeds of sale went
to the Official Receivers. I also lost my car and mortgage.
38. After this, we moved into rented property. It felt like we were throwing money

away given that we had worked so hard to pay the mortgage off.

WHAT EFFECT DID IT HAVE TO BE ACCUSED OF COMMITTING CRIMINAL
OFFENCES AS A RESULT OF SHORTFALLS AND DISCREPANCIES SHOWN BY
THE HORIZON IT SYSTEM?
39.As the details of the allegations against me made their way into the local
papers, I could only assume this was the reason for my employment being

terminated.

Page 7 of 12
WITNO01530100

40.1 saw that in the papers that my job at the company, which I had been told was
no longer available, was continuing. My cousin worked as a director and he
confirmed my suspicions.

41.In the community, I knew that people gossiped. I tried to brush it under the
carpet, but I know that it had an impact on Gillian. Thankfully people seem to
have changed their views now that the truth is out.

42.Since the allegations, I have suffered with low mood, a poor sleep pattern,
tiredness, a loss of enjoyment in my activities, a poor appetite, poor
concentration, lack of motivation, low self-esteem, feelings of worthlessness,
hopelessness, low self-confidence and feelings of guilt. On top of that, I have
experienced suicidal thoughts, although I have not acted upon them.

43.1 would also suffer feelings of unease, palpitations, migraines and headaches.

44. It was very difficult following my conviction. I even suffered with hypnagogic
hallucinations. I can recall several occasions where I have heard a voice or a
noise. I once saw a figure in the bedroom and thought this was my sister. I felt
a sense of unease all the time. I tried to get a job as a plumber, but it was hard
to make a living, everything became a challenge.

45.I have also become hypervigilant. If Gillian makes a noise in the kitchen, I jump
and shout “what have you done?”. Sudden noises get to me, even if Gillian

sneezes, I jump out of my skin.

Page 8 of 12
WITNO01530100

WHAT WERE THE CONSEQUENCES OF BEING CONVICTED OF A CRIMINAL
OFFENCE AS A RESULT OF SHORTFALLS AND DISCREPANCIES

46.1 was ordered to pay prosecution costs amounting to £1,000 which I paid
monthly at £50 instalments. The Post Office asked for £15,000 but the Judge
said that was too much.

47.1 tried to become a self-employed plumber, however around that time, there
were many other people in the plumbing industry who were “undercutting” the
prices of ‘the trade’. Due to the reluctance of employers employ individuals with
criminal records, my wife and I struggled for the next 2-3 years to find jobs.

48.Following the prosecution, I lost my job at Kimberly-Clark and lost the Post
Office. I was forced to claim benefits.

49. I felt forced to exclude my criminal conviction on job applications and eventually
found a job as a handyman within a leisure centre. After 8 years within this role,
being paid half the salary compared to my previous roles, I was promoted to a
Health and Safety Manager as well as an Engineering Manager. I spent 12
years within this company.

50. Gillian found alternative work at an arcade and as a swimming instructor.

51.Prior to being convicted, I had a number of hobbies including, painting, and

going on holiday. I have lost any passion I had for painting.

WHAT EFFECT DID THESE ISSUES HAVE UPON YOUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH
YOUR FAMILY, FRIENDS, COLLEAGUES AND LOCAL COMMUNITY?

52.It had a huge impact on my relationship with my family. Although most trusted

me, my sist “disowned me after my conviction, which was horrible. I felt

bitter, angry, and betrayed.

Page 9 of 12
WITNO01530100

53.1 didn’t talk about the situation in front of our friends, so they didn’t bring it up.
My wife said I used to be the life and soul of the party, and this was taken away
from me.

54.1 felt that people at the golf club I used to go to, were not sincere with me at the
time. My wife says that I have become snappy and less tolerable. I can become

irritable and lose my temper easily. I have also felt lonely.

55.My mum developed: land passed away before I ever had the chance
to tell her my conviction had been overturned. This was very upsetting.

56.1 do have some friends locally and I have a close relationship with my other two
sisters and my brother-in-law. I still enjoy golf, as well as art (watercolours and
oils) and I have recently bought a woodturning lathe.

57.I had a difficult relationship with my daughter for 20 years. After reconnecting
and establishing an excellent relationship, I feared that I would lose her again.
I thought that telling my daughter about my conviction would be the worst thing
to have to do. Thankfully it did not affect our relationship and I was able to give
her away at her wedding.

58. Following my conviction, I soon found that I had to force myself to undertake
daily activities. Self-care became an effort.

59.1 now avoid certain things like going into a Post Office. I would never buy any
stamps. I tried for so long to avoid talking about the trial and conviction. My
wife reads Twitter and will sometimes tell me updates with regards to the Sub-
Postmaster scandal but I get snappy with her. I try to switch off from it and ask

her not to mention it in front of me.

Page 10 of 12
WITNO01530100

PLEASE DESCRIBE THE DIRECT AND INDIRECT EFFECT WHICH THESE
ISSUES HAD UPON THE MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY?
60. My mother lost her job as she also worked in the Post Office, so my conviction
affected her a great deal too.
61. Because of the conviction, my wife and I struggled for two to three years to find
work, which I felt was degrading.

is fully aware that my conviction was quashed but this has

unfortunately not changed anything between us. I have also lost out on having

a relationship with my nephew, 7

son, who once commented on my

‘guilty antics’.

CONCLUDING REMARKS
63. Gillian and I now live in social housing and have a lovely bungalow. I receive a
state pension and £300 per month, less tax, from my private pension. As I lost
my job following the allegations made against me, I stopped paying into the
pension therefore it froze around 20 years ago.
64.Even though my innocence has been proven, I feel guilty about going through
everything in the first place. I also feel guilty about the impact this has had on

my family. One of the biggest things for me now is that I do not own anything.

Page 11 of 12
WITNO01530100

Statement Of Truth

I believe the contents of this statement to be true

Signed: Position
RO:
Li or Office Held:
Print Full Date of signature: Jan 14, 2022

Name: DAVID BLAKEY

FILE REFERENC

Page 12 of 12
WITNO1530100
