WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

Witness Name: Peter Newsome
Statement No.: WITN04580100

Dated: 12 November 2024

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF PETER NEWSOME

I, MR PETER NEWSOME, will say as follows:

INTRODUCTION

1. This witness statement is made to assist the Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry (the
“Inquiry”) with the matters set out in the Rule 9 Request dated 18 October 2024
(the “Request’), to the extent I have direct knowledge of the matters addressed
in the Request. I was assisted in preparing this statement by Morrison Foerster,

who represent Fujitsu Services Limited (“Fujitsu”) in the Inquiry.

2. I left Fujitsu to start my retirement in 2020, and have not had any dealings with
Fujitsu, other than in relation to my participation in this Inquiry, or the matters
outlined in the Request since that time. Accordingly, in preparing this statement,
I have refreshed my memory by reviewing, (i) the documents provided to me by
the Inquiry, and (ii) additional documents provided to me by Morrison Foerster.
To the extent those documents have assisted my recollection, I refer to the

documents using the URNs listed in the index accompanying this statement.

Page 1 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

3. The Request largely relates to my involvement with Fujitsu’s provision of
services and information to Post Office Limited (“POL”), including in relation to
remote access, investigations into the Horizon IT system (“Horizon”)
undertaken by Second Sight Service Limited (“Second Sight”) and Deloitte, the
Initial Complaint Review and Mediation Scheme (the “Mediation Scheme’),

and POL’s defence in Bates & Others v. POL (the “GLO Proceedings’).

BACKGROUND

4. I retired from Fujitsu in December 2020 and have not taken up further
employment. I do not therefore have a curriculum vitae and have had to
recreate my background from memory. I am happy that the roles and
responsibilities are accurate, but my recollection of specific dates of

employment may be less reliable.

5. In 1983, I graduated university with a lower-second-class honours (2:2) degree
in Chemistry. After university in 1984, I completed a PGCE qualification and
subsequently taught 11-18 year olds Science, Chemistry and Maths for four
years at a school in Leicester. In 1988, I decided to leave teaching and became
a Technical Sales Demonstrator for a General Practice IT company selling,
installing and providing support to doctors in primary care. Until 2000, I worked

for various General Practice IT companies in sales, marketing and consulting.

6. From 2000 to 2002 I worked at Bull-Steria in a sales role before transferring to
business consulting, specialising in process reengineering in Local

Government. I then worked at Xansa in this role before I joined Fujitsu in the

Page 2 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

summer of 2007 as a Business Consultant.

In my first twelve months at Fujitsu, I covered roles in supervising teams on two
Fujitsu accounts, focusing on, (i) the BT separation of Open Reach, and (ii) a
Fujitsu Home Office internal project aimed at reducing costs to meet the savings

targets built into the relevant contract.

In the summer of 2008, I joined Fujitsu’s Post Office Account (the “POA”) and
was immediately seconded to POL where I spent around twelve months as a
data governance lead on the implementation of Credence (POL’s Management
Information (“MI”) Solution). I understand that it was part of the Horizon Contract
for Fujitsu to provide resources on a contractor basis to take on POL roles. In
the summer of 2009, at the end of this project, I spent three months managing

the POL MI Team to cover for an individual who was on long-term sick leave.

From autumn 2009 until spring 2011, I undertook my final contracting role at
POL as a Business Solutions Manager for financial services products. This role
involved me managing changes to the POL IT functionality in order to deliver
new or updated financial services offerings such as insurance, banking and
foreign currency. In this role, I managed project teams made up of both
business and technical specialists required to deliver the functionality, including

subcontractors such as Fujitsu where Horizon changes were required.

In around spring 2011, I was offered a similar role at Fujitsu as an Account
Manager on the POA, where I initially reported to Stephen Long, the POA
Delivery Executive. In my role, I would liaise with (i) POL business teams
(including Product & Branch Accounting (“P&BA”), the Financial Service Centre

(“FSC”), and Royal Mail), (ii) POL third-party clients who provided other services

Page 3 of 46
11.

12.

13.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

to POL (for example, Bank of Ireland, who provided financial services, and
Ingenico, who provided PIN pads), and (iii) other third parties, in relation to
changes and improvements POL were considering or pursuing and which had

the potential to require changes to Horizon. I continued in this role until 2018.

Over time, my role expanded to cover managing the POA Change Team. This
role involved me producing a rough order of magnitude pricing for projects and
working as a liaison between POL and Fujitsu on both large and small projects.
I often sat on the project boards for large projects such as Travel Point of Sale
(TPOS), introduction of Kiosks and PIN Pad replacement. Due to my
relationships with many of the POL staff and knowledge of the teams at Fujitsu,
I became a liaison for the Mediation Scheme, Second Sight engagement,
Project Bramble and the GLO Proceedings. In 2018, I moved on to other roles
inside Fujitsu. In particular, I worked in account management for the Police
Uniforms System. During this time, I was retained on the POA to coordinate
(i) Fujitsu’s responses to POL and Womble Bond Dickinson (“WBD”) in the GLO

Proceedings, and (ii) the PIN Pad sale and roll out to post office branches.

The Inquiry has asked me to summarise my role as Document Manager,
however, this is not a role that I held during my time at Fujitsu. Neither did I
have any responsibility for document management. The Document Manager at
the time was Matthew Lenton and I relied heavily on him to provide any
documents required when I coordinated responses to information requests on

Project Bramble and the GLO Proceedings in particular.

Notwithstanding my role, in this paragraph, I have tried to assist the Inquiry in

relation to how the Fujitsu document universe was organised with regards to

Page 4 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

bugs, errors and defects (“BEDs”) and remote access. My understanding in this
regard was that the majority of documents, including information relating to the
technical possibilities of ‘remote access’, would have been stored in the Fujitsu
Dimensions system (“Dimensions”). Support issues would then have Known
Error Logs (“KELs”) and supporting Peak (and its earlier iteration, PinICL),
MSC, OCR, or OCP records, stored in their respective databases. Some of the
earlier documentation of events may not be available due to changes in
process, or upgrades to systems where aged data was archived or sometimes
purged. By way of example, the core audit process that was designed to provide
a definitive log of all retained records of transactions (the “Core Audit
Process’) was only available from 2007, as data was only retained for seven
years (and the data retention policy was halted in 2014, so that no data from

the Core Audit Process was purged from that date onwards).

MY ROLE IN RESPECT OF CONCERNS REGARDING HORIZON

14. The Inquiry has asked me to summarise my understanding of the support and
services Fujitsu provided to POL in relation to the following issues, and to
describe the nature and extent of any involvement I had in providing such

support or services:

a. POL’s response to concerns regarding the Horizon IT System raised by

current and former postmasters, MPs and journalists;

b. Second Sight’s investigation in 2012 — 2013 leading to the Second Sight

Interim Report (the “Interim Report”);

c. the Mediation Scheme and related investigations;

Page 5 of 46
15.

16.

17.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

d. the work conducted by Deloitte in 2014 under the project name Zebra

(‘Project Zebra”); and

e. POL’s search for an expert witness to opine on the integrity of Horizon.

Each of these matters are addressed in turn below with reference to a number
of documents which have been put to me by the Inquiry. Where additional
documents have been provided to me by the team at Morrison Foerster to assist

with my recollection, these are also noted.

In describing my involvement below, I would like to make clear that my role in
respect of the matters listed above was to coordinate responses, meetings,
presentations (including those as part of the Fujitsu response), and the delivery
of documents on behalf of Fujitsu. In my role, I also attended meetings and
liaised with POL and their sub-contractors. I occasionally reviewed documents
and contributed to them, but only where it was appropriate to my knowledge

and skill set. At times, I was also copied in on other responses by Fujitsu.

I do not have a technical background and was not involved in the technical
content of responses or the day-to-day activities or processes of resolving any
support calls or issues. By way of example, the Inquiry has provided me with
POL00091411, a chronology of statements made by POL in respect of remote
access and asked me to set out my views in relation to the accuracy of the
statements contained within it. When it came to responding to questions on
technical matters, I was reliant on subject matter experts. Accordingly, the
accuracy of the technical statements made in this document would need to be
verified or discussed with a technical expert. That being said, some of the

language used in the statements does look like extracts from responses to POL

Page 6 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

from Fujitsu in other contexts, particularly around subjects such as allegations

of access to live data in the basement of Fujitsu’s offices in Bracknell.

18. In relation to the production of these statements by POL, I note that POL
employed a number of architects who understood both Legacy Horizon and
HNG-X, so some of these statements could and probably, in my opinion, would
have been checked by that team before being released. In reviewing these
statements, it does appear that POL forgot to consider Legacy Horizon when
answering questions on remote access and just looked for answers in relation
to the HNG-X version of the system, which they then used as blanket

statements in relation to Horizon more widely.

(a) POL’s response to concerns regarding the Horizon IT System raised by

current and former postmasters, MPs and journalists

19. I do not recall ever being asked to directly provide comments or assertions
regarding concerns about the Horizon IT system to be used in communications
with postmasters, MPs or journalists. However, I have noticed from the
documents provided to me by the Inquiry that I was copied in on or involved in
email chains which related to the production and delivery of responses to
questions from POL or their legal representatives in relation to certain of these

communications.

Dalmellington Bug

20. One example of the above relates to a response provided by Fujitsu to POL in
relation to the Dalmellington Bug in July 2016. In this regard, the Inquiry has

provided an internal Fujitsu email from me dated 11 July 2016, which focuses

Page 7 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

on providing an answer to POL on the Dalmellington Bug (FUJ00085967). This
answer was provided to POL in response to concerns raised by Paula Vennells
of POL further to a blog post authored by former postmaster, Tim McCormack.

I coordinated, as opposed to produced, the response.

21. I also recall a presentation on the Dalmellington bug that I authored from
information provided to me by the development and support teams at Fujitsu. I
recall giving this presentation to POL’s interim Head of IT, Chris Broe, and
Angela Van Den Bogerd. On my request, the team at Morrison Foerster located
a copy of the presentation, which I can see is dated 10 December 2015
(FUJ00085958). I also recall the document being put to Torstein Godeseth of

Fujitsu during his evidence in the GLO Proceedings.

22. The analysis detailed in the presentation shows that, in the majority of cases
which proved to be examples of the bug in operation, affected postmasters had
either, (i) spotted the problem and self-corrected it by completing a transaction
reversal, or (ii) contacted the FSC and a transaction correction was issued. This
led me to believe that, if a single transaction had caused discrepancies of some
of the magnitudes reported, that erroneous transaction was likely to be obvious
to the postmaster, who then would have taken one of the two actions described

above.

BBC Panorama in 2015

23. I did not initially recall providing responses to POL regarding the BBC
Panorama programme in 2015. However, having reviewed the following
documents, I can see that, in the run up to and after the Panorama programme,

I was involved in coordinating answers to questions posed by POL where they

Page 8 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

were pertinent to Fujitsu. None of the answers were given directly to journalists
or to BBC Panorama. However, some of these answers will have informed
POL's responses to Panorama. Fujitsu continued to maintain the corporate line
that we did not comment on the specifics of customer contracts. The documents

provided to me in preparing this statement were as follows:

a. an email between the Fujitsu and POL press offices on 8 June 2015,
which I am copied to, that is then forwarded internally within Fujitsu. The
email chain discusses the outcome of a briefing between Panorama and
POL and includes a number of questions for Fujitsu to respond to

(FUJ00237385);

b. an email from the POL press office to the Fujitsu press office and myself
on 18 June 2015, which I then forwarded on internally. The email from
POL contains a paragraph from BBC Panorama in relation to an

interview they had with a former Fujitsu employee (FUJ00237455);

c. an email between Fujitsu and POL dated 8 June 2015 which notes that
I was Fujitsu’s lead in supporting POL’s responses to Panorama

(POL00316805); and

d. an email chain between myself and the POL press office dated 8 June

2015 in relation to areas of questioning by BBC (POL00316829).
(b) Second Sight’s investigation in 2012 — 2013 leading to the Interim Report
24. In relation to Second Sight’s investigation during the period 2012 — 2013, my

involvement was as follows:

Page 9 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

a. I coordinated meetings between Second Sight and Fujitsu. This included
the initial presentation by Gareth Jenkins to at least one representative
from Second Sight on, (i) the Horizon Architecture, (ii) the Core Audit
Process, and (iii) two known bugs that had affected accounts in the early
days of HNG-X and how they were dealt with by Fujitsu and POL (this
included information on how POL had agreed to write off the losses and
allowed the branches that made gains for those branches). Mr Jenkins
and I attended this meeting as the only representatives from Fujitsu. I
recall Mr Jenkins later being asked why he did not cover Legacy Horizon

in this initial meeting. He noted that it was not part of his brief.

b. I then coordinated the production of data from the Core Audit Process
through the Audit Record Query process, which involved extracting data
within specified parameters from the Core Audit Process (“ARQ Data’),
for a sample of branches chosen by Second Sight and/or POL. This
included agreeing the commercial arrangement for Fujitsu to provide this
data, as it was above the normal contractual service. In undertaking this
role, I remember attending a call with Second Sight about the provision
of ARQ Data. During this call, it became apparent to me that there had
been a misunderstanding surrounding the speed at which ARQ Data
would be provided. This was partly due to me not having explained the
extraction process fully to Second Sight and the limited capacity for
extracting the data. This was both a staff and functionality issue, which
Fujitsu experienced whenever it needed to do large amounts of
extraction. This included for the Mediation Scheme and in the GLO

Proceedings, as discussed in more detail below.

Page 10 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

c. I also attended calls on behalf of Fujitsu with Second Sight and POL on
the progress of the engagement. These were not regular calls but were
instead organised by POL occasionally. My impression was that Second
Sight did not always approach these calls with the degree of

professionalism that might be expected.

d. I met with POL Legal and some of their business colleagues in relation
to the Interim Report. Whilst I do not recall Fujitsu having any input into
POL’s response to this report, Fujitsu did produce its own comments,
which I collated from colleagues, contributed to, where appropriate, and
reviewed. This can be seen in the following documents, which were
provided to me during my preparation of this statement, (i) an email from
me to Simon Baker of POL on 7 May 2013 attaching a document entitled
‘POL Interim Report v24 Fujitsu Comments’ (FUJ00087094), and (ii) the
relevant attachment (POINQ0093264F). I recall the overall conclusion to
this report was confusing in that it suggested that there was nothing
wrong with the Horizon software but contradicted this in some of the work

on themes.

I believe this was my first direct involvement in matters relating to postmasters
or any of the projects regarding concerns with Horizon. My understanding was
that POL had expected Second Sight to support their view that everything with

Horizon was fine.

The Inquiry has asked me to consider a number of documents relating to the
provision of information to Second Sight during this period. In particular, these

documents relate to a visit by a postmaster to Fujitsu’s offices in Bracknell in

Page 11 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

August 2008 and allegations surrounding the use of remote access during the

postmaster’s visit. These documents are as follows:

a. POL00186387, an internal POL email chain dated 19 April 2013
regarding investigations into the Bracknell site for the purpose providing

a summary to Second Sight;

b. FUJ00235322, an internal Fujitsu email chain dated 30 May 2013

regarding the identification of manual changes to the branch database;

c. FUJ00087014, an email chain dating from 24 May to 4 June 2013

regarding Second Sight’s investigations into the Bracknell site visit;

d. POL00029603, note of a meeting on 12 June 2013 between POL, Fujitsu
and Second Sight in relation to the Bracknell site visit, referred to as

“Spot Review 5”;

e. FUJ00235390, an email chain containing an email from POL to Second
Sight dated 13 June 2013 regarding Spot Review 5 and an internal email

from me on the same day;

f. FUJ00087065, an email chain between POL and Fujitsu dated 19 June
2013 regarding Spot Review 5 following an email from Sir Alan Bates to

Second Sight on 14 June 2013; and

g. FUJ00236264, an internal Fujitsu email chain dated 15 April 2014

attaching documents relating to Spot Review 5.

27. These documents demonstrate my role in coordinating responses to questions

put to Fujitsu by Second Sight and POL in the context of Spot Review 5. The

Page 12 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

process of pulling together the answers seemed to take a long time, with the
same questions being answered several times, which I think prompted my

comment of “at last some push back’ in FUJ00235390.

28. Otherwise, I think we cooperated with the needs of POL in supplying the
information Second Sight asked for, as well as access to technical experts when

required.

(c) the Mediation Scheme and related investigations

29. In relation to the Mediation Scheme undertaken by Second Sight in 2014, I
coordinated the production of ARQ Data and support call data for the branches
involved in the Mediation Scheme. I believe the data concerned a sample of
branches chosen by Second Sight and/or POL. My role included agreeing the
commercial arrangement for Fujitsu to provide this data, as it was above the
normal contractual service. I did not recall having any further involvement in the
Mediation Scheme; however, the Inquiry has referred me to a document entitled
‘Fujitsu’s comments on Second Sight Briefing Report —- Part Two’ authored by
Mr Jenkins, James Davidson, Mike Harvey and myself dated 15 September
2014 (FUJ00087174). Initially I had thought this document was Fujitsu’s
comments on the Interim Report, as it is presented thematically rather than on
a case-by-case basis. I have no recollection of this document, or the process

undertaken to compile it.

30. The Mediation Scheme in particular seemed to be a delaying tactic by POL,
unless POL were going to settle in favour of the postmaster. POL’s attitude
seemed to be to rerun the court cases. I do not remember any requests to

Fujitsu for any support in interpreting the ARQ Data or answering any new

Page 13 of 46
31.

32.

33.

34.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

questions related to the operation of the system in these cases.

Following the Mediation Scheme, if a BED was discovered that had the potential
to affect branch accounts and was escalated to me, I would inform POL IT
Management. In order to do this, I would pull together with the assistance of
technical experts, a note outlining the issue, the branches involved, the impact
on those branches, proposed fixes and the release timetable for the fixes. I can
recall two instances where a BED was discovered which affected branch
accounts, one was the Dalmellington bug discussed above in this statement
and the other was identified during the GLO Proceedings. I attended daily calls
on this second BED during the GLO Proceedings, which kept POL up to date
on new occurrences that had been fixed by a manual work around until the

issue was resolved by a release.

In addition to providing assistance in relation to the Mediation Scheme, I also
played a coordinating role in the provision of information to Jonathan Swift QC’s
review of Horizon undertaken in 2015. My role in this regard is demonstrated in
FUJ00087175, as described below in the context of Deloitte’s work in Project
Zebra in 2014, and FUJ00238269, an email from Rodric Williams of POL to me

dated 17 December 2015 and the resulting Fujitsu internal discussion.

The Inquiry has also referred me to an email chain between Fujitsu and POL
on 30 January 2015 regarding questions from Ms Vennells of POL in relation to
remote access and her preparation for a Select Committee hearing. As is clear
from the email chain, whilst I am copied, it is Mr Davidson who provides the

relevant responses (FUJ00087 142).

The Inquiry has asked me to consider POL00139589, a document recording a

Page 14 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

meeting on 27 April 2016 titled ‘Wednesday Call IT related issues’. This
document is another example of my role as a coordinator. I knew lan Humphries
well from my time on secondment at POL. He must have reached out to me as
a point of contact to retrieve a copy of a report. I do not recall the report itself or

the relevant conversation with Mr Humphries.

(d) Project Zebra

35. In relation to the work undertaken by Deloitte in 2014 under the name Project
Zebra, I ran a small team that coordinated the meetings and access required
by the Deloitte auditors in order to complete their review of Horizon. My role
involved me coordinating documents and finding the appropriate technical
expert to respond to any subsequent follow up questions. This included
agreeing and managing the commercial agreement for Fujitsu to provide access

to technical experts as this was above the normal contractual service.

36. The Inquiry has referred me to an email chain between POL and Deloitte dated
13 May 2014. The email contains a number of questions regarding, (i) the
ISAE3402 audit undertaken by Ernst and Young, (ii) the audit store and branch
database, and (iii) testing undertaken in respect of HNG-X (POL00148311). As
is demonstrated in that email chain, my role was again to pull together answers
from relevant subject matter experts. In undertaking this role, I managed a small
virtual team who supported Deloitte in accessing the required documentation,
setting up meetings with subject matter experts and coordinating answers to

questions.

37. The Inquiry has also provided me with a draft report from Deloitte entitled

‘Horizon: Desktop Review of Assurance Sources and Key Control Features —
Page 15 of 46
38.

39.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

Draft for Discussion’, which is dated 23 May 2014 (POL00028062). To the best
of my recollection, I do not recall seeing this document prior to it being provided
to me by the Inquiry. As far as I know, Fujitsu were not asked to review the
document. If that is the case, the accuracy of the document's content would not

have been ratified by Fujitsu.

That being said, in an email from Mark Underwood of POL to me on
18 December 2015, Mr Underwood mentions that Fujitsu did comment upon
the ‘Deloitte Board Briefing Paper’ (FUJ00087175). The team at Morrison
Foerster have provided to me, (i) a copy of the Deloitte Board Briefing Paper
(POL00127278), (ii) notes of a meeting between Jonathan Swift QC,
Christopher Knight, POL and Fujitsu on 14 December 2015, which records me
noting that Fujitsu had not seen the Deloitte Board Briefing Paper and an action
for POL to determine whether a copy of the document could be provided to
Fujitsu (POLO0103010), and (iii) an email from Mr Underwood to me on
22 December 2015 in which Mr Underwood states that he will review the
comments provided by Fujitsu on the Deloitte Board Briefing Paper

(POL00237754).

Having reviewed these documents, I remember attending the meeting on
14 December 2015, which I think focused on the questions coming out of the
Mediation Scheme. My role was to coordinate answers for Fujitsu, which appear
to have been documented by Mr Underwood. The email exchange with Mr
Underwood at POL00237754 suggests that some answers were sent either in
other emails from me or, in some cases, directly from the team at Fujitsu. I still

do not recall seeing the Deloitte Board Briefing Paper before.

Page 16 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

40. _Inrelation to Deloitte’s reports in Project Zebra, I recall that POL’s legal advisers
in the GLO Proceedings, WBD, verbally told me that they did not want to see
this report become public knowledge and used as part of the Horizon issues
section of the GLO Proceedings. My understanding was that this position
related to Deloitte’s work in both Project Zebra and Project Bramble, which I
address in more detail below. I also remember being told by POL Legal at the
time the report was produced that the report was internal to POL and was
nothing to worry about. This position was then reiterated by comments in POA
weekly management meetings but I cannot recall who within the POA

management team raised this matter in our meetings.

41. I did not fully understand why POL decided not to release the Deloitte report,
even if it did not conform to POL’s previous public position. This was particularly
so in respect of remote access; in my opinion, it would have given POL a chance

to control a managed withdrawal from the incorrect position.

(e) POL’s search for an expert witness to opine on the integrity of the Horizon IT

System

42. I understand this question from the Inquiry to relate to POL’s search for an
expert in 2013 who could provide expert evidence in legal proceedings against
postmasters. Whilst Fujitsu was not involved in selecting the experts, we
supported POL in briefing the new experts. In this regard, Fujitsu ran two
briefing days with experts from Imperial College London at Fujitsu's offices in
Bracknell to assist them in understanding technically how Horizon worked.
These briefing days would have been attended by either Mr Godeseth or Mr

Jenkins. I believe the POL project manager running the project was Jeff Burke.

Page 17 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

43. In relation to why POL were instructing new experts, I recall that POL no longer
wished to use Fujitsu as an expert witness due to concerns that there may be
a conflict of interest, but I cannot recall where this understanding came from. I
believe that the work around the instruction of Imperial College London was

eventually cancelled but I was not told why.

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS DURING THE 2012 - 2016 PERIOD

44. My impression from speaking with people within POL during this time was that
POL wanted the complaints regarding Horizon to go away so they could
concentrate on their other business priorities. I recall this sentiment being
discussed by Ms Vennells at a townhall meeting with POL employees around
the time POL instructed Second Sight. I cannot recall any further details about

this meeting but I do recall that it was early on in Ms Vennells’ tenure as CEO.

45. POL’s other main business priorities at that time included, (i) the separation
from Royal Mail, (ii) improving their balance sheet by introducing more products,
and (iii) reducing costs by implementing programs such as the SIAM (Service
Integrator) procurement. This procurement process involved retendering all
aspects of the Horizon service, including a replacement for the Horizon
software. Fujitsu withdrew from this process and a replacement was to be built
by IBM. Fujitsu cooperated fully with POL and IBM on the design of the
replacement during this period, which ran into difficulty and was eventually
cancelled. The Fujitsu contract for the provision of Horizon was therefore
extended. I believe this replacement system was seen as part of the POL

strategy to make the problem go away.

46. I never encountered any reluctance from within Fujitsu during this time in
Page 18 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

relation to supplying information to POL.

PROJECT BRAMBLE

47. The Inquiry has asked me to summarise my understanding of the support and
services provided by Fujitsu to POL, and the nature and extent of my own
involvement in the provision of such support and services, in relation to the work

undertaken by Deloitte in relation to Project Bramble.

48. My understanding of Project Bramble was that it was an investigation into
Horizon to show whether any of the allegations raised by postmasters against
the system were correct or not. From conversations at the time, I presumed that
the Deloitte work was feeding into the work of WBD, but I was not officially told

this and I never saw any terms of reference in relation to Project Bramble.

49. Once Fujitsu senior management had agreed to participate in this activity, I was
asked to run a virtual team to respond to questions put to Fujitsu by Deloitte.
This involved many different technical experts, as well as the POA Document
Manager, Mr Lenton, attending workshops with Deloitte on particular aspects
of the software and providing technical documentation or further answers to
follow-up queries as appropriate. I also attended most of these workshops in

order to coordinate any further work required.

50. With regards to Fujitsu’s assistance in respect of Project Bramble, the Inquiry
has asked me to consider a number of documents. These documents are

addressed in turn below:

a. FUJ00186941, an internal Fujitsu email from me to a colleague on 21
July 2016 regarding super users. I was updating a colleague on a

Page 19 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

conversation I had with POL in relation to the topic.

. FUJ00179032, an internal Fujitsu email chain dating between 19 and 23
August 2016, containing a draft response to Deloitte in relation to the
potential expansion of the scope of Deloitte’s work to cover Legacy
Horizon as well as HNG-X. The email shows me seeking comments from
technical expert, Mr Godeseth on the content of the response. I also
asked how POL wanted to proceed. We were not instructed to proceed

with this activity.

. FUJ00087243, an email chain between Fujitsu, Deloitte and POL dating
between 5 and 14 June 2017 regarding privileged user reports. In the
email chain, I am coordinating responses between POL and Mr
Godeseth who was away. I seem to remember that the questions were
later answered by Mr Godeseth after a face-to-face meeting with POL
when he was visiting their office on other matters. I do not believe I

attended this meeting.

. FUJ00219605, an internal Fujitsu email chain dating between 9 and 11
January 2018 regarding an “extremely serious” Peak that was not “being
given the attention it deserves”. This concern was forwarded to me in the
context of Project Bramble, which I believe was done in order to raise
the profile of the Peak internally. I was then involved in making phone
calls to emphasise the importance of the issue. In my role, issues were
often brought to my attention because my colleagues knew I would
progress matters further. I do not recall any further involvement in this

matter or the outcome of the investigation.

Page 20 of 46
51.

52.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

The only protracted new issue Deloitte uncovered is explained in an email
exchange between Deloitte and Fujitsu dated 5 to 14 June 2017, and relates to
a programme that Deloitte had written that enabled log off data to be deleted
from the audit archive. Mr Godeseth explains in his emails of 9 June 2017 and
13 June 2017 (which I sent on his behalf) why he did not consider the
programme to be problematic (FUJ00087243). My understanding at the time
was that the actions suggested by Deloitte required substantial access to the
system at multiple levels and required more knowledge than any one person
within Fujitsu would have held and, accordingly, it was decided that nothing

needed to be done operationally to address the finding.

In my role, I had no first-hand knowledge of the process involved regarding
remote access, but I have seen documentation and discussed the issue with
technically qualified colleagues. At the time, my understanding of remote
access auditability and the Core Audit Process was formed by a document
authored by Mr Jenkins on 7 April 2017 titled ‘Database Security in Horizon
Online’ (FUJ00087235). This document was where my belief of the following

matters was derived from:

a. the Core Audit Process should have been a record of all auditable
messages sent from the counters at the branch to the Horizon data

centre, including all transactions;

b. any Horizon errors (either created by the system or by human error)
should have appeared in the Core Audit Process and extracted ARQ

Data;

c. any transaction inserted remotely which impacted postmaster accounts

Page 21 of 46
53.

54.

55.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

should have been visible to the postmaster in the branch; and

d. the transaction should also have been visible in the Core Audit Process

and extracted ARQ Data.

To the extent any erroneous transactions were identified in the ARQ Data they
could then be checked by a Fujitsu expert and a full investigation undertaken if

requested by POL.

However, in preparing my statement I have been provided with copies of the
following documents: (i) Fujitsu’s Phase 3 Closing Submissions
(SUBS0000025), (ii) Fujitsu’s Phase 4 Closing Submissions (SUBS0000026),
and (iii) Fujitsu’s Third Corporate Statement (WITNO6650300). In reviewing

these documents, I now understand the following:

a. Whilst processes and controls surrounding the use of remote access
should have ensured that any activity undertaken remotely was visible
as such in the Core Audit Process, there is no guarantee that those

processes were followed; and

b. There have been issues throughout the life of Horizon with the Core

Audit Process and the ARQ Data extracted from it.

I was not aware of either of these matters until the preparation of this statement.
My understanding is, however, that a problem in the Core Audit Process would
not affect the balance in a postmaster’s live accounts. Instead, problems in the
Core Audit Process could have the potential to affect the ARQ Data used to
conduct investigations into any deficit. My belief at the time was that any issues

with transactions at a branch would appear in that ARQ Data.

Page 22 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

56. In relation to the topic of remote access in particular, at no point during my time
on the POA did I see evidence to suggest that remote access powers were
used by Fujitsu support teams for nefarious purposes. Nor from my experience
of working with people in the relevant support teams do I believe those who had

the necessary powers would have used them for any reason other than to help.

THE GLO PROCEEDINGS

57. The Inquiry has asked me to summarise my understanding of the support and
services provided by Fujitsu to POL, and the nature and extent of my own
involvement in the provision of such support and services, in relation to POL’s
defence of the GLO Proceedings. In this regard, Fujitsu agreed to provide POL
with, (i) information and answers to any questions, to the extent it had the
knowledge and resources to do so, and (ii) access to subject matter experts.
This included the provision of technical documentation as and when requested
by POL as part of the disclosure process. I oversaw the process, but the POA
Document Manager, Mr Lenton, completed the process. As detailed further
below, I also attended many of the court hearings during the Horizon issues trial

as a Fujitsu representative.

58. Notwithstanding the above, Fujitsu did not have any involvement in planning

the legal strategy with POL or their legal advisors, WBD.

59. With regards to the nature and extent of my involvement in the GLO
Proceedings, I was asked as part of my role as POA Account Manager to
oversee Fujitsu’s responses to any questions asked by POL or WBD. Only
when preparation for the Horizon issues trial started and Fujitsu became more

involved did I come to understand that these responses related to POL’s

Page 23 of 46
60.

61.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

disclosure in the GLO Proceedings. The extent of disclosure only became clear
as the POL and Claimants experts and legal advisors made Fujitsu and my
team in particular aware. I do not recall any discussions taking place with POL
or WBD in relation to POL’s disclosure obligations in the GLO Proceedings or
the expectations of Fujitsu in assisting POL in its disclosure. With the benefit of
hindsight, I would have liked to have been briefed better on the GLO
Proceedings, especially around disclosure and what it entailed. If I had received
such a briefing, I would hopefully then have been able to secure more resources

from Fujitsu to improve our capacity.

I was also involved as Fujitsu's representative in the process of selecting POL’s
expert witness in the GLO Proceedings. My main role was to check whether, (i)
Fujitsu had any experience with the candidates, and (ii) there was a preference
in respect of any of the candidates. The Fujitsu preferred candidate was not
available due to other commitments. Dr Robert Worden was Fujitsu’s second

preference, but the decision was ultimately made by POL and WBD.

In general, I did not encounter any reluctance from within Fujitsu in relation to
supplying information to POL either in the form of technical documents or in
relation to the provision of records from support systems. In an early meeting
with Fujitsu Legal, they mirrored my position that we had nothing to hide and
should give truthful answers to all questions. There was nevertheless some
nervousness within Fujitsu around the risks of disclosing technical and support
documents. The reasons for this nervousness are generally as laid out in my

email to WBD on 30 January 2013 (FUJ00219761). Namely:

a. The disclosure of certain technical information which could be used by

Page 24 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

hackers to better understand the system and disrupt the service.

b. A very minor concern on the content of support system databases was
that these were internal systems for recording and investigating issues,
with free text fields to be filled in by support staff. I remember one
example of an inappropriate comment being made about the abilities of
a postmaster in one of the KELs shown during a demonstration to the
experts in the GLO Proceedings, which I discuss in more detail below.
This would be embarrassing for the individual who made the comment
and Fujitsu but would not affect the legitimacy or accuracy of the support

process itself.

c. There were also the commercial considerations, particularly around
Fujitsu's competitors being able to see its service processes and system
design principles, which could disadvantage Fujitsu in future

procurements.

d. The POA was staffed to deliver the service as contracted. In particular,
the burden of the extra man hours required to produce documents whilst
ensuring (i) the live system was running, or (ii) developing new
components or required changes to strict deadlines. Fujitsu was paid for
its work regarding Deloitte and Second Sight, but it was not paid for its
work in the GLO Proceedings, and so it needed to rely on existing

resources.

62. As part of my role, I also attended many of the court hearings, to be on hand
either to answer questions that came up during cross examination that might

require input from Fujitsu, or to contact relevant subject matter expert to seek

Page 25 of 46
63.

64.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

their input. Due to the timescales imposed and the need to consult relevant
subject matter experts, this was often challenging, and timescales were not
always met. I was also concerned that having no access to the generator of the
question meant that it was not always possible to provide qualifying statements

as to the accuracy of responses.

In relation to my attendance at court for the GLO Proceedings, the Inquiry has
referred me to an email exchange between myself and Jonathan Gribben of
WBD dating from 2 to 4 April 2019 (FUJ00164802). In the email exchange, at
8:50PM the evening before the 3 April 2019 hearing, Mr Gribben asks that I do
not attend the hearing the following day as POL wanted “to keep attendance to
a minimum’. I did in fact attend the hearing on 3 April 2019 and noted in my
response to Mr Gribben on 4 April 2019 that I had done so. I then offered to
“discuss reasons later if desired’. The Inquiry has asked me to provide those
reasons. My recollection of this was that POL senior management would be in
attendance on that day, and so I would not be able to use the POL breakout
room like I normally did. I was already at the court building when I picked up the
email, so I sat in the back of the hearing room for the day and did not use the

breakout room

The Inquiry has asked how Fujitsu searched for and provided information and/or
documentation to POL in relation to BEDs or remote access for the purpose of
the GLO Proceedings. Relevant technical documents were supplied to POL as
part of the disclosure of all documents from the Fujitsu Dimensions database
early on in preparation for the GLO Proceedings. Records from our operational

support systems were then provided as described in the following section of this

Page 26 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

statement.

65. Documentation relating to monthly service reporting was also provided. By way
of background in this regard, every month the POA service delivery team
reported to the POL service delivery team on the current state of the services
provided by Fujitsu to POL. From memory, these reports would include (i)
metrics on Fujitsu's performance against contractual service levels, (ii) updates
on software maintenance releases (these would include updates to proprietary
software, for example, Microsoft or Oracle), and (iii) any current issues with the
software such as BEDs and any scheduled fixes. I recall that WBD (following a
verbal conversation with me) contacted Mr Lenton to request the reports. I
believe these were then supplied to WBD, some of which were on the POA
intranet site. I cannot recall how many of the reports we were able to supply or

the date we were able to supply the reports from.
Disclosure of KELs

66. Following questions from POL’s expert, Jason Coyne around Peak and KELs,
I became aware of the need for the parties to see operational support
documents. I arranged for demonstrations to be provided to both expert
witnesses, including with a POL representative, in relation to how to complete
the daily cash balance. Each expert had their own demonstration, based on
search parameters provided to us by each expert, and were offered further
demonstrations. We also, (i) offered the experts access to the live operational
support systems and for them to choose the records they wanted from there,
and (ii) provided printouts of all the KELs the experts had chosen to see. Instead

of direct access to the live support system, Mr Coyne asked that the whole KEL

Page 27 of 46
67.

68.

69.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

database be disclosed, so that the experts could interrogate it in their own time.

In addition to the demonstrations, the expert witnesses and _ legal
representatives in the GLO Proceedings were taken through a presentation by
myself and Mr Godeseth entitled ‘Horizon Core Audit Process’. The Inquiry has
provided me with a copy of this presentation dating from 8 March 2018
(FUJ00087658). As this was a technical presentation, Mr Godeseth did most of
the drafting, but my name was also on the presentation as I did some of the
presenting. This is an iteration of a presentation I saw for the first time in 2012
which was often called the ‘sheep dip’. It was given this name as it was used to
induct any Fujitsu or POL members of staff who became involved work relating
to the Core Audit Process. I separately recall that, in around 2013 — the period
when POL was selecting a new expert, Mr Davidson gave this presentation to

Jarnail Singh and Patrick Bourke of POL. I was in attendance at this meeting.

In relation to the disclosure of the KEL database, the Inquiry has referred me to
an email from myself to my Fujitsu colleague, Steve Bansal, on 17 January
2018 in response to a request from WBD as to any technical limitations there
might be in extracting all KELs from the database for onward disclosure to the
experts (FUJ00219629). In my email, I note to Mr Bansal that “/ really don’t want
to supply all the KELs information and we need to build an argument as to why

not.” The Inquiry has asked me to explain why I made this comment.

As described above in relation to FUJ00219761, there was initially some
nervousness within Fujitsu surrounding the disclosure of the KEL database.
The reasons for this nervousness included, (i) the proprietary nature of the KEL

database and its use by accounts outside of the POA domain, (ii) the cyber

Page 28 of 46
70.

71.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

security of the system and whether it would be compromised if all KELs were
released, and (iii) the operational cost and availability of bandwidth of key
support staff required to complete the extraction whilst also fulfilling their day-
to-day support function. This was the reason for the email from Stephen Parker
on 10 January 2018 listing the current workload of the support team as an
indicator of the pressure on his team and how it would be difficult to take on
more work in the short term and only in the medium term with an increase in
resources (FUJ00219600). Mr Bansal, the recipient of my email on 17 January
2018, managed Mr Parker and the SSC support team and I wanted his advice

before responding to WBD (FUJ00219629).

As was shown in the meetings with the expert witnesses and the offer of further
meetings, neither I nor Fujitsu had any issue with revealing the contents of the
KELs. Once Fujitsu’s concerns were mitigated through non-disclosure
agreements (“NDAs”) and agreements that URLs would be redacted from
technical and support documents if referred to in court, documents from the live
KEL database were provided to both experts. Records from the Peak,

OCP/OCR and MSC databases were provided to the experts at their request.

Ata later date, Fujitsu received a request for a KEL from early in the lifetime of
Horizon. Although no longer stored within the live KEL database, a member of
the Fujitsu support team ran a standard query language search (SQL search)
across the whole data store available to the support teams, to see if an archived
copy of the KEL was available. It was as a result of this search that a previously
undocumented archive containing some retired KELs was identified. Once

discovered, these KELs were supplied to all relevant parties with an explanation

Page 29 of 46
72.

73.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

of why they did not form part of the original disclosure of KELs.

In this regard, the Inquiry has referred me to a letter from WBD to the claimants’
legal representatives in the GLO Proceedings, Freeths, dated 25 October 2019,
which relates to the disclosure of KELs (the WBD KEL Letter’) (FUJ00167332).

The WBD KEL Letter refers to a call between WBD and Fujitsu on 30 November
2017. The Fujitsu attendees on this call are recorded to be me, Mr Lenton and
Chris Jay, a member of Fujitsu’s inhouse legal team. Neither me, Mr Lenton or
Mr Jay have a technical background, neither did we have a technical

understanding of the KEL database or how it has been archived over time. The
WBD KEL Letter notes that, ‘[wJe believe that one of the Fujitsu attendees stated
that previous entries or versions of KELs were no longer available’ This

statement likely came from me, as I had only remembered about the live versions
of the KELs. I did not recall that the previous versions of KELs were retired.
Instead, I had assumed that this meant no longer available at all, not just no
longer available to the live users of the KEL database. This error is regrettable
as, on 3 November 2017, I had set out the correct position in respect of retired

KELs in an email to WBD (FUJ00170670).

The WBD KEL Letter then notes that “foJn 6 December 2017, a draft of the Fujitsu
section of the EDQ still containing the relevant statement was sent to the three
Fujitsu employees who had attended the conference call of 30 November 2017,
and they were asked to confirm its accuracy. In respaise, Matthew Lenton of
Fujitsu made a number of comments on the draft later that day, but he did not
comment on or query the relevant statement’ It is again regrettable that the error

was not picked up at this point. Wih the benefit of hindsight, a subject matter

Page 30 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

expert should have been in attendance on the 30 November 2017 call and,
similarly, I should have checked the contents of the electronic disclosure
questionnaire (‘EDQ’) with a subject matter expert before comments were
provided to WBD. As soon as the error was discovered, the relevant KELs were

supplied to WBD.

74. Other than the call on 30 November 2017 and Mr Lenton’s review of the EDQ,
I do not recall Fujitsu having any further involvement in the preparation of POL’s
EDQ. The Inquiry has also asked me to explain the nature and extent of
Fujitsu's involvement in assisting POL with information relevant to completing

its disclosure list. This is not a term that I recognise.

Fujitsu Witness Statements

75. — Thechoice of witnesses for the Horizon element GLO Proceedings was decided
by POL/WBD. Fujitsu suggested that Mr Jenkins should be a witness, but
Andrew Parsons from WBD informed me they did not want to use Mr Jenkins.
A reason was not given at the time, but I later discovered from Anthony de Garr
Robinson KC in the breakout room of the court during the GLO Proceedings
that Mr Jenkins was not called to give evidence as POL wanted to avoid
questions about his involvement in historic prosecutions. I recall verbally raising
this with Mr Jay. Mr Parker was not originally included as a witness, but WBD
informed Fujitsu that they wanted a member of the support team to be involved.
In phone calls with me, Mr Parker expressed his reluctance to be a witness, as
he had seen the process before, including (i) the production of other Fujitsu
witness statements in the GLO Proceedings, and (ii) the pressure that Fujitsu

witnesses felt under. Mr Parsons from WBD informed me they would subpoena

Page 31 of 46
76.

77.

78.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

Mr Parker if he did not agree to take part voluntarily. At this point, I took advice
from Mr Jay from Fujitsu Legal, who informed me that POL did have the right to
do this. On that basis, I reluctantly persuaded Mr Parker to agree to be a

witness.

In relation to the preparation of the Fujitsu witness statements in the GLO
Proceedings, the Inquiry has referred me to an email exchange between myself,
David Barker of Pinsent Masons and Mr Jay dating from 26 March 2019 to
2 April 2019 (FUJ00203794). In the email chain, I set out my concerns in
relation to how Fujitsu’s witness statements in the GLO Proceedings had been
prepared, noting in particular that “/t/he main problem was with witness
statements they were written by the lawyers and the witnesses had to be very
strong to get them changed’. The Inquiry has asked me to explain what I meant

by this.

Having not been involved in the production of witness statements before, I did
not know that the normal process was for witnesses to produce statements in
their own words, normally in response to questions. My memory is that the
Fujitsu witness statements in the GLO Proceedings were prepared for the
witnesses by WBD as part of their legal strategy, with the content based on
documents or answers that had been given previously. This was particularly
problematic in Mr Godeseth’s witness statement, which included passages
based on Mr Jenkins’ Legacy Horizon background and not Mr Godeseth’s own
knowledge. Mr Godeseth did not know that area of the system as well or in as

much detail as Mr Jenkins.

I reviewed the witness statements from a business and context perspective and

Page 32 of 46
79.

80.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

ensured that Fujitsu Legal also signed-off on the witness statements unless, (i)
changes to a previously approved draft were minor, or (ii) no Legal
representative was available in the time necessary to hit the deadline from

WBD.

The Inquiry has asked me to set out my understanding as to why it was
necessary to make corrections to the Fujitsu witness statements in the GLO
Proceedings, and in particular to the witness statements of Mr Parker. As
described above, the Fujitsu witness statements were drafted and provided to
witnesses by WBD often within tight time constraints. WBD then applied
pressure to those witnesses to meet those tight deadlines. In certain cases, the
witness statements covered areas that were not part of the witness’ core
knowledge. In light of this approach, mistakes came to light after certain witness

statements were submitted which then had to be rectified.

Whilst I have not examined all the corrections made to Fujitsu witness
statements in the GLO Proceedings, as they were not provided to me by the
Inquiry as part of the Request, I have been provided with the corrections to Mr
Parker's witness statements by Morrison Foerster at my request. My memory
on corrections to witness statements is that most were due to minor errors in
either references or descriptions which were not succinct enough, (see, for
example, the correction to paragraph 29 of Mr Parker's second witness
statement (FUJ00083837)). The Inquiry has, however, asked me to explain my
understanding as to why the position described in Mr Parker's second and third
witness statements had not been set out by Fujitsu at an earlier stage. I believe

this was likely to be due to, (i) the length of time that had passed since the

Page 33 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

support teams at Fujitsu had supported Legacy Horizon, (ii) the benefit of
additional discussions with Fujitsu colleagues as the GLO Proceedings
progressed, and (iii) the benefit of additional research and KEL searches as the

GLO Proceedings progressed.

Fujitsu’s Approach to the GLO Proceedings

81. In each case, the team at Fujitsu sought to provide all documents relevant to
the questions and requests received in the time available. Fujitsu offered
access to subject matter experts to explain the contents of responses and
documents when required. Fujitsu also assisted in applying appropriate
redactions to any URLs or other sensitive information if documents that might
pose cyber security risks to Horizon were being used in court. We also had
NDAs in place with all expert witnesses and legal teams so that matters relating
to Horizon could be discussed fully and so that those involved in the GLO
Proceedings could access documentation in its native and unredacted form.
Most of our issues were around the provision of live information from systems
that remained in live use by Fujitsu. These issues are discussed in the context

of the KEL database above.

82. From a senior management perspective in Fujitsu, I never had any reluctance
to engage in the process except around managing the commercial cost of either
the GLO Proceedings or Project Bramble. By way of background in this regard,
from 2012 the relationship between Fujitsu and POL had up and down periods.
This was mainly around Fujitsu's contract coming towards its end and a
competitive bidding process for each component being let under a towers model

overseen by a Service Integrator. For part of the period after Fujitsu pulled out

Page 34 of 46
83.

84.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

of the software tower bidding process, Fujitsu was an exiting supplier. This put
particular focus on all non-contractual obligations to be funded by POL. When
the IBM replacement for Horizon failed, and Fujitsu’s contract with POL was
extended, members of the POA sometimes found it difficult to adjust. I think this
was the sentiment behind the “first 30 days” presentation dated 8 May 2016,
which the Inquiry has referred me to (FUJ00175310). I vaguely remember this
presentation, but I had no part in the preparation of the pesentation and can only
infer from the content what the purpose was.I seem to recall that the presentation
was given by Pete Thompson, POA Operations Director, at a management

meeting.

In my experience, subject matter experts are generally cautious in sharing
information and answering questions in the context of legal proceedings, partly
due to (i) the fear of providing an incorrect answer to a question, (ii) this type of
activity is generally outside of their comfort zone, and (iii) they are quite often
very technically orientated. Later in the process, the experiences of witnesses

from Fujitsu in the GLO Proceedings made people very wary of getting involved.

The Inquiry has referred me to an email chain between WBD and Fujitsu
(including me) and later WBD and POL dating between 29 August 2018 and
13 September 2018. The email summarises and discusses the “current status
of our various work streams” and sets out “some requested additional actions”
(POL00111126). The Inquiry has asked for my views in relation to the issues
being discussed. Whilst I do not think I am qualified to answer questions on the
technical detail of the user logs information provided, I am able to comment on

the history of Horizon changes in relation to which I participate in the email

Page 35 of 46
85.

86.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

chain. In this regard, WBD had requested “a written narrative of how Horizon
has evolved. What are the key milestones and events in that evolution? When
were major changes made and why? Ideally, this will be cross referenced to the
key releases. The experts need this background contextual information to set
the foundation for their reports. What I have in mind is a 10-20 page written

document setting out, as best as someone can remember, the story of Horizon’.

Whilst Fujitsu had available some high-level milestone diagrams, these were
deemed not to be detailed enough. I then found it difficult to identify a resource
who could put together document with the type of detail required, as the
individual would, (i) need to know what business changes each release
covered, and (ii) either have been involved from the start of Horizon or have
completed a detailed review of all the change documents to understand the
major changes to the system. It was my view that there were POL staff
members who were in a far better position to complete the document in the
delivery timescale. It appears from the email chain provided by the Inquiry that

POL did in fact produce the document requested within a number of days.

The Inquiry has also referred me to an email from Mr Jay of Fujitsu Legal to me
and a number of my Fujitsu technical colleagues who were involved in Fujitsu’s
assistance in the GLO Proceedings dated 8 February 2018 (FUJ00219881). In
his email, Mr Jay asks the recipients to use the “Legally Privileged and
Confidential Communication” wording in the subject line of their emails on the
GLO Proceedings and Project Bramble. The Inquiry has asked me in particular
about the line in Mr Jay’s email that reads “[aJs a reminder, any area of self-

criticism is best not put into written form (as it constitutes a legal “shooting

Page 36 of 46
87.

88.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

ourselves in the foot”) should this go to litigation and be discovered by the

Plaintiffs lawyers in the course of the litigation process’.

I seem to remember that this email was sent after a meeting with the Support
Team in this context. As is required for their role, the support team were lively
and inquisitive and kept up with developments in Computer Weekly and other
publications on the allegations surrounding Horizon. I recall that a number of
questions were raised in the meeting and a debate of the issue took place with
people’s opinions being expressed. Based on my memory of my conversation
with Mr Jay at the time, the reason for the statement was so that, when the team
were producing emails to answer the questions put to them by POL, Mr Jay
asked that the team did not to speculate as to why they were being asked or
record their opinion as to the implications of the questions and answers for
Fujitsu. During my time at Fujitsu, communications between colleagues were
generally candid and at times reflected the teams’ frustrations. During the GLO
Proceedings, there was a sense that certain documents and information were
being misinterpreted or misreported. Mr Jay’s email was to warn colleagues

about the risks of committing these frustrations to writing.

On the whole, my opinion is that the documentation and information supplied to
POL during both the 2012 — 2016 period and the GLO Proceedings was
adequate. The exception being the specific remote access available to Fujitsu
in the Legacy Horizon system. I think my error in this case was not asking
members of the support teams to provide their interpretation of the extent of
remote access, as they had most of the staff who remembered how the support

service was in operation at that time, but instead sticking to the available

Page 37 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

documentation and the architects involved in the system. It may have been that
I did not ask the correct questions allied with not understanding the high-level

Legacy Horizon architecture as well as I understood the HNG-X version.

CCRC REFERRAL

89. The Inquiry has asked me to set out my understanding of POL’s role in
prosecuting postmasters for theft and false accounting and to describe my role
in relation to, (i) the nature and extent of my involvement in criminal
investigations and prosecutions conducted by POL, and (ii) liaising with the

CCRC.

90. In relation to POL’s role in the prosecution of postmasters, I understand the
franchise model employed by POL to be unusual in that POL supplies all UK
and foreign cash and value stock required to operate a post office. In order to
show proper control of these government funds, I understand that POL would
identify branches that appeared to have unusual behaviour, such as an
increase in orders of cash without a change in turnover, to identify branches
that may have a discrepancy between their physical cash or stock holdings in

branch as compared to those stated in Horizon.

91. IMy understanding now is that POL had the ability to bring criminal prosecutions
without reference to the Police or CPS on the basis of information from their
own Audit and Fraud teams. I became aware of POL’s ability to bring criminal
prosecutions in its own name around the time of the Mediation Scheme. It was
not something I was aware of whilst I was on secondment at POL; I had heard
about prosecutions whilst I was there, but I did not know they were not using

the police or CPS.

Page 38 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

92. I was not involved in either the decisions to prosecute postmasters or in the
prosecution process itself. My understanding of Fujitsu’s involvement in the
prosecution process, both before and during my time on the POA, was that
Fujitsu provided ARQ Data and any support call logs during the period being
investigated, with a witness statement to state that the data had been returned
as per the agreed specification. In some cases, POL would ask for support
interpreting this data, which sometimes resulted in a technical expert offering
expert witness support on the data extract for the specific branch with reference
to the wider Horizon software. I cannot recall whether this service ended during
my time on the POA, but I was aware that the intention was for Imperial College

London to replace that service.

93. In relation to the CCRC, Mark Wright of Fujitsu and I met with representatives
from the CCRC and POL at Fujitsu's offices in Bracknell on 14 March 2018.
This meeting is summarised in an email from Mr Underwood of POL to Mr
Williams and Jane MacLeod of POL the same day (POL00110889) and
involved a demonstration of Horizon, similar to the one we gave to the experts
in the GLO Proceedings. This was the only meeting I had with the CCRC, and
I do not recall having any further direct contact with them. That being said, I was
also involved in coordinating answers from subject matter experts in relation to
questions from the CCRC, which were provided to us via POL (generally Mr

Underwood).

GENERAL

94. After listening and reading some of the stories of the hardship suffered by

postmasters, I would like to say that I am sorry for the hardship caused by the

Page 39 of 46
95.

96.

97.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

prosecutions. Operating a post office branch is complex, the operating manual
alone is several inches thick, so I would have hoped that any issues in a branch
would have been treated sympathetically when trying to establish the reason
for any discrepancy. It seems from the testimony of then postmasters that this

was all too often not the case.

In my opinion, Fujitsu could have been more help in directing POL in their public
statements on Horizon, particularly on remote access. This is a confusing
subject, as the answer is different for the two main iterations of Horizon. Fujitsu
should have been clearer in its communications with POL on remote access as
to which iteration of Horizon the information related to. The position surrounding
remote access is complex, and an explanation regarding the process for
inserting transactions from outside a branch by POL would have been much
better and more accurate than a simple statement on remote access not being

possible.

At the beginning, Fujitsu thought the postmaster complaints could be solved by
supporting POL from a technical perspective. A joint virtual team of POL and
Fujitsu technical experts should have been engaged to ensure that any
materials or information used for any external communications to postmasters,
MPs and journalists were not provided without the right context. To support this,
it would have been useful if senior individuals from POL and Fujitsu were given
responsibility to oversee the developing issue. I am sure this was difficult for
most of the period concerned due to the commercial imperatives on both sides,

particularly when tendering and responding to the POL Towers procurement.

To my knowledge, Fujitsu never claimed the system was infallible, but did assert

Page 40 of 46
98.

99.

WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

it was robust. Until the preparation of this statement, my opinion had always
been that the Core Audit Process had been shown through numerous system
audits and reviews by both appointed experts in the GLO Proceedings to be
robust. The Core Audit Process was intended to be key in supporting POL’s
investigations into branch discrepancies and any court process, due to the
nature of its collection and security of storage. On a day-to-day basis all of this
Core Audit Process data and further contextual information was available to the
support teams to assist them in investigating issues. In the process of preparing
this statement, I have been shown documents that indicate some errors in the
Core Audit Process but, in my opinion, they do not invalidate the usefulness of

the data it stores.

My main thought now is how an issue like this can be avoided in the future, not
just with Horizon but with any subsequent replacement solution. Unless the
POL franchise model changes to one where postmasters provide the cash in
branch, the need to ensure that money is used for the purpose it was intended

still lies with POL.

I still think what actually caused the losses in individual branches needs more
scrutiny as, from my experience, it seems unlikely that Horizon was the sole
cause. My strong belief is that the Horizon software was only one of the possible
reasons for the losses experienced by postmasters. In addition to BEDs in
Horizon, losses could also have been generated from manual processes,
issues in other POL systems and cash centre processes. These processes
include, by way of example based on my own knowledge and experience, (i)

cheques reconciliation process, (ii) cash transfers in and out of branch and the

Page 41 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

associated equipment, (iii) the cash machines and ATM processes, (iv) foreign
currency transfers, (v) Camelot and the National Lottery, (vi) POLSAP and (vii)
the operation of the suspense account before the Impact Programme. I am sure

there are others. Of particular note:

a. The possibility of discrepancies arising out of the cheques reconciliation
process was discussed between employees in the POL P&BA team

whilst I was on secondment to POL’s Chesterfield office.

b. I was involved in upgrades to the SAP/POLSAP system, which
generated the transaction corrections sent across to Horizon. These
upgrades were aimed at reducing the number of discrepancies in branch
accounts. This system in and of itself was another potential cause of

discrepancies.

100. I believe that the topic of other potential causes of losses was discussed during
the meeting described above between Mr Davidson, Mr Singh, Mr Bourke and
me in around 2013. Other than in this meeting, I do not recall having any further
discussions about this issue with my colleagues at Fujitsu, and I do not recall
the matter being discussed during the GLO Proceedings. Knowing what we

know now, I would have escalated this matter further.

101. The reported mode of action in the POL Investigation Team would lead me to
suggest that there should have been more due diligence conducted by POL
when investigating discrepancies. This should have included looking at all the
in-branch electronic and manual processes to see if they could have contributed
to the losses. In my view, only once all potential causes of losses have been

investigated, can the full picture be understood.

Page 42 of 46
WITN04580100
WITN04580100

102. My suspicion during the GLO Proceedings was that the reason POL were not

focusing on the Core Audit Process was because they had historically not been

using it properly, something I raised with POL’s barristers in the GLO

Proceedings. It appears that this suspicion has now proven to be true.

Statement of Truth

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Signed: _I

Dated: (2 - Naveulesr Lee }

Page 43 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

INDEX TO THE FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF

MR PETER NEWSOME

URN

Document Description

Control No.

POL00091411

Document titled ‘Chronology of
statements made by Post Office, in
respect of “Remote Access” allegation’

POL-0090433

FUJ00085967

Email chain dated 11 July 2016 with
subject ‘The Dalmellington Error in
Horizon — Problemswithpol’

POINQ0092138F

FUJ00085958

Presentation titled ‘Branch Outreach
Issue (Initial Findings)’ dated 10
December 2015

POINQ0092129F

FUJ00237385

Email chain dated 11 June 2015 with
subject ‘BBC Panorama — Notes from
POL meeting’

POINQ0243490F

FUJ00237455

Email chain last dated 18 June 2015
with subject ‘BBC Panorama interview’

POINQ0243560F

POL00316805

Email chain dated 8 June 2015 with
subject ‘Panorama’

POL-BSFF-0154855

POL00316829

Email chain dated 8 June 2015 with
subject ‘Panorama’

POL-BSFF-0154879

FUJ00087094

Email dated 5 July 2013 with subject
‘Draft report’

POINQ0093265F

FUJ00087093

Document titled ‘V24 — Interim Report
into alleged problems with the Horizon
system’

POINQ0093264F

10.

POL00186387

Email chain dated 19 April 2013 with
subject ‘In Confidence — Second Sight
Update - Bracknell’

POL-BSFF-0024450

11.

FUJ00235322

Email chain dated 30 May 2013 with
subject ‘Audit trail — Branch database’

POINQ0241427F

12.

FUJ00087014

Email chain dated 6 April 2013 with
subject ‘Urgent & In Confidence:
Bracknell Enquiry Clarity From Second
Sight’

POINQ0093185F

13.

POL00029603

Document titled ‘Notes from Second
Sight / Post Office meeting 12 June
2013 regarding SROOS’

POL-0026085

14.

FUJ00235390

Email chain dated 13 June 2013 with
subject ‘In Confidence — Spot Review 5
Discussion’

POINQ0241495F

15.

FUJ00087065

Email chain dated 19 June 2013 with
subject ‘Re SROOS’

POINQ0093236F

16.

FUJ00236264

Email chain dated 15 April 2014 with
subject ‘Docs related to SROOS’

POINQ0242369F

17.

FUJ00087174

Document titled ‘Fujitsu’s comments on

POINQ0093345F

Page 44 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

Exhibit
No.

URN

Document Description

Control No.

Second Sight Briefing Report — Part
Two’, dated 15 September 2014.

18.

FUJ00087175

Email from dated 21 December 2015
with subject ‘presentation — Strictly
Private & Confidential — Subject to
Legal Privilege’

POINQ0093346F

19.

FUJ00238269

Email chain dated 4 January 2016 with
subject ‘Strictly private & confidential —
subject to legal privilege’

POINQ0244374F

20.

FUJ00087 142

Email chain dated 30 January 2015
with subject ‘URGENT ACTION:
Accessing Horizon’

POINQ0093313F

21.

POL00139589

Document titled ‘27.04.2016 —
Wednesday Call IT related issues’

POL-0136020

22.

POL00148311

Email chain dated 13 May 2014 with
subject ‘progress update’

POL-BSFF-0007434

23.

POL00028062

Deloitte report titled ‘Horizon: Desktop
Review of Assurance Sources and Key
Control Features’ dated 23 May 2014

POL-0023065

24.

POL00127278

Deloitte report titled ‘Board Briefing —
Document, further to our report
“Horizon: Desktop review of assurance
sources and key control features” dated
23/5/14, responding to five specific
matters identified by POL as critical to
POL’s legal position’, dated 4 June
2014

POL-0132417

25.

POL00103010

Document titled ‘Jonathan Swift QC
and Christopher Knight: Meetings on
14/12/2015 at Finsbury Dials’

POL-0102593

26.

POL00237754

Email chain dated 22 December 2015
with subject ‘Presentation — strictly
private & confidential — subject to legal
privilege’

POL-BSFF-0075817

27.

FUJ00186941

Email dated 21 July 2016 with subject
‘Super users’

POINQ0192658F

28.

FUJ00179032

Email dated 23 August 2016 with
subject Words on Old Horizon’

POINQ0184743F

29.

FUJ00087243

Email chain dated 14 June 2017 with
subject ‘Privileged users report’

POINQ0093414F

30.

FUJ00219605

Email chain dated 11 January 2018
with subject ‘BRAMBLE: LIVE
PC0265947 Incorrect Balance B/Fwd in
Balance Report’

POINQ0225328F

31.

FUJ00087235

Document titled ‘Database Security in
Horizon Online’ dated 7 April 2017

POINQ0093406F

Page 45 of 46
WITNO04580100
WITN04580100

Exhibit
No.

URN

Document Description

Control No.

32.

SUBS0000025

Phase 3 Closing Submissions on behalf
of Fujitsu Services Limited dated 26
May 2023

SUBS0000025

33.

SUBS0000026

Phase 4 Written Closing Submissions
on behalf of Fujitsu Services Limited
dated 16 February 2024

SUBS0000026

34.

WITNO6650300

Third Corporate Statement on behalf of
Fujitsu Services Limited dated 14
September 2023

WITNO6650300

35.

FUJ00219761

Email chain dated 31 January 2018
with subject ‘legally privileged: Known
error log’

POINQ0225486F

36.

FUJ00164802

Email chain dated 4 April 2019 with
subject ‘court tomorrow’

POINQO170980F

37.

FUJ00087658

Presentation titled ‘Horizon Core Audit
Process’ dated 8 March 2018

POINQ0093829F

38.

FUJ00219629

Email chain dated 17 January 2018
with subject ‘Legally privileged: known
error log’

POINQ0225354F

39.

FUJ00219600

Email dated 10 January 2018 with
subject ‘SSC Monthly POA Snapshot —
Dec 2017’

POINQ0225323F

40.

FUJ00167332

Letter dated 25 October 2019 from
Womble Bond Dickinson to Freeths
regarding the disclosure of KELs

POINQ0173510F

41.

FUJ00170670

Email chain last dated 3 November
2017 with subject ‘Questions on the
KEL’

POINQ0176851F

42.

FUJ00203794

Email chain dated 2 April 2019 with
subject ‘thoughts on the trial so far’

POINQ0209514F

43.

FUJ00083837

Corrections to the Second Witness
Statement of Stephen Paul Parker in
Alan Bates & Others -v- Post Office
Limited

POINQO090008F

44.

FUJ00175310

Presentation titled ‘Post Office Account:
The first 30 days’ dated 8 May 2016

POINQ0181491F

45.

POL00111126

Email chain dated 13 September 2018
with subject ‘PO Group Litigation’

POL-0108732

46.

FUJ00219881

Email chain dated 8 February 2018 with
subject ‘Project Bramble: Bit corruption
wrong format tag — Legally privileged
and confidential communication’

POINQ0225606F

47.

POL00110889

Email chain dated 12 April 2018 with
subject ‘Note of Today’s Meeting with
the CCRC’

POL-0108516

Page 46 of 46
