WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

WITNESS: TERENCE PAUL AUSTIN
WITNESS STATEMENT: WITN04190200
DATE SIGNED: 19 July 2024

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

SECOND WITNESS STATEMENT OF TERENCE PAUL AUSTIN

I, Mr Terence Paul Austin, will say as follows:
INTRODUCTION

1. Following on from my first written statement dated 13 September 2022 and
oral evidence given to the inquiry on 27" October 2022, I would like to
provide an additional statement which aims to clarify some of the
assumptions made and conclusions drawn during Phase 2 and
subsequent phases of the Inquiry.

2. This statement is provided in response to the Rule 9 Request number 1
dated 7 June 2022 for information pursuant to Phase 2 of Inquiry: Horizon

IT System: procurement, design, pilot, roll out and modifications.
UK GOVERNMENT IT SYSTEMS

3. During the 30-year period from the late eighties, the number of UK
Government sponsored IT systems which failed was significant and well

documented. A few examples are as follows:
Child Support System

Page 1 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

Passport Automation System
Magistrates Courts System
Centralised NHS System
E-Borders System

Army Recruitment System
Universal Credit System
Benefits Card System*

Farmers Rural Payment System

All the major IT hardware and software companies throughout the world
were involved at some stage in the development of these systems, and the
long list demonstrates that in many cases the UK Government did not
possess sufficient managerial or technical expertise to ensure successful
delivery. In the case of Horizon, adopting the PFI approach was entirely
inappropriate for a large, complex IT system and this was compounded by
the fact that the DSS/POCL management team did not understand how
this changed the engagement process between the supplier and the
customer. Although this had an enormous impact on the delivery schedule,
the Horizon system was one of only a handful of systems in the nineties
which managed to achieve formal customer acceptance and was
successfully rolled out, despite the appalling history of government
ineptitude.

With the benefit of hindsight, there was an enormous gap between the

what the ICL bid team believed they were being asked to deliver and the

Page 2 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

expectations of the DSS/POCL procurement team. Fundamentally, there
were two ways that an IT system could be procured in the nineties, a
suitable analogy is the process involved in buying a house. One can either
a) buy a house which has already been designed and built to a predefined
specification for a specified price or b) commission an architect/builder to
build a house to your specification for an agreed price and timescale. In
either case, any subsequent changes/additions would be delivered for an
additional cost. To appreciate the gap in understanding between the ICL
Pathway bid team and DSS/POCL is that ICL thought that they were
dealing with option a) above (i.e. an off-the-shelf IT solution) but
DSS/POCL assumed they were working with option b) above, so the two
parties were polls apart. The subsequent position papers by both parties
demonstrated this, see [POL00031117] and [POL00038829].

There are numerous references in documents shown to the Inquiry
claiming that ICL Pathway underestimating the size of the task, and this
was the cause for the delays. I indicated in my first statement that during
the bid phase, there was no detailed functional specification produced by
either the Benefits Agency or Post Office Counters Ltd, there was only a
high-level list of requirements which could be satisfied by a variety of
architectural and functional solutions. The solution submitted by the ICL
Pathway bid team was based on EPOS software initially developed for the
Irish Post Office and enhanced to incorporate benefits payment
functionality. The delivery schedule was based on this system and the only
additional work required at that time was to develop a few small counter

applications and a mechanism to interface with the customer's IT systems.

Page 3 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

ICL Pathway was predominantly an integration team i.e. one which pulled
together systems from several other third parties and provided the
software glue that enabled them to operate as one homogeneous solution.
This system was demonstrated to DSS/POCL personnel on many
occasions during the bid phase and it was clear that this was the solution
that ICL Pathway would deliver if it was awarded the contract. One of the
highest risks on the ICL Pathway risk register at this time was that the
functionality being provided could subsequently be rejected by DSS/POCL
because the list of requirements was defined at such a high level that they
were susceptible to misinterpretation, opinion and subjectivity. So in an
attempt to mitigate this risk, a detailed functional specification of the ICL
Pathway solution was produced and a clause included in the contract
which stated that this specification must be signed off by DSS/POCL within
30 days of the award of the contract. This was never achieved so to all
intents and purposes; DSS/POCL were in breach of contract. Another high
risk was that several critically important facets of the system had not yet
been specified by the DSS/POCL e.g. Security and Audit requirements.
These became known as ‘Agreements to Agree’ which was a strange
concept because once the requirement had eventually been written down
and approved, additional software would have to be developed resulting in
further cost and delays, which is exactly what happened. Effectively, the
system functionality would be incomplete and not operationally viable in
the first few releases of the system and there was no timeframe when

these elements would be developed.

Page 4 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

What all this demonstrates is that DSS/POCL expected the supplier to
submit a fixed price and timescale for a detailed requirement yet to be
specified, a nonsensical expectation and totally at odds with PFI principle
that the supplier provides a packaged solution at their cost and recoups
their investment during the live operational phase. Consequently, any
unforeseen costs or delays during the development stage would impact
the level of revenue the supplier could achieve later. The financial risk
rests entirely with the supplier, and it was for this reason that ICL Pathway
would not allow DSS/POCL to interfere with the development process or
enhance their functional requirement without a change control process.
Effectively it was originally a fixed price contract to deliver a customer
signed off business solution within a specified timeframe. A failure by the
customer teams to appreciate this from the start was the source of much
of the tensions displayed by both parties during the development phase. It
only became a true example of option b) - (see paragraph 3. above) when
the Codified Agreement was signed by Post Office in July 1999
[FUJ00000071], i.e. 3 years after the contract had been awarded and only

a few months before live trial was due to commence.

DSS BEHAVIOUR AND SUBSEQUENT WITHDRAWAL

8.

The subsequent withdrawal of DSS from the contract has little relevance to
the Horizon Inquiry other than to demonstrate that POCL were not
equipped to manage or operate an IT system of this magnitude and
explain why POCL was left to manage and fund the contract on their own.
DSS had taken the lead right from the start and had considerably more

experience with large IT systems. Therefore, it was with some surprise to

Page 5 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

encounter their unwillingness to engage productively at any stage,
especially as the timescales for implementing the first release of the
benefit payments functionality was only months away. I can only speculate
with the benefit of hindsight, that this adversarial behaviour and lack of
cooperation was either because they were a) unable to meet their
contractual obligations leaving themselves open to legal challenge or b)
they had concluded that using the post office network to administer benefit
payments was an expensive option and preferred the ‘social inclusion’
option which ensured that every beneficiary was able to open a bank
account and be paid by bank transfer. The official reason was that delays
to the programme had eroded their business case but in reality, they had
been instrumental in orchestrating this.

Whatever their motives, they would have to find politically acceptable and
financially neutral way of withdrawing from the contract. To do this, they
tried to claim that ICL Pathway had a) not delivered the benefit payment
functionality requested, b) fallen short on the security requirements and c)
not provided the correct data to their IT systems. I believe that they were
also implying that there were issues with data integrity and software
reliability but the evidence from the live trials did not support these claims.
If their action had been successful, it would have resulted in ICL Pathway
writing off millions of pounds in costs. Their action failed because a) they
had not signed off the business functional specification within 30 days as
required and were therefore in breach of contract, b) the Security
Requirement was an ‘agreement to agree’ and had not yet been specified

by the DSS and c) they had not provided the data interface specifications

Page 6 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

for their systems as requested by ICL Pathway. ICL Pathway then
counterclaimed for their sunk costs and loss of subsequent revenue for the
Benefit Payments System (BPS) operate phase. The parties eventually
decided to proceed on a ‘no blame’ basis and Government concluded they
had no choice but to continue with the programme leaving POCL to pick
up the cost but without the benefit of the DSS business. This has been
mentioned several times in witness statements, in some instances referred
to as the DSS/ICL ‘stitch up’ and was the reason for the initial bad feeling

between POCL and ICL.
IT SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT

10. Most people outside the IT Industry have an expectation and perception
that all IT systems are error free. Although this objective, known as ‘zero
defects’ was always the goal to aspire to, it was to my knowledge, never
achieved then, and is not achieved today. Every large IT system will
contain errors for the first few years of its life, some of them serious but the
actual number would depend on the size, complexity and category of the
system involved.

11. It is for this reason that many of the large legacy IT systems are still
running 20 years or more later because 99.9% of the glitches, defects and
errors have been uncovered and fixed and the systems are now very
reliable. Over time a new ‘front end/user interface may have been
developed to bring them up to date and other features enhanced to take
advantage of the latest technology, but the core software remains the
same. I am not able to say one way or the other whether the upgrade from

Horizon Legacy to Horizon Online (HNGx) adopted this approach

Page 7 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

The cost and timescales required to deliver a system is hugely influenced
by the nature of the application. There are those which were categorised
as ‘administrative’ systems, example applications would be retail, banking,
insurance, taxation, utility billing etc and those where the implications of a
serious defect could be catastrophic and/or life-threatening. For example,
applications managing air traffic control, transport signalling, space
programmes, medical diagnostics/treatment, weapon systems etc. The
systems that fell into the latter category would be subjected to
considerably more testing and rigour, requiring far more resources and
time to deliver. In some cases, the time taken would result in the system
being technologically out-of-date by the time it went live. By this I mean
obsolete and unsupportable without special arrangements with the
suppliers because they were based on technical platforms which had since
been superseded. If a system had been categorised in this way, all parties
would have been aware of the additional cost and time implications and
the associated risks right from the bid phase and this was definitely not the
case with the Horizon system. An ‘administrative’ system on the other
hand would be subject to cost and time constraints otherwise they would
be uneconomical to deliver. The original delivery timeframe indicated that
Horizon was very much regarded as an ‘administrative’ application, so it
was inevitable that it would contain known and unknown software faults in
the first few years of operation. Although the consequences of these faults
would not be life threatening, they would nonetheless have serious
financial implications for the organisations involved. Notable examples

over the past 20 years were:

Page 8 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

US Brokerage Knight Capital 2012

NASDAQ Incident 2012

RBS System Crash 2015

HSBC Major outage 2016

TSB Migration Issue 2018

Wales NHS Patient Files Access Failure 2018
Heathrow Check-In System Failure 2020

As far as I can recall, I was never made aware of the fact that the IT
system was to be used to prosecute and potentially imprison post office
staff. Had I known that an accounting glitch could result in post office staff
being prosecuted and imprisoned, I would have responded with incredulity
and disbelief because the risks of a miscarriage of justice would be
considerable. Had this expectation been made clear from the outset, the
solution could no longer be considered an ‘administrative’ system because
the implications of a software fault were potentially catastrophic, so a
different engineering approach would be required. The requirement to
satisfy PACE was seen by my security and audit colleagues simply as a
‘certification’ procedure and not a requirement to produce fault free
software. Personally, I could not see how the PACE criteria for admitting
computer generated documents could ever be satisfied by a large complex
system because one can never be 100% certain that there are no, as yet
undetected errors in the data or the software, irrespective of how much

testing the system is subjected to. I only learnt from the Inquiry that the

Page 9 of 29
14.

15.

WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

requirement to supply audit data (ARQ) to support prosecutions only
emerged 2 years or so after roll-out had commenced. All systems need
time to settle down and any indication that a potential fraud had taken
place should in my opinion always be corroborated by external evidence
and/or manual processes. For example, even today the accepted wisdom
given by industry observers is not to upgrade your personal PC to the next
version of Windows for at least 12 months, to give it time to stabilise, and
that’s a version upgrade not an installation of a completely new system.
The ICL solution, prior to DSS withdrawing from the contract, included a
comprehensive and sophisticated fraud investigation service based on an
Oracle database. This enabled DSS to carry out ‘deep dive’ investigations
into potential cases of fraud. I believe that his facility was offered to POCL
but was rejected on cost grounds. If my memory serves me correctly, the
audit data, that was provided on request from POCL, was raw i.e. it simply
showed what transactions had been recorded at the Till and I would
assume required considerable technical knowledge to interpret.

The nature and size of the post office network and the diversity in the
capabilities of the end user, meant that one of two faults would not come
to light for several years due the huge number of variables. In was not
feasible to create laboratory tests which would prove conclusively that the
system would operate perfectly in a network of 19,500 locations and
40,000 tills, no matter how extensive they were or how often they were
executed. All that would be possible would be to model the different types
of outlets in the network and simulate the transaction traffic. These tests

were followed by a ‘live trial’ involving a limited number of post office

Page 10 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

outlets (circa 200) selected to ensure that all the different types were
represented from small, isolated post offices up to multi-counter crown

offices.

ICL PATHWAY TESTING

16.

There has been considerable speculation surrounding the adequacy of the
ICL Pathway testing strategy even though hundreds of skilled testers were
involved, tens of thousands of hours expended, enormous volumes of
documentation recorded, millions of pounds spent, and countless
hardware/software platforms built and rebuilt. The approach was to slowly
add layers of functionality and gradually build the solution until it became
the complete system running in its live target environment. The objective is
to uncover errors as early as possible in the testing cycle because it is
much less time-consuming and costly to find them in the latter stages.
Individual components of the solution would first be tested in isolation this
was referred to as ‘Unit Testing’, then all the elements of a
product/application would be assembled and tested, this was known as
Link Testing. These early processes used a cut down version of the
hardware configuration and were carried out by the programmers who
developed the software. The next stages were more rigorous and involved
specialist testing teams. Formal test scripts, plans and reports were written
based on the customer's business ‘requirements and the expected results
would be documented. These functional tests would be enhanced as the
system became larger and larger and more complex. The various stages
were known as system testing, business integration testing, end to end

testing, destructive testing (simulating irrational user behaviour), model

Page 11 of 29
17.

WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

post office testing, rehearsals and live trials. In addition to and running
alongside these business functional tests, would be numerous technical
tests designed to verify system performance, scalability, backup and
recovery and the requirements associated with security, audit, data
migration and archiving.

Finally, there was regression testing which was designed to test
enhancements to the business functions and bug fixes, to confirm that
these had not adversely impacted code and functionality which had

already been tested successfully.

USER ACCEPTANCE PROCESS

18.

Acceptance testing was a formal and independently managed process for
verifying that the system had delivered all the business functionality and
was performing in accordance with the technical requirements e.g.
transaction response times, security, auditability, scalability etc . POCL’s
success/acceptance criteria was defined in document [POL00029137] and
later revisions. To achieve this, each individual business requirement was
extracted from every signed off specification document to create a
‘Requirements Catalogue’. Each entry in the catalogue was then linked to
the specific test and results which demonstrated that the requirement had
been met. All the test scripts and the results were witnessed and signed
off by BA/POCL personal. The entire process was overseen by PA
Consulting who also acted as an independent arbiter in the event of a
dispute. Each Director in ICL Pathway had different responsibilities and
personal performance criteria, to ensured integrity and that no one

‘marked their own homework’. The Requirements Director (John Dicks)

Page 12 of 29
19.

20.

21.

WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

and Security & Audit Director (Martyn Bennett) made sure that all the
business requirements specified by the Benefits Agency and Post Office
had been correctly reflected in the various specifications and in the
requirements catalogue. These two Directorates would then support
BA/POCL during the Acceptance process by investigating all acceptance
incidents raised and would amend documentation if this was found to be
inadequate or provide evidence to show that it was an end user error or
prove that the system was performing as requested. My Directorate
operated at arm’s length and only became involved when it was necessary
to amend the software and run witnessed tests to demonstrate that the
fault had been fixed. BA/POCL made the final decision as to whether an
incident had been resolved and should be closed.

In addition to the functionality provided by the software and hardware,
‘Acceptance’ also covered the service processes including new software
releases, the help desk, 2%, 3 and 4" line support, performance
monitoring, fallback and recovery and business continuity.

The acceptance umbrella also included the software methodology and
engineering processes adopted to produce the solution. An independent
third-party verified and certified that ICL Pathway had achieved the ISO
9001 standard required.

Finally, a mechanism was agreed to measure the ‘robustness’ of the
system which involved the categorisation of software faults documented in
the ‘known error log (KELY’. If I recall correctly, there were four priority
categories, A, B, C & D and the acceptable number outstanding allowed

for each was specified. The issue with this approach is that it cannot

Page 13 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

quantify faults which have yet to be discovered. Only time can do this, that
is why I have said earlier in my statement that large complex systems can
take 2 or 3 years before the majority of errors have been uncovered. Even
then, ‘sleepers’ can exist which only emerge when a rare and complex set
of circumstances and variables occur.

22. The Live trial was part of the Acceptance Process and the roll-out of
Horizon did not commence until formal acceptance of the solution had
been achieved. We did encounter balancing errors during live trial and
POCL were well aware of these ‘acceptance’ incidents, and ICL Pathway
had to provide evidence that these had been fixed. We were also closely
monitoring help desk calls referred back to 4" line support to determine if

there was any indication of a more fundamental issue
EPOSS FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS

23. As stated earlier, the EPOS solution submitted as part of the ICL Pathway
bid was based on the ‘point of sale’ application developed by Escher for
the Irish Post Office. It was enhanced to include the benefit payment
functionality required by DSS. So basically, it was an ‘off-the-shelf’ solution
which was running successfully for An Post. The specification which
described the functionality on offer was made available to DSS/POCL who
were asked to approve within 30 days of award of contract. This they did
not do, and we were given no explanation, however it did mean that they
were potentially in breach of contract.

24. The first 12 months or more focussed on the benefit payment functionality
(IGL) and the EPOS application was largely ignored. I cannot remember

the exact sequence of events but at some point POCL informed us that

Page 14 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

EPOSS did not meet their requirements but accepted that they had not
produced a detailed requirements specification. This presented the
programme with a major problem because the delivery schedule could not
accommodate a delay while waiting for POCL to document their
requirements and then for us to develop the new software. We suggested
that the only way forward in the circumstances was to use an emerging
iterative/incremental methodology referred to as Rapid Application
Development (RAD) or AGILE. There was no certainty that this would
work, but it was worth the risk because the alternative was to bring the
contract to a halt. I think that ICL Pathway and POCL were aware at this
time that DSS intended to withdraw from the programme.

25. The RAD approach requires that the customer and the developer work
closely together to incrementally build and test the software. I can’t recall
whether I initially outsourced this development to a third party or whether I
recruited software developers with RAD experience to join the ICL
Pathway team. As I have stated previously, ICL Pathway was an integrator
and only had a small development team and finding people with the
necessary RAD skills would not have been easy, so I suspect it was the
former although I can’t be certain. POCL and ICL knew that a detailed
functional requirement for EPOSS was required for the acceptance
process and the only method of producing this was to reverse engineer all
the documents from the developed code. Not ideal but there was no other

option.

EPOSS TESTING

Page 15 of 29
26.

27.

28.

WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

Once a third party had built an application, it would be subject to an ICL
handover process including product acceptance testing. Following this, the
counter PC would be assembled and enter system testing. I believe that it
was at this stage that my testing team started to raise concerns about the
quality of the EPOSS software.

It was becoming evident that the quality of the unit and link testing carried
out by the developers left a lot to be desired, because many of the faults
being detected by my team should have been identified and resolved long
before the product was handed over.

In the summer of 1997, I was advised by my architects to ask one of our
partners Escher (experts in Microsoft messaging technology) to review the
code and re-engineer it if necessary. Following this, more functional
changes were requested by POCL and a large number of bug fixes were
applied. However, I was still receiving reports from our testing team that
the number of issues being raised was unacceptably high. Consequently,
in 1998 I formed a task force to investigate the root cause and devise a

corrective action plan.

EPOSS CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN

29.

It has been suggested that I rejected the task force findings, this is not true
and a ridiculous insinuation in the circumstances. EPOSS was critical to
the success of the programme, consequently I took the recommendations
very seriously indeed including the proposal that a complete or partial
rewrite should be considered. I consulted with all my managers and
technicians before deciding on the best way forward. A corrective action

plan was put in place and many changes/improvements were

Page 16 of 29
30.

31.

WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

implemented. The issues with unit and link testing were addressed along
with the quality of the documentation. We took control of the development
activities and populated the team with more experienced technicians.
Although I decided not to embark on a complete rewrite, we did redesign
and rewrite those elements of the product (e.g. error handling and printing)
which were very poor quality and responsible for the vast majority of the
errors detected.

The decision was not as straightforward as some witnesses have
proclaimed and was made solely on a commercial cost and risk basis. Many
factors were material, not least the fact that we did not have an approved
design specification, and whichever route was taken, there was significant
risk that Fujitsu would suffer serious financial/commercial losses. Ultimately,
the acceptance process would be the judge. It was certainly not an issue
which could be swept under the carpet, the nature of the problems we were
facing meant that if they had not been corrected, they would have surfaced
again during the acceptance process and caused the roll-out to be delayed.
As far as I can recall, POCL didn’t seem to be under any undue pressure to
start roll and certainly would not have given the go ahead had there been
any known unresolved defects.

The reason for the recommendation to reconsider a EPOSS rewrite in the
CSR+ review was due to the number of PINICL’s outstanding, but this can
be very misleading. To reiterate, PINICL’s are incidents not necessarily
software defects and not necessarily related to the EPOSS application
installed in the counter, and this was the component which included
examples of poor coding. A PINICL could be caused by a user error,

inaccurate or missing documentation, a misunderstanding as to how the

Page 17 of 29
32.

33.

WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

system was designed to behave and if a defect was discovered it may not
have been in the product where the incident arose. All the outstanding
PINICL’s with an EPOSS tag were analysed in detail, categorised and
fixed. Some were found in the Riposte messaging software, the reference
data, the migration processes, the archiving/back up procedures, the end
of day processes, consistent time clock interactions and the post office
interface mechanisms (e.g. TIP). It is important to understand that the
EPOSS comprised of several components in addition to the code which
resided on the counter PC/Till. All these elements had to interact
faultlessly if the end-to-end process was to satisfy the business
requirements. The point being that even if the EPOS code in the counter
had been perfect, accounting errors could still occur due to faults in the
interfaces and interactions with other modules in the system. The only way
to isolate the route cause would be to carry out a detailed analysis of all
the known errors, which we did many times.

Another factor taken into account was that the task force had occurred
almost 18 months before acceptance was due to take place. In that period,
EPOSS had become a completely different product and had since
undergone more extensive testing. To suggest that the product wasnt
subject to repeated cycles of unit, link, system, integration, E2E and model
office testing over several months is simply not true.

The decisions taken following the task force findings and the outcome from
the review of CSR+ were made solely on a commercial cost and risk basis
informed by the evidence available at the time see [FUJ00079783] &

[WITN04600104]. They were transparent and legitimate as Mike Coombs

Page 18 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

was responsible for both development and support, so whatever the
outcome, it would be Mr Coombs and Fujitsu who would suffer the
consequences, and the option of a total rewrite of the software was still
available should the circumstances dictate. The implications for POCL
would be a delay of the roll-out and any political fallout that this would
create. However, we genuinely felt that the business-as-usual software
maintenance teams could handle the number of bugs likely to occur. There
was no suggestion that people’s livelihood, liberty or lives were being put
at risk, and no ethical or morale implications to consider. Horizon was an
administration and accounting system not an air traffic control or railway
signalling system. The worse that could happen if important decisions
subsequently proved to be ill-advised, would be additional cost for Fujitsu
or a delay to the programme, or so we thought.

These decisions involved professional judgement, analysis of the evidence
and an assessment of risk and feasibility and were not about supposition
or speculation. The evidence given and claims made by David McDonald
was his personal opinion, but equally there were others including myself,
who felt that a complete rewrite was also fraught with risk. There were
many factors influencing the decision such as, there could be integration/
interface issues which the documentation had not clearly defined, did we
have sufficient skilled staff to take on the task, we did not have a detailed
functional specification to refer to, there were massive regression testing
implications and additional cost and timescale risks. Who's to say that had

we chosen to totally rewrite the application that we

Page 19 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

wouldn't have incurred other problems which would have resulted in a
similar or worse outcome?

35. Terms such as code decay, lack of robustness and shaky software have
been banded around but how are these subjective terms quantified.
Development history is only an indicator, a more relevant measure would
be the number of category 1 defects found post live trial. The point I am
trying make is that this is all about professional judgement, evidence and
assessment of risk and not speculation. Post Office were aware of the
known errors in EPOSS via the acceptance process and all the release
notices and known error logs were circulated within the SSC and Help Desk
community which included Post Office staff. It has been suggested that
POCL should have been made aware of the development problems we had
been experiencing so that they could request/demand more remedial work,
but this argument could apply for declaring/explaining all the technical
difficulties faced by ICL Pathway. This was never going to happen, firstly
POCL were not in a position to contribute to a resolution, secondly as
pointed out in paragraph 5 earlier, the PFI financial model was such that it
was unrealistic to expect the supplier to allow the customer to influence/
degrade their business case and finally what purpose would it serve if the
issues had subsequently been overcome. The comprehensive acceptance
process was designed to provide customer with the ultimate assurance
that the solution was fit for purpose. Does a car manufacturer tell its
customers about the problems they encountered while designing and

testing the steering geometry on their new model?

EPOSS & IT TERMINOLOGY

Page 20 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

36. The IT industry and the ICL Pathway team were guilty of using the same
terms to mean different things. For example, ‘performance’ can be used to
describe how well a piece of software is doing its job, but it could also be
referring to ‘speed’ such as the message response time at the counter, The
term ‘stability’ was often used to refer to the interaction between the
Windows NT platform and the application, but it was also used to describe
the overall reliability of a component. The former incidents would result in
what was called a blue screen’ event and/or ‘system freezing’ and were
notoriously difficult to track down and required specialised technical
expertise to identify the cause. The same applies to the term ‘robustness’
which can be used to describe any of the above events. This demonstrates
that it is important to understand the context in which the term is being used,
because issues can manifest themselves at the counter during an EROSS
session which are not necessarily caused by poor application code. A case
in point were the email exchanges between myself and Steve Muchow
referred to in my oral evidence, see [FUJ00079333], which were discussing
a ‘performance/timing’ issue with the end of day balancing process, not the
performance/reliability of the product in general. It was possible that this
problem was due to poorly written code, but it was more likely to be an issue
with hardware capacity, system build, Windows NT or an interaction issue

with other processes running on the Till at the same time.

EPOSS RELIABILITY

37. It was true that during the development phase EPOSS had been a cause

for serious concern but by the time we entered the acceptance process we

Page 21 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

believed that the issues had been addressed or were in the process of being
fixed. During the live trial every incident associated with cash accounting
and/or balancing was subject to very close scrutiny to determine whether it
was a software error, a mistake in the documentation, inadequate or
insufficient training or an integration issue. I was in regular contact with
Steve Warwick on the Help Desk who had been a senior member of the
EPOSS development team, and I trusted his judgement due to his unrivalled
knowledge of EPOSS and the post office accounting processes. This
scrutiny continued into the roll-out phase, and we believed that the size and
variety of the post office network was such that the large majority of
undetected errors would surface relatively quickly. The development team
wasn’t aware that litigation and prosecutions were taking place during these

early stages of roll-out.

END USER TRAINING

38. A unique aspect of the live implementation of the Horizon system was that
it was not possible to carry out parallel running. This is where the old
manual system and the new computer system are run in parallel until it is
proven that the results from the new system match the results from the old
system. The reason why we couldnt do this was because the post office
outlets did not have the human resources necessary to run two processes
simultaneously. One of the major benefits from ‘parallel running’ was that it
gives the end users time to learn the new system gradually.

39. ICL was responsible for developing the Training programme, but POCL was

the overall approval authority and could veto any proposal put forward, even

Page 22 of 29
40.

41.

WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

though the cost was being absorbed by ICL Pathway. I was responsible for
training before Mike Coombs became Programme Director and
implementing an effective training programme was considered to be a huge
challenge right from the start. There were three reasons for this, firstly the
sheer volume of people required to be trained (circa 40,000), secondly a
large percentage of the post masters and mistresses were over 65, and at
that time not familiar or comfortable with new technology, and finally the
speed of roll-out specified by POCL (300 post offices per week) left little or
no time for handholding or refresher sessions.

The training courses had to be of sufficient duration to cover all the subjects
required but short enough to enable the students to spare the time. Many
post masters/mistresses had to shut down the business while attending the
course. It was also necessary to ensure that post masters/mistresses
attended a course only a few weeks before their post office was due to be
converted to the new system, otherwise the student could forget a lot of
what had been learnt. If an installation was delayed, then the training would
have to be rescheduled.

There was a lot of anxiety within the network and not surprisingly many post
masters/mistresses were traumatised at the prospect of running their
business manually one day and 24 hours later being fully automated. This
represented a major risk to the success of the programme. Regional support
staff who could visit branches who were struggling were an essential
element of the overall training programme. Similar retail organisations such

as supermarkets and banks do not have this huge problem to deal with.

Page 23 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

42. A training mode facility was developed to enable post masters/mistresses
to try out the system and teach themselves how it worked without the fear
of making mistakes and updating their data incorrectly.

43. All these issues put a much greater emphasis on providing a timely and
knowledgeable 1% line support structure (i.e. Help Desk) operated by
personal who were well versed in the post office end to end processes and

the horizon functionality available on the till.

POST OFFICE WAS NOT AWARE OF BUGS, ERRORS OR DEFECTS

44. It has been stated many times during the Inquiry that staff in the Post
Office were not aware of the bugs, errors or defects in the Horizon system
at a particular time. This is strange because every release of the Horizon
software was accompanied by a Release Notice and a Known Error Log.
This would list all the functional changes which had been included in the
release and identify all the known errors which had been fixed and as far
as I know these were available to post office personnel.

45. All the errors and defects identified in the ICL Pathway solution, their
severity and their status were documented at every stage of the testing and

release processes
REMOTE ACCESS FACILITY

46. An approved specification for this functionality should be available to the
Inquiry (CS/REQ/005). This type of capability was common practice and
an essential part of a support technicians toolkit. Examples today would be
products such as AnyDesk, TeamVeiwer and RemotePC, these enable

someone to take control of another person’s PC from a different remote

Page 24 of 29
47.

48.

WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

location and are used by support organisations throughout the world. ICL
Pathway also used a product called Tivoli to access all the remote counter
tills to update software and associated data overnight.

It's not the facility that is the issue, it the effectiveness of the security
processes which protected it and the completeness and accuracy of the
record keeping. The ICL Pathway team were acutely aware of the risks
involved in allowing access to a live system and implemented strict
controls in accordance with the functional requirement specification.
Access was only possible from specific PC’s in specific secure locations,
and was subject to restricted routing and used access tokens. My
recollection was that following ‘acceptance’ and the start of roll out, the
data in the post office branch was NOT accessible directly and was in fact
encrypted. The only store which could be accessed was held on Servers in
the Data Centres. The existing transaction data could not be changed,
only new data added to resolve or neutralise a corruption or balancing
issue which would later be resolved by a software change. I don't believe
that it was mandatory to inform the postmaster/mistress that data had
been added, but the operation was fully documented to show who had
carried out the work, what they had done and when they did it. If a Post
Office branch subsequently started to experience unexplained problems,
the support team would be able to view the live access records to
ascertain whether this action was responsible.

However, the fact that only the transaction data stored in the data centre
could be accessed and not the data held in the branch PC/Till was purely

semantics, because for recovery purposes the servers in the data centre

Page 25 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

and the counters constantly kept each other in sync. Therefore, whatever
was present in the branch data held in the data centre would eventually be
present in the branch PC and vice versa. This might explain why some of
the claims in witness statements about what could and could not be done,

appear contradictory.

USE OF THE TERM ‘SYSTEMIC’

49.

For what it’s worth, I believe that most IT people would interpret the term
‘systemic’ to mean fundamental or system wide. For example, a design
flaw in the way that errors were handled by all applications, or a problem
with the way that all the interface mechanisms operated, or the
consequence of the way that Oracle and Microsoft applications interacted.
We would not consider an application error or defect to be a ‘systemic’
issue, but a process flaw impacting the way that all incidents were

reported and resolved would fall under that definition.

SUMMARY

50.

Most of the evidence given in Stage 2, included my own, explained, defended,
or criticised decisions made which caused delays, resulted in extra cost or
produced poor quality software. None of it explained why individuals
subsequently lost their lives, liberty and livelihood. The general perception is
that the software contained known and unknown faults when it shouldn't have
done. However, this was an unrealistic expectation which could never have
been satisfied and more importantly, was not the reason why postmasters/

mistress were treated the way they were.

Page 26 of 29
51.

WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

The reason for this appalling treatment was that the Post Office did not
exercise healthy and sensible scepticism as to the maturity of the computer
system to assist with fraud prosecutions and did not seek out
corroborating evidence to support the case. It has been suggested that
there had been a critical oversight by Fujitsu that the computer system
was to be used to provide certified evidence for civil and criminal
prosecutions. The Post Office may have been aware of this, but ICL
Pathway were certainly not. If this requirement had been made clear
during the early stages of the programme, it would have been a major
topic for debate and potential disagreement. I do not believe that any
organisation or individual can warrant the integrity and 100% accuracy of a
computer system under any circumstances. Even if numerous checks and
balances and sophisticated failsafe’s had been built into the system and
significantly more testing carried out, this risk would always exist. I would
suggest that not only was there a breakdown in communication between
the Post Office and Fujitsu but also between the Post Office legal dept and
the Post Office IT dept. We have seen business requirements for PACE
(certification) and the requirement to provide audit data (ARQ) but where is
the business requirement to provide irrefutable evidence to support a

prosecution case and to guarantee the accuracy and integrity of the data?

Page 27 of 29
WITNO04190200
WITN04190200

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Page 28 of 29
Index to Second Witness Statement of Terence Paul Austin

WITN04190200
WITNO04190200

No.

Document Descri ae

‘URN

Letter from Keith Todd to Stuart

Sweetman dated 10/03/1998 enclosing

original letter to Peter Mathison dated

06/03/1998 and ICL Position Paper on

the Pathway Project

Handwritten note: Addressed to Dave

[Millar] enclosing copy of Project

Mentors Report of 18 December 1998

POL-0027601

POL-0027615

POL00031117

POL00038829

Post Office Counters Ltd and ICL

Pathway Limited Codified Agreement

dated 28" July 1999

Horizon Plan for Acceptance During the I

ICL Pathway Operational Trial (Version

2)

POINQ0006242F

POL-0025619

FUJ00000071

POL00029137

CSR+ Corrective Action Plan (1)

POINQ0085954F

FUJ00079783

CSR+ Corrective Action Plan (2)

Email referring to EPOSS performance I

Page 29 of 29

WITN04600104

POINQ0085504F

WITN04600104

FUJ00079333

