WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

Witness Name: Anthony Oppenheim
Statement No.: WITN03770300

Dated: 4 June 2024

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

THIRD WITNESS STATEMENT OF ANTHONY OPPENHEIM

I, MR ANTHONY OPPENHEIM, will say as follows:

1. This witness statement is made to supplement the oral evidence I provided

to the Inquiry on 26 October 2022 and my two earlier witness statements.

2. It will highlight certain contractual provisions in the Third Supplemental
Agreement in particular which I believe would have influenced the way
Horizon was operated to the detriment of sub-postmasters.

3. Its purpose is to do two things: (i) identify these contractual provisions for
consideration by the Inquiry within Phases 4 and 5 and (ii) correct an error
of recollection in my original witness statement in the light of information
since gleaned from later testimonies to the Inquiry.

4. This is my input and mine alone. I have not consulted with ex colleagues, nor
have I requested or received advice from the lawyers assigned by Fujitsu to
support me.

Page 1 of 15
WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

5. “Mr. Bates vs the Post Office” impelled me to try to understand why things
had gone so disastrously wrong.

6. I read the Second Sight report dated 9 April 2015 and listened to a number
of testimonies that I thought might provide insight. As a result, I discovered
facts that I could not have known before and was reminded of others that I

had forgotten. I cite these discoveries in the relevant sections below.
7. As a result, I wish to:

a. correct what I had said in the very last paragraph of my original witness

statement with respect to prosecutions

b. expand on the reference I had made in my testimony on 26 October
2022 to a provision set out towards the end of the Third Supplemental

Agreement

c. highlight the significance of the Post Office’s decision taken in 2003 to
remove the cash account suspense account facility as an outcome of
their Impact Programme (as I understand it)

d. address the question of risk transfer resulting from the change from PFI
contract to a more conventional construct when the Codified Agreement

was entered into.

Correcting last paragraph of my original witness statement

8. Jeremy Folkes’ testimony reminded me that the sole target for prosecutions
in the original BA/POCL contracts was benefits encashment fraud. The
Requirements in the BA/POCL agreements were very specific about the

former and had nothing to say about the latter.
9. I said at the end of my original witness statement:

“I was aware of POCL’s facility to mount private prosecutions against sub-
postmasters determined to be acting fraudulently and that the Codified
Agreement required Pathway to provide audit trails when requested to do so
to support such prosecutions. My expectation was that each case would be

Page 2 of 15
10.

11.

WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

properly investigated before concluding that the cause of a cash shortfall was
indeed fraud rather than some kind of mis-match in the system. To the best
of my recollection, I was never asked to look into any of these cases —
indeed, I was completely unaware at the time that the prosecutions were

going on.”

I realise now, with the benefit of Jeremy Folkes’ testimony, that that
statement had been completely wrong. I had allowed what I had learned over
the intervening 22 years to interfere with my recollection of what I knew at
the time.

I would ask that paragraph 277 of my original witness statement dated 7
September 2022 be annotated with a note stating that that paragraph has
been withdrawn and replaced with this statement in this supplemental
witness statement:

“Having now seen material via testimonies that had not been available to me
when I produced my original witness statement (some of which I would never
have seen), I now believe my understanding regarding prosecutions as
expressed in paragraph 277 of my original witness statement to have been

incorrect.

With the benefit of the new information and reminders gleaned from other
witnesses, I now believe my understanding at the time to have been that:

e Eliminating encashment fraud had been the primary financial driver
behind the BA/POCL business case. The BA had placed explicit
requirements on ICL Pathway to enable it to do that.

e There was no equivalent statement of purpose in the POCL contract with
respect to prosecuting sub-postmasters.

e The BA contract contained provisions for ICL Pathway to operate a
dedicated FRMS service and to provide a “certificate of good operation”
to support PACE. [This obviated the need for a witness statement and
court appearance by an ICL Pathway representative.]

Page 3 of 15
WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

Requirement 829 of the POCL contract required ICL Pathway to “ensure
that all relevant information is evidentially admissible”. This was sufficient

for BA to mount prosecutions using that data.

R829 did not contain a “certificate of good operation” provision: only the
BA needed that for the BA to mount prosecutions. Likewise, the POCL
contract contained no provision for a FRMS-like service.

I believe this was because the original POCL Agreement had not
contemplated the prosecution of sub-postmasters. Having gone over the
evidence I can now see with a fine toothcomb, I do not believe POCL
made me aware of their intention to prosecute, either at Codification or
later. If I was not made aware, as contract manager, then who in ICL
Pathway was made aware? If ICL Pathway senior management were not
made aware, then how were its operational personnel expected to know
that what they did or did not do could land a sub-postmaster in jail?

Requirement 829 was carried forward unchanged into the Codified
Agreement. The reference to PACE was still there but without context.
Apart from prosecutions, R829 was still relevant for the provision of
audit-trails to support investigations into such as a mis-match in ATP
balances between POCL and a client. The draft “Horizon System Audit
Manual” dated January 2000 described in detail the process for
extracting audit-trail Riposte data from tape archives. It did not extend to
the additional information that should have been reviewed and made

available for a prosecution from HSH or 24 and 3" line support records.

1 do not recall any discussions about Al370 with my colleagues or POCL.
As a low severity Al, that would have been normal. My focus was on the
Highs and Mediums. Neither do I recall any attempts by POCL to
strengthen R829 at Codification.

! would not have known of the existence of S&IE or POSIS or of their
internal Post Office exchanges with Jeremy Folkes about the Al370

“gap”.

Page 4 of 15
WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

e If the late Keith Baines had raised it with me and the issue had just been
about money, I am confident that we would have come to an agreement:
the small amounts involved (as I would have assumed them to be at the
time) would not have justified falling out with him. I consider it far more
likely that my reason for not agreeing to such a Change, had I been
asked, would have been concerns over safety of evidence.

e Please go to my discussion below with respect to paragraph 3.6.12 of
Schedule 5 of the Third Supplemental Agreement. I find it very surprising
that anyone who had been aware of Al376 or paragraph 3.6 could have
considered evidence from the Horizon system “safe beyond all

reasonable doubt’.

e To “lean on” ICL witnesses to suppress the caveats they had expressed
about the safety of the evidence I regard as beyond shameful.

e It appears that one of two things must have happened:

o a Change was agreed at some point to add witness statements and
court appearances into R829, or

o POCL ‘leant on” ICL Pathway to provide witness statements to back
up the incomplete PACE requirement as it stood at Codification.
“Requirements creep” had been a feature of the BA/POCL contracts
from the start, exploiting weaknesses in requirements specification
inherent in the PFI construct (this being an example). It is quite
possible that ICL Pathway caved in to Post Office pressure when the
first prosecution was in play, creating a precedent.

Paragraph 3.6.12 of Schedule 5 of the Third Supplemental Agreement

12. In my testimony I had started to refer to provisions contained in a paragraph
towards the end of the Third Supplementary Agreement. Bringing me back
to his line of questioning, Mr. Beer said that the Inquiry would come back to

the Third Supplementary Agreement later.

Page 5 of 15
13.

14.

WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

I have not followed the Inquiry closely enough to know if the point I was trying
to make has since been covered. I have heard references to the Second
Supplemental Agreement but not the Third. I apologise if what I am about to
say duplicates.

The paragraph I was referring to was paragraph 3.6.12 of Schedule 5. It

reads:

“Where the Contractor is required to make an assumption in order to correct
a Data Error and/or present Repaired Transaction Data or a Repaired Cash
Account, the Contractor shall make such assumption and promptly inform

POCL of the assumption made.”
Picking this apart, this is saying:

a. errors should be expected to occur throughout the term of the contract

(such was and still is the nature of complex IT systems)

b. ICL Pathway was required to correct data errors and cash accounts

whenever errors were identified (again, it was and still is standard
practice for administrators with the necessary privileges to recover lost

data or to make corrections when something goes wrong)

c. it will not always be possible to determine the root cause of an error,

hence know what the appropriate correction should be (despite the
more sophisticated tools available today, that can still be the case)

d. in such instances, ICL Pathway was required to make an assumption
as to what had caused a given discrepancy and to apply a correction
using that assumption, notifying POCL of what it had assumed but not
requiring it to seek the prior agreement of either POCL or the sub-

postmaster.

Please refer to my original witness statement at paragraphs 226 and 227.7
which make essentially the same points but without the emphasis.

Page 6 of 15
15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

Data Errors were expected to occur throughout the contract term. ICL

Pathway was required to correct them.

Paragraphs 3.6.5.4 and 3.6.6.2 set out maximum allowable numbers of Data

Error per cash account week.

Errors discovered and corrected before the Data had been transmitted to TIP

should not exceed 50 errors per cash account week. Errors discovered and
corrected after they had been transmitted to TIP should not exceed 20.

20 Data Errors per week identified after transmission equates to an allowable
error rate of 0.12% on an average population of 17,000 branches over the
initial term compared to the limit set for Acceptance (AI376) of 0.6% and that

achieved just prior to Acceptance of 0.06%.

As mentioned in my earlier Supplemental Witness Statement, this order of
magnitude improvement occurred during the Christmas peak trading period
when, with more than double the normal number of transactions, one would
have expected to see an increase. POCL had historically suspended all
Product Reference Data changes over the peak trading period. 1999 was no
exception. The purpose of the suspension was to protect the network from
the disruption POCL knew could be caused by making such changes. The

error rate increased again after the suspension was removed.

Widespread errors would have become obvious within minutes. They would
have generated Incidents, Problems (multiple Incidents of the same type),
PINICLs and an emergency response determined by CCD. These happened
very rarely. Branches would have benefitted from “safety in numbers” when
they did. In sharp contrast, (i) an exception condition that triggered a bug that
only manifested itself under that exception condition or (ii) a faulty Product
Reference Data change that applied to just one or a few branches would
have been hard to spot. This observation is not intended to excuse a failure

to investigate.

15 years (2000 to 2015) at 20 instances per week would have equated to

some 15,000 allowable instances of Data Error up to the point when Post

Page 7 of 15
22.

23.

24.

25.

WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

Office stopped prosecuting its sub-postmasters in 2015. If just 10% of these
were not repaired correctly, that would have amounted to some 1,500
Incorrect Cash Accounts over the period.

The obligation to correct a Data Error and its associated Incorrect Cash
Account did not extend to a Not Data Error or its associated Incorrect Cash
Accounts (Not Data Error), attributable to User error or error in Product
Reference Data. The carve out was designed to protect ICL Pathway from

SLA penalties in respect of faults it could not control.

As noted above, the numbers had shown an order of magnitude reduction in
error rate when no Product Reference Data changes were applied and a
resumption of higher rates when Product Reference Data changes were
applied again. If repeated throughout the term, this pattern would suggest
that up to 90% of Incorrect Cash Accounts may have been caused not by
software bugs but by errors in Product Reference Data or its distribution to
counters by ICL Pathway. Those that were identified and attributable to
errors in the Product Reference Data itself would have counted as Not Data

Errors and been treated accordingly.
I fear that the carve out may have had unintended consequences:

a. encouraging a mindset among ICL Pathway support personnel that such

errors were “not to do with ICL Pathway” so “not their problem”

b. incentivising HSH operators and 2"! and 3” line support staff to dismiss
“one-off problems (those not reported at the same time by multiple sub-
postmasters) as User error: as such they would not count for SLA

purposes

c. to recover losses, the sub-postmaster would have had to appeal to the
NBSC: without a notice from ICL Pathway to indicate a possible Incorrect

Cash Account, they would have stood little chance of success.

I would like to think that the majority of errors would have been found and
repaired correctly by ICL Pathway. But in the real world, some (perhaps

Page 8 of 15
26.

27.

28.

29.

WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

many) would have been either missed altogether or mis-diagnosed due to
an early presumption of User error (as above), a paragraph 3.6.12 condition
(as above), human error within 2" or 3" line support, or otherwise.

That is especially likely to have been the case after the removal of the
Suspense Account facility in 2003. Until I listened to David Smith's testimony
I had been unaware of the removal of the Suspense Account facility in 2003.
If I have understood what I heard correctly, it is a troubling disclosure. The
Suspense Account facility was in my opinion absolutely fundamental to the

safe investigation, detection and resolution of errors.

Without the ability to “carry forward” an unexplained imbalance, the “safety
valve” that allowed time for inspection, analysis and resolution was gone. A
sub-postmaster faced with an unexplained cash imbalance on a Wednesday

evening would now have been forced to do one of four things:

a. get ICL Pathway to identify and fix the problem in real time (before

midnight)

b. commit the cash account notwithstanding the discrepancy, make up the

cash shortfall and hope to be able to recover it later

c. falsify an entry to balance the books to make the shortfall go away

(fraud), or
d. close for business.

Only if the error type was immediately recognizable as one described in the
KEL would the sub-postmaster have stood a chance on the day. Product
Reference Data errors would not have appeared in the KEL. The PinlCLs I
was asked to comment on in my original Witness Statement illustrated how
difficult it was to identify such errors.

Once the cash account had been committed, I believe that it would have
been harder for the sub-postmaster to convince HSH or NBSC to look into
the problem than if it had still been showing in a Suspense Account. If HSH

did not pass it to 2°4/ 3° line there would have been no investigation and

Page 9 of 15
30.

31.

32.

33.

WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

hence no notice to NBSC identifying a possible Incorrect Cash Account, so
nothing that would have indicated to NBSC that the sub-postmaster may
have been telling the truth.

Please note that HSH scripts had to be agreed with POCL and adhered to at
least 95% of the time. Failure to do so would have incurred SLA penalties.
Schedule 1 of the Third Supplemental Agreement sets out agreements to
agree re. the HSH scripts and also the inter-actions and divisions of
responsibility between HSH and NBSC. The “You are the only one with this
problem” refrain would have either been approved by POCL or come from
POCL in the first place.

I have listened to Richard Roll’s description of what he said actually took
place on a regular basis to correct errors. I was shocked by what he had to
say. That was emphatically not the way corrections were supposed to be
carried out. If 3 line / SSC adopted the User’s identity either with the sub-
postmaster’s agreement or otherwise, then the Riposte audit trail would have
been corrupted, rendering it unsafe for prosecution.

The removal of the Suspense Account facility may explain (not excuse) why
short-circuiting of due process (as set out in paragraph 3.6 of Schedule 5)
may have come about. ICL Pathway was now being driven to make
corrections in real time, before the end of the cash account week cut off. Had
3" line not done so, it strikes me as highly likely that more sub-postmasters
would have been forced to “irrevocably commit” Incorrect Cash Accounts.

Again, not intended to excuse bad practices.

I understand that the removal of the Suspense Account facility came about
as a result of a Post Office drive to improve cash recovery performance. The
Change was predicated on the default presumption that the sub-postmaster
would always be in the wrong. No consideration was given to the possibilities
of Horizon system error including the possibility that there was in fact no cash
shortfall. This despite the known history of faults and the caveats set out in
the Third Supplemental Agreement that expressly made provision for
managing the errors that were expected to occur.

Page 10 of 15
34.

35.

36.

37.

WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

Question: why would a sub-postmaster intent on fraud use a suspense
account facility that drew attention to a mis-match when he/ she could simply
have introduced one or more transactions to balance the books?

Second question: was a Change Request for the removal of the Suspense
Account submitted by POCL and, if so, was it approved by ICL Pathway?
That Change alone, coupled as it was with the mindset that the sub-
postmaster was wrong by default, would in my opinion have contributed very

significantly to the miscarriages of justice that followed.
Third question: did the incidence rate of prosecutions increase from 2003?

The Codified Agreement and its three Supplements stacked the odds against

the sub-postmaster:

a. HSH operators were encouraged by scripts and SLAs to assume that

single instances of reported problems were down to User error

b. ICL Pathway was not required to obtain sub-postmaster approval before
making a correction

c. No Suspense Account safety valve after 2003

d. Contractually, Not Data Errors and Incorrect Cash Accounts (Not Data

Errors) were treated as “not ICL Pathway’s problem”

e. Two service desks (HSH and NBSC) meant that neither was fully

responsible

f. The sub-postmaster had no contractual right to an audit-trail when a
problem arose. A history of every “key stroke” (actually touch screen
touches, there was no keyboard) was simply not possible with the
technology of the day but a time-stamped audit-trail by transaction was

entirely possible from the Riposte message store.

g. Audit-trail evidence, as defined by the CCD, may have been sufficient

for the resolution of commercial mis-matches between POCL and its

Page 11 of 15
WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

clients but it was not sufficient for the safe prosecution of sub-
postmasters.

h. Lack of any User-centric QoS obligations to ensure that Horizon
delivered an accurate service to its Users: the obligations on ICL

Pathway were all towards POCL.

In my opinion, particularly after the withdrawal of the Suspense Account

facility, it follows that the Codified Agreement was “not fit for purpose”.
Risk transfer

38. Much has been said about the PFI origins of Horizon. I believe it has been
generally accepted that PFIs were not the way to contract for large, complex,
mission-critical IT programmes. (Ref. NAO, PAC and others.)

39. But the idea that the risk all transferred to POCL when the contract ceased
to be a PFI contract would be to misunderstand the nature of the changes.

40. The changes were limited to payment terms, timetable and Acceptance. The
POCL related requirements and all other provisions of the original contract
were carried forward pretty much unchanged into the Codified Agreement.
The intention was to complete what had been started before BA withdrew
but for POCL alone.

41. The Codified Agreement, even with more conventional payment terms, was
still far from being risk-free.

42. As has been noted before, making Horizon work end-to-end was dependent
on the interfaces with BA, POCL systems and POCL client systems, notably
CAPS, TIP and Reference Data. As Paul Rich noted, at the time BA
withdrew, CAPS was still not “fit for purpose”. Reference Data continued to
be problematic. Resolving all of these things had taken time and money that
had not been allowed for. The original BA/POCL timetable had been
predicated on business case driven “plug-and-play” aspirations rendered

unrealistic by the many A2As and “missings”. The risks that had crystalised

Page 12 of 15
43.

44.

45.

46.

WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

during the early life of the programme had resulted in a large financial
overhang.

A key PFI principle had been that the Contractor should be given latitude to
amend legacy business processes. Requirements were written at a high
level for this reason. Many were subject to A2As. The reality was that ICL
Pathway was required to replicate precisely POCL's historic paper-based
counter processes but without the benefit of a detailed specification that
defined those processes. Hence the references to “reverse engineering”.

This risk did not transfer to POCL when the payment terms changed.

Some processes (such as Shared stock units) that may have work perfectly
well in a paper-based environment did not transfer well to an IT system.
Computer software looks for binary associations. Having to accommodate
such rules added to the risk of exception conditions occurring that could
trigger a software bug. This risk did not transfer to POCL when the payment
terms changed.

The Second Sight report had highlighted the risk of losing transactions when
there was a comms outage, especially in remote areas. That risk assessment
was made in relation to Horizon On-Line some 15 years after Horizon was
first introduced and almost 20 years after it was first conceived. During the
intervening period, orders of magnitude improvements in comms reliability
and reach had made on-line viable. Back in 1998, the fragility of comms
would have caused frequent branch closures and transaction losses
(transactions in mid-flight when the break occurred). Hence the distributed
system architecture. The downsides of a distributed system architecture
were increased complexity (more moving parts so more to go wrong) and the
immaturity of the components (PCs, Microsoft platform software, Escher
software, comms and remote systems management). Avoiding the inherent
risks of an on-line system introduced different risks for Fujitsu to manage.

By way of example of risk management, Fujitsu leveraged its relationship
with Microsoft at corporate level to get Microsoft to fix the Windows NT bug
that caused the blue screens. The dependency on Escher had been

Page 13 of 15
47.

48.

49.

50.

WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

identified by BA and POCL as a risk well before they selected ICL Pathway.
The reason for accepting the risk came down to the perceived greater risk of
going with a centralized hub-and-spoke (always on-line) system.

As a “child of PFI”, the die had been cast regarding Horizon design a long
time before the change in contractual terms. By then, the design was what it
was. The question to ask was not whether there had been problems during
Horizon’s genesis (there is no denying that there had been) but whether the
improvement actions undertaken by ICL Pathway succeeded in resolving
those problems. Horizon passed the Acceptance hurdles that had been set
by POCL having closed out all the key Als. The question then became: who
bore most risk if those positive Al assessments proved to be wrong?

Under PFI, payment was by outcome. For BA/POCL that meant payment per
transaction. Instead of payment per transaction, ICL Pathway would now be
paid for outputs. These outputs were: a single milestone payment for
Acceptance followed by 4 milestone payments for Roll-out followed by on-
going monthly payments for operating the Horizon service.

Fujitsu was still required to fund all the up-front investment. The total cost of
developing the system, infrastructure (branch equipment and data centres),
putting ISDN into branches, modifying branch offices to accommodate
terminals, training the 70,000 personnel, setting up the HSH and support
functions, etc. ran into the hundreds of £ millions. Fujitsu was at risk for this

if it did not deliver.
To get paid, ICL Pathway needed to:

a. Achieve Acceptance from a starting point that had been seriously
problematic (I think everyone would agree that it had been seriously

problematic even if they have different views as to the primary causes)

b. Then, for 2 years, achieve continuous Roll-out at a rate of 300 offices
per week, week in, week out, having first trained “just in time” a cadre
of personnel many of whom had never used a computer before

Page 14 of 15
WITNO03770300
WITNO3770300

c. Scale the services (notably HSH and support services) to keep pace
with the rapidly increasing demand from Roll-out, subject to stringent

SLA and associated penalties and a constant threat of termination

d. Apply software releases at the same time as achieving its Roll-out

milestones.

51. I submit that it would simply not have been possible to achieve all these

outcomes if the system had suffered from systemic or widespread faults.

52. Had it done so, the HSH and NBSC would have been overwhelmed within
hours. Between them POCL and ICL Pathway would have had no option but

to suspend Roll-out.

53. To answer my own question, I would say that the risks still fell
overwhelmingly on Fujitsu. There was a risk that, if Roll-out had stopped it
might never have re-started. Even if it had restarted, the costs of the
suspension would have run into the tens of £ millions. If the operational
service had missed its SLAs for more than 3 consecutive months, POCL was

entitled to terminate the contract for breach.

54. The above is based on my best efforts to piece together the contractual and
commercial picture after listening to some but by no means all of the Phases

2 and 3 witness testimonies.
55. Everything I have said should be checked and substantiated by others.
Statement of Truth

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Dated: 4 June 2024

Page 15 of 15
