WITNO5940100
WITN05940100

Witness Name: Philippa Wright

Statement No.: 01

WITN05940100

Date: 17" October 2024

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF PHILIPPA JANE WRIGHT

I, Philippa Jane Wright, will say as follows...

Thank you for making contact with me on 25" August 2022 to seek
information in relation the Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry. For the record, I
was employed by Post Office Limited for 25 years between 1985 and
2010. Having left the organisation some 12 years ago, what follows is to
the best of my recollection and without access to Post Office Limited
records. As a result, I am unable to accurately reflect dates of roles, full
titles etc. I have sought to address my answers in the specific order

requested.

1. During my career I undertook a range of roles — I initially

commenced my employment as a Counter Clerk in a Crown Office

Page 1 of 5
WITNO5940100
WITN05940100

before moving on to Branch Manager roles within the Crown

Office network.

Following this, I moved into Area Manager type roles in the
Subpostmaster network, the roles had various titles such as Retail
Network Manager, Retail Line Manager etc and were primarily

aimed at supporting Post Offices on a day-to-day basis.

Prior to leaving Post Office Limited in 2010, I had also undertaken

a number of senior roles in Post Office Headquarters in London.

. In terms of qualifications, I have a range of O and A levels. Whilst
employed by Post Office Limited, I completed a HND in Business

and Finance and I was sponsored to undertake an MBA and GDL.

. Whilst employed in the various roles, Post Office Limited provided
“on the job” training to assist with one’s overall effectiveness.
Given the length of time that has elapsed, my specific recollection
is unclear. However, the courses were many and varied and
included subjects like interviewing skills etc, I assume they are

part of my HR record.

. During my 25-year career, I progressed from being a Counter
Clerk in Fleetwood to being a Senior Manager at Head Quarters in

London, the relevant roles are detailed in 1. above.

. The bulk of my involvement with subpostmasters was within the
middle ten years of my career when working as a Retail Network /

Retail Line Manager.
Page 2 of 5
WITNO5940100
WITN05940100

6. The purpose of these roles was to support individual branches on
a day-to-day basis particularly with respect to customer service

and sales performance.

7. Where branches encountered difficulties, depending upon the
nature of the issue then I would either assist myself or seek further
support from the Helpline / relevant business department / line

manager.

8. I do not recall whether difficulties specifically involved Horizon

9. There were not any steps that I thought should have been taken in

response to concerns raised.

10.1 cannot suggest that there was anyone that could have done

more to assist or make things better for subpostmasters.

11.Horizon training for new subpostmasters was provided by the
training team. On completion of the training, it would fall to the
Retail Network / Retail Line Manager and the Helpline to support
the branch / subpostmaster through their first few months in
branch. For those subpostmasters in post when Horizon was

introduced, the approach was broadly similar I vaguely recall.

12.Where subpostmasters did not feel wholly confident using the
Horizon, additional training support could be requested, and there
was a Helpline but most frequently the Retail Line / Retail Network

Manager would assist.

Page 3 of S
13.At the time, I did not consider that improvements were required to

the Horizon training.

14.1 was not aware of their being any issues or problems with the

Horizon system.

15.As a Retail Line / Retail Network Manager I was involved in cases
where on audit branches were found to have financial
discrepancies. Although I am unable to remember full details of
specific cases the main ones I recall involve subpostmasters
admitting falsifying documents to NS&l and DWP in order to steal
money or increase income, I seem to recall that there was also a
subpostmaster who had used Post office funds to buy his
daughter a car. There were other cases where the auditors would
have requested line manager involvement, but I can’t recall any

specific details.

16. Following an audit and the temporary suspension of the
subpostmaster, my involvement would be to follow the business
approach and invite the subpostmaster to interview accompanied
by a friend / NFSP representative. This would be an opportunity
for the subpostmaster to discuss / explain the financial /
procedural irregularities. As the Retail Line / Retail Network
Manager, I would undertake any further fact find that was relevant
and eventually reach a decision whether to reinstate the
subpostmaster or terminate their contract for service. Where

contracts were terminated, subpostmasters had the opportunity to

Page 40f 5

WITNO5940100
WITN05940100
WITNO5940100
WITN05940100

appeal the decision, such appeals would be heard by a Senior

Manager.
17.1 am not aware of any contact or input from Fujitsu.

18.1 have no view on whether there could have been improvement in

the process outlined at 17 and 18 above.

19. There are no matters that I consider the Chair of the Inquiry

should be aware of.

Statement of Truth

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Signed: _ GRO I

Dated: 7)" Odebar 2o2y

Page Sof 5
