WITNO2730100

Witness Name: Mr John Valentine
Statement No.: WITN0273_01
Exhibits: none

Dated: 25 January 2022

THE POST OFFICE HORIZON INQUIRY

FIRST WITNESS STATEMENT OF MR JOHN VALENTINE

1, MR JOHN VALENTINE WILL SAY as follows:

INTRODUCTION

1. 1 am grateful to the Chair to be invited to provide a “human impact” statement,
concerning the physical, psychological, emotional, reputational and financial
consequences to me and my family of being held responsible for shortfalls shown by
the Horizon IT system and Post Office Limited’s actions toward me and my family.
The initial paragraphs below provide a brief summary of my background, and provide
context to the detail of the human impact of the Horizon scandal on me and my
family. This statement does not reflect a full account of my experiences or those of
my family and if necessary or required I will provide further witness statement

evidence.

Background

re I was a subpostmaster of Platt Bridge Post Office, in Platt Bridge, Wigan from 1981 to

2002. My family and I lived in the attached residence.

3. I operated a retail business from the premises selling cards, stationery and toys.

Page 1 of 12
WITNO2730100

4. My father had been the subpostmaster at Platt Bridge, and he was due to retire. At
the same time, the Nat West bank was closing their branch in the same area. The

former bank premises had quite a large living accommodation attached

5. I decided to apply to become a subpostmaster so I could take over the role from my
father. We decided to sell the family home and buy the former Nat West branch and

relocate the post office there.

6. I had seen my father make a success of the business and had a comfortable living. it
seemed like a sound business move to me, it would allow me to continue the family
tradition of running the post office, and I was sure that it would provide my family

and I with a secure and happy future.

7. The Post Office approved this, and all went ahead swimmingly, until Horizon sunk me

like the Titanic,

Training and Support

8. I attended a training session in a hotel in Bolton when the Horizon system was first

introduced. This was a brief overview on the system.

9. Most of us had never seen a computer before, I had previously used the ECCO
computer system, so had some familiarity with computers but for those who had

not, this was not a thorough introduction.
10. I had thought that Post Office Ltd would introduce the ECCO system, as I had been

trialling it in my branch for a few months, and so I was surprised when they rolled

out Horizon.

Page 2 of _12
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

During the training, we used training computer screens, but it was more a brief
overview and there was no indication as to what to do should the system not

balance, because it was a new system, we just assumed that it would be all right.

I did not come away from the training feeling particularly confident. I did not feel
the training prepared me for operating the branch in real life circumstances. I had

become used to the ECCO system, which compared to Horizon, was a lot simpler.

The Horizon system was an all-encompassing system. I even found that for individual
transactions, the training was insufficient, not just for balancing. We also only
covered basic transactions, and not the complicated transactions. Therefore, when I

returned to the branch, I struggled to know what to do.

For the first 2 -3 days, I had a trainer in branch with me. I believe that he was there
for Monday and Tuesday and stayed for the balance. He briefly covered most aspects
of the day-to-day running of the branch, but I do not feel this was adequate, as we
did not cover how to carry out any of the less frequently used transactions. He
simply stood behind me and watched as I served customers. My staff also had one

day of initial training.

I received no further training, although I did request some via the Helpline.

HELPLINE

16.

17.

I estimate that I contacted the Helpline 2-3 times per month regarding problems

relating to shortfalls and or balancing.
I found that the Helpline rarely gave me practical advice that would help me solve

the problem and regarding shortfalls they would simply tell me to wait until the next

week and it would right itself and it would likely be a giro cheque that had been

Page 3 of 12

WITNO2730100
WITNO2730100

entered incorrectly. I had already checked all of this before I had done the balance

and then afterwards, if it did not balance, I knew that there were no errors.

18. The Helpline never had any answer when I asked where the loss had gone, and they

would often tell me to make good the loss.

1g. I distinctly remember being told by the Helpline that I was the only one who had this
issue, even though I knew from fellow subpostmasters that there was a bigger
problem, but the Helpline would never let me know this. They made me think that it

was only me and I had done something wrong.

SHORTFALLS

20. In this section, I set out in very brief detail my experience of shortfalls arising from
deficiencies in the Horizon IT System, and Post Office Limited’s actions as a result.
This is only a brief introduction to those matters, to provide necessary context for

the explanation of the human impact which follows.

21, ! incurred multiple shortfalls under £100; between £20 to £100 every week from a
few months after Horizon was installed. I would repay this immediately upon doing
the balance. Any amount over £100, I would report to the Helpline but the amounts

under £100 I would just make good.

22. I experienced multiple larger shortfalls. On each occasion, I checked through my
previous transactions to try to find the source. When I could not find it, I paid the

amount.

23. In 2001, I incurred a shortfall of £500. I paid the shortfall back as soon as I
discovered it. I rechecked the pension dockets and giro transactions late into the
night, and when I could not find the source of the shortfall, I paid it back. I asked the

Helpline to investigate.

Page 4 of 12
24,

An audit it 2002 discovered a shortfall of £15,000. The Post Office did a follow up
audit around two days later and the shortfall reduced to around £900. I do not recall
whether or not I repaid this shortfall. This reduction in the shortfall in two days, for

no reason, shows how unreliable the system was.

AUDIT AND INVESTIGATION

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

The Post Office conducted four audits at my branch. I am unable to recall the details
of the first two audits, as they appeared to be routine audits. Only small shortfalls of
approximately £20 to £30 were discovered, which I made good on the day of the

audits.

An audit was carried out in 2002. I was given no notice of this. Three to four auditors
came to my branch. A shortfall of £15,000 was discovered. I was immediately

suspended and told that a follow up audit would take place within the next two days.

I was audited 2 - 3 days later, and miraculously this loss had reduced to £900.
Although most of the loss had been somehow discovered, I was told that my

suspension still stood.

There cannot have been any or any adequate investigation, given that the so called
shortfall fell from £15,000 to £900 in two days, when I had no access to the system

or post office. I was given no explanation for this by the Post Office.

it was outrageous that my suspension was maintained in these circumstances, as

there was clearly a system error or flaw.

I was called for and attended a formal interview around a month later with my area
manager. I was told I could give a statement, which I did. However, I was told that

my suspension was still in place.

Page 5 of 12

WITNO2730100
WITNO2730100

31. I appealed the suspension and had a further interview with a different manager; this
was very similar to the first interview. Approximately four to five months later, I

received a letter stating that Post Office Ltd were terminating my contract.

SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION
32. I was suspended immediately following the audit in 2002. The branch was closed for

two days and a temporary subpostmaster was put in after the second audit.

33. Initially, I refused to allow a temporary subpostmaster to come in because I thought
there had been an error, and I would be back in my branch once everything had

been sorted out.

34, I was told by the Post Office that it could be weeks or months before there was any
kind of resolution, and that if I did not agree to a temporary subpostmaster, Post

Office Ltd would take the post office away from me.

35. The temporary subpostmaster only paid £200 a month in rent, which was far too
low. I complained to the Post Office who said that I had to accept a low rent and that

the matter would be resolved within a few months anyway.

36. It may seem like a petty grievance but, before I was suspended, I had repeatedly
asked the Post Office to allow me to sell car tax at my branch and Post Office Ltd
refused. However when they put the temporary manager in, they allowed him to sell

car tax straight away.

37. My contract was terminated by Post Office Ltd around four months after my initial

suspension.

Page 6 of 12
WITNO2730100

38. My contract was terminated by Post Office Ltd due to the shortfalls. I appealed the

termination of my contract, but the decision was upheld.

39. It is very important to emphasise that I was suspended and later terminated because
of a supposed shortfall of £15,000, which was found at audit. I was excluded from
the Horizon System and post office for the next two days, until the second audit. At
that second audit, the so called shortfall had fallen to £900. The auditors did not give
any reason for the magically reappearance of over £14,000. I consider that the Post

Office’s actions towards me were outrageous

CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS

40. The Post Office did not pursue civil or criminal proceedings against me. However, I

was threatened with legal action to compel me to pay shortfalls that had arisen.

LOSSES

41. { repaid many alleged shortfalls during my tenure as a subpostmaster, when I called
the post office helpline seeking assistance and to report these it was made clear to
me that I must repay them. I do not recall if I repaid the final shortfall (originally
reported by auditors to be £15,000, but which fell to only £900 after the second

audit two days later).l am sure that I did not have the benefit of a fair investigation.
42. 1 was given the business by my father, so that I could carry on the family tradition of

running the local post office. I purchased the ex-bank premises to accommodate the

post office for around £50,000. I paid £300 to improve the flooring and I paid £500

for the signage.

43. I lost approximately £16,666 in earnings during my suspension.

Page 7 of 12
WITNO2730100

44, I was given no notice prior to my termination, creating a loss of earnings,

approximately £40,000 over 12 months.

45. If it were not for the events that occurred, I would have remained in the role until
retirement. However, we were also considering selling the Post Office and retail

store after we had it valued at £180,000 - £200,000,

HUMAN IMPACT

46. It is impossible for me to fully explain the impact the actions of Post Office Ltd had
on my life. What I describe in this statement’ is only a fraction of how truly

devastating it has been, both financially and emotionally.

47. I was a highly popular sub-postmaster. I suffered serious problems with the Horizon
system, including shortfalls. I reported these to the Post Office and was audited. I
was threatened with prosecution. I was suspended then dismissed. I appealed but

was dismissed.

48. Two hundred of my brilliant customers even wrote to the Post Office to get me

reinstated but to no avail.

49. I claimed unfair dismissal but was advised that I had zero chance of success against a

national organisation like the Post Office, so sadly dropped the case.

50. In 2002 a postmaster was a highly regarded member of the community; and to tell
people money had disappeared from the post office’s accounts was shameful, and I

could not believe it.
51. I thought I was the only subpostmaster that this had happened to and was not sure

that the Horizon system was to blame. I even thought my staff may have been taking

cash; everything goes through your head, but not Horizon. When Horizon was

Page 8 of 122
52.

$3,

54.

Das

56.

57.

58.

introduced, we were led to believe that this was the future. Post Office Ltd had

spent millions on the system with a great computer company, Fujitsu.

In hindsight, we were far too trusting but it just did not enter my mind that Post

Office Ltd could get it so wrong.

It got to the point where I was working till midnight on balance day and the day after
to search for the, apparently, missing money. I was constantly stressed and anxious.
1 lost countless hours of sleep. I had no family time as I was always working, thinking

that I was the only one with missing money.

I became withdrawn and depressed. I considered taking my own life on a couple of
occasions. I was paranoid, thinking my staff were stealing. I became suspicious and
turned into a person I barely recognised. I lost my appetite, my family suffered

terribly.

I felt I had failed at my job; I had bought a closed bank to put the post office in and
saw it all crumbling away. My income fell to nothing as I fought to be reinstated by

the Post Office.

My family were profoundly affected by the actions of Post Office Ltd. My wife was
made redundant at around the same time, so we had zero income coming into the

home.

Having the stigma of being accused of stealing from the Post Office left me virtually
unemployable. I took a low paid job as soon as I could, but we ended up in a large
amount of debt.

I began to suffer with depression. Thankfully, my family stood by me. Otherwise, I

would have lost everything.

Page 9 of 12

WITNO2730100
59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

WITNO2730100

In 2004 I got a job with Asda and that had a stabilising effect, but I was still in a large

amount of debt.

After the group litigation compensation, I was finally able to pay off the debts. I
participated in the mediation scheme and received £32,000. I was party to the group
litigation against Post Office Limited; as such I am excluded from the Historic

Shortfall Scheme.

My earning capability was severely reduced. This impacted on my family life. We
could not take holidays abroad, we had to drive an old car, I was forced to work

longer hours as I searched in vain for money.

I was not prosecuted but it was still a severe shock to be accused of stealing from the
Post Office. This was particularly upsetting as I had loved working in it and serving

the community. Fortunately my staff were kept on by the interim manager,

I was told by the Post Office not to disclose any information about my suspension
and dismissal, otherwise they would close the post office down. I was getting a small
rent from the interim postmaster, so I could not afford to risk opposing the Post

Office.

My children could not understand why I was not working in the post office anymore.
I could not explain to my children or my friends why I was not in the post office and

they could not understand.

The word got out that I had been suspended and the local community rallied behind
me and sent a petition to the Post Office to have me reinstated. This kindness and
solidarity made me feel so humble, but I could not tell the community what

happened, as I did not know myself.

Page 10 of 12
66.

67.

68.

69.

70.

74,

My wife found alternative employment after being made redundant. She was forced
to work longer hours. We were depressed so rarely went out. We lost our previous

standard of living.

As a family, we used to always go out for lunch on a Sunday after church, but this

became rare as we did not have the money to do it anymore.

Similarly, on a Saturday after work, our extended family would meet in Bolton but I
was detached and did not interact with them. I would sit alone in the conservatory. I
was a very proud man who was forced to borrow from relatives to keep going. This

shamed me and made me want to hold back from my extended family.

All these things that happened can never be reversed, no matter what compensation
the Post Office pay or what they say. Members of my family have died not knowing I

was innocent.

I fully expect the Post Office and Fujitsu officials to be flanked by top barristers and
solicitors, likely paid for by the government or their own company's limitless pockets.
They have the money and lawyers to defend themselves, when we postmasters and
mistresses were accused and suspended through no fault of their own, we had no

such protection.

We were fired, prosecuted and jailed. We had no one to defend us. The Post Office
and Fujitsu officials will never feel the helplessness we felt, no matter how sorry they
say they are. The false sorrow from them will never make up for what happened to

me and so many others.

CONCLUSION

72.

The Post Office action against me devastated my life. I should have been happily

retired now, providing well for my family, and enjoying life.

Page 11 of 12

WITNO2730100
WITNO2730100

73. It is impossible for me to give a full account of all of the difficulties I experienced and
the impact these had on my life then and now. This statement attempts to give a
summary of my experiences and the impact all of this has had on me and my family. I
would like compensation not just for the financial losses but also for the harm I have

suffered to my mental health and my pride.

74. 1 was treated as a criminal. My business was destroyed, my finances ruined, my

mental health suffered, as did my pride.

75. I was part of the Group Litigation, so I now know that the Horizon system was deeply

flawed and that the Post Office knew this.

76. 1 would like the full truth to come out. I want the world to know that I, and ordinary

hard working, decent people like me, had their lives ruined by Post Office Ltd.

77. I would like it to be publicly shown that Post Office knew its computer system
(Horizon) was completely flawed and unreliable, and that despite this Post Office
pursued subpostmasters and ruined their lives for money that never existed.

78. 1am entitled to be properly compensated for the losses I have suffered as a result of

Post Office Ltd, and I would like this sooner, rather than later.

79. The Post Office and the Department of Business who own it, have known for years
that Horizon was a broken system. I believe that they knew, or should have known,
when they were destroying my life and the lives of others that their Horizon System
was unreliable.

Statement of Truth

I believe that the facts stated in this Witness Statement are true.

Signed... Dated... ASAT 22.

John Valentine

Page 12 of 12
