WITNO7710100
WITNO7710100

Witness Name: Carol Holmes
Statement No.WITN:
Dated: 7 February 2023

POST OFFICE HORIZON IT INQUIRY

FIRST STATEMENT OF CAROL HOLMES

I, Carol Holmes, will say as follows...

INTRODUCTION
1. I ama former employee of Post Office Limited and held the position of Horizon

Field Support Officer (HSFO).

2. This witness statement is made to assist the Post Office Horizon IT Inquiry (the
‘Inquiry’ ) with the matters set out in Rule 9 Request dated 3 January 2023 (the

‘Request’ ).

3. I have been asked to set out my professional background, including summaries

of any roles I had at the Post Office or ICL Pathway/Fujitsu. Throughout my

Page 1 of 4
WITNO7710100
WITNO7710100

professional career, I have worked in several administration roles. I began
working in a Sub-Post Office before joining the Post Office as a Counter Clerk.
I progressed over the years and took up other job roles, including a Helpline

Operator, Horizon Field Support Officer (HFSO), and Admin Assistant.

BACKGROUND

4. I have been asked to describe any training and/or instruction I received in
relation to the Horizon IT project and/or my position as an HFSO. For the HFSO
role, I received classroom-based training which led up to an assessment at the
end of the training with a pass certificate gained. Instructions and updates
further to the training were issued regularly throughout the project by the

managers from our team leaders via meetings, telephone calls, letters.

5. I have been asked to set out my experiences working as an HSFO. In relation
to the responsibilities and the description of my average working day, I can
confirm that in the HFSO role I was required to support the sub-postmaster
(SPM) and their staff through the transition of the new horizon system which
consisted of transferring their current paper-based system on to the Horizon
automated system. This required being supportive and helpful before and
during the process and the days after. Being there for the staff, building rapport
with the SPM and listening to their needs. Spending time with each team
member of staff individually, helping them build their confidence using the new
system by practising in training mode, sending reports, balancing procedures

and resolving issues.

Page 2 of 4
6.

WITNO7710100
WITNO7710100

In relation to any specific requests for support from subpostmasters or
complaints that I consider to be important to the Inquiry’ s terms of referdnce
can confirm that if further support was necessary, this was documented in
reports for the office which were sent to the head office as well as being fed

back to team leaders and managers.I do not recall any specific examples.

In relation to what resources I had available to assist resolving calls for support
and whether they were adequate, I can confirm that training manuals were
available as well as the Horizon Helpdesk which provided support, but was
often difficult to get through to. The system was new to all and we learned more
throughout the role with the experience from each other.I don’ t recall anything

specific.

In relation to how the HFSOs were managed, I can confirm that communication,
support and guidance was provided from the managers in head office through
our team leaders via meetings and telephone calls and we were managed by

them.

I have been asked whether subpostmasters were adequately trained in how to
use Horizon. Sub-postmasters were invited to attend training prior to the go-
live of the system in their office. This was beneficial for them to familiarise
themselves with the procedures especially if they had never used an automated
system before. The time spent supporting varied from office to office, due to
their understanding and confidence using the system and depending how well

their training was received.

Page 3 of 4
WITNO7710100
WITNO7710100

10.1 have been asked if I was able to provide adequate advice and assistance on
Horizon to subpostmasters. Due to my experience in dealing with sub-
postmasters throughout my various roles at the Post Office, I could empathise
with them and try to understand their needs and would strive to support them
with any issues they had to the best of my knowledge and ability and ask for
additional support for them when they requested this.I only remember being

helpful and supportive and doing what was asked by my superiors.

11.1 have been asked if I was aware of any bugs, errors or defects within the
Horizon IT system at the time I was an HSFO. I was not aware of any IT defects

or bugs occurring within the system as an HFSO or as a member of NBSC.

Statement of Truth

I believe the content of this statement to be true.

Dated: 07/02/2023

Page 4 of 4
